The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/umn.31951000614036o
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.


THE LIBRARY
 PHYSICS LIBRARY
       VWAPR 231968





                                            THE
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                           AND JOURNAL:
                                        commmm.
           THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                   THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
        AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                                                                           '
                                  AND COMMERCE.
               BY ALEXANDER                          TILLOCI-I, LL.D.
    LLB-LA. MAI-S. M.A.S. IDS-A- EDIN. AND PERTH; CORRESPONDING                   MEMBER OF
        THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, MUNICH; AND 01‘ THE ACADEMY
                   OF SCIENCES, LITERATURE AND ARTS, LEGHOBN, ETC.
                  AND        RICHARD TAYLOR, ELS.
     MEMBER OF THE ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON; AND OF THE ROYAL
                     ASIATIC SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
          “ Nee aranearum sane textusideo      melior quia ex se <U+FB01>la gignunt,    nee noster
       vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes."  JusT. Lns. Monit. Polil. lib. i. cap. 1.
                                       V O L. LXIII.
        For JANUARY,'
                                  FEBRUARY, MARCH, APRIL, MAY,                            and
                                          JUNE, 1824.
                                        QONDON:
                      PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR,               SHOE-LANE:
     AND     SOLD BY CADELL; LONGMAN,HURST, nEEs, 0mm, BROWN, AND GREEN;
             BALDWIN,      CRADOCK, AND JOY; HIGHLEY ; SHERWOOD,                JONES,
’1 "\ \
                      AND co.; HARDING ; UNDERWOOD;             SIMPKIN AND
      ‘
                           MARSHALL, LONDON :—AND BY CONSTABLE
                                AND co. EDINBURGH: AND PENMAN,
                                              guscow.
\


                    CONTENTS
        OF THE SIXTY-THIRD                        VOLUME.
                             ___‘_.__
ON     two new Species of Narcissus          _.        -.            Page
   PATH,Esq...............8
                                          .        .          .             7
C341,}; iWegolar Indications
                                of   Thermometers.          By    J. HERA
On   the apparent Magnetism of Metallic Titanium.                        By
  WILLIAM I'IYDE WOLLASTON, MD. V.P.R.S.                          .       15
Chemical Examination of a Fragment of a Meteor which fell in
  Maine, August 1823. By JOHN W. WEBSTER, MD.MG.S.
   L0mI.&c.                                                               ‘16
A  new Theory   of Telescopes founded on rational           Principles and
  interesting Eaperiments. By J. READE, MD.                       .  .    20
Description of certain Gangues of Spinelle brought from the                   -
  Island of Ceylon by  M   LESCHENAULT DE LATOUR. By                   M   le
  Comte de BOURNON, Chev. de St. Louis, ER.S. (Sr.                   .    30
Description of an improved Gauge for ascertaining with Pre
  cision the Pressure of highly compressed Steam, Gases, and
  Fluid Bodies. By Mr. SAMUEL SEAWARD                       .   .    .    36:
Description of some new Cacti and Mammillariae, recently
  brought from Mexico by Mr. BULLOCK of the Egyptian Hall,
  Piccadilly; and now preserved, with many other very rare
  Plants, in the Nursery of Mr. TATE, in Sloane-street.                  By
  A. H. HAWORTH, Esq. EL.S. (3w.                .    .    . ..    .  .    40
An Account of the E<U+FB02>ect of Mercurial Vapours on the Crewqf
  His Majestys Ship Triumph in the Year 1810. By WILLIAM.
  BURNETT, MD., one of the Medical Commissioners of the»
  Navy, formerly Physician and Inspector of Haspitals to' the
  Mediterranean Fleet. . . . . . . . . . . .                              42
Account of a Work entitled “ Storia de’ Fenomeni del Vesuvio
  avvenuti negli anni 1821, 1822, e parte del 1823,” etc.
  “History of the Pheenomena of Vesuvius during the Years.
  1821, 1822, and Part of 1823; accompanied with Obser
  vations and Experiments.        By J. 'MONTICELLI, Perpetual
  Secretary of the Royal Academy of ‘Sciences of_Naples;-- and
   N. COVELLI, of the Royal Institute of Encouragement.”                ~_By
   M. MENARD     m;  LAGROYE       .   -. Y.    .    .    .  A.   .  . »46
Vol.  63.  No. 314. June 1824-.                      a

                          CONTENTS.
On the ensuing Opposition of Mars.  By F. BAILY, Esq. I~'.R.S.
   1824.........'.......5O
  Read before the Astronomical Society of London, January 9,
Remarks on the Position of the Upper Marine Formation exhi
   bited in the Clg<U+FB01>s on the North-east Coast of Nm<U+FB01>llc.         By
   Mr. RICHARD TAYLon qumwich . . . . . .                        81
On the Mode of manufacturing Salt       Evaporation on Faggots.
                                           In]
   By R. BAKEWELL, Esq. . . . . . .                .  . .   .    86
Description of   a  Pressure Gauge recommended for     its Simpli
  city of Construction and Principle with Observations on the
                                           ,-
   Gauge proposed    byAir. SEAWARD.   By Mr. H. RUSSELL 92
Electro- and Thermo-magnetical Experiments. By IVIr. WM.
   STURGEON      .   '.  .   . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .     95,91“:=
On Parallel Straight Lines. By OHN Wmsn, Esq. 10!),
                                     J
A technical Description of Chloraster, a new Genus of Nar
  cisseae.   By A. H. HAWORTH, Esq.F.L.S. &c.           .   .   102
            .'...'..........105,170
Papers relating to the Earthquake which occurred in India in
   1819
On White Copper. By C. KEl-‘ERSTEIN.     Read at a Meeting
   1823.............'...119
 of the German Explorers of Nature at I-Ialle, September 18,
Experiments on the Deviation of the Magnetic Needle, as (Z<U+FB01>‘ected
   by Caloric, é'rc. By JOHN MURRAY, Esq. ES.A. EDS.
  EHS. Member of the Geological and W'ernerian Societies,
  cS"c.z$*c................130
              Lamellar
Description, Analysis, &c. By    a                                LARD
          of
  NERVANUXEM......-...'..131
                                                 Pyrozene.
On the Application of Algebraic Functions to prove the Proper
  tiesofParallel Lines     .   .       .
                                       .  . .  .  .  .  .   161
Experiments on the Adhesion  of  Nails.  By B.  BEVAN, Esq. 168
On theCircnlar Micrometer.    By F. BAILY, Esq. ER.S.       177
  gau........-........181
Mineralogical and Chemical Examination of Hyalosiderite, a
  new Mineral. By Dr. \VALcuNER, of'Freiburg in- the Breis~
On High-pressure Gauges.       By Mr. SAMUEL SEAWARD            190
Memoir on   the Variations of the re<U+FB02>ective, refractive and disper
  sive Powers of the Atmosphere, (5T.      By T. FORSTER', MB.
  EDS. Member of the Astronomical and the Meteorological
  Soaieties of London, and Corresponding Member
                                                        of the Aca
  demy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia, 6w. . . . 192, 328
  Munich.............:.210
Description of a new Micrometer.       By M. FRAUEN-HOFER of
Letter from ROBERT HARE, .M.D. Professor of Chemistry in the
 '
   University of Pennsylvania, to B. SILLIMAN, meessor                 of
   Chemistry in Yale College, on some improved Forms of the
  Galvanic Deflagrator;      _on_the   Superiority   of its tie/lagrating

                                   CONTENTS.
      Power:      also, An Account of an improved Single-leafElectro
       meter;~   of the Cmnbustion of Iron by a Jet quulphurvin Va
   ‘Waters...............24~l
   .  pour   ,- and. of an easy Mode of imitating native Chalybeate
   Further Remarks on the Theory             of    Parallel Lines . . . 24-6
    On the ZVIathematical and Astronomical Instrument Makers at
      Paris. By Lieut. ZAHRTMANN                        .      .       .      .       .     .      .     252
   Suggestions regarding some probable Sources of Error in the
      usual Modes of ascertaining the Force of Steam . . . 259
   Remarks on an Article published in No. 28 of the Journal
                                                                                                           of
      Science, and treating of the New Tables                                                             By
                                                                      of Refraction.
      J. IVORY, Esq. MA. ERS.                    .     .      .       .      .       .      .     .     261
 _ Description of a Rotative Theimio-magnetical Experiment.                                               By
\M    M'. WILLIAM STURGEON . . . . . . . . . 269
   Zoological I‘lOthé’S-       By Mr. JOHN EDWARD GRAY . . 274
   Analysis ofPrty’essor HAUSMANN’S Essay on the Geology of the
    .Apennines          .   .   .   .           .     .      .       .                     .      .     278
   Chemical Ea'amination of Green Feldspar <U+FB01>-om Beverly, Mas
      sachusetts.      By J. W. WEBSTER, M. D. . . . .                                                  283
      suxzun...............
   Descriptions ofseveral new Species of Ascidia.
   Dissection     of a Batrachian Animal. in a living State. By R!
                                                                                   By C. A. LE
                                                                                                        321
      cmuw HARLAN, MD. Professor of Comparative Anatomy to
      the Philadelphia        Museum       .  .     .            .       .       .      ..    .         325
   Remarks       on   the    Theory    of the Figure of the Earth. By
      J. IvnnY, Esq. MA. EELS. . . . . . . . . 839
   Examination ofthe Divisions of REICHENBACH’S Circle at the
       Observatory ofKiinigsberg.            By M. BESSEI. . . .                                         848
   On Mr. BABEAGE’S new Machine for calculating and printing
      Mathematical and Astronomical Tables.                                     From FRANCIS
       BAILY, Esq. F.R.S. & L.S.                    .      .       .       .       .     .      .        355
                                                                                                      _
   A brief Account of some Electra-magnetic and Galvanic Ex
      periments.       By ROBERT HARE, MD. Professor of Chemistry
      in the University of Pennsylvania .                          .       .       .     .      .        367
    On the Circle.        By JOHN WALSH, Esq. . . . . .                                                  368
   On a Method of<U+FB01>nding the Limits of the Roots of the higher
      Powers of Numerical Equations.                      By M: J. ROWBOTHAM
                                                                                                         869
                                                                  ”
    On the Application of the Term “ In<U+FB01>nite                               .
                                                                                   .
                                                                                         .      .        872
    Two Lines from the Nautical Almanac, addressed to                                    Mr.
                                         .                                                         IV0R7Y.
                                                                                                         3 4'
    An Account of some Experiments made in order to _deter-                                                   ‘
       mine the Velocity with which Sound is transmitted in the
       Atmosphere.         By OLXNTHUS-GREGORY, LL.D., Secretary
       of the   Astronomical      Society of London, and Professor ofMa
                                                                                                    '
       thematics in the Royal Military Academy at lVool-cozch                                            401

                                       CONTENTS.
  On the New JVIethoJ of Gauging proposed by Dr. You us. By
       Ma \V. VVISEMAN                   .        .       .   .   .   .  .    . .    .   .   4-15
  Letter on the Astronomical He<U+FB01>‘actions.                                  By J. IvonY, Esq.
       M.A. ERS.             _.    .                                                .    .  4-18
   On some Errors in Dr. HU’l‘TON’S Tables of the Products and
      Powers of Numbers.                 By lllr. JAMES UTI‘ING . . . 4-27
  Introduction      to  the   Sixth      Section of BESSEL’S Astronomical Ob
      servations         .    .    .     .       .        .   .   .   .  .    . .   .    .   4-27
  Some Account oftlze            Binomial                 Calculus.     By   J. VVALsH, Esq.
                                                                                             4-4-8
  On Black Currantl<U+FB01>ne.                       By C. G. HARLEY, Esq. . . 446
  Notices respecting New Books
  Proceedings of Learned Societies 59, 136, 224, 299, 378, 452
  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles 63, 140, 2ff0,
                                                              52, 135, 219, 284, 875, 4-4-7
                                                                                       307, 392;   4/
                                                                                                      /,
                                                                                  '
                                                        .                                   459
  List ofPatents           .    .      .      .       .       75, 14-8, 239, 319, 399, 471
  Meteorological        Tablesv      .      .     - .       .  75, 14-9, 240, 820, 4-00, 473
                                               -_-.
                                         PLATES
       I. Section  of Cromer      Cli<U+FB02>‘.
      II. Dr. WALCHNER’S Figures of the Crystals of Hynlosiderite.
     Ill. FnAUEm-lomn’s Micrometer.                                _
     IV. Dr. HAnE’s Single-leaf Electrometer,                     and improved  De<U+FB02>agrstora.
      V. Amphiuma means: Ascidia plicata; and Ascidia ovalis.
                                       ‘
                                           ERRATA:
    Page 60, line 20 from bottom 2 for “ William Scores, Jun. Esq." read “ Wil.
liam Scorcsby,.Jun. Esq."
    Page 60, line 6 from bottom: or “ VValross" read “ Walrus."
    Page 97, line 17 : for “ the p atinom is positive to the silver” read “ the silver
 is positive to the platinum.”                  -
    Page 236, line 20 from bottom : for “ Meissin" read “ Meissen."
    Page 968, line 5: jbr “ 400°” read “ 100°."
    Page 305, line 4 from bottom : for “ M. Guillon” read “ M. Gaillon.“
    Page 806, line 22 : for “ M. Le Galloins" read “ M. Le Gallois, Jun."
   _Page 306, line 12 from bottom: for “ M. Giraud" read " M. Girard."
                                                    “ M. Remain" read “ M. Romain.”
  v Page 306, line 5 from bottom :vjbr
    Page 807, line 5 : fbr “ Arnaud Reynaud" read “ Armand Reynaud.”
    Page 807, line 7 : for “ M. Tilerier" read “ M. Tllorier."
    Page 394, last line: jbr “ Irkutak" read “ Irkutsk."

                                           THE
          PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
               AND JOURNAL.
                           31gt   JAN-UAR Y             1824-.
                   I. On       two new Species   qf   Narcissus.v
          To the Editors   of the Philosophical Magazine and Jouryal.
                                                                                -
          Gentlemen,                                                        .             .
              you published in yourlast Number,                                 Mr. Ha
     WHEN
       vi'orth’s excellent account of a new Genus
                                                                 p.‘   4-4-0,
                                                          of Narcissea',
      you were not aware that the two species there noticed had been
      described, and one of them actually <U+FB01>gured, in The Botanical
'
       Register, as new species of Narcissus, with speci<U+FB01>c names un
      der which they have been known and distinguished for the
      last two years, and which      am persuaded Mr. Haworth has
                                     I
      no desire to change.       The Diomedgs minor of Mr. Ha
      worth   is Narcissus Macleayi of the Botanical Register. This
      plant appears to have been long lost to our gardens until re
    “
      Cently imported by the Secretary to the Linnaean Society,
      among other bulbs, from Smyrna.        Mr. Haworth’s D. major
     is   <U+FB01>gured in the Botanical               and named Narcissus
      Sabim', in honour of the worthyRegister,
                                         ecretary of the Horticultural
      Society, whose thorough knowledge of the genus fully entitles
      him to this distinction, independently of the circumstance of
      his having recentlv restored this species to the notice of British
      botanists.   Whether the beautiful genus of Narcissus ought to
      be divided into many genera, must be left to botanists to
      decide; but  I   suspect that Diomedes will not be considered
    a   good name for      genus of plants, as being not suf<U+FB01>ciently
                           a
      distinct from the genus Diomedea of Linnaeus.
      '
                                                     Yours &c.
                                                                                    E. E.
    Vol.   63. N0. 809.    Jan.   1824.-               A   2                        II.       On

     II.
                                [8]
           On the irregular Indications
                                     of T/zermonlelers‘.             By
                       Jon)! HERAPA'rn, Esq.1
      <U+FB01>rst time I noticed any irregularity of thermometrical
THE
  indication, was in the summer of 1820.         Holding the
thermometer of a friend obliquely, with its bulb in boiling
water, and then raising the stem to a vertical position, I re
peatedly observed that the latter osition gave a hi her indi
cation than the former.      This, as ar as I remember<U+FB01>la pened
onl when the thermometer was <U+FB01>rst put in the water ob iquely,
                                                       I
an then brou ht to a vertical position; but do not recollect
whether any difference happened when the position was <U+FB01>rst
vertical and then oblique; nor do            I
                                             indeed remember that
such a case was tried.      My friend having at the time treated
in observation as accidental, and due to the greater in<U+FB02>uence
0 the ascending steam on the vertical than on the oblique
tube, turned my attention to a different object; though the
least consideration of the thickness of the glass and the very
slow transmission of heat by this body, ought to have con
vinced us that such a reason was incorrect.             I
                                                       have no pre
cise recollection of the obliquity of the tube, or of the amount
                                                 I
of the difference of the indications; but rather think the de
clination from the vertex was about 30°, and the difference of
the indications a degree or two. The thermometer, as far as
I remember, was rather lar e in the calibre.
    Some months after this       observed, in the course of some
experiments on the resulting temperatures of equal portions of
mercury differently heated, that the thermometer with which
I   took the higher temperature often sunk, in taking imme
diately afterwards that of the mixture, from a half to a whole
degree lower than that to which it quickly rose and settled.
_   th   attention bein shortly afterwards more particularly di
rected to the correction of thermometers, I resolved to under
take a few experiments for the purpose of discovering a guide
to a more practically accurate correction than that usually
g 1ven.
   Exp. l.—-I put the bulb of a thermometer which was about
   " It has been imagined by some scienti<U+FB01>c gentlemen into whose hands
a friend put this paper, that my object is to support the theory of Bellani.
This opinion they formed from my having made, as they say, an erroneous
quotation  of his experiment; owing to my relying on a hasty mental im
pression enfeebled by a considerable lapse of time.    I beg however to ob
serve, that I never had an idea of supporting Bellani’s views.   My present
ideas of thermometrical corrections had occurred to me some ears before
Signor Bellani published, or perhaps made, his ex eriment ; an my allusion
to it was for the purpose of showing, that, from t e impression I had of the
experiment, Bellani erred in discovering the cause of his phaenomenon.
                      by the Author.                           '
      Communicated
    'I‘
                                                                        50°

        Mr. J. Herapath      on
                                  theIndications      rf-Thermometers.        9
 50° Fahr. gradually into mercury at about 850°.                After the
thermometer had risen'as high as it would, I took it out, and
rapidly cooled down the bulb by means of a wet cloth to
within about 50° 01‘ 70° of 212°.            Plunging the bulb im
mediately into‘Water rapidly boiling, I observed the mercury
descend to a certain point; and then regularly, but somewhat
quickly, rise and settle from a degree to a degree and a half
higher. I could not ascertain the exact ascent, in consequence
of the divisions of the scale comprehending each not less than
two degrees.
   Exp. 2. Having <U+FB01>rst cooled down the stem and bulb, by
immersing the instrument for some time in water of about 50°,
I put the thermometer as before into mercury of 400° or up
wards.     Suffering it to become stationary, it was taken out,
and the bulb cooled, by similar means to that in the last ex
periment, to about 300°, and then immersed in the same water
boiling very fast; a like rise took place, after the mercury had
 sunk to its minimum, but as               I
                                        fancied a little greater ap
                                                              -
proaching    nearer  to  two  degrees.
    An accident at the close of this experiment unfortunately
destro ed the thermometer I used, which happened to be the
last I had le<U+FB02>: that extended to a high range. This prevented
me from trying other similar experiments       '
                                                     on a more careful
                                                                 -
and varied plan.
    The instrument ranged      from  about  --  100°  to nearly + 500°;
and its bulb extended 34th:; of an inch or more below the scale.
    After the lapse of a considerable period,             I
                                                        recollected that
I  had a thermometer by me, which, though not very good for
measuring great intervals of temperature, on account of the
irregularity of its calibre, was nevertheless, from its sensibility
and ran e, well suited for delicate experiments of this kind.
It exten ed from about -4~4° to +106°, and was so sensible,
that the temperature              be read off to the 1-15th of a de
gree,  or even  to        might
                        1-30t   with great  care.    Its bul'o projected
                   the                   '
three inches beneath the scale.
   With this instrument I made the following experiments *:
   Exp. 7. Leaving my thermometer and 16865 grains of mer
cury ina ass tumbler, weighin 2835 grains, for about twelve
hours in t    same room, I took t e tem erature of the mercu .
at 5l°'27, the air being 52°.      Putting t e' bulb immediately             it}:
terwards in water of a much higher temperature, allowed the   I
thermometer to ascend to 105°. As could not safely venture
                                               I
to raise the mercury higher,      Itook out the instrument, suffered
it to cool a few degrees, and then reimmersed it.            This     did
                                                                      I
   it
       Theintermudiate experiments,      and the 11th, have been struck out  by
the author for the sake of brevity  ;,   but their mean results are included in
the           balance.
      general
     \01.   68. No. 309.   Jan.   1824.                 B                 two

10    .
                Mr. J. Herapath    on the irregular
two or three times, by which I thou ht I should produce the
same effect on the thermometer as if had allowed it to reach
its maximum in water of about 105° or 106°.             Cooling down
the bulb considerably, I observed the mercury to be 51°‘47,
exceeding apparently its former temperature by °'2.
   Exp. 8. Bein apprehensive that I might have raised the
temperature of t e mercury a little, by the excess of the tem
perature in the bulb at the time of the re-immersion, I re
peated the experiment at the distance of 12 or 24 hours in
precisely the same way, except that      I  brought the bulb, pre
vious to taking the second temperature, to as near as I could
this mercurial temperature, by putting it in water and then‘
quickly wiping it dry with a handkerchief.               The air being
50° near the wall, the numbers were 48°63 and 48°‘67.
   Exp. 9. Twenty-four hours afterwards the same apparatus,
and precautions gave 45°‘93 and 46°10, the air being &6°'7.
   Exp. 10. At the end of 12 or 24 hours more, in an atmo
sphere of 47°, I obtained 46°'2 and 4~6°'4'.
                                                             '
   Exp. 12. Being desirous of trying the experiment so as to
ascertain whether immediate repetitions with mercury would
be attended with successive augmentations of temperature, I
put my glass containing the mercury in the same room with
my thermometer.       About four hours afterwards, the air near
one of the walls being 48°'5, I repeated the experiment with
all the preceding precautions, to which        I   added that of cool
ing the thermometer’s bulb, previous to the last immersion, a
degree lower at least than the mercury.            The numbers were
48°'5 and 48°73.       A few minutes afterwards I raised the
thermometer again to 105°; and, with the same care in cool
ing the bulb a degree or more beneath the mercury, took the
mercury at 4-8°'83.    Another repetition with like precautions
gave 48°'9, and another 48°97.          These experiments alto
gether occupied    about  20  minutes.                             »
    Half at! hour after I had <U+FB01>nished I observedv the same
 thermometer near the wall stand at 48°‘8; the mercury indi-'
 cating by this instrument a temperature of48°'87.
    Exp. 13.    Twenty-four hours afterwards, the air bein
 48°47, I repeated- the experiment with the same care              an -
                                                                 ‘    I
 precautions.    The numbers were at                    .
         8“ 40’ A.M. before heating thermom.              47°“47
         8  48...      after   ditto-.......              47'77
         s 47 - -- after 2dditto. .              ..       47493
            50.......
                                                      .
         8                     3dditto.                   48-07
            55..             .4thditto.....
              0'.......
         8              .                                 4-8'20
         9
         9    5  .......
                 ..... ..
                               5thditt0.
                               6thditto   .  .   .  ..
                                                          48-40
                                                          48   ~60
        9    10                7thditto                   48-77
                                                                    the

                                                                          '
                          Indications   of Thermometers.                     l1
 the bulb having at each repetition, after being raised to 105°,
 been cooled down to 47° or lower, and quickly and carefully
 wiped with a silk handkerchief before retaking the tempera
 ture of the mercury.
    In consequence of the weather being <U+FB01>ne, its temperature
 manifestly increasin , and the mercury at <U+FB01>rst so much. colder
 (one degree) than t e atmosphere, I concluded that the suc
cessive augmentations of temperature observed in the mercury
at the several repetitions of the experiment, were due rather
to the gradual rise of this body’s temperature than to any
continued increase in the indications of the thermometer. As
a con<U+FB01>rmation of this,           I observed that the temperature of the
air and mercury taken at 9“ 40', or one hour after, was 499'8;
which, compared with the temperature of the mercury at the
<U+FB01>rst and last of the preceding observations, shows nearly a
uniform increase of 2°‘2 per hour after allowing for the excess
of the apparent above the real indication in the observation at
9" 10'.
    Deducting therefore from all the observations except the
<U+FB01>rst a. quantity proportional to the time, at the-rate of 3‘66 of
a degree per minute, the observations will stand, corrected for
the increase of the mercury’s temperature, as below:
           lst   .  .  .    4~7°'47   '
                                            5th   .  . .    47°‘65
           2d     . .   .   47 '66          6th   .  . .    47 '67.
           3d     .  .  .   4-7 '67         7th   .  . .'   47 '68
                                                          -
           4th    .  .  .   4‘7  '70        8th   .  . .    47 '67
   This experiment seems to show that the di<U+FB01>'erence of indi
cations in the thermometer is produced at the <U+FB01>rst heating of
the bulb, and not. increased by any following similar opera
tions.
   Ea‘ . 14!. During the preceding experiments                   I  was near
the mercury at the times only of my taking its temperature; at
other times      I    was many feet from it; and not unfrequently
several. things stood between me and it, so as to cut off all
rectilinear communication.              But having after the last experi-,
ment observed that the heat of the body, when standing within
about two feet from the unprotected glass, raised the tempera
ture of the mercury in one instance as much as 3-10ths of a
degree in 5', I was desirous of repeating the experiment un
der circumstances in which this proximity could have no
effect, or at least no sensible effect.          For this purpose      I ob-'_
tained    the  assistance      of  my friend  Mr.   Mervyn    Crawford,     to
whose precision the accuraCy of the following experiments is
                                                                  -
much
 i
         indebted.
   The mercury having been for several days in our e'xpe'ri-i
        '
 ‘
                                        B 2                          mentlng

12                Mr. J. Herapath                  on the    irregular
menting room,          I
                    formed about three hours before we           n
all round the glass, but not touchin        close thick w       of
                                                              it,   a
books, rising from two to three inc es above it.     At 8" 22',
the mercury was 46° 23', and at 9" 10' the air 46°'13. At
this time we commenced our experiments, going throu            the                     h
usual process of heating and coolin  the bulb  (to 46°'2) liefore
taking each temperature after the rst.
                                 Times.             Mercurial Temp.
                                9“,       10%          46°47
                                          15           46 ’33
                               9 9 9 9
                                          19           4-6   '30
                                          23%          46 '33
                                          27           4'6 '33
   Wishing to know whether the air and mercury for a short
time afterwards varied their temperatures much,    observed                      I
with the same instrument, without any heating or cooling, at
                                                              "
                                                                                            -
              9h 32' the mere. was 460-53                    the air 460-13
              9   37                               46°40                46'80g0ingoutand
ramming     Me    52       .   .
                               .           .   .   46 -53     .     .   46   so
     Exp.   15 and 16.                   Another experiment     made with a closer
and higher wall of books gave a                        similar result '18.   Varying
the experiment so as to measure                        the temperature of the mer
cury with the thermometer in the                        same state      second time,
                                                                             a
before each repetition of heating,                      had the advantage of show
ing the real alteration of the mercurial temperature at equal
intervals, durin the course of repetitions.         No difference
however having Eeen found in the general value of anomalous
indication,        unnecessary to enter into details.
              it
              is
    In this last experiment used water for heating the ther
                                               I
mometer, which was only 106°; in which          put the bulb, and   I
let  itremain  for about    minutes to see-whether
                                          5          any difference
in the result would arise from the water being of a less tem-.
perature than before. The difference of indication came out,
however, nearly the same, '17 or rather more.
    The mean difference of indication in all these experiments,
after allowing in the 12th for the advance of temperature,                                 is
about '174; the air and thermometrical tube being about
50°-7, or in round numbers 50°.
   During the making of the preceding experiments made                                I
one or two efforts likewise to ascertain whether any difference
existed in the indications, by <U+FB01>rst immersing the bulb in
water of 105° with the stem oblique, and then raising            to a                 it
perpendicular;     but, for want of a  steady temperature     in  the
water,    Icould not succeed.
    On inquiring into the cause of the phaamomena         have de                 I
                                                             tailed,

                  Indications    of   Thermometens.-                      13
tailed, we are instantly led to attribute it to the recommuni
cation, from the glass of the stem to the colder descending
portion of mercury, of a part of that heat which had been
communicated from the warmer portion of the ascending co
lumn.    Were the bulb at every instant uniformly of the same
temperature, the successive portions of mercury which ascend
into the stem from the bulb would be successively higher in
temperature than those which precede or are above them;
and the temperature of all that had ascended from the bulb
would be less almost in the precise proportion to the distance
from the bulb.      But, from the quick conductibility of mer
cury, it seems probable that there is a rapid and continued
transmission of temperature from the bulb to the higher parts.
And, in consequence of the little af<U+FB01>nity between mercury and
glass, this transmission may be aided, when the stem is verti
cal, even by the aseent of the warmer portions, on account of
the difference in the speci<U+FB01>c gravity. However this may be, it
is plain that the mercury being warmer than the stem, _ must
communicate a portion of its excess of temperature to the
glass. The loss thus sustained by the mercury will be shortly
made up       further transmission from the bulb. In the course
           I?!
of a very ew transmissions in this way, that           is,
                                                    in a ver short
time, the interior of the glass to a small depth from             co
                                                                  t   e
lumn of mercury, will attain a temperature equal or nearly
equal to that of the adjacent mercury; provided the tempera
ture of the bulb'remain nearly the same.                           v _
    Suppose now the bulb to be cooled, the mercury in the
stem which occupied the higher will descend to the lower and
warmer parts, and    if this descent be very rapid     may exceed
                                                             it
in celerity the tardy communication of heat from the sur
rounding glass; so that the column of mercury at the instant
it becomes stationary,    is colder than the glass enveloping it.
An expansion, therefore, and a conse uent rise in themer-q
curial column will gradually ensue        b   tcommunication of
                                                   e                       a
part of the excess of heat in the contiguous glass.       This phas
nomenon would be similar to that in the <U+FB01>rst two experiments.
   Should the bulb. be brought back after being heated to its
primitive temperature,    it     plain that the suspended column
                                is
of mercury, thou     h precisely the same in quantity, yet being
by the heated    g  ass raised in temperature, will settle to             a
higher indication than before. This         the phenomenon
                                              is
                                                        '       con:~
tained in the 14 last experiments.                           t  4
   The amount of this variation of apparent temperature mani
festly depends, in either case, on the difference of the second
and last temperatures of the bulb, andthe length of the column
of mercury in the last temperature. If theseremain the same,
                                                       a repetition

  I4    Mr. J. Hempath         on the Indications    of  Thermometers.
~a   repetition of the heating and cooling process immediately
'afterwards would therefore produce no difference in the amount
of the variation, provided sufficient time was iven in the <U+FB01>rst
process for the mercury to obtain from the                   ulb, and com
 municate to the glass, the necessary quantity of heat, accord
 ing to the distance from the bulb. For like reasons a third,
 fourth, 8m. process immediately afterwards would not alter
the value of the variation.            Hence the reason that the 12th
and subsequent experiments did not exhibit any difference in
the apparent temperatures at the 8d, tth, 8L6. observations;
proper allowance being made for the real variation of the
 mercurial temperature during the intervals.
    With respect to the time required in the <U+FB01>rst heatin and
 cooling of the mercury to give the maximum e<U+FB02>ect,                     have
not made an observations; but, from a circumstance or two
 that occurred' in the course of my experiments, a much shorter
period than I took would produce a sensibly less variation.
-Nor have I determined in how long after such an experiment
 a like variation may be observed with the same instrument;
“but  I conceive that a half hour’s care<U+FB01>Jl cooling of the stem
 would be suf<U+FB01>cient, or less if the stem could be well cooled in
 a less time.
    It can hardly be expected of me, with so few experiments,
 to enter into a theoretical computation of the value of this
 variation under all circumstances.           If however the views that
 I have taken of it be nearly correct, the variation would be
 about half the mercurial correction for the same column of
 mercury at the 2d and 8rd temperatures of the bulb.
    Now the correction given by the Royal Society’s Committee
is=     *—
        range out of wet. x excess temp.
                     10000
                                         minus    a» of this  value.  Call
ing, therefore, in round numbers the range of the last ther
mometer from —4-O° to + 100°, and supposing the mean tem
perature of the bulb to have been 50°, we shall have for the
general correction
              4o   50  x   100—50
          {,.(—+—)15§00—~--)       = {,(-45)=~3938;
the half of which, or °'197, ought to be the amount of varia
tion.     Our experiments ive '17.
    Again: supposin in t e <U+FB01>rst experiment there were about
20° or 22° of the ower de rees immersed, which I should?
think there were though I id not attend to it carefully, the
correction would be                  ‘
                                                .                           '
        _  78  212   252-212                      ..
       %_
                                =  17701906): 3.553.
                                                                       Half

   Dr. Wollaston      0a the Magnetism       qf Metallic Titanium.      l5
   Halfv of this 1°'77 should be the amount of ascent, which
does not differ much from the experiment— a degree or, a
degree and a half.       The difference is also on the right side;
for we might easily conceive that the mercury is heated a little
as it comes down, and consequently does not sink so low as it
otherwise would, nor therefore afterwards rise so much.
    A like calculation for the second experiment would give}
about 2°‘4-.     This differs also from observation on the side
we might expect, but more than the preceding calculation.
   It is remarkable that if we take a number to 1'77 as '17 to
~197, it will be l°'5, as nearly as possible that which was ob
served in the <U+FB01>rst experiment; and if we take a number to
2-4 as '17 to '197, it will be 2°“1, differing also but very little
from the second experiment.            From this it appears that our,
theoretical value is too high by about an ei hth.                  Before,
however, much can be said with certainty, ot er and more
extensive experiments are wanting.                            I
                                               But enough, hope, has,
been advanced, to show the danger of relying, in delicate ex
periments, on‘the correction usually employed for that part
of the tube not immersed in the <U+FB02>uid.
   London, Cranford, May   7, 1823.
    III.  On the apparmt Magnetism qf Metallic Titanium.
       By WILLIAM HYDE WOLLASTON, MD. V.P.R.S."“
       an account that I lately gave of the properties of metallic
 IN  titanium, which is printed in the First Part of the volume.
of the Philosophical Transactions for the present yearf, there
is an oversight, which I am desirous of rectifying as soon as
may be.      I have there stated that the cubic crystals of ti-_
tanium, when <U+FB01>rst detached from the iron-slag where they
are found, ’were all attracted by a ma et, but that when they
had been freed from all particles 0 iron adherent to them,
the appeared to be no longer acted upon by it.
    I¥Iaving since that time been led, by the observations 'of
M. Peschier of Geneva, to examine this question more accu-~
rately, I <U+FB01>nd that, although the crystals are not suf<U+FB01>ciently
attractile to be wholly supportedby the magnet, yet when a
crystal is supported by a <U+FB01>ne thread, the force of attraction
is suf<U+FB01>cient to draw it about 20 degrees from the perpendi_.
 cular, and consequently that the force of attraction is equal
 to about one-third the weight of the metal.
    When a piece of soft iron of about the same size was made
 of a cubic form (weighing half a grain), the attractive force
          ’ From'the Philosophical Transactions   for 1823, Part H.
          f See Phil. Mag. vol. lxii. p. 18.
                                             '
                                                                         o r

             _
        '
 16                  Dr. J. W. Webster’s Examination
 of the iron to the same magnet was found, in successive trials,
 to lilt from eighty to ninety times its weight of a silver chain
 adapted to this inquiry.
                                      I
    By a similar mode of trial, found that cobalt carried from
 <U+FB01>fty to sixty times its weight, and that a similar quantity of
nickel supported from twenty to thirty times its own weight
by the same magnet.
    From the above comparison of the magnetic forces, it is
evident that the presence of about §§5 part of iron as an alloy
in the metallic titanium, would be suf<U+FB01>cient to account for
this power, without regarding titanium itself as a magnetic
metal ; and its origin in the midst of iron gives every reason
to suspect that it would be contaminated by some proportion
of that metal.
    It is, however, extremely di<U+FB02>icult really to detect the pre
sence of so small     proportion of iron, on account of the hi
                                                                         beh
                        a
colour of the precipitates of titanium. For though        may     it
easy to produce an appearance of blue by using a prussiate,
which already contains iron, and consequently better adapted
                                           is
to prove the absence of iron where no blueness appears, than
to ascertain its presence,      itby no means easy to obtain the
                                     is
more indisputable evidence of iron by infusion of galls.     It           is
only by repeated evaporation of the muriatic solution, and
continued exposure of the residuum to the temperature of
boiling water, that have succeeded in separating enough of
                        I
the titanium to allow the blackness of gallate of iron to ap
pear, when the e<U+FB02>lorescent edges of the dried salt are touched
with infusion of galls.
    Although the quantity thus rendered sensible does not ap
pear in ro rtion suf<U+FB01>cient to account for the magnetic force
observe      , ere seems more reason to ascribe
                 t                                    to this im
                                                             it
purity, than to suppose titanium possessed of that peculiar
property in a degree so far inferior to the other knowu mag
netic metals.
IV. Chemical Examination of a Fragment of a Meteor which
  fell in Maine, August 1823. By JOHN W. WEBSTER, MD.
   MG.S. Lond. &c.*'
       ae'rolite fell‘at Nobleborough in the State of Maine,
THIS
  on the 7th of August 1823, between four and <U+FB01>ve o’clock
1pm.    The only information which             I   have been able to obtain
of the attending        phsenomena        is   from the papers of the day,
    * For this communication we are indebted to the kindness of the author,
in the ensuing Number of whose Journal of Philosophy and the Arts, pub
                                             ‘
lished at Boston, U. 5., itwill be inserted.                      -
                                                                       and

                        '
                      .
                          of a new American Meteorite.            17
   and from' a communication of Professor Cleaveland, which is
  published in the American Journal of Science, vol. vii. p. 170;
   this account he informs me was obtained at his request by a
  gentleman of intelligence in a personal interview with -Mr.
   A. Dinsmore, who was at work near the place where the
   a'e'rolite struck.     “ Mr. Dinsmore’s attention was excited by
   hearing a noise which at <U+FB01>rst resembled the discharges of
  platoons of soldiers, but became more rapid in succession.
   The air was perfectly calm; and the sky was clear, with the
   exception of a small whitish cloud, apparently about forty
   feet square, nearly in his zenith, from which the noise seemed
   to proceed. After the explosion, this little cloud appeared to
   be in rapid spiral motion downwards, as if about'to fall on
   him, and. made a noise like a whirlwind among leaves.‘ At
  this moment, the stone fell among some sheep, which were           ,
  thereby much frightened, jumped, and ran into the woods.
  This circumstance assisted Mr. D. in <U+FB01>nding the spot where
   the stone struck, which was about forty paces in front of the
   place where he was standing.         The acrolite penetrated the
   earth about six inches, and there meeting another stone, was
  broken into~fragments.          When <U+FB01>rst taken up, which was
  about one hour after its fall, it exhaled a strong sulphureous
  odour.       The whole mass previous to'its fracture probably
  weighed between four and six pounds; other fragmentsof the
  same meteoric stone are said to have been found several
  miles
     '
           distant from Nobleborough.”—Ame1'. Jour.         '
'
                                                       I
       To the politeness of Dr. George Hayward am indebted
  for a fragment of this meteor.
       Externally the specimen was in part covered with a thin
  semivitri<U+FB01>ed crust or enamel of a black colour, the surface of
  which was irregular and marked with numerous depressions,
  presenting every aPpearance of having been subjected to in
  tense heat.       The crust was hard, yielding with di<U+FB01>iculty to
  the knife.     The quantity of this crust which the small frag
  ment I obtained afforded, was not suf<U+FB01>cient to allow of any
  separate analysis of it.                     _
       The mass of the specimen had a light gray colour inter
  spersed with oblong spots of white, havin the aspect of decom
  posed leucite, and giving it a porphyritic aspect.       Through
  out the stone minute points of a yellow substance, resembling
  olivine, were distributed, with microscopic points of a yellow
  colour, which I imagine were sulphuretted iron.        The cement
  by which these substances were united was of an earthy aspect,
  and soft texture, readily- broken down by the <U+FB01>n ers.» The
  general appearance of the mass was precisely like t at of some
  of the volcanic tu<U+FB01>'as.                                .
       Vol. 63. No. 309. Jan. 1824.               C             The

    18              Dr. J. W. Webster’s Examination
        The speci<U+FB01>c gravity     was remarkably low, being but 2'05 *.
        Before the blow-pipe it exhaled a sulphureous odour, but
    was not fused.
       _The specimen was reduced to powder and submitted to the
    action of a magnet of considerable power, but no attractable
    particles Were separated. A portion was heated to redness
  - on a platina spoon; it emitted the sulphureous odour, and its
    weight was diminished rather more than 2I per cent; the re
    sidue acquired a brown colour; it was again presented to the
    magnet, but nothin was attracted.
        (1.) One hundret grains of the stone were introduced into
    a tabulated retort with dilute muriatic acid; the beak of the
    retort was plunged into a solution of acetate of lead, slightly
    acid, and contained in a small tubulated receiver.                  A m0
    derate degree of heat was applied, and the di estion continued
    for twelve hours.        A slight quantity of sulp uret of lead was
    formed, but not su<U+FB01>icient to admit of being collected and
    weighed.
        All action upon the powder having ceased, the <U+FB02>uid was
v   turbid, apparently holding a substance which I imagined to
    be the sulphur in suspension; at the bottom was an undis
    solved residuum.
        (2.) The <U+FB02>uid was carefully separated and <U+FB01>ltered; the -sub
    stance remaining upon the <U+FB01>lter was washed with distilled
    water, and thoroughly dried; it proved to be sulphur, and
    weighed 18'3- grains.
               The-insoluble residuum was mixed with pure potash,
    and exposed in a silver crucible to heat su<U+FB02>icient to cause the
    fusion of any siliceous earth.         The crucible being placed in
    an evaporating dish, hot distilled water was poured upon it
    until the contents were completely removed. The resulting
    <U+FB02>uid was treated in the usual manner with muriatic acid,
    with the addition of the acid which had been digested upon
    the stone in the <U+FB01>rst instance. The quantity of silex obtained
    alter calcination amounted to 296 grains.
        (4.) The solution, the bulk of which had been considerably
            ented by the addition of the water with which the pre
     cipitate (3) had been washed, was carefully evaporated to
     rather less than a pint.       Carbonate of potash was. added until
     it ceased to produce any precipitate; the whole was mode
     rately boiled. When the precipitate had completely subsided,
     the supernatant liquor was decanted, and distilled water sub
     stituted.    The precipitate was collected and boiled with pure
    potash; the liquor after <U+FB01>ltration was treated with muriatic
       ‘l The lowest speci<U+FB01>c gravity of any meteorolite on record, is that of the
     St. Etienne specimen, which is but 1-94.
                                                                            acid

                                                          ‘
                         of a new American Meteorite.             19
acid in excess, from which carbonate ofv ammonia threw down
a <U+FB02>aky precipitate, and was added until the alkaline taste
predominated.        The precipitate thus obtained, after ignition
weighed     4-‘7 grains.    To satisfy myself of the nature of this
substance, it was treated with sulphuric acid and potash; cry
stals of alum were obtained, and it was therefore alumina.
    (5). The residuum which had resisted the action of the
potash was digested in diluted sulphuric acid; after expelling
the excess of acid, pure water was poured upon the remaining
solid, in order to dissolve any sulphate of magnesia and me
tallic sulphates.
    To discover if any lime was present in the solution, it was
treated with alcohol, which adortled a slight trace of that earth.
    (6.) The solution, after the addition of more water, was
acidulated with sulphuric acid, and the metallic oxides were
precipitated by the bicarbonate of potash. The magnesia was
separated     by pure potash, and after ignition weighed 24'8
g rams.
    (7.) The precipitate (6) was boiled in nitric acid, in order
to convert any chrome present in it into an acid, which was
afterwards b the addition of potash converted into a soluble
chromate.        n addin muriatic acid, the chrome was obtained
in the state of an oxi e, suf<U+FB01>ciently characterized by its beau
tiful colour.     After being well dried it weighed 4 grains.
    A portion of this substance was subsequently exposed on
charcoal with borax to the action of the blow-pipe, and its
nature satisfactorily proved.
          '
    (8.)    ‘he matter remaining after the separation of the
chrome was redissolved in muriatic acid, and the iron was
thrown down by ammonia.               After washing and drying, it
weighed 14'9 grains.
    (9.) The remaining solution was now evaporated, the am
monia driven off, and the precipitate, which proved to be
nickel, weighed 2-8 grains.
    The composition of this meteoric mass is therefore
                   Sulphur.....................     18'3
                   Silex.........................   29'5
                   Alumina.....,......'.........     4'7
                   Lime.........................  a trace
                   Magnesia....................     24-‘8
                   Chrome                            4"
                   Iron..........................   14-9
                   Nickel.......................     2'3
                                                    98'5
                                       Loss......     1'5
                                                   100'
                                    (3 2                   V. A  new
                                                  ,M'          O    '

 I“ '               .
                                 t            ]
V. A      new Theory of Telescopes founded on rational Principles
         and interesting Experiments. By J. READE, MDH“
                      on the corneal theory of vision as established,
LOOKING in this paper I     shall endeavour to apply that theory to
             advantage in the science of astronomy.                  Although
    have shown, by numerous and I ma venture to say con
practical
clusive experiments, that our ideas of objects are produced by
erect images painted on the pupil, still 1 by no means argue
that the retina is not the nerve communicating with the sen
sorium, in a similar manner as the nerves minister to feeling,
hearing, tasting and smelling.               Indeed, the <U+FB01>ve senses may
be all reduced to one, the sense of feeling.              So long as philo
sophers believed that inverted images painted on the retina
produced the phenomena of vision, so long the most incon
sistent opinions were advanced of Ion -and short- sightedness,
and the theory of telescopes, spectacles, 8L0.                “If   the cornea
or c stalline (say authors), or either of these, be too-<U+FB02>at, a
penci of light coming from an object at an ordinary distance
will have its focus at some point beyond the retina, and there
fore vision will be indistinct, as in the case of an object too
near for a common eye.”            Let us for a moment examine this
reasoning.       It   is  admitted    on all hands, that no inverted
ima e is ever formed, until the rays cross after arriving at
the focus; consequently, if the focal point were situate beyond
the retina, no image could ever be painted on that substance,
and we must be driven to the absurdity, that the mind could
perceive an object without an image. Dr. Porter<U+FB01>eld has
some strange metaphysical ideas on this subject, at one time
talking of pictures on the retina, and the next moment deny
ing their existence. Having examined the eyes of many short
sighted                with much accuracy, I <U+FB01>nd them not to di<U+FB02>'er ‘
in the persons
            east from long-sighted eyes; hence the <U+FB02>atness or
plumpness of the cornea can have nothing to do with the dis;
ease, however necessary it may be to the refracted theory of
philosophers.
      Here   I  may enlarge on this subject, but must refer to a
former paper in your valuable Journalf, wherein I have ex
 perimentally demonstrated that focal im es are not formed
 by any crossing of the rays, when pass                    through a lens,
 but that the focus is produced by re<U+FB02>ected images uniting,
 and sent from the concave sides.               Indeed,   I   am inclined to
 think that we must look to the nerves for the cause of short
 sightedness, and not to any fanciful <U+FB02>atness or plumpness of
           4' Communicated
                             by the Author.
           1' See Phil. Mag. vol. lviii. p. 249, and vol. lix. p. 200.
                                                                            t l 1e

           Dr. J. Reade   on a new Theory  of  Telescopes.        21
the cornea.     For on an analogy with the other senses, such.
as feeling, hearing, tasting, &c., we <U+FB01>nd extreme stimuli act
so as for a time to injure the organ, and in a manner to pa
ralyse sensibility.    Thus a soldier returning from the <U+FB01>eld of
battle,  and deafened by the roar of cannon, for a time be
comes insensible to minor sounds. The <U+FB01>ngers accustomed to
rough usage, are incapable of nice works; and in like manner
the retina accustomed to the stimulus of lio'ht sent from very
close objects, by degrees adapts itself and lbecomes insensible
to those more remote, and consequently less powerful.            On
                                                                     '
similar principles, :1 person with the best sight may make him-
self short-sighted, by merely wearing concave                I
                                                    lasses. - have
met with some simple young gentlemen at C0 lege, who pro
duced the disease by this affectation, and became perfectly
short-sighted.    It is well known that watch-makers are short
sighted, and sailors the reverse.     A long-sighted person may
become short-sighted in a week, or after a fever, or a nervous
disease, without any change of the cornea or crystalline lens.
Nor can    I  conceive that wearing a concave glass could after
any   time change the shape of the cornea.
    For the purpose of particularly investigating this subject,
I  requested a very short-sighted gentleman_ to seat himself
opposite the letter T pasted on the window, as already men
tioned in my paper On Vision, published in the Annals-of
Philosophy; and on looking at the correct re<U+FB02>ected image on
the pupil, and comparing it with that of a long-sighted per
son seated at the same distance, I could not perceive the least
difference either in the 'size or strength of colouring; yet the
long-sighted gentleman saw the letter distinctly, while the
other said that he only saw a very confused and large outline.
Hence we must infer that the disease lies not in any plump
ness or flatness of the cornea, but in-either the humours or,‘
thenerves, or both. A convex glass increases the confusion
with a short-5i hted person, and therefore is never used; with
a long-sighte     person it renders the object more distinct.
By the interposition of a concavo-concave glass, an image is
formed very near the eye, which, although small, sends the
rays with as much force to the cornea, as if the object itself
were in the same place: short-sighted people choose a small
print, write a small hand, and take off their spectacles when
reading.     Much has been written to very little purpose on
the means of <U+FB01>nding the foci of spectacles, and philosophers
have exerted all their ingenuity; yet the practical optician,
however quali<U+FB01>ed to read their learned essays, throws them
aside for the old-fashioned and purely mechanical method of
holding the lens before a wall, and measuring the focus
                                                                with
                                                             a ru e:

22           Dr. J. Reade    on a new T/Lcory    qf Telescopes.
a rule: yet it must be allowed that on a subject of such im
portance to the happiness of mankind, such a method is very
unsatisfactory, and often leading to an injury of sight, for two
convex or concave spectacle glasses may be-very dissimilar in
transparency or quality of               without in the least affecting
the focal images; this may ngass   e shown by scratching a lens or
soiling the surface without in the least alterin             those focal
images.      The   following  method,    arising  out of  tie  discovery
that the cornea is the true seat of vision, is preferable.          Pro
cure two glass globes somewhat                 than the human eye, <U+FB01>ll
 them with pure water, and place       larger
                                          t em in a case at about one
inch from each other to represent the human eyes. The glasses
for examination, 'whether convex or concave, should now be
placed in their frames and held in front of these globes, and
 before the letter T pasted on the window.               On comparing
 the magni<U+FB01>ed or diminished images of the letter on the con-
 vex faces of these globes, the practical optician may imme
 diately say whether the are similar in their.powers, whether
they magnify or diminish equally, and likewise whether the
images are clear and distinct.        In making this experiment, we
should take care to have the globes perfectly similar.             Here
 after  I  shall resume this subject, and shall now proceed to the
theory of telescopes.
    As the Galilean telescope is the most ancient, most simple,
 and most        enerally used,  I  shall begin with it. For a good
history of t is instrument      I  must refer to an excellent article
in Brewster and Rees’s Encyclopaedias, and in a concise man
 ner shall give the present theory from Mr. Wood’s Elements
 of Optics, one of the best works I have seen on the subject,
 and   I  am informed the one used at Cambridge, perhaps the
                                                   “ Galileo's telescope
                                                                         .
 <U+FB01>rst mathematical university in Europe.
 consists of a convex object-glass, and a concave eye—glass,
 whose axes are in the same line, and whose distance is equal
 to the distance of their focal lengths.         A  distant object may
 be seen distinctly through Galileo’s telescope, and the. angle
 which it subtends at the centre of the eye when thus seen, is
 to the angle which it subtends at the centre of the naked eye
as the focal length of the object-glass to the focal length of the r
 eye- ass.
    “ et L and E be the centres of the glasses, PQR a distant
 object towards which the axis of the telescope is directed;
pqr its ima es in the principal focus of the glass L, and
 therefore in t e principal focus of the glass E.              '
    Then since the rays tend to form an image in the principal
 focus of the concave lens E, after refraction at that lens they
 will be proper for vision, or aidistinct image of the object
                                                                    PQR

         Dr. J. Reade   an a new  ,leeory of   Telescopes.       23
PQR      will be formed upon the retina of a common            eye.
                 UN                                \y,
Also, the angle under which the object Q P is seen through
the telescope is equal to the angle 9 E p; and the an ie under
which it is seen by the naked eye at L is QL P, which is equal
                                                              i<U+FB01>
to q L 11. Therefore the visual angle in the former case : the
                                         ”
visual angle in the latter : : Lq : E q.     From this reasoning
Mr. Wood infers the corollary that the magnifying power of
the Galilean telescope is measured by
                                          T3].
    Before I enter on a mathematical examination, I shall beg
leave to call the attention of my readers to what I conceive
to be a metaphysical absurdity attendin this theory: I shali
quote a passage from Dr. Young, an ab e mathematician and
experimental philosopher; who says in his Lectures on Na
tural Philosophy, p. 428, “ In the Galilean telescope or opera»
glass, a concave eye-glass is placed so near the object-glass
that the <U+FB01>rst image would be formed beyond it and near its
.principal focus, and the second im e formed by the eye-glass,
 which is the vertical image viewe       by the eye, being on the
opposite side of the centre, is inverted with respect to the <U+FB01>rst
image, and erect with respect to the object.”          And in page
 427, he continues, that “in almost all telescopes and com-         ,
 pound microscopes the image formed by one lens or mirror
 stands in the place of a new object for another.        The opera
 tion of such instruments may be illustrated (say Dr. Young
 and other authors) by placing a screen of <U+FB01>ne gauze in the
 place of the image, which receives enough of light to make the
 image visible in all directions, and yet transmits enough to
                                                           -
 form the subsequent image.”
    Here let us pause, and. mark the gross metaphysical ab
 surdity, in supposing that an inverted image painted on the
 retina could enable the observer to see both an erect object
 through the telescope, and an inverted object or image at the
 piece of gauze.     Again: Dr. Young supposes that this in
  verted image at the gauze transmits enough of rays to form
 the subsequent image on the retina. Now it is evident this
 retinal image would be erect in respect to the image on the
                                                             gauze,

        24    Dr. J. Reade    on a new Theory qf’Telescopes.
    .gauze, and therefore the observer should see it inverted: but
      why see the object erect?          I am inclined to hope that Dr.
      Young will agree with me, not only that this experiment
      and reasoning involve a metaphysical absurdity, but that
      they strike at the retinal theory of vision.         For to perceive
      an object both erect and at the same time inverted, by
     means of one image on the retina, is impossible.          But there is
     no di<U+FB02>iculty with respect to the corneal theory of vision; for
     on holding a concave and convex glass before the eye of an
     observer looking at the letter on the window,         I distinctly per
     ceived a small erect image of the letter on the pupil, and like
     wise an inverted image produced by the refracted ra 's as
     they are called. . 2dly, The eye of the observer is a ways
     placed close to the eye-glass. If the magnitude of the object
     seen through the telescope depended on the visual angle q E p,
     the object should appear larger the further the eye was re
     moved from the eye-glass ; but direct experiment teaches that
     the contrary is the fact.         Indeed, the idea of an inverted
     image <U+FB02>oating      in the air, invisible, yet visible, and measured
    by   a visual   angle beyond    the  in<U+FB02>uence   of the nerves, which
     visual angles are measured by the calf as well as the cow,
     by the idiot as well as_ the philosopher, is more than we can
    believe: even the learned Berkeley, late bishop of Cloyne, who
    advanced many strange thin 5, could not believe in this. The
     next object is, that these foca and vertical images, from which
     our ideas are supposed to be derived, are ten or twenty times
    as large_as the area of the pupil itself, and consequently a con
    jurer may' as well get into a quart bottle as these images through
    the pupil.       This is a strong objection, and I conceive an in
    surmountable one, to the present theory of telescopes.           Indeed
    I   am surprised it should have escaped notice.              How is it
    possible that the extreme rays coming from a vertical ima
    one inch or more in length and half an inch in breadth, cou d
    not only enter the pupil, but a hole the size of a pin’s head, such
    as that used by surve ors? We must either admit, what op
    ticians do not allow, t lat rays converge after passing throu h
    the concave eye-glass so as to form a very sharp cone at               the
    pupil, and do away with the magnifying power, illustrated by
s   the anvle   9    Ep, otherwise the cone would be at the wrong
    end.     lo-Iaving unscrewed the eye-glass of an opera telescope
    about three inches long, held
                               I         it   before the window, and, on
    placing a card at the principal focus, found that focus to be
    about <U+FB01>ve inches from the object-glass.          The-letter T on the
    window, being ten feet distant when the eye-glass was again
    screwed on, the focal ima      e    became somewhat enlarged, but
    very indistinct.       What       principally wish to impress
    .                                                                     act,
                                                                       isfthe

            DinJ. Reade    on a new   T110023}      (3/   YWescapfer,                     25
fakt, the incontrovertible fact, that this focal image when in
 tercepted by the card was nearly two inches             breadth, and
                                                                in
 yet the pupil through which they were to pass was not 1-461
 of an inch, nor the eye-hole of the telescope 1-20th of an inch.
 And, as already mentioned,      if q E p  measured the magnifying
 power,    the   further  the eye  was  removed    from the eye-.Ighss
 the larger the object should appear: that the reverSe          the fact   is
 must be known to every experimenter; indeed at a little di
 stance the extreme rays coming from             and
                                                 Q       and crossin
                                                                P
 at L   and then diverging, would not only clear the pupil itsell,
 but the very ears of the spectator; consequently to argue that
 we see the object by means of these rays,            absurd.
                                                           is
     The fourth objection have to bring forward
                           I                                         is,
                                                            that focal
 images are always painted immediately in the axis of the lens,
and no where else.        Therefore,  if these inverted images were
 the cause of vision, the pupil of the observer’s eye should be
always placed in the axis of the lens, and no where else. How;
 ever, direct experiment informs us that we can see'through h.
 refracting telescope, when the eye        removed considerably to
                                           is
 the right or left of the axis. Indeed         have been enabled to
                                                I
 see the inverted image of an object painted on the bull’s eye,
when my pupil was at right angles with the axis, where                                    it
was impossible that any of these rays could enter the eye.
     Having thus shown, hope to the satisfaction of my readers,
                         I
 that this mathematical theory of the Galilean telescope            fill        is
lacious,I     shall now endeavour to substitute a .more rational
theory, and one founded on direct eXperiment.              must refer
                                                                 I
to my former paper on Vision for those experiments which
prove that rays diverge in passing through a convex lens, and
converge in passing through a concave one.                  have also
                                                                 I
shown in a former paper that rays never form focal images by
crossing, which forms another strong objeCtion.. Having pro
cured   a   convexo-convex lens, whose focus was about two feet,
and a concavo-concave lens for an eye-vlass, Number                             -1   7,
                                                                                      I
covered half the concave lens or eye“ ass with                piece of
                                                                     a
white paper.   I      now held these two lenses opposite       lighted     a
candle so as to form a telescope without the tube, andvon re,
movinv the object-Glass to the proper distance from the               e.         e
  lass,
    I      perceived the candle erect and considerably magni 'ed
in all its dimensions; and   I    also perceived an inverted image
of the candle, painted on the paper            the eye-glass.     Here
I          assert, that
                      it    would  be metaphysically absurd to say
that rays coming from this inverted image produced both the
sensation of an erect and at the sane time of an inverted
                                                                         V
mm e.                                        I
                                                                i
'
    \vol. 63. No. 309. Jan. 1824.                I)                The

’26
           Dr.   .I.   Reade on a new 'l‘lzeory qj' Telescopes.
      The following conclusive experiment will explain                the trite
   theory   ot'the   Galilean   telescope.                       a
                                                Having placed glass globe
.<U+FB01>lled with water in a wine glass resting on a table, imme
   diately opposite the letter           T  on the window, the letter was
I  distinctly   painted    by refraction     on the convex surface.      I  new
   held the convex object- lass already described at about a foot
and half distance over llS image, and perceived to be con
                                t                                 it
siderably magni<U+FB01>ed, and surrounded with confused colours.                         I
_now interposed the concave eye-glass at about one inch before
.the image, and perceived the image to be diminished to nearly
.hall' its size; but the colours at the marginvanished, and                       it
  became,       although smaller, much more distinct and black.
 ZThis image could be either increased or diminished by
 approaching or distancing the object-glass.                  Inow pasted a
  piece   of  white paper     on    the   globe   in the vicinit   of the re
:<U+FB02>ected image, and could perceive that the rays which went to
form the inverted virtual image, as              ithas been named, had no
  thin     to do with the erect image formed on the convex side
.gft   e   globe by re<U+FB02>ection.            From this ex eriment, and nu
merous others,         I    would iner that in            t   Galilean
                                                              e            tele
scope the eye—glass diminishes the image formed on the pupil
_hy the object-glass; so that            a     small well-defined im          e   is
  painted close to the pupil, which standing in place                     0    the.
  object, and magnified by the object- glass to the proper
  standard of distinct vision,           I    now made an assistant seat
 himself opposite this letter on the window; and on holdin the
  glasses in the same manner before his pupil,                I perceivet         si
  milar e<U+FB01>'ects; and when the white paper was pasted on half
 the eye-glass, on his looking at the letter,                 Iperceived. the
erect image in. the pupil, and the inverted image painted on
the paper at the eye-glass.           I    now instead of the white paper
put     on  a piece   ofwhite    cloth,    so  as to hinder those rays from
 goingat      all  to his  eye;   yet   he   perceived the object through
 the. telescope.       After this experiment, can any person contend
 that this virtual image            is  the mean of visionthrough the
telescope   P     The <U+FB01>eld of view in the Galilean telescope depends
on the distance ofthe‘object-glass, for the size of the image                     is
inversely      as the distance.              ‘
                                                                            l,
i
    . Thus having shown          by    numerous experiments that these
gross refracted 'rays, with all their twistings and turnings, have
nothing to, do with the phenomenon of v1sion either naked 01'
 armed with the telescope, further than by throwing a quantity
of light into. the pupil, shall now give <U+FB01>gure.
                             I                        a                 ..
                                                                                 ' ~
   , a,
         the.  letter  T   pasted     on   the window, sends an image to
the object-glass       B  C, where two more images are formed
                                                                          ._.§l=t§h

             Dr. J. Reade   on a new Theory       Telesco'jirs.
  each surface: hence they      are sent magni<U+FB01>ed to the eye-glass?
  DE,      which again transmits the image to the eye F; thence
                                                                        a
                                                        '
                           n
                                             7.2%
                      M
                                                \
                                            Lin
 to the retina, and <U+FB01>nally to the sensorium.        This is a correct
 outline of the Galilean telescope, supported in every stage by
 direct experiment.       I have particula-rized Dr. Young’s opi
 nions, both because that gentleman is justly celebrated in the
 scienti<U+FB01>c world, and because I preferred the living to the
 dead.      The. pleasure I feel at havin discovered the corneal
 theory of vision, is somewhat diminisilied by considering that
 it strikes at some of the most interesting theories in astro
 nomy.‘ For ifthe‘th'eor'y ofrei'r'action be proved fallacious,
 it followsas’a' consequence, that the greatest astronomers have
 no idea of the distances of the planets, &c., all their calcu
 lations being built on visual angles and virtual images.
    On looking over the Philosophical Transactions for 1821, I
 <U+FB01>nd a paper written by a very intelligent experimenter,Mr. J. F;
 Herschel, On the Aberrations of Compound Lenses and Ob
ject-glasses.      This gentleman,» seemingly unacguainted with
 the experiments I have published some years ago, both in your
 Journal and in the Experimental Outlines,-—-al‘ter remarking
 on Euler and Dalembert, from whose exertions he says no
 thing resulted beyond a mass of complicated formulae, he
gives a number of algebraic calculations, entirely built on the
 gratuitous assumption that Newton really separated the whole
 light into seven coloured rays. Was Mr. Herschel unac
 quainted with my experiments P v If so, I would beg leave .to
call his attention to the followinrr.
    I t' a. square piece of black cloth with a small semicircular
piece cut from the lower part in the following manner,
be pasted on a ane of glass at the window, on look-
ing at it throng the lower refi‘actin 1' angle of the prism, we
                                                                m
  )erceive the bottom to be fringed With red and yellow rays;
if we now paste another similar piece somev little distance
below it on the same pane, and in an inverted position, as            -
                      [3
                                                                      '
thus represented               we perceive, on looking through the
prism, the upper               part to be fringed with blue and
violet: thus we have three simple and one compound colour
produced by these fringes, derived from the black light re<U+FB02>ected
                               I) 0a                            from

    "28          Dr.   J.    Reade on a new T/zewy   TClt'SCOIM'S.
     from these two pieces of cloth, and rare<U+FB01>ed b sticking oii the
      panic.  The violet is evidently compoundedv of the orange
      blendin with the black light of the lower piece of cloth, and
     the re er is to notice that when these two pieces are kept
     asunder, we never perceive more than four colours,—blue, red,
     yellow and violet: but if we now direct an assistant to approxi
     mate the pieces,    the ellow fringe of the upper one imme
     diately passes   over            the
                                 blue frhwe of the lower piece, and
     forms a vivid    reen; and until this takes place, no green
     ever formed.      ‘he rationale of this interestin expernnent         is is
     too obvious to require much observation.         Tie square
     of black cloth represents the dark window-shutter of Sir piece
                                                                 saac
     Newton’s experiment; and the two semicircular cuts, when
     united, represent the circular hole through which the sun
     beams pass< d.   The black light re<U+FB02>ected from the edges of
     the hole was rare<U+FB01>ed by striking the plane of the prism into
     colours, and mixing gave the spectrum of seven colours to the
     eve.
          Here     we have to remark, that the light passing throule
     the      centre of this hole was colourless, not mixing with tie
        fringes, entirely produced by rare<U+FB01>ed black light, as        easily
                                                                     is
        shown , by passmv the shadow of a knitting-needle through a
       prism placed in fhe sunbeams.         Here we are also to remark,
        that the green       formed after emergence by a mixture of the
                             is
       blue and yellow, and           by
                                    no means a simple colour as Newton
       supposed.       Thus did Sir Isaac Newton compound what he
       calls seven with the three simple and primary colours,—blue,
       red, and yellow.          am fully con<U+FB01>dent that no unprejudiccd
                                  I
       person, after repeating this eas experiment, can for one mo
       lncnt doubt that this great phifbsopher was entirely mistaken
     in     his inference; and however we may admire the ingenuity
       of that reasoning, which for centuries could make the world
       believe that transparent light was a compound of opaque rays,
        at we cannot extend our approbation to those gentlemen,
        iowever learned or respectable, who in the face of direct ex
     periment, and     I   will venture to say common sense, continue
      to uphold false principles.        If the experiments have pub
                                                           I
      lished can be refuted,         am ready to give them up and ac-.
                                      I
      knowledge invself in error; ifnot,    I   call on those gentlemen to
      act with candour and libel'ality.
     I  .    now varied this experiment in the following manner:          I
     allowed the sunbea ms to pass through the hole, and placing          a
     prism behind      it,so as to pass them through the lower refract
     ing angle,  I    percei ved a beautiful oblong spectrum of the hole,
    not the sun, on the op site wall: that this spectrum was ob
?   long and not circular,           no means surprised me, as had
                                      y                         I         al
                                                                     ready

                 Dr.   J.   Reade     071   a new Them?)           Telescopes.                '29
Judy     remarked, that the straight shadow ofa knitting—needle
became     curved by strikimr and passing through the prism;
consequently a circle would become oblong: but what .at first
 did surprise me was, that the entire colours of the spectrum
 were reversed from what I saw ‘on looking at the hole through
 the prism.     The violet was now at top, the orange at the bot
 tom.     This fact escaped the notice of Newton and his fol
 lowers: had they noticed       the theory of repulsion and attrac
                                            it,
 tion must have undergone some slight modi<U+FB01>cation. At some
 future time shall endeavour to account for this phamomenon.
                 I
 And again repeat, that any person performing this experi
      I
ment must be satis<U+FB01>ed that the colours are produced          those                      by
 fringes, and also that those fringes are produced by the rare
faction of black light, and                          by
                                    no means from any separation
 of the solar ray.
 I     shall now say.   few words on the astronomical telescope.
                              a
 Mr. \Voods has the following description, p. 160 :—
     “ Let   L and    be the centres of the tWo glasses;
                            E                                    on                     Q
                                                                                        P
    y~-__                   Z
                            lr;\:a_
    fQ~~—~———-——I                            _._.V
  l
    I“                 V          N
 object towards which the axis of the telescope            directed, and       is
 so distant that the rays which <U+FB02>ow from any one point in                                         it,
 and fall upon the object-glass L, may be considered as pa
 rallel.   'l'hen     p, an inverted ima‘re of
                        q                                will be formed
                                                                  Q     P,
 in the principal focus of the glass           and contained between
 the lines QLq and PL p; and because                   equal to the sum
                                                              L   E
 of the focal lengths of the two glasses,                              is is
                                                        in the principal
                                                              1)   q
 focus of the glass AB; consequently pQ maybe seen di
 stinctly through the glass,          the eye of the observer be able
                                                  if
 to collect parallel rays upon the retina.           Produce pL till                              it
 meet in the       ee-glass in B, join    E, and draw BO parallel-to
                                                          p
p  E. Then 1e rays which <U+FB02>ow from
                   t                             in the object on
                                                              p         its                  1)
 image,  enter    the  eye placed at    O  in the  direction BO; also
 the rays which <U+FB02>ow from               enter the eye in the direction
                                                  Q
 E0. Thus the angle which QP subtends at the centre, of
'the eye, when viewed through the telescope,            the angle 1301'),
                                                                        is
  which     isequal to PE q.       The angle which QP subtends
 when viewed with the naked eye from L,                     Q, which
                                                                   is    P     L                  is
  equal to   p   q.” The same objections         have already brought
                                                              I
 against  the
                Galilean telescope arevequally strong hcrc
                                                                                    ;   1
     ,                                                             tllpre
                                                                       Ol'e

 30                     Count Bournon on certain .Minerals
fore shall merely give a <U+FB01>gure of what I conceive to be the
                                                             '
true theory of this instrument.
                         [
   a, the letter T pasted on the window, sends an image to the
          a'l'           'l‘    71‘                                J-       l
convex object-glass, which           too much rare<U+FB01>ed to pass to the
                                        is
eye, but two inverted images are formed at                  and    b  which c,
uniting;r  at  the  eye-glass  CD,  form   one   inverted image  (I.   This
again   IS  magnified    and   sent to  the eye   at E, whence       travelsit
to the retina and sensorium.            In both telescopes the image
at the eye-glass stands in place of an object.
  -~'As this paper         intended as a mere outline,
                           is                                   have notI
given the exact ibci ot' the glasses, ch005ing those of high
powers. The experimenter               to distinguish between the con
                                            is
ver         rays and those which form the image.                Let him
ma    et in   following experiment z—I’lace the glass globe <U+FB01>lled
                 e
with water in the sunbeams, and holding a convex lens over
it, he perceives an image of the lens with the sun painted on
the convex surface, and he also perceives the _ ross refracted
rays form an image of the sun which can be tn'own to some
distance, having nothing whatsoever to do with vision.                 This
I  proved by the following ex eriment:               desired a friend to
                                                               I
look           lighted candle, an holding a convex lens opposite
          at
          a
his pupil,       Iperceived the lens with         magnified image of the
                                                         a
candle to be painted on his pupil, while by holding the lens
a little obliquely,       threw the ’refracted rays on the side of his
                          I
nose or on his forehead.
                                 remain your obedient servant,
                                 I
   Cork, April "39' ‘823-                       Josnru Its/mm, M.D.
VI.   vDtitmjz'lntz'on        certain Gangues of Spindle brought from
    the     Bland of        Ceylon     M. LESCHENAULT DE LATOUR.‘
                                       by
    By LI.           le Comte de Bounnou, C/zev. de St. Louis, ER.S.
    6‘6.‘
      memoir on Cornndum                         which
                                                    presented to the Royal
IN Society
      a                                              I
           of London, and which                       been printed in the.
                                                         has
Philosophical           Transactions    for 1802, after having ful<U+FB01>lled the,
  '   Extracted from Observations sur quelques-um des Minéraux, suit {lo
[‘11: de Ceylon, soil de la Céte de Coromandel, rapportés par M. Lzscac
mun n2 LAIotm. Par M. Li; Court. In: Bocnuos. Pans. 1823.
                                                                                   d
                                                                                 611

              jinn:  Ceylon qnu' l/‘Ie Coast q‘CoromrmdeI.                3!
 end which I had proposed to myself, which was to make this
 substance more perfectly known than it then was, by deter
 mining at the same time its intimate connexion with all -the
 stones to which jewellers apply the term oriental, such as the
 oriental ruby, topaz, amethyst, sapphire, &c., I took advan
         of this circumstance to insert some details relating to
 ot er substances, and more particularly to spinelle. Mr.\Vhite,
 tage.
 an of<U+FB01>cer in the English arm ', whom, on his departure for Cey
lon, I strongly recommended to procure some stones from
that island, sent us, in a collection otherwise of little value,
two fragments of rocks, in which I- observed, for the <U+FB01>rst
 time, the spinelle of Ceylon in its gangue, and not from the
sand of the rivers of that island.                           -
    It is twenty years since this observation was made; and
since that period we have received no addition to our <U+FB01>rst
knowledge upon this subject respecting the corundum                       of
nearly the whole of India, and that, more interestin                 on ac—
count of its transparency and purity, of. the island 0 Ceylon.
 Notwithstanding that the English, masters of nearly the whole
of India, and at present of the whole of Ceylon, carry on a
regular correspondence between every part of India and the
metropolis of their . countr , they are still, I think, liable to
reproach in this respect; w rich opinion arises from the in
terest which I take in science, and in its progress in a country
where it has procured me so many grati<U+FB01>cations *.
    M. Leschenault de Latour, sent into India by the French‘
Government, with a particular commission to procure for our
coloniesthe vegetables which appear to .be useful to their
agriculture, as well as to the extension of their commerce, is
the inquirer to whom we are indebted for the m0st extended
knowledge of the mineralogy and geology of some of the most
interesting districts of India; on account of the information
which he has collected concerning these two scienc'es, though he
   '  This reproach, perhaps, may seem severe, the Geological Society of
London, of which I had the honour to be one of the founders, having
printed in 1821, in the second part of the <U+FB01>fth volume of its Transactions,
11letter addressed from Ce lon by Dr. John Davy to Sir James MacGregor,
and which was read to the ociety on the 4th of December 1818.        But-the
details contained in that letter, relating as much to the mineralogy as to
the geology of Ceylon, can only be considered, it appears to me, as those
of a slight glance thrown over the island. The indications and descriptions
which accompany the substances therein named, are so short and incomlv
plete, that they seem but to convey a promise, speedily to be ful<U+FB01>lled, of a
work of more importance, containing more instructive details, and so ar
ranged as to arrest the attention of the mineralogist and geologist.  I can
not help expressing my regret, that Dr. Davy, so well quali<U+FB01>ed for this nu.
dertaking‘, has not carried this work to perfection.  Perhaps, however, my
regret is premature.  . _       ,  l          7          . . . .      1     “1
                                                $5..
                                                                        was

  52‘       Count Bout-non on certain Minerals brouglll
 was at the time almost a stranger to them.              M. Leschenault;
 remarkable for his extensive knowledge in different branches
 of natural history, and especially for his zeal and activity,
 which are equalled only by his great modesty, during astay
 of six years in India, scarcely seven months of which were de--'
 voted to the researches which he made in the island of Cey<
 lon*, has enriched the French colonies, and principally the
 Jardin Royal of the Isle of Bourbon, with a great number of
 plants, useful to the agriculture of the island, as well as to the
 amelioration, in this respect, of its commercial relations. Alter
 having enriched the Jardin du Roi at Paris with many plants,
 birds, quadrupeds, insects, <U+FB01>shes, and crustacea, which for
 nish several new species, he has returned to his own country,
 bringing with him an extremely interesting collection of mi
 nerals and rocks, which he collected in the different parts of
 India through which he travelled.               After having <U+FB01>rst sub
 mitted this collection to the choice of the professors of the
 Jardin du Roi, M. Leschenault presented to the private mi~
 neralogical    collection of the King, the specimens which
 were subjected to a second choice made by me.                       Though
 I had to regret the loss of a great number of minerals, of
 which he had no duplicates, this second choice has neverthe- ‘
 less been very useful to the collection, by the facts which their»
 study has put me in possession of.            These facts enable me to
 add some new details to those which             I   formerly gave relat
 ing to corundnm and to spinelle; they likewise enable me to
 make known some others, which the different mineral sub-v
 stances,   brought home by this traveller, have introduced to
 our notice.               _
                                                                               -
    I shall commence these details with the description of the
various gangues of the spinelle of the island of Ceylon, which
 are among the minerals presented to the private collection of
the King by M. Leschenault.                        -                           1'
    The <U+FB01>rst gangue is a carbonate of lime and magnesia, or,
more simply, a dolomite.           It is colourless, and composed of
distinct parts crossing each other in different directions.                 It.
contains, thinly disseminated, some small crystals of phosphate.
of lime of a deep beryl blue, sometimes placed between the
particles of dolomite, but more frequently contained in its sub-1
stance, and which are only discovered by the fractures made,
to determine the characters of the mineral. These crystals are,
   * M. Leschenault arrived at Ceylon at the end of July 1820, and quitted‘
it in February 1821, after having been obliged to return to Columbo by a3
dysentery; and in the short time of his residence in the interior, the science!
of botany. the special object of his mission and researches, was in conse
quence that to uhich his chief attention was directed.                _ -    ,1
                                                                  7generally

                                                                 ~
          <U+FB01>'om Ceylon and the Coast qf Coromamlel.                     33
             .                                    \
generally of a rounded and indeterminate form; nevertheless,
on one of the specimens in the King’s collection I observed
among them a complete lzexahedral prism, and another with
many small facets on the edges of its terminal planes. These
crystals are but few in this gangue, which likewise contains,
in still smaller quantity, some small crystals of spinelle of a
pale-red or <U+FB02>esh-colour.         They are even contained in the
substance of the dolomite; their form is either a regular octa
hedron, a cuneiform octahedron, or an octahedron the edges
of which are replaced by a plane. The dolomite of this gangue
dissolves in nitric acid, without any sensible etl'ervescence,
and with extreme slowness: a small fragment requires forty
          hours for its complete solution.           It was found by
iight
    .
       Leschenault   very  near   Candy.     It  is  likewise  found, as
well as the two following gangues, in the isolated rocks at the
feet of the elevated mountains which separate Candy from Co
lumbo, and upon the road which joins those two towns.
    The second ganoue is likewise dolomite, in a lamellary
 state, and formed, in the same manner as the preceding, of
 particular masses, but smaller and crossing each other in dif
 ferent directions.     When <U+FB01>rst placed in nitric acid, it pro
 duces a very lively effervescence, which becomes weaker by
 degrees, and at last very feeble.        In a short time after it has
 been placed in the acid, it becomes disintegrated into an
 in<U+FB01>nity of small particles, the greater number of which con
 tinue to dissolve very quickly.           The analysis which has
 been made of it gives more carbonate of lime than is neces
sary to the composition of dolomite.          I   strongly suspect this
 rock to contain some particles of carbonate of lime interposed
 in its substance; from which would arise the lively effect
 of the acid upon comin into contact with                  it,
                                                          its quick solu
 tion, as well as the disintegration which             undergoes.
                                                      it             This
 second gangue contains, in rather greater proportion than
 the preceding, some <U+FB02>esh-coloured crystals of spinelle.                 It
 also contains some very small crystals of mica of a very deep
 yellow colour.       Here and there likewise may be observed
  some small crystals of pyrites, of the icosahedral variety; but
I     have not observed an trace of phosphate of lime.               This
             was found  by    . Leschenault     seven leagues east from
                                        '
  gimgpe
    an     .
      Although the third gangue of spinelle              from the same
                                                           is
  district as the former,    it   essentially different, and of a very
                                  is
  particular nature.    It consists of very coarse grains, the tex
  ture of each of which       islamellated.      Of these grains a very
          number   are white,  and  their fracture    has a very brilliant
  great
      Vol. 63. No. 309. Jan. I824.                  E              lustre;
           lll

             Count Bournon on certain Minerals brought.
  lustre; they belong to the dolomite.               The others have a gray
  tint, and their fracture is less bright; they belonv to car
  bonate of lime; but they are mingled with interposed, particles
, of dolomite.
   _
     In this gangue are disseminated some small icosahedrons of
  pyrites, some crystals of mica, of an orange yellow; some
  amorphous particles, and also some regular crystals of apatite,
  resembling in their green colour the variety called spargel
  stein of Spain.      It likewise contains a still greater quantit ' of
  this substance in small <U+FB02>attened hexahedral prisms, very ( i<U+FB02>i
  cult to recognise on account of a thin white layer which en
  tirely covers them; but when this is removed, the green colour
  of the apatite appears. I am ignorant whether this white layer
  arises from an alteration of the apatite, or whether it belonrrs
  to another substance which would be completely insoluble 1n
  acids; for it was in dissolving this rock in nitric acid that                I
  obtained these crystals. This gangue contains, besides, many
  minute particles ofmagnetic pyrites, and likewise a considerable
  quantity of' small crystals of spinelle, of a <U+FB01>ne rose colour.                I
  observed among the latter some complete octahedrons, some
  with the edges replaced, and some, each of the solid angles
  of which was replaced by four planes, placed upon the faces, as
  frequently seen in the pleonaste spinelle of Mount Somma,
  and which I have also observed in the red spinelles found in
  the sand of' the Ceylon rivers.          Some of the yellow crystals of
  mica have a brilliant lustre, on which account they might be
                                                                      ‘
         easily taken for some of the hardstones called                  ms.
      '
  very he memoir on Corundum, which I presented to t e Royal
  Society of London, having been printed in the Journal dc:
  Mines for 1803, by referrin to p es 97 and 98 of the Num
  ber for         of. that Journ , it wi 1 be seen that this gangue
  is absolutely of the same nature as those sent toLondon, from“
  the. island of Ceylon, in 1801 or 1802, for the <U+FB01>rst and the
                                                ‘
  last time".
      The fourth angne of spinelle is extremely interesting: it is
  composed for t 1e most part of spinelle and of mica.                  The spi
  nelleeis in octahedral crystals of a brown colour approaching
  to violet, and they are much larger than those contained in
   the gangues above described.           The colour of some of them is
   so deep, that they appear to be black; they form one of the
   varieties of the pleonaste spinelle of Ceylon. 7.These crysmls,
   which are extremely abundant in this gan ue, are very close
   to each other, and often form considerab e masses, in which
                                                                                 ‘
              * See also Phil. Trans. for 1802,
                                                  p. 308—31 l.—Enr'r.
                                                                           come

                 <U+FB01>-om Ceylon and the Coast          of Cor'ozrzaridel.          35
  some of them are in contact with others, andi even’penetrate
  them.                                         I
     The mica is of a brown yellow colour, slightly orange by
  refracted light; it forms, in this gangue, considerable masses,
  to which we may give the name of “ mica en masse lamellaz're.’f
  The detached parts of these masses are perfectly transparent,
 and have a very brilliant lustre.             By means ofnitric acid I have
  extricated one of them, of the dimensions of 'two inches by
 one inch and three lines, from the carbonate of lime, which con-_
 stitutes a. part of the gangue; this mass is perfectly pure, with
  the exception 'of some insoluble particles which it contains;
 among which are particles of magnetic pyrites. I have never yet
 seen mica in such considerable masses presentingso beautitiil
 and brilliant an aspect.            The mica, which in this specimen is
 very pure, has suf<U+FB01>cient solidity to'resist pressure,'_and is con
 sequently very suitable for the illitstration of what 'I asserted
 for the <U+FB01>rst time in 1813, in the summary cataldgue of my
 collection, now become that of the King, that the integrant
 particles of mica are of themselves of very great hardness, and
 that this substance is so easily broken on account of the weak:
 ness of the cohesive force which unites these particles to each
 other; but that, when small fragments or crystals of mica
 have suf<U+FB01>cient thickness to resist pressure, they cut glass with
 facility, and will even scratch quartz, or at least deprive it of
 its polish, a fact which is further con<U+FB01>rmed by the nature of
 its refraction, as well as by that of its re<U+FB02>ective power“. _‘The
 King’s private collection possesses a suite of specimens of mica
 for study, which presents this extremely interesting substance
 under a great variety of aspects very little known.                         This
 suite, which in my opinion is                        should be consulted in
 order to obtain a complete knowle           unigue,
                                                  go of this substance.
     The <U+FB01>fth gangue is very particular: it is a girasol, mixed
 with particles vof a slightly grayish white, with some of a y'el
lowish green, and with others in the state of girasol jasper,_on
account of the hydrate of iron which is interposed in them.
 The specimen placed in the Royal collection has adhering to
it a small'piece in an earthy state, mixed with much brown
    * All these characters induce me to believe that this          fourth gangue
of Ceylon spinelle is the same             that, which, according    to Dr. Davy,
forms hills in the vicinity of Candy, and in which he likewise       observed cry
stals of ceylanite, which he seems to consider as a di<U+FB01>'erent substance from
spinelle.    lam' ignorant of his reasons-for making this distinction: cey
lanite,,it is true, contains va. large proportion of iron, but the quantity of
that metal varies in the different analyses which have been made of
spinelle;   I think, therefore, that it is merely interposed in the ccylanite.
                                       E   2                                mica,

36        Mr.         S. Seaward’s Description       ofan improved Gauge
mica, of which there are some small plates interposed, even in
the substance of the girasol.      This gangue contains, in the
interior of its substance, a considerable quantity of pale-blue
crystallized spinelle, among which, however, there are some
crystals of so deep a blue that they appear black.      M. Les
chenault only found this rock on the bank of a river seven
miles to the north-east of Candy, on the route to the province
of Fassagram, where he met with it in isolated masses.
   The sixth gangue of Ceylon spinelle, which is still more
particular, is a rock of a granitic aspect, in which the mica is
replaced by molybdena in small thin laminae.        This rock is
principally composed of transparent granular felspar, and
of these laminae of molybdena. One may observe, besides,
some little plates of brown mica, which are thinly dissemi
nated, and a great number of very pale-red crystals of spinelle.
This rock was found by M. Leschenault, seven miles to the
north-east of Candy, in the same district as the preceding,
and likewise in isolated masses upon the bank of the same
river.
     I
     may add to the description of these gan ues of spinelle,
that of a seventh, which is the second of t ose Ihave de
scribed in the paper 0n Corundum, printed in the Philosophical
Transactions for 1802.     This gangue consists principally of
transparent felspar or adularia,’ pure in one part, and mixed
in 'the other with magnetic pyrites and a little carbonate of
lime.    Some small crystals of spinelle are disseminated in                          it,
but mere thinly than        the other gangue mentioned in the
                                      in
same mem01r.
VII.    Description of an improved Gauge for ascertaining with
     Precision the Pressure of highly compressed Steam, Gases;
     and Fluid Bodies.   By Mr. SAMUEL SEAWABD.
     To   the        Editors of the Philosophical Magazine         and.    Journal.
          Gentlemen,
         me to offer you the accompan
PERMIT
   gauge For
          a  measuring the pressure of
                                                              in
                                                             1ig
                                                                      description
                                                                    ily compressed
                                                                                      of
     _
       or gases, which shall feel grati<U+FB01>ed by your introducing
fluids
                                    I
into your valuable Magazine,      you consider  ifdeserving (if     it
that distinction.
      '
                                    I_    am, gentlemen, yours,    81.6.
3    Charles         Street, City Road,
                                                          SAMUEL SEAWABIL
              Jan.    14,   i824.
                                                                     i
                                                .                            Descrip

   for   the Pressure      qf highly   compressed Steam, Gases, 41'.   37
                          Description,   130.
    Considerable dif<U+FB01>culty has been experi
 enced in acertaining in a satisfactory man
 ner the exact pressure of highly condensed
 gases or <U+FB02>uids.
    The usual method of accomplishin             this
 object   is by the          of  a  column  of  mer-'
 cury in a glass tuberisingl ermetically sealed at
 the top; the tube being previously <U+FB01>lled
 with air at the ordinary pressure of the at
 mosphere. For as the mercury rises by the
 pressure of the gas, the air con<U+FB01>ned in the
 tube above the surface of the mercury will
 be compressed to the same degree as the gas
 itself, making proper allowance for the weight
 of the column of mercury. But it happens
 that when <U+FB02>uids are required to be com
 pressed to 30 or 4-0 atmospheres, it becomes
  necessary to have the tube of the mercury
                                                                            saroquomiv
 gauge of very great length, say from 30 to
 45 feet, otherwise the divisions of the upper
 part of the scale will be much too small for
                                                                            'amssead
 useful reference; but this great length ren
 ders the apparatus exceedingly inconvenient
 for practical purposes.
     The accompanying drawing represents a
 gauge on an improved principle, which it is
 expected will be found much more conveni
 ent and correct than the gauge in common
 use.    The gauge consists of two small cylin
 drical chambers A and B, and the glass
 tube C. The communication between the
,two is by the small tube            which reaches
                                   (1,
 nearly   to the bottom    of the  lower  chamber.
    The glass tube        Cwe   will suppose   to be
  about eight feet long: the chamber            B  to
                                                    is
 be <U+FB01>lled with mercury as high as the line cc;
  the tube e    isto admit the compressed gas
  or <U+FB02>uid, which acting on the surface of the
  mercur forces      itup the tube       which after
                                         (1,
  <U+FB01>lling  the chamber      Awill rise in the tube C.
     Now, supposing the apparatus to be pre
  viously <U+FB01>lled with air of the common atmo
  spheric pressure, and that the chamber A
  be equal to 19 times the capacity of the

38   Mr. S. Seaward’s Description of an improved Gauge
tube 0; it is quite plain, that when the mercury is forced by
the pressure of the gas or fluid into the chamber A, and rises
 up to the bottonrof the glass tube, the air in the tube C must
then be compressed 20 times, and will consequently indicate
a pressure of 20 atmospheres; and if the mercury is then
 raised half wa up the tube C, the air will then be compressed
40 times, an       will indicate a pressure of 4-0 atmospheres.
 We have Considered that the glass tube C should be eight
feet long; but       instead of eight feet, we make this tube only
                     if,
four feet long, and <U+FB01>x to the top a small hollow ball D, of
er]ual capacity with four feet of the tube; then
                                                      ifthe mercury
 rise four feet high     the tube, or up to the ball, the apparatus
                           in
will still indicate a pressure of 4-0 atmospheres, as      ifthe tube
eight feet long had been employed.
                                                                 '
    By this means we have a compact instrument, which will
indicate in a satisfactory manner the various pressures within
 the range of 20 and 44) atmospheres; for the divisions on the
scale for the whole of this range will be as large as          a tube
                                                               if
of  the common     form  70 feet long had   been  employed.
    Butit   may be objected that this instrument          imperfect,
                                                          is
because   it will not indicate any lower pressure than 20 atmo
 spheres, nor any higher than 40. To this             should be ob
                                                     it
 served, that in all practical applications of a gauge of this
sort, as the compression of gases, 8w,    it   isonly within certain
limits that    it desirable to ascertain the exact pressure: for
                    is
instance, in the case alluded to,
                                         it
                                         is  of no consequence to
ascertain the pressure when below 20 atmOspheres; nor                is   it
ever required to be elevated above 32 atmospheres; therefore
a range, as here proposed, of from 20 to 40 atmos heres                   is
quite su<U+FB01>icient for practical purposes in working         it    appa
                                                                 e
ratus ot'a portable gas establishment, 8w. Perhaps        is t
                                                            unneces—
sary to observe, that the various ranges may be altered at
pleasure, from the lowest pressure up to the greatest; for by
properly arranging the di<U+FB02>erent sizes of the ball D and cham
ber A,    it may be made to indicate from      1  to 20—erm 20 to
4-0—from 40 to 60, and 60 to 100 atmospheres.              And       if
                                                                      it
 should ever happen to be necessary to ascertain the exact
pressure of the fluids from     1   atmosphere to 100, which        ais
thing perhaps never wanted,         it can still be done with the
 same degree of exactness throu<U+FB02>'hout; for, by using two 'or
more of these gauges graduated tor di<U+FB01>‘erent ran es, we thus
obtain    a correct scale of reference, which   it  won    be impos
                                                           d
sible to do in the old method; say from        1 to 15—15 to 45
 and 4-5 to 100.                          -
                                                                      '
    It here proper to observe, that the weight of the column
     is
of mercury in the chamber A, and in the tube C, should be
' ‘                                                             taken

  for   the Pressure       of highly    compressed Steam, Gases, 151'; _89                            7.
taken into account as well as the pressure of- the air in' the
tube C; otherwise it will_not be a correct indication of the
force of the gas or <U+FB02>uids acting upon the surface of the mer
cury in the chamber B. Therefore, in the following calcula
tion for graduating the scale attarhed to the tube C, a proper.
allowance is madeforthe weight of the column- of mercury.
   Annexed is the investigation of a theorem for graduating
the scale.  The table was computed therefrom, and a scale
avreeable thereto is'made to be attached to an instrument
which I am now making,,for the purpose       have described., .    I
                       iCaZeulatimzjbr the Scale.                                                 . ."
   Ascertairi nicely the capacity of the chamber A, togethe
with the tube C and its ball D, and let that quantity be tie-
noted by M. Then ascertain the capacity of the tube and
ball only, and denote that by m: and let the ratio of these two
quantities be denoted by          1‘;   that         is   r:
  And let a denote, in inches, the whole length of the tube C,
including a length<U+FB01>of tube equal in capacity to the ball D;
and 'let x represent the height, in inches, of the mercury in.
the tube C, from the bottom of the tube at a.      Then whenv
the‘mercliryijiist reaches thejbottom of the tubé at h, it 'is.
plain that the pressure must be equal to r atmospheres.                                      And_
when the height of the' mercury in the tube     equal                    “is        r,       then'_
the pressure on the inclosed            air will be equal                      at   X    r       at—\
                                                                                                  i '
mospheres.
                        '                                                           ‘
   But in order to ascertain exactly the force of the gas acting
upon the surface of the‘merc'ur‘y in the chamber B,‘ we must
add to the above the weight 'of the column of mercury above
the level in the said chamber B.    Let denote the number of
                                                            is b
inches that a, the bottom of the tube,    abovethe level of the
mercury;    and  let  represent the height of a column ofmerL
                       0
cury equal    in  wei _ht to one atmosphere,‘ sa    2.95 inches.
Then the weight 0 the column of mercury in         e'tub‘e   will        t              C
be —
        “b
              Therefore putting                  y       equal the required number
                                                                                ~    ‘       -
of atmospheres, we shall have                                                   -
                       a                1+!)
                                                     -_y.          Or,
                       a_$x1+                c
                  _b                                        "                                       _
                       iJE‘Z—j
                                                 Q   _
       1:03;"?
        :                               __
                            Li-caf-l'ab—acy‘                                        (NO-glf
   Now put the ratio=20~ and a=76"8, the whole length of
             1'
the tube including the ball at top; and put = 29-5 = the                 2.-
                                                   height

40    Mr. A. H. Haworth             on some new Cacti and Mammillarite.
height of a column of mercury that will balance the pressure
of the atmosphere; and put b=7'3. Thus, if these values be
substituted in the equation No. 2, and different values taken
for y, we shall thereby obtain the corresponding values of .r,
or the height of the column of mercury in the tube C, indi
cating the several pressures.  Thus, put      30 atmospheres;y:
then
        x=477‘25-— 4/227767'5-l-4-5312     560'64—67968      -|-
        .z'=28'74' inches.
That      the altitude of the mercury in the tube will be 23'74
           is,
inches, when the pressure      equal to 30 atmospheres pressing
                                         is
upon the surface of the mercury in the lower chamber B.
And in this manner have been computed the different values
of .2, corresponding to different pressures, as shown in the
following table:                 I
                      Table   for        graduating     the Scale.
                     Values of .r                                      Values of a
'    Pressure.       or height of                     Pressure.        or height of
                     the mercury.                                      the mercury.
21 atmospheres           2'49 inches. 31 atmospheres                    25'42 inches.
22          ditto        5'57         32     ditto                      2699
28          ditto        8'43         33     ditto                      28'4-8
24          ditto       1
                        1   ~10       34     ditto                      29-89
25          ditto      13-57          35     ditto                      31-21
26          ditto       15-88         86     ditto                      32'4-8
27          ditto       18'O4~        s7     ditto                      38°67
                                           '
28          ditto      20'07          38     ditto                      34'80
29          ditto      21-96          39     ditto                      35'88
so          ditto      23-74          40     ditto                      36'91
VIII.      Descriptions   some new Cacti and Mammillariae, re
                              of
     cently brought from Mexico     Mr. BULLOCK of the Egyp
                                              by
     tian Hall, Piccadilly and now preserved, with many other
                                    ,-
     very rare Plants, in the Nursery of Mr. TATE, in Sloane
     street.  By A. H. HAWORTH, Esq. EL.S. (fro.
      To   the   Editors of the Philolsophical Magazine and Journal.
                                                  '
         Gentlemen,
          me to transmit to you       herewith technical descrip
ALLOW
  tions of some new and ver            remarkable plants of the
family of Cacti Juss., which         ope you' will admit into an
                                              I
early Number of your valuable Miscellany.       And     remain           I
                                Your most obedient servant,
  Queen’s Elm, Chelsea, Nov. 1823.           A. H. HAWORTH- .      ‘
                                                           Cac'rr

          Mr. A. H. Haworth           on some new Species (gf Cactus.                41
                      CACTUS/     Linn. aliofuinque.                                       _
senilis.     'C.‘ oblongus;       subviginti-angularis;            spinarum radiis
                                                         ‘ - I                I
     1.     capilliformibus elongatis.                                   _
                   Obs. Unam plantam semipedalem solum vidi, a1 -
                ulis profundis viridibus.        Spinath radii inter se
            gense <U+FB02>exuosi sive intertexti depresso-recul'vuli;                        in
            sin 10 fasciculo circiter 12, omnino capillacei 4-un
            cia es plantamque tegentes praesingulares; uti comam
            albicantem in capite senili.          Nullo, mihi n0t0,_ a<U+FB01>inis,
            at forte cum Cacto multangulari Willd. sectionem
            propriam formavit.           Flores non vidi, neque in sequen
                                                                                        '
            tibus.
latispinus. C. depresso-sphwroideus;                   sub 21-angu1aris; spi
     2.     narum radiis variantibus, una in<U+FB01>mo de<U+FB02>exo latissimo
            plaho.                .                                      ,      ‘
                    Obs.   Cacto recurvo Milleri proculdubio proximus,
            at angulis numeros'loribus, et spin<U+FB01> lat<U+FB01>, non etect<U+FB01>
            nisi in juventute.         Valde depressus,>angu1is porcisve
             validissimis duris \firidibus.       Spinan radii va<U+FB01>zintes
            sordide lutei, circiter 12 exterioribus           '
                                                                      in singuld fas
            ciculo ordinariis,          subuncialibus,            circiter‘ 4-6 aliis
             lO—QO-plo 'majoribus,          subduplo longipribus >(horum_
            ultimorum), sub 8 superioribus subulatis sordidé pal
            ]escentibus,       elevatim dense annulatis fere .ad apicem
            lievem, demum ruf'am, annulis (in lente) rufescentibus,
             2-3 in<U+FB01>mis spinis (in singulo fasciculo) plus minus
            planatis, ipsa in<U+FB01>ma (spina) omnino planade<U+FB02>exo
             incurvula 3 lineas lata apice recurvo subulato.
                     Obs.    Spinze omnium validissimze                 primo' fulvo
             rufesc'entes, demum superne rufae, denique sordidae.
                       MAMMILLARIA.        (Nob. in Synops.          Pl. Succulentp-r
                               Aliorum Cactus.                                           r
  magm'mamma.              M. mammis magnis perviridibus apice tomeni
      3.      tosis, spinis subquatuor‘ validis expansis, 2-3 recurvis
                                                     '
              lutosis apice nigris.                                   \
                                                                               ~ ,
                                                                                        a
                     Obs. Pla‘ntqm unam       bi<U+FB01>dé     ‘germinatam subgloba
              sam-p'ugno 'minorem solum vidi.                T omentum ad basin
 .,     _    spinarum        breve  ac  densum   est.                                    v
   lanifer     .      M.   simplex  tereti-obovata,      mammis          apice    lanosis
      4-.     plus     20-spinosis, spinis radianter patentibus variis.
                 '
                     Obs. Spinae exteriores in singulo fasciculo minores
              valbae     (mortuis nigris) subsex interiores 3—5-plo lon
 ‘                 ipres   quam ultimis et 3—7-plo validiores, <U+FB01>llVOf
               iuscescentes, superné nigrae seu nigricantes.                  Plantam
                                                   ‘            '
           _ 3—4-uncialem         solum vidl.               v
   Vol. 63. N0. 809. Jan. 1824:.                          F                gemz'm'spina.

4-2    Dr. Burnett’s Account oftke Fjecl of Mercurial Vapour:
geminispina. M. columnaris; mammis exiguis numerosissimis,
    '5.    spinis parvis intertextis albis; duabus in singulo fas
           ciculo caeteris multoties longioribus.
              Obs. Plantae plus quam semipedales fere omnino sim
           plices teretes, superne sensim crassiores apice vix con
           vexo. Mammrz pallidé virides spinis recurvo-radianti
           bus capillaceis albis; duabus in singulo fasciculo validi
           oribus geminatim semierectis pungentibus apice nigris.
               Obs. Spinarum fasciculi radiantes et inter se con
           fertim patentes, fere totem plantam eleganter tegentes.
 IX.     An Account of the 317w of Mercurial Vapours on the
     Crew   of His Majestys Ship Triumph in the Year 1810. By
     WILLIAM BURNETT, MD., one oft/1e Medical Commissioners
     oft/2e Na'Qy, formerly Physician and Inspector of Hospitals
     to the Mediterranean       Heet.     Communicated      by MATTHEW
     BAILLIE,    MD. ER.S.‘*
 IT ter,
 >
        has long been known, that in the vacuum of the barome
             mercury rises in a vaporous state at the usual tem
perature of this climate, and that persons employed in the
 mines from whence this metal is procured, as well as those
who are employed in gilding and plating, have suffered para
lytic and other constitutional a<U+FB01>'ections, from inhaling the air
saturated with mercurial vapours: had any doubt remained of
mercury existing in the state alluded to, it would be effectually
 removed by the experiments made by Mr. Faraday, detailed
in the twentieth number of the Journal of Science, 8w.
     An unprecedented event, which occurred in one of His
 Majesty’s ships of the line, at Cadiz, in the year 1810, a short
time before I took upon me the charge of the Medical De
partment of the Mediterranean Fleet, has afforded me an op
portunity of illustrating this subject on a very extensive scale,
the details of which may not,~perhaps, be uninteresting to the
 R0 al Society.                                                    .
        he Triumph, of 7% guns, arrived in the harbour of Cadiz
in the month of February 1810; and in the followin March
a Spanish vessel, laden with quicksilver for the mines 111 South
America, havi           been driven on shore in a gale of wind and
wrecked      under   t e batteries, then in possession of the French,
the boats of this ship were sent to her assistance, by which
means, during many successive nights, about one hundred
and thirty tons of the quicksilver were saved and carried on
           * From  the Philosophical Transactions for 1823, Part II.
                                                                     board

           on the Crew   qf His Mcy'esty’s Ship Triumph.         48
board the Triumph, where the boxes containing it were prin
cipally stowed in the bread-room.
    The mercury, it appears, was <U+FB01>rst con<U+FB01>ned, in bladders,
the bladders in small barrels, and the barrels in boxes. The
heat of the weather was at this time considerable, and the
bladders, havin been wetted in the removal from the wreck,
soon rotted, an the mercur , to the amount of several tons,
was speedily diffused through, the ship, mixin with the bread,
and more or less with the other provisions.       he effect of this
accident was soon seen, by a great number of the ship’s crew,
as well as several of the of<U+FB01>cers, being severely affected with
ptyalism, the surgeon and purser being amongst the <U+FB01>rst and
most severelly affected, by the mercury’s <U+FB02>owing constantly into
their cabins from the bread-room; their cabins being, as is
usual, on the orlop deck, separated from this store by partitions
of wood. In the space of three weeks from the mercury’s
bein received on board, two hundred men were af<U+FB02>icted with
ptya ism, ulcerations of the mouth, partial paralysis in many
instances, and bowel complaints.      These men were removed
into transports, where those more slightly affected soon got
well; but fresh cases occurring daily, Rear—Admiral Pick
more, then in command of the squadron, ordered an inspec
tion to be made by the surgeons thereof, and, in consequence
of their report, sent the Triumph to Gibraltar to remove the
provisions, and purify the ship by ablution, the affected men
being sent to the Naval Hospital; which order was ‘strictly
attended to; the provisions, stores, and likewise the shingle
ballast, being removed on shore.              -
    Notwithstanding    the  removal  of  the provisions, &c., and
afterwards frequent ablution, on restowing the hold, every
man so employed, as well as those in the steward’s room,
 were attacked with ptyalism; and during the ship’s passage,
 and on her return to Cadiz, the fresh attacks were daily and
 numerous till the 13th of June, when the Triumph sailed for
 England.
    After their departure from Cadiz they experienced fresh
 breezes from the N.E.; and the men being kept constantly
 on deck, the ship aired night and day by windsails, the lower
 deckports allowed to remain open at all times, when it could
 be done with safet ', allowing no one to sleep on the orlop
 deck, and none affected with ptyalism on the lower deck, a
 very sensible decrease in the number daily attacked soon be
 Came apparent; but, nevertheless, many of those already af
 fected became worse, and they were under the necessity of
 removing twentyseamen and the same number of marines,
 with two serjeants and two corporals, to a sloop of war and
                              F2                                the
                                                                  r

   44;   Dr. Burnett’s Account of the Eject Qf Mercurial Vapours
   the transports in com any. On their arrival in Cawsand Bay,
   near Plymouth, on       e 5th of July, not one remained on the
   list for ptyalism.
        The 'e<U+FB01>ects of the mercurial atmosphere. were not con<U+FB01>ned
   to the oflicers and ship’s company; almost all the stock, con
   sisting of sheep, pigs, goats, and poultry, died from it; mice,
   eats, a dog, and even a canary bird, shared the same fate,
   though the food of the latter was kept in a bottle closely
   Corked up.
    '
        The sur eon (Mr. Plowman) informed me, in conversation,
   that ha ha seen mice come into the ward-room, leap up to
   some heioht, and fall dead on the deck.
        The    riumph, previous to this event, had suffered consi
   derablv, by having a number of her men attacked with malig
   nant ulcer, which at one time prevailed to a considerable ex
   tent in our ships, both at home and abroad; and in -many of
   the men who had so sulfered, the ulcers, which had long been
   completely healed, without even an erasure of the skin, broke
   out again, and soon put on a gangrenous appearance.
       The vapour was very deleterious to those' having any ten
   dency to pulmonic affections; three men died of phthisisipul;
   monalis, who had never complained, or been in the list before
   they were saturated with the mercury; and one man who had
   su<U+FB01>'ered from pneumonia, but was perfectly cured, and an-'
   other who had not had any pulmonic complaint before, were
  left behind at Gibraltar, labouring under con<U+FB01>rmed phthisis.
   Two only out of so large a number affected died frdm ptyalism,‘
               having taken place in their cheeks and tongue: they
  gangrene
      ad previousl lost all their teeth.   In the case of a woman,
  who Was con ned to bed in the cockpit with a fractured limb,
  not only were all the teeth lost, but many exfoliations also
  took place from the upper and lowerjaws.
       The mercury showed its effects upon the ship herself, by
  the decks being covered with a black powder; but quicksilver
  was not discovered at any time in this powder in a native or
  globular state, though the brass cocks of the boilers, and the
  copper bolts of the ship, were covered with the metal, the last
  to some extent within the wood; a old watch, gold and silver
  money kept in a drawer, and likewrse some of the iron-work
  of the ship which had been kept bright, evidently showed the
  in<U+FB02>uence of the prevailing atmosphere, being in some places
  covered with quicksilver.
       In a communication with which Mr. Plowman, surgeon of
  the Triumph, has obliged me, he states, that those who messad
\
  and slept on the orlop and lower decks, with the exception of
  the midshipmen, suffered equally, while those on the main
                                                                or
                                                             upper

            on the Crew  of His Majesty’s Ship  ‘Trizimp71.         45’
 upper deck were not so severely affected: the men who lived
 and slept under the forecastle escaped with a slight affection
  of the gums. . The only reasons which-can be assigned for the
 partial escape of the midshipmen, are, that the windsails were
 kept always in action, and that'these gentlemen were almost
  constantly on deck, or were more frequently employed (in ser
  vice out of the ship, in proportion to their numbers, than the
  men.
     Various opinions were entertained of the manner in which
 the systems of the sufferers were brought under the in<U+FB02>uence
 of the mercury.      By some, it was supposed to have originated
 from the use of the bread and other provisions, with whichv
 the mercury had mixed itself: and to such an extent was this
 opinion carried, that    I <U+FB01>nd, by reference to of<U+FB01>cial documents
 in the Victualling Of<U+FB01>ce, seven thousand nine hundred and
 forty pounds of biscuit were condemned as unserviceable <U+FB01>'om'
 having quicksilver mixed with it.
     By others, amongst whom was Mr. Plowman, the surgeon,
 it was considered _to have arisen from inhaling the mercurial
 ized atmosphere; and hem the preceding details,              I think
 there cannot remain a doubt that this opinion was the true
 one.
     It is well known that mercury, in its native state, has often
 been administered in very large doses, in cases of obstinate
 constipation, without producin         any speci<U+FB01>c effect on the
 system, merely_removing the a ection by its speci<U+FB01>c gravity.
 1 have, however, reason to believe,        from the accounts of
 Or<U+FB01>la, and others, that if the mercury was to be retained in
the intestines for some time, and thus subjected to the action
of the contents of the stomach and bowels, a. part might be
come oxidated, and being conveyed into the systemby means
of the absorbents, would there show its speci<U+FB01>c effects.
     But after the removal of the provisions, 8w. at Gibraltar,
many fresh cases occurred, and many relapses amongst 'those'
Who had been cured Out of the ship, took place On their re—
turn to duty on board, which e<U+FB01>'ectually destroys the proba
bility of this having been the cause of the succeeding ptyalism, ‘
and other morbid a<U+FB02>'ections.                                       -
    It only  remains   for  me to offer my opinion,    of the manner
in which the system became saturated by the mercury; and
this   I conceive to have been effected by inhaling the mercurial
vapours; the quicksilver being then in the most perfect state
of division, was readily taken up by the absorbents of the
lungs, and soon showed its in<U+FB02>uence on the system generally._
This idea is very much strengthened by the effect which was
 7                                                          produced

46            MM. Monticelli     and Covelli on the late
produced on the animals on board, already mentioned, as well
as by the circumstance of a great number of men being at
tacked alter the ship was cleared at Gibraltar, and till she
 arrived in a more northern latitude.
    It may be considered out of place here, to give any detail
of the curative means employed. 1 shall therefore only brie<U+FB02>y
state that sulphur given in large quantities internally, pro
duced no alleviation of the symptoms; on the contrary, it
greatly augmented the bowel complaints, with which many
of the men were affected, and brought on a most severe te
nesmus; consequently, it was laid aside; applied externally,
it was of no use.
    The on] plan which produced eli'ectual relief was removal
from the siliip, with the frequent use of small doses of neutral
salts and detergent garsles-
                                                      W. BURNETT
 X.    Account qf a Work entitled “ Storia de’ Fenomeni del
    Vesuvio avvenuti nein anni 1821, 1822, e parte del 1823,”
    etc.   “History of the Phtenomena of Vesuvius during the
    Years 1821, 1822, and Part of 1828 ,- accompanied with
    Observations    and Experiments.        By J. MONTICELIJ, Per
   petual Secretary oftlze Royal Academy ofSeiences of Naples ,
    and N. COVELLI, oft/1e Royal Institute of Encouragement.”
    By M. MENARD DE LA Gnora *2
           general form of this work is nearly that of ajournal,
THE    that is to say, the facts are recited in the natural and suc
cessive order in which the were collected.             If we judge of
the ultimate celebrity of         Monticelli, by that which he has
for several ears enjoyed, arising from his former labours, we
shall be in need to believe that he will occupy the <U+FB01>rst rank
among the historians of this celebrated volcano, which we al
wa s consider as in some sort a volcanic archetype.
    The new work which we announce was preceded by a
description of the eruptions of 1812 and 1817.                The same
author likewise published in French, in conjunction with
M. Covelli, some “ Observations and Experiments made at
Vesuvius during Part of the Years 1821 and 1822.”—(See
Bulletin, tom. ii. p. 435.) The <U+FB01>rst section of the work which
now occupies our attention, is for the most part a repetition,
   * From the Bulletin rle: Annonces                               M. de
                                     Seienti<U+FB01> ues, tom. iv. p. 34.
la Groye’s analysis of the former work by      M. Monticelli and Covelli
above alluded to by him, will be found in vol. lxii. of the Philosophical
Magazine,  p. 90.
                                                                       In

                                                 '
                      Pizzeno'mena  qf Vesuvius.                   *7
 in Italian, of that just mentioned.       The new eruption in the'
 month of October last, not only one of the Q          considerable
 which have occurred since that so celebrhwin 1794-, but
even of the grandest which have ever been witnessed, having
 presented to the authors an extensive <U+FB01>eld for new experi
 ments and observations, induced them to resume and enlarge
that work by the addition of two sections, a preface, a table of
 contents, and <U+FB01>gures.         _
    The most remarkable of the principal facts contained in this
 work, are enumerated by the authors themselves in the pre
 face.   These are the formation of earthy pisolites among the
 pulverulent lava; the particular and oblique ejection of a <U+FB01>ne
 sand, or, as it is vularly named, volcanic ashes, which also
 produces small and extremely singular currents, having at a
 distance the appearance of streams of hot water; that of other
currents formed entirely of substances much more bulky, but
equall y incoherent; the examination made with new and peculiar
interest of the discontinuance or intermission,‘and of the par
 tial <U+FB01>ts of the eruptions, which are compared by the authors to
 the paroxysms of violent diseases; the positive observation of
 sulphurous acid, and of sulphur itself; in the lava which has
 ceased <U+FB02>owing; that of carbonic acid in fumeroles of lava,
 before it is completely cold, and especially of a considerable
 evolution of this acid, after great eruptions, giving place to
 large and numerous mojéttes which are manifested around the
 base of the mountain.       This fact is so remakable and of such
 importance,    that the  celebrated  Sir Humphry Davy thought
 that it might lead to the discovery of the origin of the various
 calcareous rocks in which volcanic substances are contained,
either in cavities or in the substance of the rocks them
                                                          ‘
 selves.                          _
     Amon the newly recognised productions of Vesuvius, wili
 be remaied the sulphates and chlorides of manganese, which
 characterize a number of saline metallic sublimates, and the
 existence of which in the mineral kingdom has been hitherto
unknown. This work likewise offers several considerations con
 cerning the diversity of temperatu re, which the di<U+FB01>'erent volcanic
 vapours require in order to their attaining a solid state. The
 veracity of Pliny the younger, in the description he gives of
 the eruption which occasioned his uncle’s death, has been fre
‘queutly questioned; but MM. Monticelli and Qovelh prove,
 by comparing several passages of lllS relation with the effects
'which they have themselves observed, that he is entitled to
 complete con<U+FB01>dence. They have also observed the formation of
 the last cone, and seen it gradually disappear in part, in the same
 manner as that which, according 'to' the description of
                                                              Strabqi
                                                              exnste

    4-8         MM. Monticelli    and Covelli on the late
    existed before the horrible catastrophe of the year 79. The <U+FB01>rst
    section is entitled “ The State of Vesuvius trom the Eruption
    of 1820 and 1821 to the Commencement of October 1822;,
    with Observations and Experiments.”           It contains an article
    on   the  state of  the volcano  from  the 11th of May 1822 to the
    beainning of October, not inserted in the work which pre
    ce ed it; from which it also differs in some other respects
    towards the end. The second section is a “ Journal of the
    Eruption of October 1822.” The authors <U+FB01>rst speak of the
    state of the atmosphere during the spring, summer, and
    autumn which preceded that eruption; a state rendered more
    remarkable by the excessive drought which prevailed.           They
    mention some movements of the volcano precursory to the
    eruption; and then proceed to the description of the phwno
    mena observed in the interval between the 21$t of October and
    the 11th of November; during which time occurred the va-_
    rious paroxysms of that eruption. The zigZa lightning
    to appear on the 22d, at two o’clock in he afternoon, not
    proceeding from the pine of ashes, or from the great cloud of
-    smoke arising from     it,   but in a part of the atmosphere be
     tween'both and occupied only by the ashes.            The lightning
     was not accompanied with any detonation.         This electric phaa
     nomenon, which increased as the violence of the eruption di
     minished, did not take place in the middle of a parox em,
     but at the edges of the clouds of ashes. At a later peri         the
     lightning    was  seen to emanate   not only from  the dusky  clouds
     or the air, but also from the earth, and even to traverse the
     roads.
         Our authors discovered,    by    very simple but decisive expe
     riments, that the falling cinders were strongly and vitreously
     electri<U+FB01>ed.      Electric discharges were still seen from the sum
     mit of the mountain; and the cinders, which were at <U+FB01>rst
     gray, notwithstanding that their electricity remained the
     same, altered to brown, and <U+FB01>nally became of a reddish
      colour.     These red ashes falling in great abundance, and
     spreading themselves        thickly toa      considerable distance,
      caused great darkness.        In addition to this, they observed
    a            smell of muriatic acid and of muriate of iron, which
         strong as far as Naples: had this not been the case, they
    reache
     would yet have discovered from other effects the existence of
      this acid in the ashes, which had the same day been the sub
     ject
       "
            of their experiments.
          The pine presented a variety and a remarkable mutability
    »of colours, which are attributed by the authors to the refrac
     itions produced in' the different currents of air throuvh which
      they passed.
                     -  After an abundant shower of rain antf cinders,
                                                                     the

                          Phenomena    qf Vesuvius.                    49
  the trunk    of this pine, already much weakened from other cir
  cumstances, instead of the cylindrical column          esented only a
  series of large and small globes, which the               attribute, in
  great measure, to the enfeebled state of the elecu‘ic attraction
  of the air. At the conclusion of the eruption the volcano at--.
  tracted to itself all the clouds of the atmosphere, from which
  was formed an immense quantity of water, which rolling down
  its sides in torrents, and carrying with it large quantities ofin
  coherent matter, deVastated the surrounding country.            Of the
  pisolites, some of them, and those the largest, fell already
  formed; the others were formed upon the ashes which covered
  the ground by means of a <U+FB01>ne rain.
      Section 8d. “ Observations and Experiments made during
  the Eruption of October 1822.”         This section is the longest,
  the most interesting, and contains the greatest variety of new.
  facts.    The following are the titles of its principal divisions:
      Art. I. “ Periods ofthe Maximum and Minimum of Violence.
  which this Eruption presented. In this is given in detail the
  fact that the paroxysms appear subject to this general law,
  that their violence is in the inverse ratio to their duration. The
   shortest and most terrible are in the middle of the eruption -,
  the longest and feeblest, at its commencement and at its
   close.                                           I
       Art. II. “ State of the Crater and of the great Cone on the
   16th of November 1822.—Description of the Cone and of the
   actual Crater.”      The Atrio became more and more <U+FB01>lled up,
   and Vesuvius, properly so called, and Mount Somma were ap-‘
   proaching to union.       The edge of the crater in question was
   ver    narrow.                                              p
          e authors have given in this part a review of the obser
   vations made upon the height of Vesuvius from the year
   174:9 to 1822.
        Art.  III.   “ Examination of the Substances which are
   ejected   or   produced during the Eruption.” These are di
   vided into <U+FB01>ve classes: 1. incoherent solids; 2. liquids; 3.
   volatile substances; 4.       aseous substances; 5. imponderable
   substances.       Each of     ese classes is examined separately
’
   and in detail, and the various modes and periods of their a -
   pearance are pointed out. The ashes have been carried as ar
   as 105 miles in almost all directions; and the strata which are
   the result of them, as well as thoseconsisting of other incohe
   rent matter, are studied under various aspects, and are ob
    served to differ greatly from those formed by alluvial deposi
    tion. The e<U+FB02>ects of these 'showers of ashes on organized
   bodies are again spokenof. The currentsiof
                                            '           ' lava form
                                                                      sub
       Vol. 63. No. 809. Jan. 1824.                   G              jects

    50                         Mr. F. Baily        on the ensuing
    jects  of consideration in the article on liquid substances.
    Water is an important agent, mechanically and chemically,
    among those of a volatile nature. Among the gaseous sub
    stances, muriatic acid is evolved at   periods of the eruption,
                                                        all
     and at all temperatures.
       Art. IV. Of the Currents of incoherent Lava.
       Art. V. Of the Currents of Ashes.
       Art. VI. Of the Ag regates formed by those Substances.
       Art. VII. Of the     ofette produced by the Carbonic Acid.
       Art. VIII. Of Obsidian,        rare Species of Lava at Ve
                                              a
    suvius.
       In Art. IX.     given A Catalogue of the Products of the
                          is
    Eruption of October 1822: In Art. X. the Details of the che
    mical Processes, which they followed in their Analytical Exa
    mination of the Substances produced in this last Eruption.
       Art. XII. contains two tables of Meteorological Observa
    tions made during the months of October and November 1822,
    at the Observatory of Naples, at the distance of about eight
~   miles from Vesuvius.     It also contains recapitulation of the
                                                                a
    most remarkable facts observed in the course of the last erup
                                                            a
    tion, and since that period.
       The <U+FB01>gures represent, 1st, Vesuvius viewed from the road
    of the Hermitage a few days before the eruption of October
    1822; 2d, this eruption observed from the same situation at
    eight in the evening; 8d, the Volcano seen from Bosco-tre
    Case; 4-th, a drawing of the Crater made upon the spot, on
    the 16th of November 1822.
    XI.     On the ensuing Ommsition of Mars. By F. BAILY, Esq.
       EILS.       Read before the Astronomieal Society qf London,
       Janumy       9,   1824-.*
    ATtoriestimeestablished
             a    when   we have two new and excellent observa
                            in the southern hemisphere, where
    the celestial phenomena are watched and observed with the
    greatest diligence and zeal,   becomes the more important
                                              it
    and necessary  that corresponding observations of     Certain             a
    class   of     phaenomena, of not very frequent occurrence,
                 those
    should also be made in the n'mrlzern hemisphere, by such
    persons as are fortunately possessed of the re uisite means
    for this purpose.  Without this co-operation,       labours of    t   e
    those industrious observers will lose much of their value, and
    the advantageous opportunity of elucidating an important
         '   See our report     of the   proceedings   of the   Society at page 61.
                           -                                                  .   branch

                           Opposition     of Mars.                        51
 branch of physical astronomy will be wholly lost to the
 public.                                   >
    The ensuing opposition of Mars, on the 24th of March, is
 one of this class: a phsenomenon which occurs once only in a
 period of about 780 days. It is well known that correspond
 ing observations of this planet, in the two hemispheres, as
 compared with stars situated near its path, about the period
 of its opposition, will   serve to determine its parallax.             And
 the parallax of Mars being known, that of the sun may thence
 be deduced.      This was the plan adopted by Lacaille, when
 he was at the Cape of Good Hope, in the year 1751 : since
 which period, the method has fallen into disuse, for want of
 an observatory in the southern hemisphere, with instruments
 <U+FB01>t to be compared with those in Europe.
    The present period seems extremely favourable (for the
 reasons above mentioned) for the revival of this method.                At
 the timeof the last opposition in 1822, I ventured to draw
 the public attention to the subject, by pointing out certain
 stars, near which the planet would pass; and with the posi
 tions of which it mi ht be compared.                Several valuable ob
 servations were madeioth in the southern and in the northern
hemisphere, which are published in various periodical works:
and which, being thus recorded, may be referred to with
advantage, by those who devote themselves to this branch of
physical astronomy.                                       _
                                                                          '
    At  the present opposition, there are but few stars, and those
of inferior  ma nitude, with which Mars can be advantageously
compared.       I‘or ten da s preceding and subsequent to the
date of its opposition,          ars will not approach near to any
star   iven in the large catalogues of Bradley or Piazzi.            There
are,    owever, <U+FB01>ve stars given in the catalogues of Lalande,
inserted in the-Connaissance des Tems for the years             VIII.   and
XIII.    with which the comparisons may be made.                The mean
places of these stars, on January lst of the present year, are
given in the following little table; together with the dates
when Mars will be in conjunction with them.
    Conn. des Tems.   Mag.          R.             D.          Mars.
                            .  n.   M. s.      O   ,   ,,
       An.  XIII.      7'8    12   10   0    2   18   44 N.  A ril    l
            XIII.       8          14  29    l   52    2     ll arch29
            XIII.       8          I7  16     l  29   47_    —————27
            VIII.       7          20   8     I   8   37     -——     Q5
            XIII.      6'7         29  56    0    6   44-    —-—-    19

.52                     Notices respecting New Books.
      When Mars approaches either of these stars, the observer
  should, with a micrometer, measure their distance in a direct
;line; or take the di<U+FB01>‘erences, in right ascension and declina
  tion, between the planet and the star: the place and the cor
  rect time of observation bein noted down.
      Accurate observations of t is kind are of             eat im  rtance
  in astronomy: and as nothing tends. so muc to furt er such
  objects as a previous announcement of the phaznomena about
  to take place, I trust I need not make any apology for drawing
  the attention of the members of this Society to so interesting
   a subject.                                                 _
      The diameter of Mars, on the day of opposition, will be
   1 3”,91.
                      XII.    Notices respecting New Books.
                                Recently published,
'
  A Practical        Essay on the Strength     of Cast-Iron and other Me
      tals, <3"c. ,-  the 2nd Edition, 8-00.      By THOMAS TREDGOLD,
      Civil Engineer, <$~c.                                          .
               importantly useful       Work,   came under our notice too
 _
  THIS    late in the last Month, to admit our doing little more in
  p. 451, than announcin              its publication: we now therefore
   resume     the    subject,   wit  reference   to the account we gave of
   the lst Edition, in p. 137 of our 60th volume, in order to no
  tice, the new matters dispersed through the present Edition,
                                                                       '
   which seems collectively to amount to about 130 pages.
      Instead of the former seven Sections, the work now consists
   of eleven such, viz. an entire new sixth Section has been in
  serted ; the matter of the former sixth Section has, with a reat
  deal that is new, been distributed into four others, which are
  numbered VII, VIII, IX and X, and the former seventh
   Section is now the XIth.            Very judiciously, as regards refer
   ences,    and the quotings of this Work by other Writers
  (which cannot fail we think of becomin numerous), no altera
  tions have been made of the former division of the Work into
  304 Articles, as numbered in the Margin; but between these
  Arts. in various places, the principal new matter has been in
  troduced, and numbered and distinguished thus, viz. 6‘, fol
  lowing Art. 6; 82 following Art. 8: 19a and 19b, followin
  Art. 19, Sac. And the alphabetical Table of Data, which
  follows Art. 304, mi ht, advantageously for references, have
  its Articles numbereri in continuation, viz. 305, 306, &0.; and
  in a future Edition we hope this will be done.
                                                                         In

                   Notices respecting New Boo/rs.                .5-8
  '
     In Section I. Art. 6, an important Table, as to the saving
of calculation it effects, is now added, to show the load or
pressure in hundred-weights, while a cylindrical Pillar, Co
lumn or Post of Cast Iron (without enlarged ends, or an at
tached Base or Cap) will sustain with safety, when of any of
the several given diameters from 1 inch to 12, and lengths
from 2 to 24- feet of Column.        Art. 83 contains the descrip
tion of this third Table; and two practical Examples for ex
plaining its use, will be found in Art. 19". In a Note in page
9, Mr. Thomas Famolls Pritchard, a Shropshire Architect,
who died in October 1777, is stated to have been the pro
poser and designer, in 1773, of the <U+FB01>rst Cast Iron Bridge
which was anywhere erected, viz. over theSevern near Broseh
ley and Colebrook-dale, and that Mr. A. Darby, to whom
(by the Society of Arts) this merit has been assigned, merely,
as a. speculator, furnished part of the Money for carrying
 lVIr. Pritchard’s design into execution, under the superin_
 tendence of a Mr. Daniel Onions, in 1777.               1;.
      In Section II, in Art. 15 is described, a new and very sim
 ple and durable Weighing Machine, for Waggons, Carts, &c.
 not exceeding 4- Tons: it is founded on the direct propor
 tionate <U+FB02>exure and return, of a Cast Iron Beam (or two such)
  16 feet long, 7 inches broad, 5 inches deep in the middle
 and 2% at its ends, where it is supported.        The descent of
 the middle point, with a 4 Ton load, would be 1'7 inch:
 which, when multiplied 5 times by a Lever, would cause an
  Index to move, one-tenth of an inch for each       th.    of load.
  Art. 19a explains the use of Table II, in the case of a Load
 uniformly distributed over the length of a Beam (like that of
  the weight itself of a heavy Beam) and directs, Izaif of this
 load to be considered, as actin on the middle point. of the
  Beam, when supported at its en s: In a future Edition it may,
  for the satisfaction of the practical Man, be well, to explain
  here in words, why half the uniformly distributed Load, is to
  be used in applying Table II, and why jive-eiglz<U+FB01>is of webs.
  load is to be used, in applying Table I. Arts. 18 and 19. In
  this Section, the number of popular Examples is much in
  creased.                                 "
        In Section IV, Art. 343’ Mr. Tredgold explains a new
  principle of constructing Cast-iron Bridges, which would not
 be affected b contraction and expansion, such as has im
  paired severa of our <U+FB01>nest constructions of this kind: a large
   Bridge on this construction, might be put together in parts,
   and erected without the assistance of centering.
       In Section V. Arts 59b to 59", the Author’s latest Expe
   riments are detailed, on 12 Specimens, of 6 di<U+FB02>‘brent            of
                                                            kindcsast

 54                  Notices respecting New Books.
  Cast Iron : three of these kinds were run by Mr. F.‘ Bramah,
 from the Pigs of different Furnaces in Shropshire and in
  Derbyshire; one was from re-melted old Iron scraps; another
 kind consisted of new Pig and old Iron, in equal parts; and
 the last pair, of Pig Iron T‘Uth alloyed with Copper.
    These experiments and the practical results which Mr.
 Tredgold draws from them, appear to us hi hly important;
and so do the seven new Experiments by <U+FB01>r. Bramah, on
 the Twisting or T ortion of Cast Iron, given in Art. 67“.
    Art. 681 concludes this Section, with a set of new Rules,
 for judging of the quality of Cast Iron by the aspect of a
 newly fractured surface thereof, as to colour and lustre.
 “ The colour of Cast Iron, is various shades of gray, some
 times approaching to dull white, sometimes dark iron gray
 with     ecks of black gray.      The lustre of cast Iron differs
 in kinfi: and in degree: it is sometimes metallic, for example
like minute particles of fresh cut lead, distributed over the
fracture; and its degree in this case, depends, on the number
and size of the bright parts; but in some kinds, this lustre
seems to be given, by facets of crystals, disposed in rays; I
will call this lustre crystalline.
    “ In very tough Iron, the colour of the fracture is uniform
dark iron      ray, with abundance of metallic lustre.          If
                                                              the
colour be t e‘ same, but with less lustre, the iron will be
soft, but more crumbling, and (will) break with less force.
If the surface be without lustre, and the colour dark and
mottled, the Iron will be found the weakest of the soft kinds
of Iron.
   “            if the colour be of a lighter gray, with abund
 ance Again,
        o metallic lustre, the iron will be hard'and tenacious:
 such iron is alwa 5 very stiff.        But if there be little metallic
 lustre, with a liglit colour, the iron will be hard and brit
 tle : it is very much so, when the fracture is dull white; but
 in the extreme degrees of hardness, the surface of the <U+FB01>'ac
 ture is grayish white, and radiated, with a crystalline lustre.
     “ There may be some exceptions to these maxims, but I
 hope they will, nevertheless, be of great use to those engaged
 in a. business which is e'very d. becoming more important.”
'In previous pages Mr. Tredgo (1 says,
     “ The best and most certain test of the quality of a piece
 of Cast Iron,   is,   to try its edge with a hammer:    if   the blow
 make a slight impression, denoting some de ee of malleabi
 lity, the iron is  of a         quality, provided it be uniform:     if
 fragments  <U+FB02>     olf, antgood
                            no sensible indentation be made, the
 iron will be liard and brittle.”
     “ The Tables in this work and Rules, are calculated for
                                                                     soft

                      .Notz'ces respecting New Books.                55
    soft gray cast. Iron: metal of this kind yields easily to the File,
   when the external crust is removed, and is slightly imalleable
    in a cold state.”                                      .' ’.
       Section VI, Arts. 68b to 68 ‘, contains Experiments on
   malleable Iron, English and Swedish, on Steel, on Gun
    metal oi' Bronze, and on Brass: wherein, as to Iron, the ef
   fect of hammering and the decrease of force by heat, are ex-_
‘
   perimentally examined, and the cause of English Iron being
    inferior to Swedish, for particular purposes, is pointedgout.
   The novel and important object which Mr. Tredgold has had
   in view in all his Experiments, has been, to ascertain the
   exact strain that Materials would hear, and with what <U+FB02>exure,
    without impairing their elasticity, so that on removing the
   strain, this might cause them to recover perfectly, the <U+FB02>exure
   which the strain had occasioned ; whereas almost all previous
    Experiments were carried, from‘ 3 to 4 times as far, as to
   strain, in order to observe, the almost useless point, at which
   actual breaking took place.                            as   ,_   4533
       In Section VII, and the others which follow, wherever
    Fluxions have been used by other Writers, in the investiga
    tion of the general F ormulaa, the Author has instead, had
    recourse to the method of progression, which he <U+FB01>rst de
   scribed in 1821, in three papers in our 57th volume. In Art.
    1213 is now given, a Table of the Thickness, Breadth, and
    Pitch of the Teeth of Wheels, followed by ample directions
   and examples of its use; and it is ascertained, that the proe
   portions here theoretically assigned, agree very nearly with
   those, long in use by the most esteemed of our makers of
   Machinery in the large way.
       In Art. 1892‘ is now inserted a Table of the proportions of
    Gudgeons or Pivots, for different degrees of strain or stress : the
   diameters of the gudgeons in this Table, are from-l,- to 10 inches,
   their lengths '43 to 85 inches, and strain from 213 to 85,000 lbs.
   In Art. 1563 the addition is made, of a Table of Cast Iron
 '
   Joists for Fz're-proqulor/rs, when, besides the <U+FB02>at Brick Arches,
   the extraneous Load is not to be greater than 120 lbs. on the
   super<U+FB01>cial Foot: At the conclusion of the directions for using
   this Table, the Author observes ‘j The construction of these
   Floors, renders a place Securefrem Fire, without loss of space,
   and with "very little extra expense: it may be of in<U+FB01>nite use
   in the preservation of Deeds, Libraries, and indeed of every
   other spec-es of property.        In a public Museum, devoted to
   the collection and preservation of the scattered fragments of
   literature and art, it is extremely desirable that they should
   be guarded against Fire: otherwise, they may be involved in
                                                                   one

56                   Notices respecting New Boo/rs.
one common ruin, more dreadful          to contemplate than their
widest dispersion.” _
   Section VIII treats of the stz<U+FB01>‘hess of Beams, to resist la
teral Strains, with its application to some interesting practical
           -
cases.
   Section   IX   is on the stren h and sti<U+FB02>'ness of Beams, to
resist Tortion    or  Twisting, wit its application to machinery.
    Section   X  treats  of the strength of Columns, Pillars and
Ties, with several new Examples.          What Euler, Lagrange,
and other continental mathematicians obtained, from the most
re<U+FB01>ned methods of analysis, is here arrived at and exceeded in
accuracy, simplicity and adaption to use.
    Section XI has been spoken of (as the 7th) in our account
of the 1st Edition, before referred to.
    The Table of Data will be found considerably improved.
And at the end is a very copious alphabetical Index, which
will serve to direct the unlearned or the casual consulter of
this useful volume to the particular Table, Example in num
bers, Rule in words at length, or algebraical Formula or Equa
tion, adapted to any required case; calling at the same time
his attention to the other cases and conditions, of the same
or some nearly similar Problem, from which, the one in
hand must be carefully distinguished, in order to avoid error,
by-the application of a wrong Rule. We deem every Book,
materially defective, which appears without a good alpha
 betical Index.
    We are glad to observe, at the end of the Preface, that a
 second Volume or Part of this Work on Cast-iron and other
 Materials, is in preparation, treatin on the strength of Pipes,
 Mains, Tanks, Boilers, &c.: of Ciains to resist impulsion
 and pressure : of Suspension and other Iron Bridges: and of
 framed work for Roofs, Bridges, Mills, and Machinery.
     At the end of this Volume, we observe also, that Mr.
 Tredgold has in advanced progress,
                                           “ Principles of 'Warrning
 and Ventilating Public Buildings, Dwelling Houses, Manu
 factories, Hospitals, Stores, Conservatories, 81.0., and of con
 structin     Fire-places, Boilers, Steam Apparatus, Grates,
 Drying ooms,” 8w.
 A   Synopsis of the Prices of Wheat and of Circumstances         af
    <U+FB01>cting   them ; particularly of the Statutes which relate to 'it
    from the Commencement of the Thirteenth Century to the End
     of 1822: Exhibiting in one view the Market Prices as they
     occurred and as expressed in the present Value of Money.
     Together with Statements which indicate the Situation of the
                                                             Country

                      Notices respecting New                      57
                                              Poo/cs.
     Counhy as to its Agriculture, Commerce, and Manufactures,
     Population, Public Revenue, 8w.
      These Tables are evidently the result of extensive research
 and careful calculation.        They form a body of valuable do
 cuments on the main branches of our national wealth, and
 they can never fail being referred to with advantage on sub
jects of similar inquiry.        The Author we understand to be
recently deceased.         He must have been a man of great indusq
try, and of no common powers of mind.              He seems to have
<U+FB02>inched from no labour in the prosecution of his subject, and
he has certainly bequeathed to his country a very important
collection of facts in our political economy. The price of the
work, considering its details, its size, and execution, is un
 usually low.
                            Works in the Press.
     The following Works are preparing for publication, in quar
terly numbers, by Mr. J. F. Stephens, F.L.S., 8m. 1
     A Catalogue of British Insects, or an Attempt to arrange
them according to the Natural System ; with the Synonyma of
                                                                '
 the principal Authors inserted.
      Illustrations of British Entomolog , in which it is proposed
 to give the eneric and specific characters of all the Insects
 which have itherto been discovered in Great Britain and Ire
 land, and observations on their metamorphosis, food, econo
my, &c.; accompanied by Figures of the more obscure and in
 teresting Species.
 _ A Monograph         on the British Species of the Linnean Genus
 Sphinx, embellished with correct representations of all the
known Species, their larvae and pupae; to which will be added
an Appendix, containing a notice (with the characters and
 <U+FB01>gures) of such congenerous Insects of this group as are
 usually, from bad taste, placed in British Cabinets, either as
  authentic indigenous specimens or in lieu thereof, to the utter
 confusion of our knowledge of their geographical distribution.
      The Author’s intention, we understand, is to publish the
 -1 st number—45f the Catalogue on the 1st of May next—of the
                                J
 Illustrations on the lst of une—and of the Monograph on the
  lst of July, followin , and to proceed quarterly with each work
 until completed. T e last work will be in Mo, the others in 8v0.
       ANALYSIS    or PERIODICAL worms ON'NATURAL HISTORY.
                  Curtis’s British Entomology. No. l.                ,
       In the present improving state of Entomology in this coun
  try, when so much attention has been drawn to this curious
  and interesting branch of Natural History by several distin
    uished labourers in this <U+FB01>eld of science, a work on British
      Vol. 63. No. 309. Jan. 1824-.                         Insects.

   58       Analysis      of Periodical        Works on Natural History.
Insects, in which the Genera should be established and eluci
dated b ' elaborate dissections, was certainly much to be de
sired.        his want seems likely, if we may judge from the <U+FB01>rst
Number now before us, to be well supplied by Mr. Curtis;
whose accurate and beautiful Figures are accompanied by full
descriptions and elucidatory observations, which evince a cri
tical acquaintance with their subjects. Mr. Curtis’s plates also
contain representations of the Plants upon which the insects
feed, or to which they are attached, executed with the scien
ti<U+FB01>c accuracy which has long distinguished his drawings for
the Botanical Magazine.
     It may be observed, that no one could expect to see the
 completion of a work upon Species in the present advanced
 state of science; whereas a work limited to Genera may be
   erfected in a reasonable time, and will be of more real utility.
     The following are the subjects of the <U+FB01>ve plates in the <U+FB01>rst
 Number:                                                 _
    Cicindela gylvicola. This is a beautiful species, unique as British, and has
 only been <U+FB01>gured on the continent by Megerlé.— Velia rivulorum hasI we
 believe, never before been <U+FB01>gured: it is a pretty insect, and has been con
 sidered very rare—DeilephiIa Eu horbiee Is a most beautiful and rare spe
 cies of Sphinx, and a British specimen of the caterpillar has never before
 been <U+FB01>gured. Eu horbia Para/iar, embellishing the drawing, is a most luxu
 riant specimen 0 that local plant.—Peltaste: Pini, a new species of a genus
 proposed many years ago by llliger, which Mr. Curtis has endeavoured to
 establish by very elaborate dissections. The lchneumouida: beinn ill under
 stood, the information contained in this article will be very usefiil.—Cteno
 phora ornata is also unique in Britain, and is very beautiful compared with
 most of the Tipulidte of authors ; which, however, are all elegantly formed,
 although the pain_which some of them in<U+FB02>ict makes them dreaded in warm
 countries: but this does not apply to the genus Ctenqaliora. The palpi are
 described as being <U+FB02>exible like the trunk of an elephant, which is very un
 common, and has, we believe, not before been noticed.
                  The Botanical Magazine.                  Nos. 442, 448.
    Pl. 244] . Melastoma                                    arborereenx.—Cium       quinque
         “ foliis
fo/ia,             quinatis : §randosa.—Orylobiz¢ni
                                oliolis utriuque attenuatis acuminatis serratis pedi
 cellatis, ramis teretibus nodosis lsevibus :" from Rio Jnneir0.—Bi.rculclla
                                      “ pedunculis
 hirpida.—Erodium szonii,                            longissimis multi<U+FB02>nris, foliis petio
 latis cordato-ovatis      inciso-lobatis    crenatis, utrinque villosis, caule ascen
 deute hirto a” sent to Professor Tenore, from Avellino in Sicily, by his pu
 pil Gussoné, who is engaged upon a new Flora Siculn.—Iponuea :pem'um,
 Convoluulus :peciosus Willd.
     PL 2447- PM!“ grandi<U+FB02>om, a latifolia.——Ametb_ystea                    0¢71llf<U+FB02>.—PMO
 mi: Herba verui, of which it is strange that there should have been no <U+FB01>gure
 but the wood-cut of Lobel.—Onom'a hixpanica. ~Coreopn': lanceola!a.—Oci
                  “ stamineum; foliis
 mum cauum                                 oblongo-ellipticis serratis canis longs pe
 tiolatis,          vertioillatis, verticillis subsex<U+FB02>oris, staminibus corolla bis lon
            spicis
 gioribus.’ —Ionidium Ipecammnba, <U+FB02>. (Viola Linn.)—Desmantluu vvirgatau.
                   The Botanical Register.              Nos. 105, 106.
    Tab. 748. Erinus Lye/znidea,—E. eapensis Liam, distinguished by Mr.
 Lindley from nfrwnnm by the pubescent tube of its corolla.— Tillmzdsia
                             ‘                                           '
                                                                                    <U+FB01>erimsa

              Analysis      of Periodical Works          on  Natural History.             59
                            “ <U+FB02>oribus pallidis, spica sub-simplici 2” probably, Mr. L.
  <U+FB02>eruosa 'y pallida,
  thinks, a distinct species.~—Erythn'na s edom.——Dimzella strumosa, “ foliis
  lazté viridibus, omnino ltevibus (latitudlne, ubi latioribus, subunciali): pa
  nicula laxa, numerosit, decomposita: corona: pendulo-cernuaa laciniis re:
  <U+FB02>exis, alterné saturatius 3-5-lineatis : <U+FB01>lamentis cum strum-ii obes<U+FB01> satura
  tius colorntzi'antherll'era       npice articulatis: pedicellis <U+FB02>ore aulo breviori
  bus,” lately observed in New South Wales by Mr. Cunning am, and does
  not seem reducible to any of the seven species of Mr. Brown—Schizopeta?
  lon Walkeri,introduced from Chili by Mr. Francis Place ; an elaborate cha
  racter by Mr. Brown accompanies the description.- Ocymumjkbrg'fugum suf
  fruticosum pubescens, “ foliis ovato-lanceolatis crenatis petiolatis, verticillis
  termiualibus racemosis, bracteis rhombeis deciduis, corolla calyci subsequali.”
  From Sierra Leone. Very similar to 0.hcptodon of M. de Beauvais.—- Cur
  culigo la<U+FB01>fulia.
       Pl. 755. Stapclia normalis—St. hirsute, var. atra. \Ve are glad to see
\ this
         genus preserved entire.—Gm'dia denudata,
                                                            “ foliis
                                                                     oblongis quadrifariam
  imbricatis pilosis trinervibus: nervis denudatis, <U+FB02>oribus terminalibus villo
  sis: villis sparsis patentibus.”—Allium Cowam', “ scapo nudo semiterete, fu~
  liis lanceolatis acuminatis <U+FB01>accidis ciliatis vaginantibus, umbella fastigiaté,
  petalis obtusis.” From Peru.—Pleurotlmllis punctnia.—Ponthievq                   pctiolala,
  “                                   etiolatis erectis crispis glabris, <U+FB02>oribus discolori
      spica‘t lax-Si erecta, foliis
  bus :" brought from St.            incent’s by Mr. M‘Rae.—-Polygala paniculata.
                  Sowm‘by’s Mineral Conchology.                  Nos. 75, 76.
       No. 75, Pl. 432, &c. Pileolus, a new genus of fossil shells, of which two
  species are represented, P. plicalus and levis: the plate, we observe, is the
  same that was employed in No. 19 of the Genera of Shells by Mr. G. B.
  Sowerby: their descriptions are of course somewhat enlarged beyond the
  limits of a work solely illustrative of' Genera.— Turbo comic-us, and T. refun
  dalus, from the green sand—Murm- perum'anus, and                      M    tortuosus, crag
                                                                                             '
  fossils . the <U+FB01>rst has a recent analogue in the West Indian seas.
       H.434, 435, 436, contain ten species of Tcrebratulm, of which the dcscrip
   tions are promised in N0. 76.
       No- 76, Pl. 438, &c. Terelvraluke obesa and bucculentu ; Myh'lus edvntu
  lus, lanceolalus, and aubla'via ;       I nocerumus cordg'fonnis ; I. Cucicri and Bron
  gniarli ; I. nzylilokics. These are several species of a remarkable gigantic
  Genus, formerly considered, from the <U+FB01>brous structure ol‘ its shell, to belong
  to Pimm: it is peculiar to chalk, and one or two contiguous strata. The
  reference made by M r. Sowerby to the mountain limestone seems rather too
  hasty.—Crenatula          ventricosa.    This Genus has not before been observed '
  among fossils.
             G. B. Sowm'by's Genera qf Recent and Fossil Shells.
      No. XX. of this useful work contains the following Genera : Curdila,
  united to Venericardia ; Crypricardia ,' Them'rliurn, a new genus of Brae/rio
  zmda, separated from Terebratula by) M. de France, and distinguished from
  it by the manner of its adhesion, and to which two or three very singular
   Maestricht fossils belong; Rostellaria; Sirombus ; and l’lcroceras.
                     XIII.    Proceedings of Learned Societiesr
                                       ROYAL SOCIETY.
   Jan. 8                      Observations on the Positions and Distances
  and 16.
                READ,  of 380 double and triple Fixed Stars, made in the
  vezu's 1821, 1822, and _ 1823 ; by J. F. W. Herschel, Esq.
  F.1t.S., and J. South, Esq. F.R.s.
                                              H   2                                    .Jan.

 60               Royal Society.—Linmean     Society.
     Jan. 22.—A paper was read, On the Cause of the Corrosion
 and Decay of Copper used for covering the Bottoms of Ships,
 by the learned President, Sir H. Davy, Bart, in which he
 pointed out a simple and oeconomical method of remed ing
 this evil. The cause, he ascertained, was a weak chemic         ac
 tion, which is constantly exerted between the saline contents
 of sea water and the copper, and which, whatever may be the
 nature of the copper, sooner or later destroys it. The same
general princi 1e of the manner in which chemical changes
 ma be exalted: destroyed, or suspended, by electrical powers,
 which led him to the discovery of the decomposition of the al
 kalies and the earths, likewise afforded him this new and more
practical discovery. He <U+FB01>nds that a very small surface of tin or
 other oxidable metal any where in contact with a large surface
of copper, renders it so negatively electrical that sea water has
no action upon it; and a little mass of tin brought even in com
munication by a wire with a large plate of copper, entirely pre
serves it.    By the desire of the Lords of the Admiralty, he is
now brin ing this discovery to actual practice on ships of war.
It is need ess to point out the uses and oeconomical advantages
of a result which must add so much to the permanency and
strength of our navy and shipping,- and be so bene<U+FB01>cial to
our maritime and commercial interests.
    The reading was commenced, likewise, of a paper On the
Development of Magnetism in Iron and Steel, by Percussion;
Part    II;  by William Scores jun. Esq. F.R.'S.E.
                         LINNEAN    SOCIETY.
    Jan.  2L—A     communication from Mr. Jonathan Conch,
F.L.S., was read, “'On a new Species of the Genus Gadus.”
This diminutive species, called by <U+FB01>shermen the Mackarel
Midge, is only an inch and a quarter in length, the propor-'
tions being near to those of the Whiting.
    Part of a paper, communicated by the Zoological Club of
the Linnaean Societ , was also read, On the Natural Aflinities
that connect the        rders and Families of Birds. By N. A.
Vi ors, Esq., M.A. F.L.S.
      he followin    were among the presents on the table :—-A
Collection of Blrds, including several species of Gull, among
which was a specimen of Larus Sabim' ,- a box of Minerals,
and a skull of the Walross, Trichecus rosmarus,.presented
by Mr. Mog , one of the gentlemen who accompanied Capt.
Parry in his ate voyage.      Also, a specimen of Syren lacertz'na,
and a new species of Cyprinus viviparus, from Don Vincente
de Cervantes,      Professor of Botany in the University of
Mexico.
                                                       ASTRONO

    Astronomical, Horticultural, and Meteorological Societies.      6'1
                      ASTRONOMICAL    SOCIETY.
    Jan. 9th.—The Papers read at      the Meeting  of this evening
were as follow :
     1st. Observations of the Comet of 1811, taken at the Ha
vannah, by Don Joseph Joachim de Ferror, of Cadiz, de
ceased, communicated by the President.
    These observations were accompanied by computations of
the Comet in an elliptic orbit, and the elements are very nearly
the same as those brought out by l“. Argelander.
    2d. On the Constants of Deviation occurring in the Reduc
tion of Astronomical Observations.        By Benjamin Gompertz,
Es ., F.R.S. and M. Ast. Soc.
       his paper examines the causes of deviation, and proposes
formulae for their more easy reduction: it is however so purely
mathematical as not to admit of abridgrnent within our limits.
    3d. On the ensuing Opposition of the Planet Mars on the
24:th of March next.         By Francis Baily, Esq., F.R.S.,
V.P. Ast. Soc.
    As this paper contains some valuable observations upon an
interesting phzenomenon       shortly about to take place, we
have obtained permission to print it at full length, and it will
according] be found at page 50 of our present number. We
understand, likewise, that the Society have come to the reso
lution of printing all papers read before it monthly, after the
ensuing Anniversary, instead of withholding them for an an-.
nual volume.
                     HORTICULTURAL      SOCIETY.
    Jan. 6.—His Majesty the King of Wurtemberg was elected.
a Fellow of the Society; and the following communications
were read: —-On the Classi<U+FB01>cation of Peaches and Nectarines.
 By Mr. George Lindley, Corresponding Member Of the So
ciety.—Description     and Plan of a Pine Stove constructed in.
the Garden of Richard Forman, Esq. F.H.S. -
    Jan. 20.-—-T he following communication was read :—On the
Treatment of the Banyan Tree, in the Conservatory, so as to
 rive it its natural mode of growth.      By Capt. Peter Rainier,
  tN., F.H.S.                                                            »
                     METEOROLOGICAL SOCIETY.                            I
    A. Third General Meeting of this Society was held on
Jan. 14, when the Code of Laws alluded to in our last num~
her was adopted ; and the Meeting having been resolved into
an ordinary one, a Preliminary Report from a Committee
was read, on the Objects to which the Society’s attention
should <U+FB01>rst be: directed; a Paper on the Vernal W
                                                          inds:i () py
                                                                     )ll

62 BIedr'cd-Bolan. Son—Roy. Inst.         of G. Bril.—-Fr. Acad.
John Gough, Esq. of Kendal; and various other communi
cations.                         —-—
           MEDICO-BOTANICAL socm'rv 01:; LONDON.
   This Society held their Anniversary Meeting on Friday
the 16th of January, when the following Council were elected
for the ensuing year, viz.    President.-—Dr. Bree, F.R.S.
 Vice-Presidents.—Dr. Paris,    F.R.S.; Dr. E. T. Monro;
Joshua Brookes, Esq. F.R.S. ; Wm. T. Brande, Esq. F.R.S. ;
Sir James McGregor, M.D. F.R.S.; Sir Alex. Crichton,
M.D. F .R.S. Treasurer.—Wm. New'man, Esq. Secretary.
'—-Mr. C. Holdstock.  Prq<U+FB01>‘ssor qf Botany—John Frost, Esq.
(Jamal—Thomas Jones, ES(.; \Vm. Yarrell, Es .; Thos.
Andrews, Esq.; Anthony Wlllite, Esq.; Dr. John ‘lliotson.
'
            ROYAL INSTITUTION or GREAT BRITAIN.
   The Lectures at this Institution will commence early in the
month of February, and the following Courses are announced
for delivery in the season, viz.
   On Electricity, Electro-Chemistr , and Electra-M une
tism.   By W. T. Brande, Esq., Sec. {.S. and F. R.S.E., rof.
Chem. in the Royal Institution—T 0 commence Saturday,
7th February, and continue each Saturday.
   On Mechanical Philosophy and its recent Improvements,
particularly    Optics and Hydraulics.
                 in_                    By John
                                                   Millinfton,
Esq. F.L.S., Sec. Ast. Soc., Prof. Mech. in the Royal     nsti
tution.—-To commence Thursday, 12th Feb., and continue.
                                                 '                 '
each Thursday.               '
                                                       v
   On Botan and Vegetable Physiology.        By John Frost,
Esq., Prof.    otany to the Medico-Botanical Society of Lon
               l
don.—To commence after Easter.
   On Plane Geometry.       By John Walker, Esq., of Trin:
Coll.  Dublin,  M.R.I.A.—To commence after Easter.
   On Music. By W. Crotch, Mus. Doc, Prol'. Music in
                                                               ‘
the University of Oxford—To commence after Easter.
   All the Lectures commence at o’clock.
                                      2
               ROYAL ACADEMY       or SCIENCES or PARIS.
    1   July 7.-—The Academy      received from M. Becquey, direc
tor-general of         bridges and roads, some Researches on the
uniform Motion of incompressible and homogeneous Fluids, by
MM. Lamé and Clapeyron; also a new Memoir from M. Ar
noul senior on Equations ol'three Terms of the second Degree;
   M. Moreau (le Jonnes read part of a third Memoir on the
Geography of American Plants, entitled, Researches on the
Conditions of Vegetable Organization necessary for the geogra
phical Transfer of Plants        by
                              Animals and        by
                                               Men.
          -                                                M. Gay

                                       The Comet.                                         63;
   M. Gay-Lussac read a ,Memoir by MM. Boussingtiult and
Rivero on the Milk of the Cow Tree. MM. Humboldt and
Arago mentioned that those gentlemen, Professors of Chemis-'
try at Santa Fé de Bogota, had just sent some“ interesting ob
servations on the mean height of the barometer at the level
of  the sea between the tropics; on its hourly variations; on
the hot springs of the Cordilleras ; on the geographical posi
tions of various places, 8w. &c.
   M. Becquerel read a Memoir on the electric Elfects deve
loped in various chemical Actions.      The Sittinv <U+FB01>nished by
the reading of a Memoir by Mr. H. M. Edwar s, on the ele
mentary Structure of the principal organic Tissues ofAnimals.
   July H.—-Specimens were received from the director-gene
ral of mines of the Sal gem, from the mine lately discovered
in Lorraine; he requested that an analysis of it should be
made by a Commission of the Academy; and stated that the
Minister of Finance would publish their Report.
   M. Arago communicated a new Note of M. Becquerel on
his electro-magnetic experiments.
    M. De Ferussac read a Note on the Shells found in the'
 Nile by M. Caillaud, and which had been erroneously regarded;
as 0 sters; they are he'te’ries of Lamarck.             ,
                                                                -
      Ni:
        Gaymard   read a Memoir    on the Growth of Polypi geo
logically considered.                                          Y
   M. de ussieu jun. read
            J                    Memoir on the Family of Eu-v
                                             a
phorbiaceae.
               XIV.     Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                                      THE COMET.
  '
                                                   Gosport Observatory,   Jan. 26, 1824.‘
         following observations on the present COME'r are at
THE   your service,   you think them worth a place in your
                              if
Journal, and have not received      more satisfactory account
                                                    a
from any of your Correspondents.      It was <U+FB01>rst observed here
in the morning of the 29th of December, 1828, when its
nucleus appeared ill de<U+FB01>ned, and no lar      than a star of ther
third magnitude, and its train was only 22 degrees long. The
following memoranda will show its position from time to time,
and its progressive antecedental motion under the <U+FB01>xed stars.
      .____-
Monday Morning,
Sunday Morning,
                        Dec. 29th,
                       Jan.
                               -~
                              4th,
                                     1823,   itsRight Ascension
                                            its Declination
                                            its Right Ascension
                                                                   was 251° 15’
                                                                   was 249
                                                                          8   SOnorth.
                                                                              00
      ———-—— -—                             its Declination             18    12 north.
Monday Morning, Jan. 12th,                  its Right Ascension    was 243    90
                                       "
                                     ‘804
                       ——-—             ’
                                            its Declination             3‘2   50 north.
Friday      Evening,   Jan.   22d,          its Right Ascension    was 217~   20
~--——--—         —-———         —-         ‘                                   45 north.
                                            its Declination             63
                                                                                      For

64-                             .   Tile Comel.
     For the <U+FB01>rst13 days, that        from December 22d 1828 to
                                          is,
January   4th  1824-,  its  motion   under  the <U+FB01>xed stars was at
the rate of 1° 31’ per day.         From the 4th to the 12th of
January its dail motion was 1° 58'; and from the morning
of the 12th, to       evening of the 23d of January, its velocity
                       t    e
through   the heavens    increased to 2° 36' per day. These cer
tainly are reat inequalities.      lts present motion      twice as   is
  reat as w en      was at its perihelium, and its nucleus gets
                       it
farger and its tail longer as recedes from the sun, which are
                                     it
anomalies not easily to be accounted for; as they do not seem
to arise from any inclination the comet has towards the earth,
because      it   is          its aphelium.
   The speed apfproaching
               0 this comet outstrips all that have been ob
served here for many years past, not excepting that of the
brilliant comet in the autumn of 1811.
   It now being circumpolar object, at least in this latitude,
                        a
it may therefore be seen soon after sunset, and throughout
the night in clear weather.
   It now (January 26th) in the tail of Draco, between the
       is
head of Ursa Minor and the tail of Ursa Major, and by the
end of the month        will be at or near the last star in the tail
                            it
of Draco, and about 21° under Polaris, in the evening.
   From the preceding remarks have found that must have
                                          I                         it
crossed the Equinoctial about the 22d of December 1828,
when its distance from the sun was about 271,» de rees, which
may be considered as its perihelion point.             M. BunNEY.
                                                          lnchbonny, Jan. 13,   182‘}.
     The comet a few days   hence will be within the circle of
perpetual apparition,  and  will be continually above the hori
zon, and so never set.  At present rises between the N.N.E.
                                                it
and N. by E. about 15 minutes past 10 at night, and comes
to the meridian about 4-5 minutes past     in the morning, and
                                                      8
sets between the N.N.W. and N.           W. at 85 minutes past
                                                     by
seven at night. Its correct distance was, on the 10th January,
17 hours 30 minutes mean time; from Arcturus 32 deg. 4-8
min. 16 sec.; from Lyra, 26 deg. 38 min.; and from Rasal
hagus, 22 deg. 50 min.     The earth travels nearly at the rate
of one million and a half of miles per day in its annual course
round the sun, and the earth’s mean daily motion      nearly 59      is
minutes and eight seconds; but the daily motion of this comet
at present     112 minutes, which
                  is                nearly double that of the
                                                is
earth round the sun. About six o’clock in the mornin the
planet Venus will be seen on the south-east, and the      anet             p
Mars     little past the meridian, and nearly in
        8.
                                                  conjunctiopl
                                                          W112

                           Astronomical Infm'mation.                                      65
with the star marked gamma in Virgo, and Jupiter near his
setting in the west.                               JAS. VEITCH.
   P.S.—On the 18th instant, about thirty minutes past six, at
lar e <U+FB01>ery meteor, with an oval head larger than the full moon,
ant? a long and sparkling tail, appeared to come from the west,
and moved toward the south-east, in a curve line, with its
convex side to the north—J. V.
   The comet 0n the 7th of January was in the right shoulder
of Hercules, taking a direction towards the tail of the Dra
gon.    It moves' with astonishing velocity, as it has since
passed midway between the back of Hercules and the northern
crown, through the right leg of Hercules, and is now eon
tinuing its course between the right knee of Hercules and the
ri ht hand of Bootes, and at the present time does not set.
 It5the brilliancy of the comet continue, we may expect a
more favourable opportunity of seeing          about the 30th of   it
this month, when the moon will be absent; and should the
atmosphere be clear,     will then be distinctly visible between
                                it
the Pole and the extremity of the tail of the Ursa Major, at
any hour of the night.
                      ASTRONOMICAL                  INFORMATION.
   M. Schumacher’s Astronomical Tables for 1824 have at
len th arrived, and may be had of Messrs. Treuttel, Wurtz
an   Co.: accompanied with an English translation.        They
contain the usual tables, which will be found of constant use
in an observatory.                       .
   M. Schumacher has communicated to the Astronomical
Society of London, the elements of the present comet, deduced
from his own observations and those of M. Bouvard at Paris.
M. Mossotti, who       now in England,
                           is              engaged in a similar
                                                              is
undertaking from observations made    in this country.
       COMET    or SEPTEMBER              1822, OBSERVED                AT PARAMATTA.
   The followimg  are the elliptic elements of the comet observed
at Paramatta  by Sir Thomas Brisbane and Mr. Rumker, as
communicated to the R0         Society of Edinburgh.
                                          al
Time of passing the peri elion, mean time,       Oct. 245221201
Log. of perihelion on the orbit, from mean          271°36’ 18”'3
L0 of descending node
       .                               equinox,     272 4-2 23
In<U+FB01>ination . . .                .     .    .    .     .   .    .    .     .   52 4.0 41
Logarithm (8: 82°
                e               53'    ll")           .   .    .    .    .    9'9966440
Log.    parameter
           is                   .     .     .   .     .   .    .    .     .   0'3585731
Sidereal revolution in days                     .                   .     .    663554-‘8
                                           Edinb. 'Ph'il. 'Joum, vol. x. p.            179.
Vol. 63. No.        309.   Jan.       1824.                        I             ANOMALY

66                                Astronomy.
             XNQMALY IN THE FIGURE OF THE EARTH. -
 ~  So many ships touch at Madeira, and take a new departure
 from   it,that the longitude of the island      a matter of consi
                                                          is
 derable importance.      Dr. Tiarks was therefore sent out by
the Board of Longitude to ascertain                 it,
                                             with sixteen watches,
in the summer of 1822; and a remarkable circumstance occur
red, which was not within the object of his original mission.
For, in going from Greenwich to Falmouth, a difference of
longitude was found equal to 20’ 11”'49; and, in returning
from almouth to Greenwich, a difference of 20' 11"'13. Now
       F
the di<U+FB01>'erence, as determined from the Trigonometrical Survey
         in the third edition of the requisite tables),     only 20’      is
(given
6'9 and this variation made            expedient
                                           it        to enga     Dr.              e
                                                                               Igle
Tiarks to verify his observations in the Channel.                was
furnished with twenty-nine chronometers, and was employed
from the latter end of last July till the middle of September
in sailing between Dover and        almouth.
                                      F          His results are as
follows:
Longitude of Dover station        .  .  .  .   .   0h 5' 17"'54 E.
                Portsmouth ()bservatory                  24- '77 \V. 4:
                                                               O 0
                                                          .
                Pendennis Castle                     20 10 '85 W.
                                                           .17
                                     .  .      .     .
               Madeira . .             .   .    .     .                   39'O8W.
     From hence     clear that
                   it   is    the <U+FB01>gure of the earth must be
somewhat di<U+FB02>'erent from that assumed for determining the lon
gitudes from the Trigonometrical Surve      and that about 5”
                                                          ,
must be added, in the latitude of the    Iannel, for every 20'
                                                     C
of longitude which    deduced from it.-—Edz'nb. Phil. J0urn.,
                             is
vol. x. p. 179.
REMARKS 0N PROFESSOR S'I‘RUVE’s OBSERVATIONS T0 DETER
   MINE THE PARALLAX OF THE FIXED STARS.             BY J. POND,
   Esg., ASTR. ROYAL.
   Of the various attempts to discover the parallax of the <U+FB01>xed
stars, thevobservations of Professor Struve must be re garded
as among the best and most judicious.      [06s. Vol. II. IL]
   His object       by means of an excellent transit instrument
                  is,
furnished with seven wires, to determine the sum of the paral
laxes of several <U+FB01>xed stars, di<U+FB02>‘ering nearly 12 hours in right
ascension from each other.
   The results which he obtains seem to verify a remark which
I have often had occasion to make; that in proportion as any
Improvement takes place either in our instruments or our pro
cesses, the resulting parallax becomes proportionally less.
   Of fourteen sets of opposite stars thus compared, Mr. Struve
<U+FB01>nds seven, which give the parallax negative        this circum .-
stance alone should suggest great caution in attributing to the
 7
                                                                               effects

                                                                                     \
                M.   de   la Place’s Mécham'que      Celeste.                67
 effects of parallax the small positive quantities that are derived
from the remaining seven.        Mr. Struve however is inclined
to assign 0"‘16 of space as the parallax of 8 Ursa: Minoris, and
0"'4-5 for the sum of the parallaxes of a Cygni, and l Ursa:
 Majoris. His learned coadjutor, M. Walbeck, who, it appears,
has undertaken the calculations, is disposed to attribute the
greatest portion of this parallax to the smaller star: a circum—
stance so improbable requires very strong evidence for its
support.                                                            v
    But whatever reasonable doubt we may entertain as to any
one given result * relating to such extremely minute quantities,
yet the mean of the whole must be admitted to deserve very
        con<U+FB01>dence; and it is to this view of the subject (omitted
great
  y  the learned author) that I wish to direct the attention of
astronomers.
    If we take the mean of the fourteen results as relatin ge
nerally to stars from the 1st to the 4th m        itude, it wi 1 ap
pear that the mean sum Of the parallaxes 0 two opposite stars
is equal to 0".036 of space, or the parallax of a single star
equal to 0".Ol8.
   If  any reliance can be placed on these observations, every
attempt to determine the parallax of these stars in declination
must be entirely hopeless; since in this case we can only
measure the shorter axis of the ellipse, and the uncertainty of
refraction must amount at least to twenty times the quantity
we are in search oil—Quart. Journ. of Science, vol. xvi. p. 365.
                                                                         '
                   M. DE LAPLAcE’s GREAT WORK.
   The <U+FB01>fth and last volume of the Méchanique Ce'leste hasmade
its appearance, in which the question of the form of the earth
is discussed in various new points of view: namel —1st, The
 dynamic effect of the presence and distribution 0 the waters
 on the surface of the globe.    2dly, The compressiomto which
the interior beds are subjected.      Sdly, The change of size,
which may result from the progressive cooling of the earth.—
The author has arrived at the following results: That the
  rent mass of the earth is by no means homogeneous; that
the beds situate at the reatest depth are the most dense; that
those beds are disposed regularly round the centre of gravity
of the globe, and that their form di<U+FB01>'ers'little from that of a
 curved surface generated by the revolution of an €llIPSlS ; that
 the density of water is nearly <U+FB01>ve times less than the mean
 density of the earth ; that the presence and distribution of the
  * It should be remembered,'that in a series of observations,    .it
                                                                  generalll‘y
                                                                   than          8
happens that some results will be erroneous by a greater quantity
                                                                             t
mean probable error.
                                    I   2                               waters

68                       Algebraival Notation.
waters on the surface of the earth do not occasion an con
siderable alterations in the law of the diminution of      e de
  rees, and in that of weight; that the theory of any consi
derable displacin    of the poles at the surface of the earth is
inadmissible, an    that   every geological system founded on
such an hypothesis    will  not at all accord with the existing
knowledge    of the  causes   which determine the form of the
earth; that the temperature of the globe has not sensibly di
minished since the days of Hipparchus (above 2000 years
ago), and that the actual loss of heat in that period has not
  reduced a variation, in the length of the day, of the two
liundredth part of a centesimal second.
             TO MATHEMATICAL         CORRESPONDENTS.
     To the Editors   oft/1e Philosophical    Magazine and Journal.
    Since the invention of <U+FB02>uxions, it has generally been cus
tomary amon       the mathematicians of this country to denote
                                         i,by_
the <U+FB02>uxion 0 any quantity, as w,          the symbol     its second
                                                          1",
<U+FB02>uxion by :6, its third <U+FB01>uxion by          &c., as was done by Sir
I. Newton: while those on the continent, following the example
of Leibnitz, have expressed the same by dz, (1%, die, which
they have called the several orders of differentials of the quan
tity .22. Of late years, however, some of our <U+FB01>rst mathema
ticians, from a   conviction of the latter notation being in many
respects superior to the former, have adopted              in their
                                                           it
writings; and from the circumstance of its not havin been
long ago adopted by the mathematicians of Great               ritain,
some of them even attribute to this cause the comparatively
slow progress which the mathematical sciences have made in
this country during the last century, to what they have made
in France and Germany.        Now as the cause of this alleged
superiority has never been satisfactorily explained, so far as             I
can learn, by any English author, except in telling us that                it
cannot be understood by any but those who have attained a
       pro<U+FB01>ciency in the study of the calculus;      should, there
                                                     I
great
 ore, feel much obliged to any of your dw correspondents to
endeavour to furnish something which may throw further             ht li
on this subject. Indeed,       has always appeared to me,
                              it                                   at t
if a preference could be given to either of these arbitrary sym
bols, the Newtonian ought to be chosen, as being more de<U+FB01>
nite in its signi<U+FB01>cation, and less apt to produce confusion in
the mind of a learner, as the other        apt to convey the idea
                                             is
of a product as well as a differential.
                  I    am your most obedient servant,
                                                      .         a1.
                                                                      NEW

Capt. Pany’s Expedition.-- Temperature qftheCarz'bbean Sea. 69
                NEW NORTHERN EXPEDITIONS.
  His Majesty’s discovery ships Hecla and Fury       have   been
recommissioned at Deptford by Captains Parry and Hopp
ner.    The latter of<U+FB01>cer was the <U+FB01>rst lieutenant on board of
Captain Lyon’s ship on the recent voyage.      Such is the con
<U+FB01>dence felt in the intrepidity, judgement, and conduct of the
distinguished of<U+FB01>cer in command of the expedition, and in the
attention paid by the di<U+FB01>'erent naval departments to the com
fort of the men, that no sooner were the ships commissioned,
than one~third of the crew belonging to the Fury on the for
mer           again volunteered for the Hecla, the ship bearing
      voyagearry’s pendant.
Captain                        Captain Lyon at the same time
commissioned His Majesty’s ship Griper, which ship is de
stined for Repulse Bay, whence Captain Lyon proceeds over
land to the back of that Bay, to survey the coast thence to the
“ Cape Turna ain ” of Captain Franklin’s recent discoveries.
 Captain Franlgin proceeds by the way of New York to Fort
 Enterprize, with a view to survey the coast on the American
 Continent to the westward, connecting, if possible, the survey
between Fort Enterprize and Icy Cape.
  TEMPERATURE     or THE CARIBBEAN     SEA AT THE DEPTH or
                          6000 FEET.
    The following is Captain Sabine’s account of an experiment
on this curious subject, as given by him, in a transcript of the
original memorandum written at the time, in a letter to Sir
H. Davy, published in the second part of the Philosophical
Transactions for 1828, p. 207.
    “ H. M. S. Pheasant, on passage between Grand
                                                         Cayman
Island and Cape St. Antonio, in Cuba, lat. 201; N., long. 831;
 W., November 13, 1822.
    “ At 2 RM. hove to, and sounded with 1230 fathoms of
line, being 11 coils of 118 fathoms each, and three fathoms‘
of a 12th coil; at the end of the line was attached a strong
iron cylinder of 75 lbs. weight, inclosing a Six’s self-register
ing thermometer: the top of the cylinder screwed down upon
leather, being designed, by excluding the water from the in
terior, to obviate any e<U+FB02>'ect which might be supposed to
arise from the increased pressure of water at great depths:
the thermometer <U+FB01>tted into spiral sprin s at the top and bot.
tom, which kept it from contact with ot er parts of the cylim.
der, and preserved it from injury, in case the apparatus should
accidentall   strike against the sides of the ship, or against
 rocks at t e bottom: another iron                 of much less
           and          than  the prec ecylinder,
                                               was  attached two
                                           ing,
 strength       weight
 fathoms above the end of the line, an being
                                                    piercedhwith
                                                             oles

   70             Temperature oftbe Caribbean Sea.
   holes in the top and bottom, admitted free access of the water
   to a second thermometer, of similar construction to the <U+FB01>rst.
   The opportunit       was very favourable for the object, the
  weather being      ne, with light airs and but little swell: the
   1280 fathoms run out in rather more than 25 minutes,
  at the expiration of which time the line was fairly on the
  quarter, the ship’s drift having been bodily to leeward, with
  out her having had either head or stem way; there was con
  sequently much less stray line than had been anticipated.
  The best practical judgement which Captain Claverin could
  form on the spot was, that the depth to which the t ermo
  meters had actually attained must have exceeded a thousand
  fathoms, as an allowance of the remaining 230 fathoms for
  stray line would certainl be more than ample, if no bight of
  consequence existed in t e rope, which, from the appearance,
  and from the rapidity with which the weight drew out the
  line, might be judged the case: 280 fathoms would equal a
  dri<U+FB02>: to leeward of gths of a mile in 25 minutes, whereas that
  of the ship did not exceed é- a mile an hour; it is more than
  probable, therefore, that the depth is underrated when it is
  estimated at 1000 fathoms, or 6000 feet. The line was hauled
  in in 53 minutes, and the thermometers came up in good or
  der; the one in the cylinder to which the water had free ac
  cess had re istered 4~5°'5; the attempt to exclude the water
 from the ot er cylinder did not in this instance altogether
  succeed, in consequence of the top not having been screwed
  down suf<U+FB01>ciently close upon the leather; this thermometer
  had registered 49°13 ; the difference of 4° may be attributed,
  perhaps, partly to the latter not having been so long in con
  tact with the cold water as the other thermometer, as the wa
  ter appeared to have had great di<U+FB01>iculty, and was probably
  some time in forcing its way into the interior of the closed
 cylinder; and partly to the heat which so great a thickness
of -metal would retain for a considerable time; the surface
 water was from 82°'5 to 83°‘2 in the course of the afternoon;
the difference of temperature between the surface, and a depth
exceeding 1000 fathoms, was therefore 38°43 by one ther
,mometer, and 37°‘3 by the other, the indication of the latter
.bein    entitled to the most reliance.
     “ t may be reasonably inferred, that one or two hundred
-fathoms more line would have caused the thermometer to have
descended into water at-its maximum of density, as depends
 on .heat, below which, consequently, no further diminution of
 temperature would take place; this inference being on the
 presumption that the greatest density of salt water occurs, as
 is the case in fresh water, at several degrees  above its <U+FB01>‘eez
.ing point.”

                               Daebereinm’s    Eudiameter.                  71 ,‘
                         ntEaEmEa’s EUDIOMETER.‘                      .: .
       “ The   ve      remarkable discovery of Professor Doebereiner.
                        lthe
                        relation of the metallic powder of platinum to a
     concerning
       aseous mixture of hydrogen and oxygen,” observes Prof. Gme-t
      'n, “I found con<U+FB01>rmed in a splendid, but at the same time in a
     dangerous manner.         caused a few cubic inches of hydrogen gas
                               I
\“   to enter into an eudiometer two inches in width, and the glass of
     which was one line in thickness; and then brought the platinum
     powder, wrapped up in white blotting paper, through the quick
     silver, into contact with the gas. then caused oxygen gas to enter.
                                             I
     into the eudiometer, and when but few bubbles had ascended,
     a terrible explosion took place, which shivered the lass into;
     a thousand pieces, which were thrown about to the dlstance of
     ten feet.    It remarkable that neither myself nor Prof. Boh
                        is
     nenberger, who stood by, was in the least injured.           do notI
     consider  it   super<U+FB02>uous to communicate this experiment to
     you, since    itproves that great cautionis required inv attempt-_
     ing   it.  In  Prof.  Dmbereiner’s experiments, no explosion ap-,.
     pears to have taken place.         afterwards made the experiment
                                          I
     with hydrogen and atmospheric air, and found that             consia
     derable diminution of volume followed         but appeared, at .the
                                                       ;     it
     same time, that much of the oxygen remained; for the residue
     still exploded strongly by means of the electric spark and a       ;
     considerable diminution of volume again took place.           It ap-.
     pears, therefore, that this method will not answer the purpose
     of an eudiometer.
       The further results           I   obtained are as follows   :—
        1.  It indifferent whether the hydrogen be <U+FB01>rst brought
              is
          into the vessel, the platinum-powder afterwards, and then
           the atmospheric air; or whether the hydrogen gas and
           the atmospheric air be <U+FB01>rst mixed in the vessel, and the
           platinum-powder then introduced.
        2. Much humidity prevents the absorption.
        3. Silver-dust (obtained from nitrate of silver bycopper)
           and gold-dust (obtained from muriate of gold, precipi
           tated by iron, and puri<U+FB01>ed by hot muriatic acid and
           water) do not produce the least effect, not even with '
           oxygen gas.”
        The above      translated from a letter of Prof. Gmelin to
                          is
     Prof. Schweigger, published in the October number of the
     Nmes Journal fia'r Chemie, &c. of the latter, who makes the
     following remark on Prof. Gmelin’s conclusion as to the in
     applicabilit  of Doebereiner’s discovery to eudiometrical pur
     poses :—“     nder what conditions this may notwithstanding
     be the case, will'be seen in our next, in which will appear an.
     account of the proceedings of the German Explorers of Nature,
                                 '
                                                                             t0

72                   Dabereiner’    s   Eudiomeler.
 to whom, on the 20th of September, Prof. Doebereiner com
 municated his remarks and experiments.”
    From Schweigger’s Journal for November, we accordingly
 extract the followin :-—-                  .
    “At a meeting     of8  the Society of the Explorers of Nature,
held on the 20th of September 1823, Professor Dcebereiner
ful<U+FB01>lled the promise he made at the <U+FB01>rst meeting; viz. to com
municate something more respecting his new and important
discovery, so far as      it   applicable to eudiometry, and to ex-
                               is
hibit by experiments.
     it
 - “ The                 kneaded up with clay into small balls, which
            platinum is
are then brought      to a white heat before the blowpipe. If such
 a ball, suspended by a platinum-wire,          dipped into an open
                                                 is
  lass vessel <U+FB01>lled with hydrogen and oxygen, the ball rapidly
    comes red-hot; during which a cloud of vapour forms itself
around it;  it    then becomes white-hot, and the explosion im
mediately takes place. Such balls answer best for eudiometri
cal experiments made over quicksilver.           The decomposition
would certainl not be completely effected         if
                                                  the platinum-pow
der, moistene by the water which           formed, ceased to remain
                                            is
hot. But how easy         is   in such
                               it       acase to let another ball be
carried throu hthe quicksilver, in case the <U+FB01>rstis not suf<U+FB01>cient   !”
    Nor. XX      II. of the Quarterly Journal of Science contains
the following article on the same subject :—
   “ Professor Doebereiner has su gested the use of <U+FB01>nely divided
platina for the purpose of detectIng minute portions of oxygen
in a gaseous mixture, in which hydrogen also           present. Its
                                                       is
effect is  immediate; the moment the substance rises above the
surface of the mercury in the tube containing the mixture,
the combination of the oxygen and hydrogen begins, and in a
few minutes   is   completed; and, as Professor D. has stated,     it
seems capable of detecting the smallest quantit of oxygen.
Its utility in the analysis of atmospheric air, an compounds
containing oxygen,        is obvious, provided no combination also
takes    lace between the hydrogen in excess, and the nitrogen
(or 0t er gas) that may be present, as does in fact happen, ac
cording to Daebereiner, when protoxide of platinum          isso em
ployed.
    “ Messrs. Daniell and Children mixed 20 measures of atmo
spheric air with 37 measures of hydrogen gas, and passed up
to the mixture   a   small portion of the platina powder, procured
by heating the ammonia muriate to redness, and made into a
ball with precipitated alumina. The pellet was heated red by
the blowpipe, immediately before         itwas used, its size about
that of a small pea.        The absorption amounted to 13 mea
sures = 4.3 oxygen, being 0.1 of a measure more than the
quantity of oxygen in 20 measures of atmospheric air, which
                                                                 may

                     Benzoz'c Acid—Cranberries.                    73
may probably have arisen from a slight impurity in the hy
drogen, or from some minute unperceived bubbles of air en
tangled in the mercury.                                               .
     “ Another mixture of common air and hydrogen, in which
the latter was in considerable excess, was deprived of its oxy
gen by the pellets, and when the absorption was complete, 88
measures of the residual gas were taken, and a fresh pellet,
heated to redness, immediately before it was used, passed up.
After standing about a quarter of an hour, no absorption had
taken place. The tube and the mercury were then placed be
fore the <U+FB01>re, till the whole apparatus was too hot to be touched
with the naked hand. It was then removed from the <U+FB01>re, and,
when cooled to its original temperature, the mixture occupied,
as before, exactly 38 measures.         The powder of platina with
 hydrogen seems, therefore, to be admirably calculated for eudio
 metrical purposes. Its application is extremely simple and
 easy; it is speedy in its effect, and no error need be appre
 hended from the formation of ammonia, even at considerably
 elevated temperatures.        It appears also to be well calculated
 for ascertaining the purity of simple gases, at least as far as
 regards admixture of atmospheric air.         The oxygen of a very
 minute portion of common air, mixed with carbonic acid gas,
 and a little hydrogen, was immediately absorbed, on passing
 up one of the little pellets to the mixture.”
      BENZOIC    ACID IN THE RIPE FRUIT OF THE CLOVE TREE.
      The clove is the <U+FB02>ower bud of the Eugenia cmlz/oplryllatq,
 and the ripe fruit was formerly used in medicine under the
 name of Antoplzyllz'.      In the latter, Mr. W. Bollaert has ob
  served crystals of benzoic acid lining the cavity between the
  shell and the kernel.-Quart. Journ. of Science, vol. xvi. p. 378.
                              CRANBERRIES.
      A  correspondent who has read Mr. Milne’s paper on the
  Cultivation of the English Cranberry, printed in Phil. Mag.
  vol. lxii. p. 382, from the Horticultural Transactions, wishes to
  be informed if the Cranberries which are said to be sold in such
  large quantities in the town of Langtown, in Cumberland, be
  really the fruit of the Oxycoccus palustris, or V(1002'nium Oxycoccus
  of Linnaeus. He suspects otherwise, because he has ascertained
   beyond a doubt, that what are commonly called Cranberries in
   Scotland, are the fruit of the Vaccinium Vitis-z'daea, or Cran
   berry, which is a much more common plant than the ancoccus,
   and is in the opinion of many persons not less worthy of cul~
   tivation.
       Vol. 63. No. 309. Jan. 1824.            K            THUNBERG’S

74‘      Tlumberg‘s    Cabinet qf Entomology—Earthquake.
              THUNDERG’S     CABINET OF ENTOMOLOGY.
     Professor Thunberg, of Upsal, has proposed to sell his large
and valuable collection of Insects.       It includes every class and
order, and is in very good condition.           It is one of the most
extensive, containing at least between 25 and 80,000 speci
mens: it commenced 60 years ago, and has been continued till
the present time; the names of the subjects, and notes on
them, are a<U+FB02>ixed.          They are preserved in 84 cases, which
contain neat boxes or drawers covered with glass, and having
cork at the bottom.         Of each species there are in many cases
two or more specimens.          The class of butter<U+FB02>ies is unusually
complete,     handsome,    and  enriched with specimens and species
the largest and most rare. The new and as yet undescribed
species are many.         There are specimens of some which are
 not in an other collection; the collection is rich in those from
 Japan,      ava, Ceylon, the Cape of Good Hope, and South
 America.
     This formation has cost the proprietor 10,000 rix dollars,
 Hamburgh currency, for collections purchased, exclusive of
those which he has collected himself.         For the whole the pro
prietor expects 20001. sterling.
                              EARTHQUAKE.
                                                  Ceylon, Feb. 15, 1823.
     On Sunday      last, about three minutes after one RM. (mean
 time), two distinct though sli ht shocks of earthquake were
 felt at Colombo, following eaci other in the course of half a
  minute. _No damage has been sustained either here or in the
  several other places in the island where it was also felt.        We
  have accounts of the occurrence from Kandy and different
  places in its neighbourhood, Ratnapora, Matura, Hamban
  totte, and Negombo.         The phzenomena, as described, seem
 to have been nearly the same every where, and were accom
  panied by a rumbling noise as of heavy ordnance moving
  along the ground.       It appeared to move in a direction from
.the north-west to south-east.         Though our correspondents
  have          us the times at which they observed the occurrence
  at di given
         'erent places, yet as they have not always distinguished
  whether the time was solar or mean time, and as the accuracy
  of watches at out-stations is not always to be relied on, we
  do not think the data in this respect are given with suf<U+FB01>cient
  accuracy to be useful. The sky was clear, but no greater
  heat, or other difference of temperature observed from what
  is usual at this period of the year.
                                                                    new

                                                        [    75           ]
                                    LIST OF NEW PATENTS
   To Thomas Greenwood, of Gildersoun, near Leeds, machine-maker,
and Joseph Thackrah, surgical mechanist, of Leeds, both in the county
of York, for their improvements on or substitutes for pattens and clogs.
—Dated 27th of December 1823.—2 months allowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>
cation.
   To John Vallance, of Brighton, Sussex, esq., for his improved method
or methods of freezing water.—lst January 1824.—-6 months.
   To Francis Devercux, of Cheapside, London, merchant, for certain im
provements on the mill or machine for grinding wheat and other articles,
commonly known by the name of the French Military Mill.—8th January.
—6 months.
   To Joseph Foot, of Charles-street, Spital<U+FB01>elds, Middlesex, silk manu
facturer, for his improved nmbrella.—l5th January.--6 months.
   To John White, of the New Road, in the parish of St. Mary-le-bone,
Middlesex, architect, for his <U+FB02>oating breakwater.—l5th January—2 mon.
   To John Finlayson, of Muirkirk, Ayrshire, farmer, for certain improve
ments on ploughs and harrows.—]5th January.-—6 months.
   T 0 Jean le Grand, of Lemon-street, Goodman’s Fields, Middlcsex, vine
gar manufacturer, who, in consequence of a communication made to him by
a certain foreigner residing abroad and discoveries by himself, is in posses
sion of certain improvements in fermented liquors and the various pro
ducts to be obtained therefrom, and that the same are new in this kingdom
 15th January.—6 months.                               >
   To \Villiam Gutteridge, of Dean-street, St. Fin Barrs, county of Cork,
musician and land-surveyor, for certain improvements on the clarionet.—
19th January—2 months.
   To George Pollard, of Rupert-street, in the parish of St. James, Middle
scx, brass-founder, for certain improvements on machines or machinery for
levigating or grinding colours used in the various branches of painting,
which machinery may be worked by any suitable power add is applicable
to other useful purposes.—19th January—2 months.
   To James Russell, of Wedncsbnry, Stalfordshire, gas-tube manufactiu‘cr,
for his im rovement in the manufacture of tubes for gas and other pur
poscs.—l th Januar .—2 months.
   To Simeon Broa meadow, of Abergavenny, Monmouthshire, civil en
gineer, for his im roved method of manufacturing and purifying in<U+FB02>amma
ble gases by the    mission and admixture of atmospheric air.—19th January.
—4 months.
   To Howard Fletcher, of Walsall, Sta<U+FB01>‘ordshire, saddler’s ironmonger,
for certain improvements in tanning hides and other skins.—-19th January.
—2 months.
                                                            —-.-—
        Meteorological                             at Great
                                        Observations                                          Yarmoutlz,        by
                                        C. G. HARLEY, Esq.
                                 [Continued from vol. lxii. p. 238.]
           D‘YS-
                        '
                                               .       Winds~
                                                                          Thermom.  an“.
ms.                         E. SETS.               sw. w. NW. N. NE.\Low. HighMedJn.                                   1}.
                                                                              -                                        --
         Dry.   Wet.
Sept.      20      10       --                                         54   70   62    —
                                                                                                                 3 2
                                                                    2 4
                                                                              1
                                                                                    1 3 3 5
                                         4                   6
                                                   7 9
                                 l
Oct.                                                                                          47   64      53
                            --
           18      18                    10
                                  3 2
                            6
                                                   ll
                                                            l
Nov.       18      12                                                                         4O   54      48
                                                             6 5              1 4
                                                                                                                l
                                         6 2
                            l                                      l
Dec.       16      15                              1‘2              5                         37   52      43    2      2
                                                            K   2                                   Svsnmalss

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            76
                                        w<U+FB02><U+FB01>~<EEDw            m0      A<O~UOAO-OHHH2                                mZOFr<>GHmmo                                20h           HEP           Bm<n~ WE<H>W
                                                                             132208                       22          a:       .5   a    2:
           333%         \m         c                                                         E      Beg          £332               5          .3:         .Z       .-       \mc       QASQEGw                         5       St            .Eorw                 $me
                                       NEHQQSSNE             .SENMNMN         ii
                                                                                  \wN        521.              “20.5595                      $me
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZlIeteorological
             .mm<U+FB01>                                  £33525                                                 .EEEcESFr                                                              £25»                                       .5553                                  dim
                                                                                                                                                                                                _
                                                                                             we                                          .                                                       .              .                    a      .         .      3:533
                                                                      @856 .te .3                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                    ...
                                                                      aliases.                                 .m W                                                                              amnzmwum    W
                                               news                    .352:                                               5va                                                                  .v  H        W                             H    m
            .3252            J22        .52                                                         M
                                                                                                                                               <U+FB02>N              <U+FB01>n                                                                                                 .355
                                                        dun-am                          .                                                            N”             n we                                                   mm
                                                                                                                                    a.”sun.“
                                                                         68                                                                                                                                                                                          6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Register
                                                                                  D_                                                                 __        I||l|l|l|ll
                                                                                    IN
            65..             ._.__.cm mn.wm .3553           mm;         coé              :          we          m   vwww; <U+FB01>n                              ml                          O    o                   m      m        a           _         m             cmb     jbr
                                                                                                                                       m         nn n 0mOo                                       _. O                                               .2             A55
             .nwh            mica     wn.mm 3:66            Pom        ~Q.~._            m~         .2,        mm nmbk<U+FB02>w                                                                                                      :
                                                                                                                                                                                 _mo  rb   Q w                                 v                                    wk;
             c952            Gm mo ifwm     witmw           m.:.@      00.»:             m;         b0         mm mcmé<U+FB01>   .2."                   0. N. m _ m 2
                             bnton    nm.wm snmAww          db;         m.¢.b            0-         Né         on mmCéA. mw                                                      m         ¢                                                                       O d.»
             __..:_<                                                                                                                                                                    w w m                                      a. 0.
                             cm rw    astmm nmm.mw          0.6.;       wnb                         E.         an m:in    mm                                                                                                                                       ¢m$
                                                                                                                                                    ¢nm
                                                                                                                                                                                                          r_ w<U+FB02>cOCPQm w
             55?.                                                                        :
             05:.            on .2, mmém cam-mm             n mm        0 mm                 m      or         we ©_m.dn mm
                                                                                                                                                          " Q w. m                    2                                        r             0 O 3 S 0O 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :.m
                                                                        .Q
                                                                                                                                                 a 3“ “w..¢ _ 0 _                     n w
                                                                                                                                                                                      m:                                      ©~                                   40%.
             ~25“.           Omén     onlmm mm :P           Omé           me                        0b         mud <U+FB01>rth?“ Om
             ism-‘4          PTOG     m7mm cmme             mad         6    m:
                                                                                         :5         :-          g ma<U+FB01>a.“ rm                      ~         _    -_                    Q P r
                                                                                                                                                                                           nP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ON                                   @611
                                                                                                                                                                     H m                                                      c~                                   N55“
             Jaww            mien     ncbm  mwmkwu          an;         WTQ              2          ww         On mZMén on                        ua _
                                                                                                                                                                                                 r__nc~mC
                                                                 w                       ,2                               Wm                                                               m                                  m_                                   eduw
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0nw 0_ QrQ m¢:
             500             mmbn     mgwu mm wa            Tm          =06                         an         .ww :de.                         00QC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           < c _ _O _ ~ p O O O
                                                                                                               0                                                                           n                                   Q                   ::
                                                                                                                                                                             - O n :n P Q
             .>QZ            wwbw       romm mwobm          ~w.~        wTw              0-         mm            0212‘             mm          m P nO                           .w                                                                                Ava-w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                        w O m m w m Q m. - _ _ c
                                                                                                                                                w m 0. 0                                   m     m O
             .uvD.           m¢.0n      ow.wm ¢_n.mm        mm;        92:               m;         :1         m5 3:5?“             mm                                       0- m-                                            A:                                   mum
            _~::=<
                                                                                                                m                                                                                                                          a.     a»
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1823.—-N. R. Yorkshire.
                             $3         3.5    $2..“        Ra         2.2              a:          E.                  63.?         we        5          9,. S.    S 2 E                  an   2 3          an an 3.                                             3.2
            ,282                                                                                                                                                                           t
              .03
AN N UAL
                                       w
               A       ii“              i     \r       45                    ll     jl,i|l|v                    lllld                                ll         i            I         l          ill-fl                            l

      Meteorological Registm'    for 1823.--N. R. Yorkshire.        77
                          "ANNUAL RESULTS.
                               Barometer.                    Inches.
Highest    observation,    Nov.  10th.    Wind N.E.            30'880
Lowest observation, Oct. 11th.            Wind S.E.            28'350
Range    of the mercury                       ...               2'530
Mean annual barometrical pressure                              29'732
Greatest range of the mercury in October                        2'180
Least range of the mercury in July                               '900
lVIean annual range of the mercury                              1'597
Spaces described by the mercury                             I  93180
Total number of changes in the year                         l54<'000
                          Slx’s Thermometer.
Greatest observation, May 7th.          Wind var.              77'000
Least observation,         Jan. 18th. Wind N.W.                 9-000
Range of the mercury in the thermometer                        68'000
Mean annual temperature                  ...                   46-282
Greatest ranoe in May                                          38-000
Least range in February                                        22'000
Mean annual range '                                            29'918
                                 W'inds.
 North and East                    ...                         51-000
North-East and South-East                                      79'000
 South and West                                                98'000
 South-West and North-West                                    112'000
 Variable                ...                                   25'000
                                  Rain.
 Greatest quantity in February           . .. . .. . . .        7'040
 Least quantity in April                                        0940
 Total amount for the year                                     42'400
                                REMARKS.
    Pressure—The mean annual barometrical pressure (not
 withstanding the extraordinary wetness of the period) is greater
 than for many years past.                               7
     Tempm'ature.—The mean annual temperature fully con<U+FB01>rms
 what has been before advanced, that wet summers are gene
 rally cold. The whole of the monthly means, with the excep
 tion of May and December, are unusually low; indeed, the
 actual de<U+FB01>ciency as to the annual amount exceeds 2% degrees.
      Winds.—These nearly agree with their respective numbers
 in 1822; and, what is more strikingly remarkable, those of the
 S.W. exactly correspond.
    Rain.-~As to rain and snow, the amount is nearly unpre
 cedented; and for the three last years it has been rapidly in
 creasmg.
    New Malton, 'Jan. 3, 1824.
                                                           Summary,

 Sumnuuyu<U+FB01>n the Year 1823, of the Quantity of Rain, State of
   the Barometer, 11ml Thermometer, ‘51. kept in Kendal by
   lVIr. SAMUEL MAusIIALL.
                                                                          u
                               \
                       :o:':8 a-5s
                                 '56:; :0 s5
                                            :..
                                                       a
                                                              c
                                                                        slsgsclz-a.
                                                                        ..'
                                                                                 a:
                                                                                       .:
                                                                                             >,._
                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                               “6-:
                                                                               as
                      IE                                                       a
         .m.          .255             s55                                                              SQ
                  sag ice                              gag gag                 gs;                      5.?
                                      =1
                                            2E's-E
                                                           s        s         E    s        a535        2:      5'25
                                                                                                               as
               f
                                                                         l I       0
       January-       29-90        29-2o| 29-51            45      I?         {3l'38        299ml        8     1-547
       February       29-91        28-88'29'18          51         26                       5-5I6J      14     7284
                                                                           [35-4
       March          30-00         7-70 29-35          52         22      I39‘5            3-053       In     9016
       Apnl                                             56         26     l4i-5I            3228
                   |29'98 28-9BIQ9-55                                                                   17     2-344
       May        .3026 29-15'29-67                     71         31     151-63            7043        [8     2-277
       June         30-15 29-17 29'72                   71         35                       3-414       12     1584
                                                                          i5-Z-8
       July           30-02        29-28    29-58      68-5        39     '55-4             7-858       14     8'340
       A“th       Y
                      I19-97 29% 29-61                  69         37          54-79        7750        27     4-297
       Septemb.       30-13 28-98 29-71                 68         30          52-4         5-742       [7     2—869
       0mm            30-26 28-6-2 29-52                60         30          44-8         6-218       18     8-487
       Novemb.                                                          4265                                  10876
                      30'43i‘29'00 ‘29'89               54        23-5                      3-403       13
       Decelnb.                             29—45       50                                  6'624       22     3-805
                      30'20'28-61                                 18'5l38-35
               '
                                        I                                                   2-749 i198        62-726
                  l        l            r         I                     a l             l6          I
   The town of Kendal, where these observations were made,
has long been a oint of interest to meteorologists. It
                                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                      si
tuated nearly at    south extremity of the mountainous di
                           t        e
strict of Westmorland and Cumberland, in the west side of
a valley bounded by two chains ofhills running from north
 east to south-west.    ts height above the high-water mark
                                           1                                                                           is
 about 42 yards, calculating from the canal which runs be
 tween this town and Lancaster.
    The prevalent winds in this valley are the north-east and
south-west.    The latter    the most prevalent.  isThe former,
which maybe styled the vernal east wind, prevails here, in
common with other parts of the north of England, in the
month of April to the 7th or 8th of May, and sometimes much
longer.    Not much dependence, however, can be placed on
observations for meteorological purposes, made on the direc
tions of the winds, from the local situation of Kendal, as they
will be governed, or at least materially a<U+FB01>‘ected, by the direc
tion of the hills which bound the valle . For the last seven
months the winds have been remarkab         stationary, their di                   y
rection having been, with very little variation, south-west or
veering from south to west.
   The summer and autumnal months have been marked by
an unusually low temperature, and by frequent rains.  More
than the average quantity of rain has fallen durin     that
period, viz. <U+FB01>‘om the beginnin of June to the end of ovem
her.     The total quantity in his and   the last year has ex
ceeded     the average,  which, calculating from observations
made     in \Kendal for 16 successive years, may be stated at
49'86 inches.
  Kendal,     20th lst month 1824.                                                                           METEORO—

              Meteorological Registerjbr '1823.--Scotland.                                                                         '79
                             METEOROLOGICAL TABLE.
Extracted from the Register kept at Kinfauns Castle, N. Bri
 tain.  Lat. 56° 23’ 30".—-Above the level of the Sea 129 feet.
                     Morning,            Evening,             Mean            Depth
                   10 o'clock.          lOo‘clock.           Tempr.             of             N“ of Days.
                                                       ojl
                  Mean height     of   Meanheight            by Six’s    Rain.
                                                                        '——-                      Fir-—
                                                                                               u-l H
                                                                                                   o o                       .5:
      1823.       Barom. Ther. Barom. Ther.                    Ther.    Tlnch.           100d.3                    (5        5.5
  January     .
              .29'704 34‘387 29-701 33-581 83.935                             3'50                        16                 15
  February.   .29.295 35'393 29294 88464   34357                              3'50                        l4                 14
  March. . .                 29677 58655 40-350                               1-30                        12                 19
        .....
              .
               29-585140'613
  April        29-787 44'880 29'745 41.600 43-500                             1'00                            8              22
  May   .....  29-704 52’900 29-750 482% 51-710                               2'20                        14                 17
  June... .- 29-74] 55'330 29-725 49-700 53-533                               1'00                        ll                 19
  July ......  29-565 57'090 29'545 52'900 568%                               6-85                        24                     7
  August . . . 29-720 56'680 29-640 52'807 55-480                             8'50                        20                 ll
  September. 29-729 54'383 29-704 49'930 53-100                               1'65                        14                 IS
  October. . . 29'570 46'420 29670 44650 45870                                3-55                        10                 21
  November. 29-902 46'300 29-886 45'760 46-835                                145                             8              22
  December . 29'415 39'l93 29'403 37-580 38'58l                               4'45                            18             13
  Avera  e of                                                  4609!;     33 45
              29'639 46-955            29-628     44-026                                          169                       196
   the ygarl
                                   ANNUAL RESULTS
                                              MORNING.
            Barometer.                                              Thermometer.
    Observations.      Wind.                                           Wind.
  Highest, 10thNoV. W.                 30-53          11th August, SW.                     .              .            .    63°
  Lowest, 80th Dec. W.                 2840            5th February. NW.                                  .            .    26°
                            EVENING.
  Highest, 10th Nov. SE. 30-58    11th August, SW. .                                                      .    .            64°
  Lowest, 29th Dec.   W. 28'43     5th February, NW.                                                  .                .    17°
     Weather.                          Days.               Wmd.                                                            Times,
  Fair . . .        .    .    .    .    169           N.andNE.            .    .          .       .           .                  4
  Rain or Snow       .   .   .    .      196          E. and SE.          .      .       .        .            .            122
                                       -——-           S.   and SW.        .          .     .          .            .         59
                                          865     |   W.andNW..                      .    .           .            .        180
                                                  l
                                                                                                                            365
            Extreme Cold and Heat, by Six’s Themiometer.
       Coldest, 6th February      . Wind  .  SE.
                                              .    .  .  .                                                    14°
       Hottest, 12th   80th June
                         &       .  Wind     E.      . .                 .                                    63°
       Mean Temperature for 1823    .                                                                                      1 I
                                              .  ...       .    .                    .        .               46°
                    Resum‘ or Two RAIN GAUGES.                   In. 100
Centre of the Kiufauns Garden, about 90 feet above the
                                                                  3345
     oftheSea     .  . .  .  .   .   . . .     .   .   . '.level}
                                                                .                             .
Kinfaum Castle, 129 feet       .   .  .    . .   ..  .. .         26-81                  .     .
                                                                                              A METEORO

                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+FB02>fr.        CARY    in     London,        and   Air.    VEALL        at Boston.
                                                                                                                                      of     Dr.            BURNEY     at     Gusporl,
       A    METEOROLOGICAL                                 TABLE:            comprising          the Observation:
                                                                                                                                                                                Thermometer.                     RA“,
                                                                                                                          CLOUD,”                     l        Height of                                                                         erlmlz.
                   Gcsroar,atl1alf-past                     Eight       o’Clock,A.M.                                                                                            -—-——~'—                                       _
                                                                                                                                                            Barometer, in
                                                      _                            ‘                                 -                                                          LON1)o.\'.‘_.                .           _
                                             _        *5                               1              .     _             .1            _   ‘-                Inches,&c.        —
         Days of                       Ep        '                                                                                                    d=           _                                                                __,__7_“               N    M__-h
                                                                            g'                  5%                                                                                      _§=_
          Month,                       :73.            is                               g.                gE               agglé                                                                                         gg
           1822
                                                                                                                 Eg                                   ""    Lend/1130a      '   éI           §<          g '2 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    London.                Boston.
                                       a};            r                      w                  .-                 a I"                                                                                                  ,2,
                                            Q                 o
                                                                  5a Ea m
                                                                                                                                                            1M“
                                                                                       5'; m
        and 1824.                                                                                                                                                    18%.“.
                                                 gag
                                       as                                                       2%         Lila                      56?                                                    El
                                                      2221                                                                                                                                                                    Fair               Fine
                                                                                                                                                                                 45147147 40              0-50
        Dec.        26                           44               92         SE,                0-175                              “11-11129-7812963                                                                                             11.1.‘
                                       29-81              501                                                 11     1‘ 1 1|                                                              41                              07 Fair
                    17                 29-24     43               81        SW.                   020                               _   1___ 11-29-24 :29-                       43147:“)
                                                                                                                                                       '19'27                             37      l                       '03 Cloudy             Finelswrmw<U+FB01>gbl
                    28                                            82        SW.         000          410......1      1 1                      172940                             3914751                                                         Fine
                                       2949      45                                                                                                                                       38'5‘                           ~05 Fair                        LWitlllight
                                                                                                                             1..     ..
                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                              112923   28-96                     4247\40
                    29                 29 22     42               73        sw.                      140.                                                                                                                     Fair               Fine [nlngundrain
                                                                                                                                                        '28'80                   41‘46l43    42‘5             ...,
                                                                            SW.                      050i 1".                l__        1m    112918                                                                          r111
                    30                 2918      45               '74                                                                                                                                                                            Fine, rain at night
                                                                                                                                        1___ 1129-59 l29~20                      3947!.12    38-5                    l
                                                 42               74        NW             09        420 1...                 1,,,
                    31                 2948                                                                                                                                                  44                           ‘18 Fair                Fine,     stormy   night
                                                                  86         W.                      010      1               1‘,"       1_,_ 12931     29-05                    4449!“
        Jan    0                       29-35     48       50%                                                                                                                                                                       Stormy       Cloudy
                                                                                                                     111.                         1...29'53                      4647140     45
                                       29-47     45       .        65       NW                  ......                                                               12902                                                          F111         Fine
                                                                                                              11 1                                                               394305.325                  0-45
                                                 41               63        NW             17   ......                   1.11...         1...8°‘29130-                                                                              Fair
                                       30—15                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cloudy
                                                                                                  020                                            .
                                                                                                                                                 130-61               30-35      30381371390
                                       3047‘     3                69         N                                                                                                                                                      Cloudy        Cloudy
                                                                             N                                “all                                 3°43               30:23      3742402390
                                       30-45     35               74                                                                                                                                                                Cloudy        Fine, rain (1.111.
                                       30-23     34               72        l                   .....     .
                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                            l                                          ,_ 30-47       30-10      354237l35-0
                                                                                                                                                                                            31-0                                    Cloudy        Fine
                                                                                                ......        1...                                     .. 3037        3020       324137
                                       3930      34               72        W.            -08                                                                                                                                       Fair
                                                                                                                           ll11                                                             30                                                    1115.,
                                                                            N.                  ......                                                 “so-3313020               334035
                                       30-28     31       49%     73                                       l1...                                                                                                                    Cloudy        Cloudy
        1)                                                                  SW.                                                                              30-22130            40461421405
                     1 2 a 45 6 78 9
                                       30-21     42               77                               -0~25;......'                                                                                             0‘00          '10      Cloudy        Cloudy,      rainlmn.
                                                                            3“                            .-..                                   ..          30'141‘29'90        42.15213 46
                     10                30'14     44               78                       04     '240                                                                                                                              1111.         F1...
                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                              1                                                                  4044‘35’33'5
                     11                          39               74         N.                  ......                           ...........80-31130-1s                                                                                          Fine
                                       3020                                                                                                                                                                                         Cloudy
                                                                            NW.                  ......  1...                                       30-49            $1030       303713030
                     12                304?      29               78                                                                                                                                                                Cloudy        Fine
                                                                                                ......        1...                                  30-50            130-33      2632123 28
                                       3945      20               70        NW.           -10                                                                                                                                                     Fine
                    13                                                                                                                                                                           31                                 Cloudy
                                                                                                  020         1...l1‘......                           18021113020                2631130
                    14                 30-30     26               78        NW                                                                                                                                                 '7
                                                                                                                                                 1 1                                       31                                       Cloudy        Cloudy.511°\vr-1n
                                                                             N.                   010                    .
                                                                                                                       1...                           1306513925                 3437130
                    15                 3023      36               82                                                                                                                                                                Fair          Fine
                                                                                                                         .                              30-60|30-45              3436!32   32
       Q            16                           32                          N                   ......                                                                                                                                           Fine
                                       30153              49170                                                                         1                                                                    005                    11111
                                                                                                 ......                  .   1...                 1... 30'52    30-30            283531275
                     17                30-52     26                71        N                                                                                                                                                      Fair          Cloudy
                                                                             N                   ......
                                                                                                              11 1
                                                                                                                         .   1..                 1    13040     30-25            354132    33-0
                     18‘               30140     36                74                                                                                                                                                               Cloudy        Fine
                                                                                                 ......     l      l         1..                        30-23   30-10            374442      37-0
                                                 41                76       NW.            10
                    19                 30-24                                                                                                            3011                                 36                                     Cloudy        Cloudy
                                                                            NW.                  ......                      1..                                2997             394342
                    20                 30-12     59                91                                                                                                                                                                             Fine    [vyra-iann.
                                                                                                                             1..                 .         129-62     2955       424642      36-5                              Cloudy
                                                                   80       sw.                      350......
                    21                 29-71     42                                                                                                                                                                        '39 Cloudy             Finwnina-m-hea
                                                                            NE.           ~04        170......               1.                            129'18     29-15      4214 ‘48 37
              >     22                 29-28     42                93                                                                                                                                                      '03 Fair               Fmerainr-m
                                                                                                                             11.        ..                 128-82     28-60      4348141  41-5
                                       28-94     46                77        W.                      030      1‘...                                                                                                                               Finelmi"   “night
        <1           23                                                                                                                                                                   35                 0'05          ‘05 Fair
                                                                            NW.                      -005 ll...              1‘...       1...              12985      29-50      3845‘47
                     24     29-70                38                75                                                                                                                                                          Fair               Cloudy
                                                                            sw.           -04   -010...!...                  1..                           130104     29-65      47,54l50 47-5
if"!                 25     29-97      48    491                   84
       _.         _’___n.nrr-.-lnn...aKnvA<U+FB02>l<U+FB02>H'I                                        [1.79.219             \
                                                                                                            831                         am!                  in.”     29:15        Vlgl                      1.05        0.97

                                  THE
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                   AND JOURNAL.
                    29‘“ FEBR UAR Y           1824.
XV.     Remarks on the Position of the Upper Marine Formation
    exhibited in the        s on the North-east Coast
                                                       of Norfolk.
    By BIr. RICHARD        AYLOR of Norwirh.
     To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
THE        accompanying sketch (Plate I.) represents the section
      of about a quarter of a mile of the cli<U+FB02>‘immediately to the
west of Cromer Jetty, at a point which attracts the notice of
the geological observer to the singular contortiOns of the di
luvial beds; and is further remarkable by the singular posiA
tion and expansion of the crag strata.
    In pursuing the line of cli<U+FB02>'s from their Commencement at
Weyburn Hope, a thin bed of ferruginous gravel and clay
may be traced, almost uninterruptedly, along the coast, for
about seven miles, to this spot.     This bed seldom exCeeds <U+FB01>ve
feet in thickness, and for the most part is visible immediately
overlying the upper chalk series, which rises to the surface
about three miles west ofCromer.         An apparent continuation
of the same bed may be traced from hence southward, about
<U+FB01>fteen miles; appearing in general, just above the high-water
mark, sometimes laminated and often contorted or waving,
and varying at every hundred yards its component qualities,
through every modi<U+FB01>cation and combination ol'ferruginous and
ochreous sand, gravel, clay, peat" and loam, with more or less       ~
of compressed wood; stumps of trees rooted into the stratum;
ochreous nodules and nuclei; shelly and bony fragments;
teeth, tusks and horns of elephants and deer; in all which
properties it preserves a certain general and remarkable cha
racter by which it can be identi<U+FB01>ed throughout an exten
sive line of the eastern coast, occupying the position
assigned to the crag or upper marine formation, and whic
                                                            usually
I have previously noticed in the article in volumelx, August
 1 822.
   * In one of these peat beds Iobserved a numerous colony of recent
 and living pholades.                                              <
    Vol.  63.  N0. 310. Feb. 1824.            L                 The

82                 Mr. R. Taylor     on Cromer 0197..
    The opinion there entertained that this osseous stratum is
an extension of the Harwich bed, containing similar remains,
has been very recently con<U+FB01>rmed by the knowledge that large
bones have been collected at Ormesby in Norfolk, and Corton
in Suffolk; elephants’ teeth near Southwold ; and recently
elephants’ teeth are stated to have been raised by the <U+FB01>sher
men in their nets off Yarmouth.            It was to be expected in
the low ground, between Caister and Gorleston, Originally co
vered by the sea, that this stratum, although continuous, was
situated considerably below the low-water mark.             The same
observation applies in              Winterton, northward, towards
Happisbur h; along which  passingine this stratum is in general only
to be trace by its debris thrown upon the beach.
    Besides the bones which are above noticed and those formerly
mentioned in Phil.           vol. 1x. p. 82, a small tusk has been re
cently taken out of theMag.erruginous stratum near Happisburgh.
I  have also in m possession many mineralized bones, which
at different times have been entangled in the nets of the <U+FB01>sher
men, at a considerable distance at sea, opposite the Norfolk
cliffs, towards Happisburgh; affording an additional proof of
the great space over which this osseous deposit has extended.
Of these animal remains no arrangement or scienti<U+FB01>c exami
nation has at present been attempted; nor can          I here venture
to describe them but in general terms. They appear to be re
ferable, chie<U+FB02>y, to species of the elephant, the ox, and the elk;
consisting of
    Two vertebra, about six inches in diameter.
    Fragment of a tusk which, if entire, would have measured
       six inches diameter.
    Twelve teeth, or fragments of teeth, of elephants.
    One fragment—probably the superior part of the femur of
       the elephant, the greatest width being eight inches.
    Several portions of bone, detached fragments of the larger
       bones, perhaps, of elephants.
    One horn, eleven or twelve inches long, and about ten
       inches in its greatest circumference; probably of an ani
       mal of the ox kind,——but     I  am not able to determine.
    The n er portion of the skull apparentl of the large fossil
       elk, t e “ cerfa‘ bois gigantesque” of       Cuvier ; width of
       the front six inches; circumference of the beam of the
       horn about nine inches.
    A part of the horn of a similar animal, the brow-antler
       broken off; measures eight inches and a half.
    Part of the forehead and commencement of the horns of a
       smaller species of elk.—In fOur specimens of this portion
                                                                    of

                       Mr. R. Taylor  on Cromer                     83
           of the skull of the stag or elk, a material difference in
           their size and proportions is observable.
        One or two small portions of the leg-bones of the elk or
           sta   .
        To   regturn to the more immediate subject of this communi
     cation.     Near the base of the cli<U+FB02>‘, represented in the Plate,
    indurated beds of crag sand, with abundance of its peculiar
  V fossil shells, here consisting chie<U+FB02>y of small Mactrd arcuata,
    Cardia, Mya lata, Turbo littorms, and fragments of Balam',
    are exposed at low water upon the beach.            _
       It is remarkable that at this spot the cr suddenly enlarges,
    from a small bed a foot and half in thic ness, to a series of
   beds occupying almost the entire cli<U+FB02>' more than a hundred
    and twenty feet high, and about two hundred yards wide;
    <U+FB01>llin up a sort of gap in the accumulated deposits of the di
    luviaf clay formation.
       There is a <U+FB01>irther peculiarity: whilst the thin strati<U+FB01>ed
   crag, which appears at low water at the base of the cliff, con
   tains chie<U+FB02>y perfect or unbroken shells, the whole of these ex
   tended superior beds contain comminuted fragments only; a
   fact which, in conjunction with other circumstances, leads at
   once to the conclusion that a great disruption of the regular
   strata, through the powerful agency of currents of water, has
   taken place since the deposition and consolidation of the chalk.
   Numerous instances corroborative of such an opinion may be
   observed within the space of a few miles; some of these may
   perhaps be particularized in a future article.
       The crag shells are here dispersed, in fragments, through
   out a series of horizontal beds, alternating with gravel and
   whitish sand, and occasionally with thin seams of loose peat.
       The dry and loose nature of these, like all the other crag
   sands wherever noticed, subjects them to the continual opera
   tion of slipping down the cliff and formin heaps at its base.
       The position of the formations boun ing this unusual ac
  cumulation of crag, is best understood by a reference to the
   p late.
       Here some singular curvatures, inversions and contortions
,  of the strata present themselves; but are with dif<U+FB01>culty repre
   sented on a scale so limited.       Detached masses, lumps and
   veins of chalk; contortions and tortuous veins of blue clay,
   gravel and sand, arran e themselves in a variety of forms;
   passing throu h the thick formations of consolidated mud of
   which the cli s are chie<U+FB02> composed along nearly 25 miles            ,
   of the Norfolk coast. Tlhis mud is divided into two beds,
   chie<U+FB02>y distinguished by the di<U+FB01>'erence in their colour and
   density.
                                          L  2                     At

 84                  _Mr.  R. Taylor   on Cromrr Cli<U+FB02>'s.
     At the  base lies the bed     of ferruginous, peaty and laminated
 clay, before      adverted    to; here, as in frequent instances, dis
 posed    in an    irregularly waving or serrated line. Above this
 is heaped a mass of dark blue mud or clay varying from ten
 to near a hundred feet thick; frequently containing small
 chalky concretions, and sometimes pyrites and rounded fra -
 ments of the older rocks, but possessing no peculiar organic
 remains; none, indeed, save a few solitary pieces of belemnites
 or gryphea, and the shells contained within the bouldered
 fragments of indurated clay.           Over the blue clay is the brown
 mud or clay, less compact than the former, full of springs, and
 remarkable throughout its course for the contortions which it
 exhibits.     This also, for the most part, is barren of organic
 deposits, except a few diluvial waterworn fragments: at the
 spot we are describing, we have to notice a remarkable de
 parture from this character.            A lar e portion of the brown
 mud, occupying the space between               e great contortion at A
 and the crag sand at B, contains comminuted cra shells di
 spersed throulrh the mass.            These, and the detaclhed masses
of chalk in the position shown in the sketch, a<U+FB01>'ord further
proofs of the local disruption and partial dispersion of por
tions of the preceding older deposits.
     I am acquainted with no corresponding instance of the
 dispersion of crag shells through the adjoining clay beds in
 the pro ress of this stratum through the interior of the county
 of Norfglk.
     Since the sketch was placed in the en raver’s hands, a
 more attentive examination has convince               me that broken
 portions    of  crag     shells are  abundantly interspersed throu h
 the mass of the clay formation, particularly of the upper begs,
for a mile or two of the cliffs on each side of Cromer.             These
fragments are so small, although abundant, that it is not sur
prising that they were so often overlooked before.
    Traces of the crag formation are plentifully exhibited, at that
part of the cliffs upon which Foulness light-house is situated.
 Here the diluvial cla or mud formation attains its greatest
elevation during the whole of its course along this coast.            The
 section of the exposed clay beds was measured by the writer,
and found to be 270 feet of perpendicular height; above which
are horizontal deposits of gravel and sand, 40 to 50 feet more.
The whole of this accumulation of 270 feet contains com
minuted cr.        shells intermixed with small chalky fra        ents".
    The sad? beds at Foulness light-house are pro ably 150
      Messrs. Conybeare and Phillips consider 30 feet as the thickness of
   _*
this stratum
              at llarwich and Walton Naze; and this, perhaps, is more than
an average thickness.
                                                                       feet

                                                      i ___-‘____~_-;-¥'.
               4W“
                           '
                  Mr. R. Taylor   on Cromer czgjs.             85
feet  thick; but I have not detected therein any traces of crag
fossils, although they abound in the clay, in an extensive gap
of which these horizontal beds are deposited.
    At A commences the most extensive contortion hitherto
displayed in the diluvial formations of this district.    It con
sists of concentric bands of gravel, sand, and brown mud; the
external mud vein contains minute fragments of crag shells.
There are few visitors to Cromer, probably, but are struck
with this singular feature in its cliffs. The foot of this con
tortion rests upon a bed, 15 feet thick, of yellow sand without
shells, overlying the waving laminated and peaty clay bed be
fore described; and the entire section exposed was found on
admeasurement to be 90 feet.
    The veneral composition of the cliffs, for many miles to the
west am south of the portion here represented, is chie<U+FB02>y an
accumulation of the consolidated diluvial mud; varying in
thickness from 20 to 250 feet; occasionally divided by vertical
gaps, which have been subsequently <U+FB01>lled with chalk, marle, or
 sand, but chie<U+FB02>y the latter.    Some instances occur, where the
beds of mud and other diluvial deposits assume a vertical po
 sition.   These, and the gaps alluded to, often cut through the
mud cli<U+FB01>'s from the summit to the base, at the particular part
where the accumulation is the greatest and the elevation is the
loftiest.    The most remarkable examples of this occur at
 Paston Hill, at Beck Hythe, at Cromer, Runton, Beeston, and
 Sherringham.
    Extensive slips of enormous masses of the diluvial clay are
constantly occurring; and avalanches of mud are continually
in operation, particularly between Cromer and Mundesley.
 They are occasioned rather by the numerous land springs and
by interruptions to the natural- drainage, than by the under
mining action of the waves; and the accumulating mass forms
an inaccessible and impassable border of soft boggy mud,
often several hundred yards in 'width, and 100 or 150 feet in
thickness, destitute of vegetation, and presenting a gloomy and
desolate aspect for some miles.
    The annexed drawing is chie<U+FB02>y copied from a section con
structed on a large scale, by the writer of this article, of the
entire line of cliffs on the Norfolk coast; from the point where
the diluvial beds rise from beneath the Marum sand hills,
north of Winterton, to where the high land recedes from the
shore near Cley at Weyburn Hope.
                                        Yours  81c.
Norwich, Dec.  15, 1823.                     RICHARD TAYLOR.
                                                       XVI.    On

                                [86]
XVI.     On like Mode of              Salt by Evaporation on
                Faggots. mamgacturing
                          By  . BAKEWELL,  Esq.‘         I
                       at Montiers in the Tarentaise are particu
THE   salt-works
  larly                  attention, being perhaps the best con
ducted of deserving
             any in urope with respect to economy.            Nearly
three million pounds of salts-f are extracted annually from a
 source of water which would scarcely be noticed, except for
medical purposes, in any other country.
    The springs that supply the salt-works at Montiers rise at
the bottom of a nearly perpendicular rock of limestone, on
the south side of a deep valle 0r_ gorge through which the
 Doron runs before it joins 1e Isere. The distance of the
salt-works from the spring is about a mile; the water runs
in an open canal, but is received in a reservoir, where it de
posits part of: its ochreous contents. The water rises from
                                                                               '
the rock with considerable force, and emits much gas, which
is principally carbonic with a mixture of sulphuretted hydro
gen; it has an acidulous and sli htly saline taste.       The tem
perature of the stron est spring is 99° Fahrenheit; it contains
 1'88 per cent. of sa ine matter.       The second spring has the
temperature    of 95°,  and   contains 1'75 of saline matter.   Be
sides common salt, the water contains in small           roportions
sulphate of lime, sulphate of soda, and sulphate an muriate of
magnesia; to ether with oxide of iron.           During the great
earthquake t at destroyed Lisbon in 1756, the salines at
Montiers ceased to <U+FB02>ow for forty-eight hours; and when they
<U+FB02>owed again, their quantity was increased, but the saline im
pregnation was weakeri.          It may seem extraordinary that
the waters at Montiers, which have only half the strength of
sea water, should repay the expense of eyaporation; but the
process by which it is e<U+FB01>'ected is both Simple and ingenious,
and might be introduced with great advantage 011 many parts
of our own coast, should the salt dut be entirely removed.
The salt-works at Bex in the Pays de and are nearly similar
to those at Montiers, but not on so extensive a scale, and a
       useful part of the process at Montiers is not adopted at
gary
   ex.
   ’i Extracted from volume i. of“ Travels in the Tarentaise,   and various
Parts of the Grecian and Pennine Alps, and in Switzerland and Auvergne,
in the Years 1820, 1821, and 1822."      In 2 vols. octavo.
      In this quantity are comprised common salt, Glauber’s salt, and the
alkaline salts sold to the glass manufacturers.
  1', The geological position of these springs, and the numerous thermal
waters of the central chasm of the Alps, are described in the latter part of
the volume.                                                      _
                                                                 I   shall

                         v
           . -   41""!
           .01‘
       Mr. R. Bakewell     on a Mode   quanu<U+FB01>rcturing Salt.          87
    I shall endeavour to give such a description of the process
 as  will enable any person to imitate it in this country; indeed
 so little is known of this mode of evaporation by faggots, that
 it has been often stated by English writers, and has recently
 been      avely repeated, that it consists in throwing salt water
 upon     urning faggots, and                  the salt that remained!
 This would be a mode of making  gatheringsa t as wise and practicable
 as the nursery method of catching birds by putting salt on
their tails. It is obvious that water so weakly impregnated
 with salt as to contain only one pound and a half in every
thirteen gallons, could not repay the expense of evaporation
by fuel in any country.       The water of the North Sea contains
2} per cent. of salt; and yet it has never been attempted, I be
lieve, to make salt from it with coal <U+FB01>res, even on the coast of
Northumberland or Durham, where refuse coal suited to the
purpose might be purchased for 1s. 6d. per ton.
    The <U+FB01>rst attempt at Montiers, in 1550, to make salt by at
mospheric evaporation, was by arranging pyramids of rye
 straw in open galleries, and letting the water trickle throu h
gradually and repeatedly.         By this process a portion of t e
 sulphate of lime was deposited on the straw, and the water
became concentrated to a certain degree.               It was then car
ried to the boiler and further evaporated by fuel. In 1739
 the present buildings were erected by, order of Charles
 Emanuel the Third.                     -
                                                   ‘
                                                       .
    There are four evaporating houses, called Maisons d’Epines
(literally, houses of thorns).      Nos. 1 and 2 receive the water
from the reservoir, and concentrate it to about three degrees
of stren th, viz. they evaporate one-half of the water they re
ceive.       hese houses of evaporation are 350 yards in length
each, about 25 feet inhei ht, and seven feet wide.            They are
 uncovered at the top. T ey consist of a frame of wood, com
posed of upright posts, two and a half feet from each other,
rangin on each side, and strengthened by bars across; the
whole 1s supported on stone buttresses, about three feet from
the ground, under which are the troughs for the salt water to
fall into.     The frame is <U+FB01>lled with double rows of faggots of
black thorn, ran (1 <U+FB01>‘om one end to the other, up to the top;
they are placed oosely, so as to admit the air, and supported
 <U+FB01>rmly in their position b transverse pieces of wood. In the
 middle of each Maison d’Epines is a stone building, containing
 the hydraulic machine for pumping the water to the top of
 the buildin ; it is moved by a water-wheel.             When the wa
ter is raiser? to the top, it is received in channels on each side,
which extend the whole length of the building; from
                                                                  tpese
                                                                    ong

88     Mr. R. Bakewell   on the Mode    quauqfacluring Salt
long channels it is made to pass into smaller ones b the side,
from which it trickles through a multitude of small oles, like
a very gentle shower, upon the faggots, where it is divided
into an in<U+FB01>nite number of drops, falling From one point to
another.    Being thus exposed to the contact of the air, it
       one degree of strength in falling, and, by the action of
gains
t e pumps, it is raised again, and falls in other showers, till
it has acquired the strength required for passing to the eva
porating house, No. 3.           _
   The process is conducted with less nicety in Nos. 1 and 2
than in the others, 'and, as I mentioned before, the houses are
not covered. The pumps moved by the machine in the cen
tre of the building, are distributed at equal distances on each
side of the Maison d’Epines.        The water is not always let to
trickle down on both sides of the thorns, but only on that ex
posed to the wind.       The two buildings, Nos. 1 and 2, are
placed at different an les, to catch the different currents of
wind that rush down t e valley.       No. 8 is constructed on the
same principles as Nos. 1 and 2; it receives the water from
them both; it is 370. ards long, and is covered, to preserve
the salt water from t e rain.       There are twelve pumps on
each side in this building, and more care is taken to distribute
the water equally; here it is concentrated to the strength of
twelve per cent., and deposits most of its remaining sulphate
of lime, in incrustations on the twigs.
   The water being now reduced to about one-seventh of the
original quantity, and raised to the strength of twelve degrees,
is passed along channels to the Maison d’Epines, No. 4-. This
is only seventy yards in length : here it is further concentrated
by a similar process, till it nearly reaches the point of satura
tion, but this depends on the season.        In dry weather, it is
raised to tWenty-two degrees; but in rainy, moist weather, to
eighteen degrees only.     In summer-time the whole process of
evaporation, in passing through the different houses, is about
one month; in wet seasons it is longer.      The stream of water
that sets in motion the hydraulic machines for raising the
saline water to the top of the buildings, is brought by a small
aqueduct from the river Doron.         When once in motion, the
process goes on and requires little further attention, or manual
labour, till it is completed. When the water is nearly satu
rated, it passes to a large building, where are the pans for
boiling, and the salt is crystallized in the usual method. That
the reader may form an idea of the quantity of water evapo
rated before it comes to the pans, I will state the reduction at
each of the evaporating houses:
                                                             8000

                     by Evaporation    on Faggots.                       89
8000 hogsheads, when received at Nos. 1 and 2, con-             hogsh
       tain about 1% per cent. of salt . . . reduced to         4000
4000 hogsheads, when received at No. 3, contain
       about 3 per cent. of salt . . . .         reduced to     1000
1000 hogsheads, when received at No. 4, contain
       about 12 per cent. of salt . _. . . reduced to             550
   550 hogsheads, received at the pans, contain near
       22 per cent. of salt.
    Thus, out of every 8000 hogsheads, passing through the
Maisons d’Epines, 7450 are evaporated by the air in summer,
and about 7000 in winter; and only one-sixteenth part of the
fuel is consumed, that would be required for evaporating the
whole quantity of water by fire.                                        -
    The f gots are changed at periods of from four to seven
years.     aTghose in Nos. 1 and 2, where the saline impregnation
is weak, will decay sooner than in Nos. 3 and 4. In No. 3 all
the twigs acquire so thick a coating of vselenite, that when
broken off, they resemble stems and branches of encrinites.
    The Maison de Cordes was invented by an ingenious Sa
 voyard named Butte].         It is forty yards in length and eleven
wide: it is much stronger than the Maison d’Epines, the roof
being supported by six arches of stone work; the intermediate
spaces on the sides being left open.          In every one of these
divisions are twelve hundred cords, in rows of twenty-four
each, suspended from the roof, and <U+FB01>xed tight at bottom.
 The cords are about sixteen feet in length. The water is
raised to a reservoir at the top of the building, and distributed
 into a number of small transverse canals, each row of twenty
four cords having one of these canals over             it,
                                                         which      so
                                                                   is
pierced as to admit the water to trickle down each separate
 cord, drop bv drop.         The original intention of this building
 was to crystallize the salt itself upon the cords, for which pur
 pose the water was made use of from the pans after          had de
                                                             it
 posited a uantity of salt in the <U+FB01>rst boiling, to save the ex
 pense of uel in     a   second boiling; the residue-water of the
 <U+FB01>rst boiling,  by   repeatedly passing over the cords, deposited
 all its salt in about forty-<U+FB01>ve days, and thecords were in—
 crusted with a cylinder of pure salt, which was broken off by
 a particular instrument for the purpose“.         This process     at
                                                                    is
 present    abandoned    for  crystallizing; but  the  cords are  still
 used for evaporating, and are found to answer better for the
 higher concentration of the water than the fag ots.             This
 method did not answer for the <U+FB01>rst evaporation, ecause the
 water rotted the cords; but      it   was discovered that the cords
  1" This process might be used for sea-water with particular advantage in
warm climates, and the necesssity for boiling altogether avoided.
   Vol.   63. No. 810. Feb. 1824.                  M                were

90       Mr. R. Bakewell    on a Mode      qf manszacturing Salt.
were not soon injured by it when it had acquired <U+FB01>ve degrees
of strength.       The cords, we were informed, had many of
them remained thirty years in use without being
indeed, they were so thickly encased with depositions            changed:
                                                                    0 se
lenite,    that they  were  defended     from   the action  of  the water.
This mode of evaporating is found to be more expeditious
than that of the faggots.
    A sketch of the evaporating-house No. l is annexed; No. 2
is similar to it in every respect.
    In the covered house No. 3 there are twenty-four pumps,
twelve on each side, to distribute the water more equally over
the whole.       This system of pumps is worked by joined bars
of wood, which move backwards and forwards, and are con
nected by crank wheels with each piston, to raise and depress
it. As I have before mentioned, they take care to evaporate
on the windward side of the building.               When I was on the
top   of  No.  3, though   the   air was   very  warm,   I felt an intense
de ree of cold, the conse uence of speedy evaporation.
     n the Maison de Cor es, it is found that the evaporation
  oes on more speedily in windy weather than in the Maisons
  ’Epines, as might be expected from the more ready access
of air to the surface of the water.              The cords are double,
passing over horizontal rods of wood at the top and the bot
tom, to keep them <U+FB01>rm in their positions, and at regular di
stances from each other.         I  did not see the cords without their
envelope of selenite; but I was informed that they were not
thicker than the <U+FB01>nger.            With the incrustations they were
become as thick as the wrist.
    Near the salt-springs there are the remains of a large re
servoir, into which the water was formerly made to fall from
a considerable hei ht by a machine; but this mode of evapo
ration was only Eiund to answer in very hot weather, and
the process is given up.
_   The saline water is received into reservoirs from the springs,
where it remains some time before it passes to the Maisons
d’Epines, and here it deposits a considerable quantity, or
nearly all, of its ferruginous matter: the canal alon which it
runs to the reservoirs is also lined with a red 00 erous in
 crustation.
    The total length of the Maisons d’Epines is as under:
                                Yards, English.
 Nos.   1 and 2, together    . . .   700
       3    . .......                870
       4'                             70
                        Total,     1140,    or nearly two-thirds      of a
                              mile.
                                                                      The

              —'
              \wm,
                     ‘
             ‘1'<U+FB01>))ll\6(‘!i‘<U+FB02>|
   +
   _
                       7
                3‘
             EWIHUI
   —
   noh 015“).0533103101?
                     A
          \‘ A“’l)|:~l‘4,\l‘ll?<U+FB01>i
       .‘mm
                     "A
         (W.“VJr‘Q'Fh‘U
   :i<U+FB02>-“(MV
       111'
   M'M‘NM‘HA
       l)
             “MIMUHMII
   WEIJJM'A  -.-,mm‘r;nmn
   UAD'LVIYM'       ifl‘
             IM‘MH'M'M
   "L'Mnmm?)S<U+FB02>‘xm
   "H'MWMIIA Y'h'hfrn<U+FB02>f<U+FB02>
   F2 E;‘e DHqM'm'W-“j
   MMA'AMF)  [{L'Imlllme<U+FB02>
  <U+FB02>
  .     W
     M:‘lv‘l'ann QHA
    mvmlmm
       ‘_
       ——
      .— mum)“
   lluilhhhv‘
   “lumn-J1m
I. h
 1’Mm‘unmn
   1n:mmm
             .KHHUU
          ..‘J
 , <U+FB01><U+FB02>f<U+FB02>if<U+FB02>l<U+FB02>
              -—
              _
           I‘MMP
                ‘
                 1.‘
                HM
                    ‘
              umw-‘f‘
           h'l<U+FB01>'lhlu‘
       lln\u
  "    HUI/"<U+FB02>

92      Mr. H. Russell’s Description qfa Pressure Gauge.
   The fuel used at the pans for the last process is partly
wood, and partly anthracite from the neighbouring moun
tains. The anthracite answers remarkably well when once
ignited, as it preserves for a 10110 time a                    degree of
heat.    The   consumption      of  wood    was       regular
                                                  former y  so great that
it has denuded many of the hi her mountains in the Taren
taise, and exposed them to tie action of the atmosphere,
which has occasioned vast eboulements; for it is found that
forests are of the greatest utility, in preserving precipitous
mountains from destruction.          The fact is now so well ascer
tained, that the Government, for this cause alone, has latel
paid particular attention to the preservation of the wood. The
quantity of salt made here annually, is estimated at 100,000
myriagrammes, or about 2,250,000 lbs. avoirdnpois, and about
 9000 myriagrammes of sulphate of soda, or about 187,0001bs.
 The other alkaline matter which adheres to the pans is sold
to the glass-makers.        The Government receives, an the aver
age,  150,000   francs  for  the products, out of which it is esti
mated that 30,000 are expended for wood and fuel, 8000 for
materials employed in the buildin s, and for the faggots &c.,
and 62,000 for the wages and t e salaries of the different
 o<U+FB02>icers, leaving an annual pro<U+FB01>t of 50,000 francs. In some
 of the mountains of the Tarentaise, the gypsum is intermixed
 with rock salt en masse, and was worked by the peasants ; but
 the places are now closed up, and so strictly guarded by or
 der of the Government, that I found it dif<U+FB01>cult to procure
 specimens.
    These mines were formerly worked, the salt being sepa—
 rated from the gypsum by solution, and subsequently evapo
 rated by <U+FB01>re; but the great cboulements, caused by clearing
 away the wood from the sides of the mountains, obliged the
 Government to abandon the mines, and undertake the manu
 facture of salt at the Salines.      These mines are mentioned by
 the Roman historians.
 XVII.     Description of a Pressure Gauge recommended for its
    Simplicity of Construction and Principle; with Observations
    on the Gauge proposed by Mr. SEAWARD *. By Mr. HENRY
    RUSSELL.
     To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
         examination of the instrument proposed b Mr. Sea
 AN    ward, and described by him in your Magazine,             0. 809, at
 pages 36 and following, has induced me to lay before your
                       ’1'“See
                               p. 36 of this volume.                    .
                                                                    notice

        Mr. H. Russell’s Description of a Pressure Gauge.                       98
 notice a description of a pressure gauge which' I have con~
 structed for my own amusement, and which I have no doubt
'will ultimately be considered as remarkable for its acCuracy
 and simplicity, as Mr. Seaward’s will for its inaccuracy and
 complexity.
    The gauge which I am now about to describe, and which is
 here represented, consists of a glass tube sealed at one end
 with a ball blown very near the other, leaving only as much
 tube beyond the ball as may be necessary for connecting it
-with the pipe leading from the vessel containing the condensed
   as, steam, or other elastic vapour. This ball, when the tube
 is <U+FB01>lled with air and subject only to atmospheric pressure,
 should be about three quarters full of mercury, and the whole
 capacity need not exceed that of the tube more than as two
 to one.    That the divisions on the scale may be in geometri
 cal progression, the tube is placed in a horizontal position:
 this renders the instrument altogether so simple in appearance,
 that persons totally unacquainted with instruments of this de—
 scription, may at once be brought to understand its nature,
 and be enabled to af<U+FB01>rm with con<U+FB01>dence the degree of pres
 sure to which it is subject.
        l                                 u
                                          e—
                                                          k“       h       0, G.N
                                                                           “
    To determine the degree of pressure at any given point,
 ascertain the distance of that point from the sealed end of
 the tube, and by that measure divide the length of tube con
 tained between the sealed end and the bulb; the quotient will be
 the number of atmospheres.     Thus, in general terms, where T
 represents the whole  tube,  P  the part into which the column
 of air is compressed, and A the number of atmospheres ; we
 have       lig-   = A.   Thus suppose        the tube eight feet long, and
 the column of air compressed into half that length, then we
 have = ,3}  atmospheres.
                   2         Ifthis column be again compressed
 into half its volume,     will be represented by = atmo
                               it                              g       4
 spheres.   If again compressed into half its volume, we have
 $13-
   = atmospheres.
        8               If again      feet = 96 inches) 9-66: 16
                                              (8
 atmospheres. And lastly        =  32
                                    9,?atmospheres, which    the           is
 density at which the Portable  Gas   Company engage   to supply
 their friends.  In the annexed <U+FB01>gure       represented my own
                                                     is
                                                           gauge

    9*    Mr. H. Russell’s Description of a Pressure Gauge.
    gauge complete (except that there are given only the geome
    trical divisions) with the mercury chamber blown in the
    tube itself; so that on this plan we have no joints whatever
    to make in the instrument: and being placed in a horizontal
    position at a convenient distance from the <U+FB02>oor, all parts of
    the scale may be examined with equal facility.
       For the internal diameter of the tube, perhaps Tlgth of an
    inch will be found preferable.
       The following numbers represent, in inches and decimal
    parts, the spaces between each division representing a num
    ber of atmospheres and the top of the scale.
            Atmospheres.    Inches.     Atmospheres.   Inches.
                  1    = 96‘000               17   =
                                                   5'64-7
                  2    = 48'000               18 = 5'333
                  3
                  4-
                  5
                       :
                       = 32000
                           24'000
                       = 19'200
                                              19 = 5‘05?
                                              20 = 4-‘800
                                              21   =   4'57]
                  6    = 16'000               22   =   4'368
                  7    = 13‘714'              23   =   4-‘173
                  8    = 12'000               24   =
                                                4'000
                  9    = 10'666               25   =
                                                8'840
                 10    = 9600                 26   =
                                                3'692
                 11    = 8'727                27   =
                                                3'555
                 12    = 8'000                28   =
                                                3'428
                 13
                 14-   :
                       = 7'384
                        6'857
                                              29
                                              30
                                                   =
                                                8'310
                                                   =
                                                3'200
                                                   =
                 15 = 6'400              31     8'096
                 16 = 6'000              32 = 3'000
       I shall now endeavour to point out to you, that the gauge
    proposed by Mr. Seaward is not so good an instrument as
    the one in common use, upon which he seems to think that he
    has made so much improvement.           The <U+FB01>rst article in what
    Mr. Seaward calls his description   runs  thus:   “Considerable
    di<U+FB02>iculty has been experienced  in ascertaining  in a satisfactory
    manner the exact pressure ofhighly condensed gases or <U+FB02>uids.”
    Now I would ask Mr. Seaward, where has he met with this
    dif<U+FB01>culty? or, how can we possibly meet with any dif<U+FB01>culty
    when guided by an instrument of perfect simplicity, as is the
    pressure gauge in common use?         He knows what the com
_   mon pressure gauge       is,
                            for he clearly describes it.
       He next says, “ But      happens that when <U+FB02>uids are re
                                   it
    quired to be compressed to 30 or 40 atmospheres,         becomes
                                                                 it
    necessary to have the tube of the mercury     auge of very great
    length, say <U+FB01>'om 30 to 45 feet, otherwise           <U+FB01>le
                                                     divisions of the
    upper part of the scale will be much too small for useful re
    ference.” How far Mr. Seaward         justi<U+FB01>ed in this assertion,
                                             is
                                                                      I   leave

                 Mr. W. Sturgeon          on Electra-Magnetism.                     95
I  leave others to determine;            I
                                 shall only say that the smallest
space   which is between 31 atmospheres and 32, on a scale
adapted to an eight foot tube, is equal to T16 of an inch —
3-1-5 _only;
             a quantity as great as the
                                          nature
                                                  of the case can
possibly require.    Mr. Seaward has not informed us how he
will make the joint between the glass tube and the metal box,
so that it shall remain perfectly tight; and that under a pres
sure of from one to twenty atmospheres: and I think he will
admit that a leakage in this part, however tri<U+FB02>ing, would be
fatal to his plan.
    The dif<U+FB01>culty and trouble of ascertaining nicely the capa
cities of the chamber, tube and ball, is no very agreeable em
plo     ent, particularly when we consider that in using a tube
wit out these incumbrances there is no occasion whatever for
measuring capacities.       Another very material objection to this
complex plan, is the immense trouble of substituting a new
tube in case of accidentally breaking the original one; the
same dif<U+FB01>culties oppose which we meet in adjusting a thermo
meter tube to an old scale. Upon the whole, instead of being
“ more convenient and correct than the gauge in common use,”
as its inventor has endeavoured to represent                it,
                                                      am satis<U+FB01>ed
                                                                I
that the complexity of this instrument will render       unworthy  it
of our con<U+FB01>dence, and, relied on, will lead to erroneous con
                                if
clusions, which the adoption of a simple tube would certainly
have avoided.
    Fearin     have trespassed on your pages too much for a
                I
subject 0 this simple description,       am anxious to subscribe
                                               I
myself                    Yours truly,
   City Road, Feb. 10, 1824.                 HENRY RUSSELL.
XVIII.          Electro-magnetical Experiments.            By Mr. WILLIAM
                                STURGEON.
    To    the   Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         EINGdesirous to understand the relation that subsists
     between the chemico- and thermo-electric phaanomena, as
in<U+FB02>uenced by the magnet, so as to form a comparison of the
widely different apparatus for exhibiting those phaenomena;
and likewise,     possible, to ascertain some eneral law to be
                    if
observed in thus comparing the two modes                   of
                                                 exciting this in
<U+FB02>uence; the few following simple experiments suggested them
selves as the most likely to give satisfaction on this point. As
this investigation and comparison" seems to have escaped the
    1*
     There may be said to be one objection; for a comparison               has cer
tainly been made   a philosopher of acknowledged
                      by                          skill; and              it   is   with
due deference that   I     cannot   subscribe to the conclusions   of   that gentle
man.                                                                     attention

 96           Mr. W. Sturgeon   on Electro-lllagnetism.
 attention of every other experimenter, perhaps a detail of
those experiments with their results, and a description of an
instrument which I have been led to invent and construct, upon
a simple principle, for the purpose of carr ing on the compari
son to any required extent, may not be t ought uninteresting
to some of your readers.
    Exp. 1. I charged in the usual way with dilute nitric
acid an Ampere’s rotating cylinder, and placed it on a table.
I now placed the north pole of a bar magnet on the upper
edge of the outer rim of the copper part of that apparatus.
 I likewise imagined myself “ coinciding in position with the
wire about which the machine turns,” and “ lookin towards
the magnet.”       On bringing one of the wires of the zmc cylin
der between me and the magnet, that wire was projected to
the left.
    Let the line ED, <U+FB01>g. 3, be the hori-               E
zontal part of the wire in this and the                       4,By
                                                L.__
following experiments, moveable on a
pivot 0; then, when the wire is said
to be projected to the right, it is                   3*,1'9'3
                                                          ’
meant that the point E is projected                         _
towards R, as OR; and when to the                 "i        i‘
left, the point E is projected towards                 D
L,   as 0L.
    E17). ‘2.   I now presented the south pole of the magnet to
the wire.      The latter was projected to the right.
    Observation.    This chemico-galvanized wire was evidently
the ascending wire from the zinc to the copper; or (which is the
same thing) the descending wire from the co per to the zinc.
    Exp. 8.     I now suspended by a piece 0 untwisted silk a
semicircular copper wire, with a zinc diameter, as in <U+FB01>g. 4-:
arc is a <U+FB01>ne copper wire; and zzz a <U+FB01>ne slip of Linc, sol
dered to the former at the extremities zz.           The north pole
of the magnet was now placed close to one arm of the semi
circular arc, as shown in the <U+FB01>gure, and the lamp applied at
E. The wire was projected to the left.
>         ,
                                                                   E111.

              Mr. W. Sturgeon    on Electra-Magnetism.          97
    Exp. 4-. The semicircle adjusted as before, the lamp was
 now applied at D. The wire was projected to the right.
    Exp. 5 and 6. In these experiments the lamp was applied
 as before, but the south pole of the magnet was now presented
 to the wire.    The motions were the reverse of the two former '
 experiments.                                          I
    I have tried rectangles instead of semicircles, but there is
 no difference in the results.
    If  a semicircle or rectangle be made of platinum and silver
 wires, the former supplying the place of the copper, and the
 latter be substituted for the zinc, in the above thermo experi
 ments, the results of the two machines are exactly alike;
 hence the copper and platinum wires are possessed of the
 same kind of electricity, and so are the zinc and silver each to
 each; but of the contrary kind of the other two wires: so if
 the copper be positive to the zinc, by this magnetic test we must
 necessarily conclude that the platinum is positive to the silver.
    But this is not all that is to be observed in these experi
 ments; we must compare the results of the chemico with those
 of the thermo experiments, and endeavour to trace the rela
 tion that subsists in the phaanomena exhibited by those two
 modes of excitin the electrical in<U+FB02>uence.
    We will there ore compare our chemico experiment 1, with
 our thermo experiment 8. We here <U+FB01>nd the wire projected
 to the lg<U+FB02> in beth cases.
    We will now suppose the immersed plates of the chemico
 apparatus to correspond with the heated union of the thermo
 wires; and the most remote extremities of the chemico con
 ducting wires, with the coldest junction of the theer machine.
 It will follow, that as the copper wire (by the supposition) is
 as evidently ascending in the thermo machine, as the zinc
 wire is ascending in the chemico cylinder; and as they are
 both propelled in the same direction (left), by the approxi
 mation of the north pole of the magnet; the forces of the
 two galvanized wires must of necessity be exerted in contrary
 directions.   FOr although they are both propelled the same
                                                                   '
 way, yet the are of contrary kinds or names.
    Again:      et us now suppose the immersed plates of the
 chemico apparatus to correspond with the coldest union of
 the thermo wires ; and the most remote extremities of the
 chemico conducting wires, -with the heated junction of the
 thermo machine. In this case, the two wires nearest the magnet,
 of the chemico and thermo machines, will in all respects cor
 respond with each other; for they are now both descending from
,the copper, or both ascendin from the zinc (b the supposi
 tion).    Hence the forces of t e two galvanize wires are ex
    an. 63. N0. 310. Eeb. 1824-.               N             cried

98             Mr. W. Sturgeon       on Electra-Magnetism.
 erted in the same direction; for the wires are of the same
 kind, and are propelled the same way.
     The conclusion still holds 00d, when the junction of the
‘wires is heated at D instead 0 E.
     Having thus ascertained, by the former supposition, that
 the forces of the chemico and thermo galvanized wires are
 exerted in contrary directions, and that by the latter supposi
 tion these forces are exerted in the same direction; I shall
 leave the theorizing philosopher to adopt which side of this
 dilemma he may think <U+FB01>t; for it is not my province to pre
 dict whether we are to have a thermo-electric force acting in
 a contrary direction to our old galvanic force, by the former
 supposition, or whether we are to have these two forces re
 conciled to each other by the latter ;-—my. business being only
 to ascertain some general law, whereby to regulate my sub
 sequent experiments.
     Ihave since made experiments, both chemico and thermo,
 with combinations of other metals; and the results have given
 me the greatest satisfaction that the above law is general;
 for the comparison       in all that
                          is,            have made, the same as
                                           I
 with copper and zinc.
    Here follows a description of the instrument      have made
                                                          I
 for the purpose of exhibiting and comparing chemico and
 thermo phaenomena as in<U+FB02>uenced by the magnet; by means of
 which can make the experiments with the greatest facility and
         I
 exactness.    Ihave named     the Comparing Galvanoscope.
                                it
               e:
             f                  T.   511
                                x
  'Fig.   1.   A   cylindrical glass tube Eupported       by the arm
                                                      4                I   C?
                                                                           o

                  Mr. W. Sturgeon           on Electra-Magnetism.                  99
                       DE; on the top of the cylinder is a move
                       fj:
of the brass stand
able brass cap           T o the upper side of this cap is adapted
a thick wire, with its bobbin g and milled head H. This wire
turns in two spring sockets at i          One end of a piece of un
                                                2'.
twisted silk     <U+FB01>xed to this bobbin; the other end
                  is                                          supplied
                                                                    is
with a <U+FB01>ne silver wire book, which descends through a small
hole in the centre of the cap into the glass cylinder.             The
circular plate 0 at the top of the stand has a <U+FB02>at moveable
rim, which      graduated from
                  is                  to 90° each Way.
                                            0               This    for       is
measuring the quantity of de<U+FB02>ection; and hence the instru
ment in some measure answers the purpose of a galvanometer'
    Fig. 2  shows a chemico combination out‘
of the instrument.           A a small glass ves
                                 is
sel containing dilute acid.          The parallel
slips or wires aa       are the dissimilar metals
                        6
                        b
for the experiment.       The conducting wire
see  b. is
          soldered to their extremities at a
and
    To make the experiment: the glass cy
linder   istaken off the stand by unscrewing
the nut      <U+FB01>g. 1.
             0,        The combination         then   is
hooked on and drawn to the top of the inside
of the cylinder by turning the pin H. The
glass vessel with its acid         placed on the
                                       is
circular plate 0; and the cylinder replaced,
and the nut screwed tight.            The metals
may now be let down into the <U+FB02>uid to any
depth the experimenter thinks <U+FB01>t.              The
circle may now be adjusted by bringing 0
under one of the wires, and the magnet being applied outside
of the cylinder will de<U+FB02>ect the wire.
    To make a thermo experiment: the glass cylinder               taken  is
 off as before; the combination hooked on, and the whole re
 placed; when the wire          at rest (which soon will take place,
                                  is
 for the cylinder entirely cuts off the undulations of the ex
 ternal air).   The graduated circle          now adjusted, and the
                                                      is
                                                                '
 lamp applied at    L,  and  the  magnet   as in the <U+FB01>gure.
  -
    This method of detecting the galvanic in<U+FB02>uence in delicate
 chemico combinations          so ef<U+FB01>cacious, that
                                 is                      piece of <U+FB01>ne
                                                                a
 silver wire, such as forms a part of what           called gold lace,
                                                           is
 witha   piece of zinc of the same dimensions let into the dilute
 acid not more than 1-10th of an inch, will cause the connect
 ing wire (on the approach of the magnet) to be de<U+FB02>ected 40°,
sometimes 50°.
 I   have   great variety of combinations ready, which are
                  a
placed between the leaves of a small book made for that
                                            N   2                        purpose,

100           Mr. J. Walsh   on parallel straight Lines"
purpose,     with the names    of the  metals   on their respective
leaves.
    The whole apparatus packs up in a neat maho any box.
    This instrument differs from the galvanometers have seen
described.      I use a powerful magnet for detecting and de
termining a slight galvanic influence; whereas in the galva
nometer a feeble needle is used for that purpoSe. Many other
differences might easily be pointed out, whether advantages
or not is not for me to determine.
                    1 am, gentlemen,
                      \‘
                                    Yours,  8w.
Artillery Place, Woolwich.                       WM_ STURGEOM
                                    .
   XIX.    0n Parallel Straight Lines.              J
                                           By Mr. onu WALSH.
       SOLID is that which resists the touch. Surfaces are the
       boundaries of solids,     Lines are the boundaries of sur
faces.    Points are boundaries of lines. When the surfaces of
two solids are such, as that any one surface of ,the one bein
placed any where on any one surface of the other, there sha<U+FB01>
be no space between them,--these are called plane surfaces,
 and their boundaries are called straight lines. If such sur
 face is placed any where on any other surface any how
 bounded, and that there is no space between them,—this other
 also is a plane surface. Two straight lines cannot inclose space.
 Two stra' ht lines that intersect each other are in the same
 plane; ant three straight lines that meet each other are in
 the same plane.
    Let x and yvbe two straight lines intersectin each other,
 and let the plane of the triangle A B C be so p aced on the
 plane of .z' and y as that A B shall always fall on w; and let
 A’B’ C’, A"B”C” be any two positions of the triangle A B C;
then shall A’ C’ be parallel to A” C". This follows from the
 invariability of the angles of the triangle A B C.
    Axiom.      When a straight line intersects any one of two
 parallel straight lines, it cannot be parallel to the other.
    This is the same as Euclid’s axiom. It appears to me to
 be more evident in this form.      It is not however so logical as
 that of the Greek geometer, as it is intended to elucidate a        .
 property of angles.
    When a straight line falls on two parallel straight'lines, it
 makes equal angles with them both.          (Preceding prop. and.
 axiom.)
    Professor Leslie, in a note to his Elements of Geometry, se
 cond edition, shows that M. Legendre has failed in his attempt
                                                                  to

               Mr. J. Walsh      on   parallel straight Lines.               101
  to demonstrate, by the theory of functions, the property of
 plane triangles, depending on the preceding proposition, that
  the sums of the three angles are equal to two right angles.
  M. Legendre, though vanquished, continues to argue still, and
  is supported in his defence by a foreign geometer of eminence,
  M. Maurice, as well as by the celebrated British geometers
  Dr. Brewster and Professor Playfair. When such authorities
  contend, it were perhaps presumptuous to interfere.             It ap
  pears to me extraordinary that M. Legendre, a eometer so
 deeply ac uainted with the properties of numbers, s ould really
-mistake      the
                nature of number itself. This circumstance                    is,
I   believe, common to m0st geometers. Number expresses the
 relation between two homogeneous magnitudes.                It cannot
  represent magnitude.       Numbers are therefore abstract things.
 To say “ abstract numbers,” to say “abstract abstract things!”
                                      is
  It as correct language to say “ straight right line.”
    is
     At the origin of grammar, men, then not acquainted with
 the real nature of numbers, arranged them very improperly
  under the head of adjectives. We say, “The money                   oneis
 pound sterling;” “The distance              three metres
                                                 is               “The
                                                                   ;”
 right angle       one,” &c.
                    is          We ought to say, “ The money has
 the relation one to the pound                     “ The distance has
                                        “
 the relation three to the metre sterlin'gf’
                                           ;”he right angle has the
 relation one to the right angle,” &c.:—-the pound sterling, the
 metre, the right angle, &c., being the bases of comparison.
     Let A    B
              C   be the angles of any plane triangle, and           thec
 side adjacent to the angles A B.               It
                                               required to determine
                                                      is
 the angle c.      For this we have C=0(ABc).            Now M. Le
          says, in     note to the tenth edition of his Elements of
                         a
 gendre
    eometry, that
                    “ the side    cof a nature heterogeneous to the
                                      is
 angles   A B,   and   cannot coalesce with them in the equation
 C=6(ABc).         The right an le bein the natural unity of an
 gles,
         it
         is   therefore    a num er.    T angles A and
                                                     e               areB
 therefore numbers.        They cannot then coalesce with the side
 0, which      a strai ht line; then
              is                              entirely determined by
                                                C   is
 the angles A and         alone; therefore, when two angles of one
                             B
 triangle are equal to two angles of another, the third angle of
 the one  is equal to the third angle of the other.”
     Now shall demonstrate that the preceding reasonin fails
         I
 in three different ways. lst. It        said the right angle IS the
                                            is
 natural,.that     to say, the necessary unity of angles.
                    is                                              have
                                                                    I
 shown that a number cannot be put for ma nitude.            The right
 angle   is not the necessary, but       made
                                            is       arbitrary base of
                                                           1   e
 comparison in respect to angles. In respect to the sides,                   I
 shall make the metre the base of comparison; then instead of
 the side 0   Ishall substitute its relation to the metre, and sub
                                                               stituting
         .
                             v

102            Mr. A. H. Haworth’s Description qf Chloraster,
stituting for the angles A B C their relations to the right an
gle, the equation C=0(A B0) is an equation entirely between
numbers, and consequently the number 0 cannot be excluded.
    2dly. If the side 0 is excluded from the equation C=6(ABc),
then in this equation we have c=0; but when c=0, then A=0,
B=0, C=O, then 0:6 (0,0 ' 0). Here the reasoning fails al
     inally:
tog<U+FB01>ether.  M. Legendre asserts that the side 0 is of a nature
heterogeneous to the angles A and B.      Now the number of
degrees in the angles of any plane triangle is determined by
the circumferences of the circles of which the angular points
are the centres.        I    have demonstrated elsewhere, that                 h
                                                                           3
=T      is_                  of
                       the tangent straight line to
              the equation                                          any curve;
N being the normal,     the ordinate, and
                             y                any arbitrary in
                                                     12
crease or decrease of the  abscissa; and  that      homogene
                                                          it   is
ous to the equation which determines the length of the arc.
Therefore the circumference of circle and the side of plane
                                        a                              a
trian     are homogeneous quantities.
         1e
      hen we have to demonstrate            eneral property which
                                             a
necessarily involves in    notions of in<U+FB01>nity, we must rest the
                               it
demonstration as a postulate which must involve notions of
in<U+FB01>nity.    The di<U+FB02>iculty encountered in this theory of parallel
straight lines, arises therefore from the constitution of the hu
man mind, and cannot be overcome.
   “ Men learn the elements of science from others: and every
learner hath     deference more or less to authority, especially
                   a
the young learners, few of that kind caring to dwell long upon
principles, but inclined rather to take them upon trust. And
things early admitted by repetition become familiar. And this
familiarity at length passeth for evidence.    Now to me    seems     it
there are certain points tacitly admitted by mathematicians,
which are neither evident nor true. And such points or prin
ciples ever mixing with their reasonings, do lead them into pa
radoxes and perplexities.”-—( Berkeley, Defence of Free Thinking
in Mathematics, sec. 21.) \
                                                          JOHN WALSH.
XX. A           technical Description of Chloraster, a n_e'w Genus qf
         Narcisseae._       By A. H. Hnwoa'ru,   Esq. ELS. (5'0.
  To    the    Editors of    the Philosophical   Magazine and Journal.
   Gentlemen,                                                   \
                           E. E. in page
                   me to reply to          of your Miscellany
ALLOW
                                                    7
  for January    last, and to say that the account of the two
Narcissea: there mentioned was published in the Botanical
                                                     Register

                                                          '
                     a new Genus     qf Narcisseae.                       108
Register for the month of January 1824-; consequently a<U+FB01>er
you had published my descriptions in p. 440 of your Decem
ber Magazine: but a <U+FB01>gure of one of thém, or a plant allied
to them, without name, appeared in the Register for the
month of December, which h6wever, without dissection or de
scription, could not be determined.               ()ld Parkinson, in his
way, enumerates six species.
   As to the names of these plants,            I  never heard of or saw
either of them until they were published as above in January.
  And with respect to these plants forming a good enus, I have
no fear on that score, nor even of the admissibi<U+FB01>ty (into the
classic group to which it belongs) of the name Diomedes; because
Diomedea is one syllable longer, and because many generic
names are now in print which differ in ender only: and even
these must pass* in the vast sciences 0 natural history, where
such inconceivable numbers of eneric and subgeneric ap
pellations are wanted; not fewer t an ten thousand of which
will be occupied by Entomology alone l                                .
   As the above is but a very meagre communication, gentle
       I
                                                                            I
men,      will endeavour to make it more worthy of your at
tention, by subjoining to it a botanical description of what
consider to be another new genus of Narcissere, of two species,
and which, from its remarkable green starry <U+FB02>owers,                     I call
Chloraster, and remain
                                   Your most obedient         servant,
                                                                             ‘
Queen's Elm, Chelsea, Feb. 9,1824.           .        A. H. HAWORTH.
                CHLORA STER.       Narcissus a'uctorum      -
Spatha l—pluri<U+FB02>ora.          Corolltc laciniae lineares in gracillimam
         stellam patentes.      Corona minima, integra, vel hexa
         petalo-partita, singulis partibus incurvatim cochleatis
         incrassatis.    Filamenta omnino tubo adnata, 3, tubo
         breviora, 3 ejus longitudine.                                    I
             Herbce submaritimae Africanae bulbosae nudi<U+FB01>orae
         unifoliae, viridibus <U+FB02>oribus autumnalibus,          J onquillarum
         habitu odoreque, alio modo <U+FB02>orendi.
                        Specierum    Characteres.
<U+FB01>ssus.    CHL. (The cloven-cupped) corona hexapetaloidea.
    l.   Narcissus viridi<U+FB02>orus.       Bot. Mag. 1. 1687.
             Descriptio.   Gracilis  omni   parte. Scapus dodrantalis
          aliquantillum compressus       basi    crassitie calami corvini
   " surely they might and ought    to be avoided,   as names may be varied
ad irg<U+FB01>nitum.-Em'r.                                                     _
                                                                  laevxgatus

104        Mr. A. H. Haworth’s Description of Chloraster.
          lasvigatus  lucens czerulescenti-viridis.    Spatha in nostro
          vivo exemplari uni<U+FB02>ora (an semper ?) vix uncialis
          erecta striatula valde marcescens subferruginea.           Pe
          dunculus 2-uncialis erectus parum angulatus.          Germen
          (ratione magnitudinis plantaa) magnum grosse‘ ovale ob
          tusissimé trigonum.        Tubus vix uncialis teres lzevis
          sordidé prasino-viridulus.        Corolla- lacinize loratae 8
          lineares acute: lineam latae basi distinctae tubi colore
          stellato-semire<U+FB02>exae.       Corona primnlina sexpartita
          (quasi hexapetala) singulis partibus incrassatis erecto
          incurvulis sive concavo-cochleariformibus            rotundo
          obovatis laciniis corolla: concoloribus at septies bre
          vioribus.      Filamenta omnia omnino tubo connata,
          tria    tubo  2 lineas breviora,      tria longitudine tubi.
          Anthene (de<U+FB02>oratae in nostro) erecta: grossé ovales sive
          ellipticae sulcatae luteze, tres tubo alté inclusae harum
          media aliquantillum altior, tres e tubo paululum pro
          gredientes przecipué harum ultimarum media. Germen
          (<U+FB02>orendi tempore) habet semina varia incipientia, alba
          at majuscula.      Stylus gracilis teres viridis antherarum
          altitudine, stigmatibus in lente tribus horum duobus
          (in nostro) incompletis.      Folium solitarium in singnlo
          bulbo no'n vidi; at secundum auctores, scapo omnino
           conforme, at soli‘im post <U+FB02>orescentiam viget.          Floret
          (in nostro exemplari) in Decembre.           Habitat in Bar
          bariae maritimis.
 integer.     CHL- (The entire-cupped) spatha 2-8-<U+FB02>ora'i, corona
    2.     integra.    Narcissus Juncifolius autumnalis <U+FB02>ore viridi.
           Park. Parad. 94. 11. t. 93.       6.
              Hanc plantain non vidi, et <U+FB01>delis Parkinsoni <U+FB01>de
          solum admisi.       A priore di<U+FB02>'ert corona integra nec
          hexapetalo-partita.      Habitat in Barbaria.      Parkinson
          in loco. Floret Octob. ibid.
    P.S. It is apprehended that as both the above described
plants have green <U+FB02>owers, no apology is necessary for relin
quishing the speci<U+FB01>c name of viridg<U+FB02>orus for the former, as
names which have any tendency to mislead or delude, are ever
 objectionable, and the green <U+FB02>owers are common to both.
                                                         XXI.    Papers

                                  [105]
 XXI. Papers      relating to theEartlzquake which occurred         inlndia
                                  in 18  I 9.":
                To William Erskine, Esq.          ‘30.  Bombay.
       My dear Sir,
                at your suggestion that I attempted to draw up
AStheit wasfollowing account of the earthquake which occurred
in India in June 1819,       I  beg that, should you consider it as at
all interesting, you will do me the favour to present it to the
Society.     It consists of a plain description, and no circum
stance has been admitted that has not been well certi<U+FB01>ed ; at
the same time it must be observed, that the whole is written
from memory, or very scanty memoranda.
                 I remain,   my dear sir, yours very faithfully,
Camp at Bhooj, Jan. 27, 1820.                (Signed)      J. AIACMURDO.
   P. S. At noon this day       we had a very strong shock, attended
by a loud noise like distant thunder. Several shocks have like
wise occurred since the accompanying details were written.
    On   the 16th of June 1819, between <U+FB01>fteen and ten minutes
before seven o’clock P.M., a shock of an earthquake was felt
in Cutch; and as it appears to have been remarkable in India
for the great extent of its range, and also for the very con
<U+FB01>ned limits of its severe effects,            I shall attempt to describe
the course and results of the phenomena as they appeared in
this province, without o<U+FB02>'erin any scienti<U+FB01>c speculations, for
which I am totally unqualifgied, or even stating opinions on
the subject which      I have heard advanced by others.
    The shock was foretold by no uncommon appearance in the
heavens; at least nothing was remarked previously, either in
the heavenly bodies or in the atmosphere, to indicate the ap
proach of any convulsion of nature.                    The hot months had
passed    on with   the  clear  and   serene     sky, the burning sun, and
the westerly wind, which commonly prevails at that season
of the year. It was observed that the month of May was ex
tremely hot, perhaps more so than usual, but the thermometer
 seldom higher than 108° or 110° of Fahrenheit in the shade
 of a tent, and generally not above 105°. On the evening of
the 3d June we experienced a severe storm of rain and wind,
 with thunder and lightning from the north-east quarter, an
 occurrence by no means uncommon at the same season; the
 storm lasted about two hours, with rain through the night,
   4* From the Transactions    of the Literary Society of Bombay, vol. iii., for
 1822
    V51. 63. No. 510. Feb. 1824.                        0                  was

 106               Papers relating to the Earthquake
 was pretty general            the province, and was felt     some
                                                           in
                       though
 places to the eastward o Bhooj in a degree approaching to a
 hurricane.
     In the description of the shock it will be necessary to speak
 in the <U+FB01>rst person, because I can only pretend to describe with
 correctness my own feelings, thoughts, and observations.        In
 the subsequent observations, however, I shall avail myself of
 those felt and made by others under different circumstances
 and in different situations.
     At the moment already mentioned, after a hot day, I was
 sitting with a party of friends on an earthen terrace, in front
 of a house in which we were about to (line. The evening was
 remarkably serene, not a cloud to be seen, and a light and
 cool breeze from the west.       The situation was on a ridge of
 slate rock in the town of Anjar, and close under a large round
 tower with four heavy guns mounted on it.         Our notice was
 <U+FB01>rst attracted by a slight motion of our chairs, as if they had
 been lifted up, and a noise from the doors and windows, as if
 they had been moved by the breeze: before the question of
 “ What is that?” could be uttered a second lifting of the
 chairs took place, and the motion became too evident to be
 mistaken even by me, who had never before experienced a
 shock.     Every person made what haste he could to leave the
 tower, which, after rolling and heaving in a most awful de
              way at the bottom, on the western face, and crum
 gree,
   ling gave
          own, buried guns and carriages in the rubbish: a mo
 ment after, the towers and curtains of the fort wall, and up
 wards of <U+FB01>fteen hundred houses, were reduced to ruins; but
 as I was within thirty yards of the round tower, my attention
 was particularly drawn to it.
     The opinions with regard to the len th of time which this
 shock lasted are various, but appear to ie limited to from two
to four minutes: my own conviction is that the <U+FB01>rst is nearest
the truth, and perhaps even a little beyond the mark.           On
subsequently observing the time by a watch, it seems to me
that if the motion had continued for more than two minutes,
no building could have been left entire. Allowances must be
made for a itation at the moment, and the general voice seems
to fix the uration of the severe shocks at two minutes and a
hal<U+FB01>     A philosopher, who had been in the habit of observing
and speculating on the great convulsions of nature, might
have coolly taken out his watch and been delighted with the
opportunity of addin to the knowled e which the experience
of the shock might iave afforded.          or my own part, how
ever, my feelings at the moment were such as for an instant
to deprive me of all presence of mind and power of re<U+FB02>ection;
                                                               and

                 ,   whichoccurred. in India in 1819.             107
  and when self-possession did return, my mind was too
                                                                deeply
  occupied with the awful and appalling spectacle of the face
  of nature in a state of excessive agitation to admit of other
  thoughts or impressions.       It certainly was terri<U+FB01>c to behold
  hills, towers, and houses, the stability of which we had been
  in the habit of considering as proof against every power, and
  against the lapse of centuries, rocking to and fro, or rising
  and sinking, while the former sent forth clouds of dust, or
 perhaps smoke, and the latter crumbled into rubbish.
     With regard to the nature of the motion there is likewise a
 variety of opinions.     Some persons with whom I have con
 versed feel convinced of the'action of the shock being directly
 upwards, as if the earth was on the point of opening under
 their feet; a few assert that it was vibratory, whilst others at
 tribute to it an undulating motion.        I confess I am one of
 those who favour the lastrmentioned opinion, althou h the
 slight motion at the commencement did certainly fail as a
 direct elevation of the chair attended by a blow as if under its
 feet.    When the shock was at its height, the motion of the
 earth was so strongly undulatory that to keep our feet was no
 easy matter.      The waving of the surface was perfectly visible,
 and in attempting to walk, the motion has been most aptly
 compared by a gentleman to that felt when walking quickly
 on a long plank supported at both ends ;—when one foot was
 elevated, the earth either rose and met    it,  or sunk away from
it  in its descent.                                        ~
    The shock was attended with a violent gust of wind and         a
noise like that of a numerous <U+FB02>ight of birds; but this did not
precede the event;     I   think, on the contrary, that the noise
was heard even after, or at all events towards the conclusion
of the motion. Both of these occurrences have been denied,
although, for my own part, feel convinced that they did hap
                             I
pen; more especially as the noise has been frequently heard
to accompany subsequent shocks.
                                                                    I
    The night of the 16th proved                 serene and beauti
ful; and as we slept in the open extremelly
                                      air, we       a favourable'op
                                                  ad_
portunity of remarking any thing extraordinary that might
occur.     We observed, as we thought, a more than usual num
ber of the meteors known by the name of falling stars; but
whether we might not have been biassed by what we had read
of such phzenomena having been supposed to attend earth
quakes,I     will not venture to affirm. Before 11 o’clock RM.
we experienced three shocks; and, according to the
                                                          statements
of the sentinels and townspeople, there were. many in the
course of the            These were however tri<U+FB02>ing, and their
effects were con night.
                    ned to shaking the tiles and bringing to the
                                 O 2                          ground

108             Paper: relating to the Earthquake
   ound loose stones from the ruined houses. The next day,
the 17th, the earth was frequently in motion, attended by
gusts of wind and a noise like that of wheeled carriages.     For
some time before 10 A.M. these symptoms intermitted only
for a few minutes, until about a quarter to 10, when a severe
shock was experienced; this lasted for about <U+FB01>fty seconds,
and brought down a number of shattered buildings.
   As no revister has been kept, or could well have been pre
served, of like number of shocks felt, it is impossible to fur
nish particulars on this head. Until the beginning of August,
no day passed without one or more shocks; and subsequently
they became less frequent, only occurring every third or fourth
day. During the whole of this time the shocks were generally
very slight; many persons did not feel'what was sensibly felt
by others. Subsequently to this period shocks became still
less frequent, occurrin   at uncertain periods of many days in
terval, until the 28d of November, which seems to be the last
distinct one we have had.
   It would be hazardous to state a decided opinion of the
number of shocks felt, both in conse uence of the cause before
assigned, and because motions of t e earth appear to have
been felt in one spot and not in others; but as it is necessary
to give some vague idea to enable a judgement to be formed
by the reader, it may be observed that probably until the 151:
of July there were not fewer than two or even three shocks
every day; one daily throughout that month; one every three
days in August and September; and perhaps six in the course
of October ; and three in November.      This calculation, which
is made avowedly on no solid grounds, gives short of 100
shocks in all; and it is probable that the number is at least a
third within the truth.
   I know not how to class the shocks, unless in the fanciful
manner of 1st, 2d, 3d and 4th, implying the degree of their
severity. Of the 1st, we had only the <U+FB01>rst and most violent;
of the 2d, which were such as could be felt by a person while
standing, but without affecting buildings in any material de
gree, we had,   I think, about four; these occurred as follows :
 17th June, 10 A.M.; 29th June, 2 P.M.; 4th Jul , 3 A.M.:
and another at midnight in the same month, but t e day for
gotten: the longest of these did not last more than 50 se
conds. The third class, which is the most numerous, are
those shocks evident to persons sitting or reclining; few of
these lasted longer than perhaps 30 seconds, and did no da
mage.    The fourth class is that in which are included slight
motions of the earth, felt by some and disputed by others
   The motions of the different classes were by many. con
                                                          sidered

                  which occurred in India in 1819.              -            109
sidered as undulatory and vibratory; although in some in
stances direct perpendicular shocks were certainly felt.                    The
second class was remarked to be attended by a noise like that
of a flight of birds and gusts of wind, and in some cases similar
noises to those already mentioned followed or preceded the
third class.      Noises were frequently heard as if proceeding
from the earth, and the expectation which they occasioned of
the usual shock was never disappointed.
   The direction in which the motion travelled was, as almost
every other part of this phaenomenon, disputed; many (of
which I was at <U+FB01>rst one) believed that the direction was
from N.E. to SW. The most general opinion, and nearly                    whic
appears since to be corroborated by circumstances, was, that
it was from SW. to N.E.
   The severe effects of the shock of the 16th were principally
con<U+FB01>ned to the province of Cutch, the damage done to other
countries even bordering on it being comparatively tri<U+FB02>ing;
and it is remarkable that the shock appears to have been more
severely felt in many distant countries than it was in those in
termediate, and even in some~closely bordering on 'Cutch.
The great shock was felt at Calcutta about twenty minutes
past eight o’clock; which, when corrected to the lon itude
of Bhooj, will give six minutes past seven o’clock P. ., or
eighteen minutes later than the shock was felt in Cutch.
   At Chunar the severe shock was felt at seven minutes past
eight o’clock P.M. on the 16th, equal to 7h 15m 16s Cutch
time.                                                                     .
   At Pondicherry it       was experienced at eight P.M., equal to
twenty minutes past seven o’clock Bhooj time.
   At Ahmedabad the shock occurred about seven o’clock;
but at Broach, which is little more than 3° E. of Bhooj, it
occurred at nineteen minutes past seven o’clock, corrected by
observation 4‘.      This extraordinary variation in the moment
of the occurrence of the great shock can hardly be accounted
for by neglect or error in <U+FB01>xing the moment, or from errors
in the watches.
          E. Long.               E. Long.                      E. Long.
Calcutta, 88° 28’         Chunar, 82° 54'          Pondicherry, 79° 58'
Bhooj,    69 58           Bhooj, 69 58            Bhooj,          69 58
          18  30, or diff.        12  56, or di<U+FB01>'.                10   0, or di<U+FB01>‘.
               Time.                 Time.                  Time.
               1"  14m             0" 51'“ 44’              0“    40'“
               8   20              8    7    0               8      0
               7    6              7   I5  16               7     20
                            * Bombay newspaper.
                                                                            The

 l 10           .   Papers relating to the Earthquake
    The utmost limits within which this earthquake   was felt, as
 far as we  have yet learned, may  be <U+FB01>xed at Catmandoo   in the
 north, Pondicherry to the south, Calcutta to the east, and
 the Mountains of Billoochistan to the west.    In Nepal it was
 felt sensibly on the evening of the 16th June, the exact time
 not speci<U+FB01>ed.     At Calcutta the shock was felt very sensibly,
 but apparentl not so severely as at Chunar, and more so than
in Malwa an Khandesh, in many parts of which it was not
felt at all. At Pondicherry it was severely experienced, and
described as much more awful than in many intermediate pro
vinces. In Sindh it was felt very partially and slightly; and
similarly at Shikarpoor on the southern frontier of the Pesha
war country.
   The range of the great shock is therefore known to have
embraced a space of 18° of lat. and 20° of long.          In many
particular spots in this extent of country, of course, the mo
tion was either not noticed or did not occur; but it was se
verely or sensibly felt at these limits on the evening of the 16th
June.
   The ocean extending S. and S.W. from Cutch will pro
hibit our ever knowing the limits of the shock in those direc
tions; but it may be remarked that early in June a severe
earthquake occurred at Mockha on the Red Sea; but I have
never heard that it was experienced (or that of ours of the
16th) at Muscat, which is nearly due west of Cutch *.
   What forms, in my opinion, one of the most              cir
 cumstances connected with this phaenomenon        striking ould
                                                  that      is,   it  s
 have been felt over such an extensive surface, and that its se
verity should have been con<U+FB01>ned to the limited space of 200
miles or less.  The damage sustained by Bulliaree, AmerCOte,
and Jesilmer, which all lie in the Desert and north of Cntch,
points out that the severity of the motion extended beyond
Cutch in that particular direction; yet Sindh, Marwar, and
Guzerat, including the peninsula of Kattewar, all of which
border on this province, suffered nothing      The destructive
                                                     -|-.
motion, therefore, seems to have been con<U+FB01>ned to         narrow   a
space, running in    direction 'of N.N.E. from Bhooj, as far as
                      a
Jesilmer.   How far extended in an opposite point
                          it                                 im    it   is
possible to say; but taking Cutch as a centre, the radius
   4*
        may not be super<U+FB02>uous to remark, that about the beginning of June
        It
1819, Mount Etna was threatening to bury in its lava the cities in its vici
nity Vesuvius was in a similar state of violent agitation; and earthquakes
   ;
were felt in different parts of ltaly, and
                                        I   believe in Sicily, although not in
the vicinity of these mountains.
  -|~ Poorbundor, Moorbee, and Amrun, are exceptions; but those people
who have seen its effects in these places and in Cutch declare the former to
be comparatively insigni<U+FB01>cant.
                                                                      should

                   which occurred in India in 1819.                   111
should have extended into Persia and Arabia, and nearly to
the equator. As we know, however, that the shock of the
16th was not felt in these countries, it follows that Cutch was
not the centre of motion, because, if the cause of this phase
nomenon had its origin in Cutch *, the power which agitated
the earth must have acted nearly entirely to the eastward of a
line extending north and south through the centre of the pro
vmce.
   That the cause'of the shock, wherever it had its seat, must
have been at a vast depth below the surface of the earth, may
perhaps be admitted, when we re<U+FB02>ect on the immense surface
moved; but, as      I
                   have already observed, my want of know
ledge on the philosophical branch of the subject warns me to
stop.
    We come now to speak of the effects of this awful occur
rence. And <U+FB01>rst of all it may be proper to advert to our own
feelings, and the state of our minds, on witnessing, for the
<U+FB01>rst time, such a visitation. If I were to say that the impres
 sion, after the shock had subsided, was an agonizing fear, it
 might perhaps o<U+FB01>'end, although the strong oppression at the
heart, a kind of gaspin anxiety, weakness in the limbs, and,
in some cases among          uropeans, and generally throughout
the natives, a slight sickness of stomach1-, certainly cannot be
interpreted in more appropriate language.
    For a long time, and indeed          I
                                        believe up to the present
day, among     natives, similar symptoms in a less degree are felt
on the occurrence of the slight shocks; but for a short time
after the 16th there was a restlessness and disinclination to be
alone, or to attend to usual occupations, visible in both Euro
pean and native societies.       In the latter, despair and help
lessness were strongly depicted in their countenances, and
their language and actions both corroborated the fact of these
feelings being the sole tenants of their minds.     They insisted
to a man that there was almost a constant undulatory-motion
in the earth, and frequent vibrations between the shocks, for
ten days after the 16th; and this last feeling among Euro
peans was, I believe, con<U+FB01>ned to myself and one or two other
persons.
    The brute creation in general did not appear to show much
sensibility to the motion; but it was remarked that horses in
   * From the circumstance of the shocks still continuing in this province
alone up to this day, now nearly eight months, i confess that, ignorant as
I am of the theory of earthquakes, I am inclined to think that the causes
are to be found in the structure of the country.
      The information from Pondicherry states similar feeling to have been
    -|-                                      a
excited there on the 16th.
                                                                  action

    l   12           Papers relating to the Earlhquake
    action partially lost their equilibrium, and that pigeons and
    other birds roosting were delicately sensible of the least mo
    tion.     The elephants in Bhooj broke from their pickets, and
    seemingly in            alarm attempted to rush through the street,
    till obstructei great
                       by  the  falling of houses.
        The shock of the 16th was the only one by which the face
    of nature or the works of man were materially injured or
    changed.       In the province of Cutch it may be fairly asserted
    that no town escaped feeling its effects, either in the fall of
    houses or in that of its forti<U+FB01>cations.        It would be dif<U+FB01>cult to
    particularize the damage done toeach.            I shall therefore con
    <U+FB01>ne myself to general remarks.
        The capital naturally attracts our <U+FB01>rst attention; and, as
    fortune would have       it,   Bhooj suffered in many respects more
    severely   than   any   other   town; nearly seven thousand houses,
      reat and small, were overturned, and eleven hundred and
    forty or <U+FB01>fty people buried in the ruins. The houses were
    built of stone and chunam, or in many cases mud instead of
    this cement.       Such houses as were built of mud alone, were
    little or no ways affected by the shock.         Of the ori inal num
    ber of houses which escaped ruin, about one-thirdg are much
    shattered.      Bhooj stands in a plain of sand-stone covered with
    a thin soil of sand and clay, but in many parts the rock            ex
                                                                         is
    posed. To the north-eastward about half a mile rises an
    abrupt hill, apparently composed of solid rock, on which are
    extensive forti<U+FB01>cations.          The north-eastern face of the town
    wall, which     is  a stron      modern building, on an average four
                                    fget
    and a half and <U+FB01>ve                broad, and u wards of twenty feet
    high,   was  laid  level  nearly to the fou      ation; whilst the hill
    works suffered in      a     very tri<U+FB02>ing degree.      The south and
    western sides of the town are Situated upon a low ridge of
    sand rock, and the water from the town <U+FB01>nds its way out to
    the northward, where       is  an extensive swamp of low and springy
    ground.      This face has also been overturned in many places,
    and not a hundred yards of entire wall left.             The town has
    been utterly destroyed in the N.N.E. quarters, while the S.
    and SW. quarters stand comparatively little injured.               have
    entered thus particularly into minutiae, to explain what          I I
                                                                       con
'
    ceive   to have   been   the  case  every where,  that  buildings  situ
    ated upon rock were not by any means so much affected by
    the earthquake as those whose foundations did not reach the
    bottom of the soil, which             conceive to have been the case
                                           I
    with those houses on the swampy and low sides of Bhooj *2
                                                                              At
         There are some           exceptions to this observation: Roha, which  is
     *
    a fort on  rocky bill, strong
                a           was aid in ruins, while the lower town, on the plain,
                                                                        escaped

                      which occurred   in India in   1819.                118
   At Anjar, half of the town, which     is situated on low rocky
 ridges, suffered comparatively nothin ; whilst the otheryhalf,
 upon a slope to a plain of springs an swamps, into which the
town is drained, was entirely overturned.       About 1500 houses
were destroyed from the foundations, and about a similar num
ber rendered uninhabitable.       The loss in lives amounted to
 165, besides a number who afterwards (lied of their bruises.
 The fort wall consisted of 3000 yards of masonry in cir
cumference, not more than three feet and a half thick, and in
some places forty feet high; and in this extent are
                                                          included
31 towers,   round and square.     Of this 1000 yards are level
with the ground, 1333 yards destroyed to within ten feet of
the bottom, and only 667 yards standing to the rampart, and
the greatest part of this split in half *2    All the houses ex
cepting four are cut as it were in two; in some the inner and
in others the outer half has crumbled into ruins.        The east
and swampy face is down to the very surface of the earth.
    There are, or rather were, a great number of forti<U+FB01>ed towns
throughout Cutch: in general their works are destroyed.
T hera, which was esteemed the best in the province, has not
a stone unturned; the town fortunately did not suffer in the
same unparalleled degree, although few or no houses were
left securely habitable +.
    Kotheree, another town of the same kind <U+FB01>ve or six miles
from Thera, was reduced to a heap of rubbish, only about
<U+FB01>fty or sixty gable ends of ruins left standinv.       The forti
<U+FB01>cations down, but not so utterly destroyed as those of
Them.
   hlothora, a similar place to those described, suffered equally
in houses and ram arts, and more in lives than any place of
its size.  Nulliah,   otharee, Venjan, and man        other towns
of the same size and description, suffered near y in the same
manner; but it would be a much easier task to enumerate
those that escaped.     Among the latter, Mandvee, Moondra,
Sandhan, Poonree, B‘uchao, and Adooee, may be recorded as
the most fortunate.    The total of lives lost, according to the
escaped undamaged.       Moondra, Mandree, and Sandhan,           to the sea
                                                           close
shore, situated very low, and in sandy plains, escaped wlth little damage.
It is probable, however, that their foundations are on the strata of sand_
stone, which at different depths appear to be the support of the S(_)ll of the
whole rovince.                                       .
   'I' T e walls of Anjar were remarkably  bad, and In most places off the
perpendicular:    they are not more than one hundred and ten years _old. _
  -|~  The towns mentioned do not contain more than      5or 6000 inhabit
ants.
   Vol.   63.   No.   310.   Feb. 1824.            P                    best

114-               .  Papers relating to the Earthquake
best information       I have' been   able to procure, does not exceed
two thousand:         of these,
                                                        Bodies.
                   In    Bhooj, .      .    .   .  .   1140*
                   In    Anjar,    .   .    .   .  .     165
                    In   Mothora,      .    .   .   .     73
                    In   Thera, .      .    .   .   .     65
                    In   Kotheree,     .    .   .   .     34
                    In   Nulliah,  .   .    .   .   .       8
                     In  Mandree,       .   .   .   .     4-5
                     In  Luckput,      .    .   .   .     13
                                              Total,   1543
 The rest      are chie<U+FB02>     sufferers in villages and small towns, of
which no very aut entic account can be procured.                     Many
Very distressing accidents might be related; but                I know of
none so much so as that of a whole family of women and chil-_
dren male and female, to the number of eleven people, the
wives and offspring of a Jhareja famil of rank in Mothora,
being smothered in one room (where tiey had hastily assem
bled) by a lofty bastion being precipitated directly upon their
apartment.        An aged randfather and one son, I believe,
are alone left of the stock;         It is remarkable that under the
heaviest misfortunes of mankind there is generally some cause
for congratulation; and in the case of this calamity, had the
accident occurred in the night time, perhaps a third 'of the
pepulation of the province would have been buried in the
ruins of their own dwelling-houses.
    As far as comes under-our notice, the face of nature has
not been much altered by the shocks. The hills, which are
most likely to show its effects, although from their abruptness
and conical or sharp ridgy summits, and from the multitude
of half-detached rocks with which they are generally covered,
they might have been expected to have displayed strong marks
of the convulsion by which the Y were agitated, have in no in
stance, to my personal knowle ge, su<U+FB01>'ered more than having
had large masses of rock and Soil detached from their preci
pices. I have seen none with the-cones        i
                                                      <U+FB02>attened, or in any
                                                                             ‘
remarkable degree altered.                _
    At the moment of the shock vast clouds of dust were seen
to ascend from the summits of almost every hill and range of
hills. _ Many gentlemen perceived smoke to ascend, and in
some instances <U+FB01>re was plainly seen bursting forth for a mo
   “  Registered  and discovered;  but upwards of 300 bodies never found in '
the ruins.
      '
                                                                     ment.

                  which occurred     in India in     1819.              1 15
m'ent.    A respectable native chieftain* a'SSured me, that from
a hill close to one on which his fortress is situated, <U+FB01>re was
seen to issue in considerable quantities.   A ball of a large size
was vomited as it were into the air, and fell to the       round,
still blazing, on the plain below; where it divided into four or
<U+FB01>ve pieces, and the <U+FB01>re suddenly disappeared. On examin
ing the hill next day (the chieftain stated) itv was found rent
and shattered, as if something within had sunk, and the spot
where the <U+FB01>re-ball was supposed to have fallen bore marks
of <U+FB01>re in the scorched vegetation.             In the neighbourhood of
Murr, where alum is made, and where an entire hill is formed
of a bituminous earth           <U+FB01>re
                             -|-,       is stated by the inhabitants to
have issued to an alarming extent.              The Government Agent
on the spot reported thevcircumstance,              and that the hill had
been shattered, and rent into ravines: the height was likewise
asserted to have been obviously reduCed             It.
    The rivers in Cutch are generally dry (excepting in the
                    -
monsoon), or have very little water in them.               Native accounts
 seem to con<U+FB01>rm the fact of almost the whole of their beds
having been <U+FB01>lled to their banks for period of a few minutes,
                                                a
and, according to some, for, half an hour.                They are said to
have    subsided   gradually.     I_was    not  in  the  way   of observing
this part of _ the phaenomenbn, but have no reason to doubt it.
 Two chie<U+FB01>ains were sent by me to settle dispute among the
                                                    a
 Sandhan'Bhyaut; and as they travelled in a ruth, they knew
 nothing of the shock. After         it   was dusk they reached the
 Sandhan 7 river, in which, to their utter astonishment, they
 found     astrong stream from bank to bank nor did they learn
                                                    ;
 the cause till they reached the town.                It  is remarked that
 rivers  in  the' valleys, and  those    with  sandy     beds,    were alone
 affected.     Wells every where over<U+FB02>owed, many gave way and
 fell in, and in numerous places spotsof grOund in circles of
 from twelve to twenty feet diameter threw out water to a con-'
 siderable height, and subsided into a slough‘                 Isaw none of
 these actually    forming,   but   frequently     met   with  them   in their
 sloughy    state.    The  colour  of  the  waters   sent  forth   gave  great
 alarm to the natives, many of whom af<U+FB01>rmed that the rivers
 had run in blood, doubtless from the'colour of the soil through
                                                                '
 which they had been forced.                ,                      .
 ' "*
     Jharejah Vijerajjee of Roha: which place        is          miles W. of
                                                     twenty-six
   00 .V                          >            .            - a
   l   have the pleasure to send    a specimen of this earth to the Society.
   is 1-
It burnt as an incense by the rajpoots, and those. who worship the god   ‘
                                 >
dess Asshapooi'ra.       .                           '
                                                                   :2an
         letter from my friend Captain Elwood states, that an appearancepf
 I      A
<U+FB01>re was perceived by him near Poorbunder; and the earth on
                                                       - -     ~ - 3': I
proved to be scorched, and to bear marks of <U+FB01>re.
                                                               -
                                    P   2                              This

116                        Papers relating to the Earthquake
   This convulsion of nature has n<U+FB02>'ected the eastern and al
most deserted channel of the river Indus, which bounds Cutch
to the westward, and the Runn or desert, and swamp called
the Bhunnee, which insulates this province on the north, in a
more remarkable manner than it has any other part of the
country.             I
            myself have seen this branch of the Indus forded
at Luckput, with 'water for a few hundred yards about a foot
deep.   This was when the tide was at ebb; and when at <U+FB02>ood
 the depth of the channel was never more than six feet, and
 about eighty or one hundred yards in breadth: the rest of
 the channel at <U+FB02>ood-tide was not covered in any place with
 more than one or two feet of water.     This branch of the river
 Indus, or, as it may now with more propriety be termed, inlet
of the sea     has since the earthquake deepened at the ford of
                     4*,
 Luckput to more than eighteen feet at low water; and on
sounding the channel,       has been found to contain from four'
                                    it
to twenty feet from the Cutch to the Sindh shore,         distance         a
of three or four miles. The Allibund has been damaged; a
circumstance that has re-admitted of a navigation which had
been closed tbr centuries.    The goods of Sindh are embarked
in craft near Ruhema Bazar and Kanjee Kacote; and which,
sailing across the Bhunnee and Runn, land their cargoes at
a town called Nurra on the north of Cutch.            The Runn,
which extends from Luckput round the north of this province
to its eastern boundary,       fordable but at one spot, at this
                                      is
period   of the year,  at which     has heretofore been dry; and
                                            it
should the water continue throu bout the year, we may per
haps see an inland navigation gong the northern shore of
 Cntch: which, from stone anchors 8m. still to be seen, and
the tradition of the country,     believe to have existed at some
                                           I
former period.                                                     ‘
   Sindree,     small mud fort and village belonging to the
                      a
Cutch Government, situated where the Runn joins the branch
of the Indus, was over<U+FB02>owed at the time of the shock. The
people escaped with difficulty, and the tops of the town-wall
are now alone to be seen above the water.-—The fate of Sin
dree was owing to its situation, for there cannot be        doubt           a
of all the Runn land having during the shock sent forth vast
quantities of water and mud. The natives described           num               a
ber of small cones of sand six or eight feet in height, the sum
      of which continued to bubble for many days after the
mit;
list .
   The sea must have been affected by the motion of the earth;
                           ,1)"
  *   It   is   many years si'iice the eastern branch   of the Indus   has been almost
deserted        bythe waters of the river.
                                                                                   but

                       which occuwcd       in India in 1819.                111
 but nothing material or positive has been discovered on this
  part of the subject.
   -
      Although the appearance of the country in Cutch bespeaks
  that it has suffered at some period from convulsions of nature;
  and although there are stron signs of volcanic matter thickly
  scattered over its surface, sti there does not exist even a tra—
  (lition of an earthquake" of any violence having occurred.
  The natives, therefore, were perfect strangers to such a phas
 nomenon, and were terri<U+FB01>ed in proportion to their ignorance.
  The instantaneous and <U+FB01>rm belief adopted by all sects and
 descriptions was, that the world was at its end; and their
 minds were impressed accordinglyf. After the <U+FB01>rst alarm
 had subsided, advantage began to be taken of the circum
 stance.        The Brahmins enjoined charity to the Hindoos;
 and placards were issued from unknown quarters, foretelling
  misfortunes to those who did not feed their priests, or who
 persevered in sin. One of these papers was stated to have
  come from Kassee (Benares); and as it had a remarkable
 e<U+FB02>'ect upon all classes of Hindoos, I am induced to submit a
  verbal translation of it.
      “ A letter has been received in the name of Shri Ramjee.
 It has come from Kassi Benares. In the middle of this Iron
 Age, the Golden Age will make its appearance: Shri Bhud
 dajee will appear. Of the iron age have elapsed 4912 yearsi;
 and after Sumvut 1876 (AJ). 1819) the golden age will last
  13,083 years.         On the 5th Asonsood (or 24th September
  1819), a<U+FB01>er twent -tw0 ghurries of the n' ht have. elapsed, at
 that moment will ghuddajee appear, and t e golden a e com
 mence.        The earth will shake for seven ghurries an thirty
 pulls.      The earth will open: then will false and uncharitable
 people be swallowed up. They who are charitable and reli
 gious, depend upon Bhugwan,                      alms, do virtuous actions,
 and fear bad actions,—these wi give         1 be saved.     The golden age
 will last 18,033 years: the                  e of man will be 250 years.
 There will be universal friends ip and peace. Every month
 will consist of forty-<U+FB01>ve days; every day consist of ninety
 ghurries.        There will be thirty-six mansions of the moon:
     * The   slight shocks felt of late years in Guzerat were also experienced
~ in this
          province
        A few minutes after the shock, I walked through the streets of Anjar,
 which were crowded with people sitting on the ruins of their houses and
  shops which had fallen into the road.         They appeared to me to be in a
  state little short of mental derangement; and to a question put, the onlv
  answer to be got was “ Ram Krusbnf’ which they repeated constantly and
  loud! , apparently unconscious of what they were saying.
     i  This appears to be a mistake, as 4920 years have elapsed.
                                      .                                  t h ere

118    Papers relating to the Earthquake in India in 1819.
there will be twelve planets: there will be <U+FB01>fteen signs in the
zodiac. At night, when thirteen rhurries remain, then will
the golden age commence: Bhu dajee will appear.                 This
event   has  been  extracted  from the  Vedes   after much    study.
From the Shri Bhud Maha Grunth, after intense study, has
it been extracted. Whosoever reads, hears, or causes to be
heard, copies, or spreads abroad this letter, will be fortunate. _
Believe in  it, for he who denies its truth kills a Brahlnin or a
cow.     He who has not faith will be damned: he who believes
will be saved, he will be happ he will attain to the presence
                                    ,
of Bhugwan.       Shri Krushan amotherjee         truth.”
                                                   is
    This paper was written in the Bridge Bhakha dialect, and
 Balbood character.      At the hour appointed in       for the de
                                                             it
 struction of sinners, almost every Hindoo of respectability
puri<U+FB01>ed himself, and sat with the toolsi leaf in his mouth,
patiently expecting a fate which he had endeavoured to evade
by liberal donations to Brahmins          *.                              r
    The Moosulmans were equall alarmed, and abundance of
threats of punishment to the wiclied were fulminated from the
musjeeds; and a paper asserted to have come from Mecca,
with the usual seals attached, foretold the approach of the
day of judgement,      The Moolahs and mendicant Sijeds stated
 the cause_ of the earthquake to be, that the horse Dooldool was
 pawing for his food, and strict injunctions were issued to all
 good Mahomedans to send a certain quantity of                   and,
 grass to the Moolahs 8m. to satisfy Dooldool, whic supplies
                                                         {grain   1
 were appropriated to the pious lVIoolah’s own private emolu
 ment.
    The Hindoos attributed the earth’s motion to a quarrel
 among the Dyets and Dewas, and fabricated the most ludicrous
 stories 0n~the subject. Prophets sprung up from all classes,
 casts and sects: some asserted that they had foretold the ca-»
 lamity which had occurred; others boldly pointed out the
 hour and moment at which still more calamitous events were
 to happen; and in short there was superabundant display of
                                           a
 every thing absurd or extravagant that could be advanced by
 ignorance and presumption, deceit' and superstition.
  It   may be remarked that the monsoon commenced about
 the 11th of July in some places of the province, and later in
 others. The memory of any person living can furnish no ex
 ample of so severe   a  season.  The rain in the western parts
  '  Even the Banians are said to have sold their goods at just rates andv
with fair weights for some time previously to the dreaded day.      circum
                                                                      A
stance so extraordinary, as honesty ina   Banian retailer,
                                                        is certain proof of
                                                                          ‘
the impression which the prophecy   had made on his mind.
                                                                          of

                        C. Keferstein     on IV/zite' Copper.                 119
 of Cutch        fell in such torrents for hours successively,               that,
 combined with occasional shocks of the earthquake, it excited
 the most alarming fears in the minds of the inhabitants.                       To
 the eastward we had it less severe, though equally constant;
and were I to say that for two months we never had a day
 without some rain,            I belieVe     I   should not be exaggerating.
 In consequence, the crops have either failed, or could never
 be sown; and grain is now selling at the rate at which it sold
 in Cutch in the famine of 1812-13.                   We have always much
 thunder and lightning in Cutch during the monsoon, this sea
 son     I  think more than common; and the heavy clouds, which
 for a period of three months never ceased to travel close to
 the earth from the S.W., obscured the sun for many days suc
 cessively. We had also a storm of wind from the westward,
 which amounted to a hurricane in the western parts of Cutch.
~Tliese occasionally have happened before, and are called by
 the natives lzoo'walz.             .      "3
                                               -        W;
      Such are the details of the circumstances attending the
 earthquake of 1819.             I have much reason to solicit the par,
 don of the Society for having descended to such tri<U+FB02>ing par
 ticulars; and the only apology I have to offer, is the circum
stance of such a phaenomenon having so seldom occurred in
 India with similar violence.
                                                  (Signed)   J. l\’IACMURDO,
Camp       at Bhooj, Jan. 27, 1820.           1         Captain 7th regt. N. k
       l
                                 [T o be continued]
XXII.          On White Copper. By C. KEFERSTEIN. Read at 11
    Meeting of the German Emplorers of Nature at Halle, Sep‘;
     tember 18, 1828 *2                                                        .
               a considerable      period white copper has been made
FOR     and manufactured at Suhl, in the Henneberg country, and
the neighbouring places, particularly for the mounting of guns                     -
or <U+FB01>relocks, but likewise for other purposes, as for spurs and
the like-|-.       This metal strongly resembles silver, even to de
ception, keeps excellently without tarnishing, has the colour
of silver on the touch-stone, is not brittle, but on the contrary
extremely malleable, contains no arsenic like the metallic com;
pound usually called white copper; ‘ and is therefore very
useful in the manufactories at Suhl.
    * From     Schweigger’s News Journal, band ix. p. 17
   1-  The French and Spanish gun-manufacturers‘are said to ornament their
<U+FB01>nest guns with the same metal, as it is peculiarly ada ted to that purpose.
They say they obtain this metal from the East Indies.        'Iore particular data
                                                                               ‘
on this subject have not come to my knowledge.
                                                                                Of

   120              C. Keferstein   on White Copper;
     Of what   does  this metallic substance consist ? Whence is
  it obtained? How       is it treated?  On these points scarcely
  any thing has yet been known; for which reason, some time
  mm, I requested my brother M. Adolphus Keferstein, at Suhl,
 w o directs much of his attention to natural history, to insti
 tute the most exact inquiries that could be made respecting
 these subjects, which appeared of considerable interest with
 respect to the arts, and to mineralogy.
     The Society for Exploring Nature, at Suhl, likewise became
 interested in the inquiry; my brother sent some of the ore,
 from which the white copper is made, at Suhl, to M. Brandes
 at Salz-Uffeln, who is distinguished as a chemist, in order that
 he might analyse it; and my brother also undertook, in con
junction with M.Miiller of Suhl, to make inquiries on the spot
respecting the sources of the ore.
     The results were laid before the Society for Exploring Na
 ture, at Suhl, in a Report of which I have just received a copy,
and from which I am enabled to give an account of them to
the honourable meeting of German Explorers of Nature; and
to this   I beg leave to add some observations of my own.
Analysis    of the Ore from which the VV/zz'te Copper of Su/zl   is
    made, by the Aulz'c Counsellor M. Bmmmas ofSalz- U<U+FB01>zln.
    \                              A.
    On 100 grains of the ore were poured 2 ounces of nitric
acid, which was kept for some hours in gentle digestion, after
which the <U+FB02>uid was poured off, and the undissolved part again
digested with another half ounce of nitric acid. After the
digestion was <U+FB01>nished there yet remained a tri<U+FB02>ing residue,
which gathered on a <U+FB01>lter, previously weighed, amounted to
2'5 grains.     In this residue small particles of sulphur could
be plainly perceived; when it was heated before the blowpipe,
no arsenical vapour was perceptible, but a smell of burning
sulphur was produced,          The whole heated in a crucible lost
0'75 grain of sulphur; besides which a small quantity of sub
limate of a white substance, becoming yellowish afterwards,
appeared on a copper plate with which the crucible was co
vered ; this sublimate had the properties of oxide of antimony.
The residue of 1'75 grain was heated with a few drops of
nitric acid, by which a solution was formed, which gave a
brownish precipitate with ammonia, evidently oxide of iron.
The remainder of the residuum proved to be a slag of silex,
and clay, in which the metal occurs.
                                   B.
    The nitric   solution   A  was   now supersaturated with  am
                                                            moma,

                        C. Keferstein   on VV/u'te Coppen               121
monia, by which the precipitate <U+FB01>rst occasioned was almost
entirely redissolved; the <U+FB02>uid however still appeared a little
turbid, and was <U+FB01>ltered on that account, by which a residuum
of 1 grain was found, proving to be oxide of nickel, which
had probably escaped the action of the ammonia, and which
must be reckoned as 0'787 of metallic nickel.
                              C.
   The ammoniacal liquid B was again supersaturated with
nitric acid. Although there are different methods of separat
ing oxide of nickel from oxide of copper, yet that by which
the   copper is <U+FB01>rst separated by iron, or that by which the
oxide of nickel is precipitated by caustic potassa, has not en
abled us to effect the separation of those oxides, so perfectly
as the method in which sulphuretted hydrogen is employed:
for this reason the acidulated <U+FB02>uid was precipitated by sul
phuretted hydrogen, and a precipitate of bi-sulphuret 0f cop
per of 132-8 grains was obtained, indicating 88 grains of me
tallic copper.
                                        D
  The <U+FB02>uid C          was now heated, and caustic potash added to         it,
by which           means 10-25 grains of anhydrous oxide of nickel
were obtained =7'966 grains of metallic nickel.     The <U+FB02>uid
separated from the oxide of nickel now contained no other
substance, except a tri<U+FB02>in  portion of copper, which does not
appear  to be always comp etely separated when     solution ofa
that metal         is
              supersaturated.
                                   E. Results.
  The ore examined, therefore, according to the              above analysis,
contains
               Copper      .   . .   (C)   .  . .  88'000
               Nickel (B 0-787 + D 7'966 . = 8-753
               Sulphur, with a little antimony (A) 0'750
               Silex, clay, and iron (A) . . .      1'750
                                                            99'253
    This ore, in its pure state, appears to be nothing but‘ an
9.110  of copper and nickel. The other substances are pro
bably to be considered as appertaining to the slag.
- It yet remains to be observed that this cupreous mineral,
of bright copper colour, exists in small globules, and also in
  a
large roundish pieces, in plates and similar forms, in a black
slag-like mass ;—the analysis was made with such pieces as
had been puri<U+FB01>ed in the most careful manner from the slags,
but the black slag itself likewise contains copper and nickel.
      Vol.   63.    No. 210.1%. 1824.                Q               Report

 122                C. Keferstein on       Mile   Copper.
 Report    of   MM MULLER          and KEFERSTEIN to the Natural
     History    Society   Qf Sukl,  respecting the Locality of I'Vlzite
     Copper.
     About <U+FB01>ve hours’ journey from hence are the two places,
  Unterneubrunn and Ernstthal, in the                         terri
  tory, at about the distance of a gun-shot Hildburgllausen
                                            from eac other. The
  Schleuse <U+FB02>owing from the former to the latter village carries
  the white copper in its sand; and the ore is partly massive,
 partly, in appearance, in brownish yellow grains, partly
 <U+FB01>nely disseminated in slags, and, <U+FB01>nally, occurrin          partly
 as cement copper.      The metal shows itself only in t is con
 <U+FB01>ned space, and is perceived by the practised eyes of several
 persons, who search for it at the clear bottom of the Schleuse;
 and it is frequently brought up in particles by means of rakes.
     The source of this metal, however, is becoming more and
 more exhausted, so that at present but little is found, and the
 price of a pound of such white copper slag costs, on the spot,
 two dollars Prussian currency.      Some years a o it was found
 more abundantly, as the slag .had been us          for <U+FB01>llin up
 buildings, and a so was met with frequently here and t ere,
 in the same manner, as is still the case with such slags as are
 thrown away as useless. As every repository however, in which
 such slags were supposed to exist, in Unterneubrunn, as well
 as in Ernstthal, has been searched and exhausted, the present
 source is merely the Schleuse.
    This metal occurs, for the most part, as has already been
 mentioned, inclosed in sla , but partly also as cement cop
 per; and as we have not een able to meet with any re~
 cords respecting its origin, we are obliged to content our
 selves with what tradition has preserved.      According to this,
there has been at some early period a copper smelting work
at Unterneubrunn,       as well as at Ernstthal,     which latter
had in later times been converted into a wire-mill, where not
long ago a vessel was dug up <U+FB01>lled with different sorts of
wire, but half decayed. These copper-works were owned
by merchants of Number , (as was the case with most of
the similar works in the      hiiringerwald,) who there smelted
the ores, which were obtained from the following copper
mines, not far distant, viz. l, the Gabe], on the Prussian
side; 2, the lower Gabel; 3, the upper Gabel; both in the
Hildburghausen territory:          4-,   the   Bohrbach;    5,   the   Tanne.
It    said that at all these places there are old mines to
     is
be met with, and undoubted traces of mining works.
We ourselves have examined the old mine at the Gabel
on the Prussian side, which, by its extent, plainl shows
that there must have been a large produce of ore.      have            e
                                               endeavoured,

                   C. Keferstein on White Copper.               123
endeavoured, but in vain, to meet with pieces of copper
ore found there; we only obtained some malachite; from
this, however, as well as from the legend, it may be concluded
with certainty that copper-works formerly existed there. Some
few copper ores, apparently not very poor in metal, were laid
before us at Ernstthal, which were said to have been col
lected partly at the old mine, and partly from that at the Bohr
bach. Arrangements have likewise been made for investigat
ing the remaining old mines above named, in order to obtain
such copper ore as it may yet be possible to <U+FB01>nd in them.
M. de Hoff relates of these copper-mines, in his Description
of the Thiirin erwald (No. II. on the south-easterly division,
p. 287) “in w at manner the village of Gabel probably owed
its existence to a mining work now deserted, which had been
situated a little distance higher in this valley.   It is said that
they had worked for copper there, and that blackish-gray slate,
primitive clay slate with calcareous spar and gray sulphuret
of copper, red copper ore and malachite are still found there.
In ancient descriptions of this country, there are in general
several mines noticed, which have been worked for copper,
sulphur, and iron, particularly at the Avelsberg, the Gabel
                                                                    -
and the Tanne.”
    Geo    ostically considered, the predominating rock-mass
throug<U+FB01>nwhich the Schleuse <U+FB02>ows, consists of primitive clay
slate, with layers of quartz ; but it shows by some intersecting
members a near relation to the sl         hornblend rock.      It is
covered by porphyry; forms on t e western bank of the
Schleuse, or on the Prussian side, the Greifenberg;         on the
eastern shore, the mountains between the Tann and the Bi
ber, extends towards the Avelsberg, where large masses of
quartz are met with in it; is covered with. trap-porphyry,
and appears a ain in the valleys of the other Side of the moun
tain, beneath t e lower strata of the Wahlrose, above Gehren,
below the above-mentioned porphyry.
    The copper ores found here were smelted, as above mentioned,
at Unterneubrunn and Ernstthal; but, according toga tradition,
copper ores from Salzburg were likewise carried to thoseplaces.
    Although it cannot well be doubted, but that the whlte cop
per slags found at present are the produce of former copper
works, yet their appearance likewrse informs us that this white
copper, which in great measure occurs in a reguhne state In
the slags, was considered, during the earher smelting opera
tions, as a useless educt, and was thrown away.
    The quantity in which this white copper has been found,
will not permit us to consider it as the accidental product of
a failure in the process of smelting.    We should rather be 0f
                  '
                                   Q 2                     opinion,

 124                           C. Keferstein on White Copper.
 opinion,       that at each smelting a quantity of white copper was
 formed,        besides the usual red copper, and that the former
 was not         thought worth the trouble of separating from the
         which of course it remained.
 slags, in
   How this white copper became formed, is di<U+FB01>icult to deter
 mine. The result of the chemical analysis    that          is,
                                                     consists              it
 merely of a mixture of copper  and nickel; and this mixture
  may have been produced in three ways: one                     is,
                                                        that the cop
  per brought from the above-named <U+FB01>ve mines also contained
  nickel, and that by means of the nickel thus naturally present,
  white copper was formed another,     ;   we ascribe
                                                   if      to the oresit
  said to be brought from Salzburg; and the third, by suppo
  sing that the white copper was formed by means of an arti
  <U+FB01>cial addition, made in the process of smelting, in former
 times.    We should declare ourselves for the <U+FB01>rst way, partly
 because       improbable that Copper ores should have been
               it   is
 brought from Salzburg to Ernstthal, and partly because in
  several other places not far distant, at Brimmeisel for instance,
 copper-works have also existed, but no white copper has been
 produced in them.      But whether white copper can be at pre
 sent produced from the copper ores of the <U+FB01>ve mines above
 named, and in what manner, can only be decided by collects
 ing the copper ores from the old mines, and subjecting them
 to experiments, by which      would also be ascertained whether
                                        it
 they contain nickel.    It indeed maintained at Ernstthal and
                                       is
 Unterneubrunn, that many workmen of those places, now de
 ceased, understood the art of producing white copper, indi
 rectly, from the copper ores collected from the old mines.
 This however        merely traditional; and those who work in
                              is
 white copper generally like to envelop themselves in a certain
mystic darkness respecting their modes of operating.             Thus
it    usually maintained, that the white copper, in the form in
     is
which      occurs,
          it          much too brittle for working, and that in
                              it is
order to render      useful   must <U+FB01>rst be submitted to a secret
                                      it
process. After minute inquiries, however, we have been in
formed, that          found of various qualities, and that every
                         it   is
piece      not of equal goodness for working; that much was
          is
brittle, but that the best and most pure could be used imme
diately, and at once showed the characters of genuine white
copper,—whiteness and malleability.         Thus much         certain,     is
that even the most clever workmen in white copper at Unter
neubrunn and Ernstthal, as well as here, and in Zelle, can
only produce good white copper from good slags            and     bad
                                                                  ;             if
White   copper   talked
                     is of,  may  be  it
                                     owing   partly to the  slags not
havmg been good for much, and partly to there being an arti<U+FB01>
cial compound in imitation of       made of  it,mixture of arsenic
                                                        a
                                                                  and

                              C. Keferstein on White Copper.                             125
    and copper. The period at which the value of the White cop
    per was <U+FB01>rst known and estimated, is said to be from 60 to 80
    years ago.    At that time there was a copperas-work at the
    Tanne, not far from Ernstthal. One of the workmen wanted,
    for the purpose of forming common copperas, to make an ad
    dition of iron; and, mistaking the white copper slags for iron
    slags, he took a quantity of these under the idea of their con
    taining that metal, and was greatly surprised on obtaining
    blue vitriol from them.     He now examined the mass more
    particularly, and .knew not what to make of        until he subit,
    mitted     to
                it  certain M. Homburg at Hildburghausen,
                      a                                        who,
    after a closer examination, found     to be white copper; since
                                                 it
    which'discovery      has been used for various purposes, chie<U+FB02>y
                              it
    in the manufacture of spurs, and of mountings for <U+FB01>re-arms.
         Suhl, Aug. 26, 1823.                         MiiLLEa.           KEFERSTEIN.
        From the chemical and mineralogical results thus reported,
    it appears that the white copper ore of Suhl         a combination of
                                                              is
    copper     and nickel, found in  the slags of former    copper-works;
    but that this supply will soon be entirely exhausted; and the
    application of so useful an alloy, which greatly contributes to
    the prosperity of the manufactures at Suhl, must be totally
    abandoned,       we cannot succeed in producing the combination
                      if
    by means of art, or in discovering the ores which yield it.
        The name white copper       applied to various substances, and
                                       is
    is  therefore somewhat indeterminate.                     .
                                                                               I
        1. In mineralogy, an ore        so called, which, at an earlier
                                            is
    period, was once found in compact masses in the Halsbriicker
    district, near Freiberg; Werner placed            in. his mineralogi
                                                         it
    cal system as      peculiar genus,
                          a              from  which      has been trans
                                                               it
    ferred into most other systems; according to Hoffman’s Mi—
    neralogy,      occupies a place between copper pyrites and ar
                     it
    senical pyrites. No chemical analysis of            extant;
                                                         it   is        only   it   is
    af<U+FB01>rmed to contain from 30 to 40 per cent. of copper, with a
    little silver. Patzier, in his Metallurgical Chemistry (iv. 293),
    calls this ore arsenical copper pyrites, observing, that            con     it
-   tains oxide of copper, oxide of iron, sulphur, and arsenic; but
    it cannot be made out from his description whether he means
    the genuine white copper of Werner.            From the scarcity of
    this ore, and our slight acquaintance with
                                                                   it,
                                                                  probable
                                                                   it     is
    that   itwill hardly continue to be cited as a peculiar genus in
    mineralogy.
        2. A combination of copper and arsenic           also called white
                                                              is
    copper. The metal obtained from this alloy (formerly known
    by the names of white Tombac, Cuivre blanc, Argent haclzé)                            is
    ol'a silver-white colour, bright, close-grained, hard, and
                                                                    talliesila
                                                                    po   15                ;

    126               C. Keferstein on White Copper.
   polish; but it is brittle, and it soon tarnishes. On the touch
   stone it has the colour of 12 <U+FB01>ne silver.   It is used in harness
   making.
      The white copper of Suhl is alto ether different from this,
  and might more properly be calledg nickel-copper, by which
  every mistake might be avoided.
      A combination of nickel and copper, analo ous to the ore
  of Suhl, has indeed, according to different          annals of Che
 mistry, been formed in small quantities by art, and is known
  in theory; but nickel, which in its pure state approaches near
  to silver with regard to its colour, is very di<U+FB02>icult of fusion,
  and this is probably the reason that an alloy of it with copper
  has not been manufactured on a large scale.
      White copper was indeed known in former ages ; but, alas !
  very few accounts of it have reached posterity, and it remains
  doubtful whether nickel-copper or arsenic-copper was made
  use   of
      Pliny  several times mentions as candidum ,- once, when
 he speaks    of the Corinthian ore, he seems to point to an alloy
 of silver: at another place (34-, § 4-8), he cites, as the best
 metal for specula, an alloy of copper with tin, and §~d of azs
 candidum.      Now, according to modern experience, a compo
 sition of copper, tin, and arsenic, produces the best speculum
 metal; and we may therefore believe, that the as candidum
 was rather an arsenic-copper than a silver-copper.          Aristotle
 (de Mirabz'libus, cap. 53) speaks more plainly of white copper,
 when he says, “The xaMo; Moo-O'uvomwv is stated to be ex
 tremely shining and white; it is made, not by adding tin to
 copper, but by smelting an earth, found in that country, with
 the copper.       It is related, that the <U+FB01>rst inventor did not in
 form any one of his composition, whence it happened that
 the earlier vessels of this metal were more beautiful than those
 which were made afterwards.”          The Mosyniieci, from whom
 this metal indisputably received its name, were no particular_
 nation; but, as Strabo tells us, those people of Asia Minor
 living on the northern shore of the Black Sea, in Colchis, Pon~
 tus, Paphla onia, &c., commonly went by that appellation.
 Now in Pap lagonia lies Pompejopolis, where, from the'most
 ancient times, very important mines were worked for copper
 and iron, and particularly for arsenical ores.
     The ruins of this place, so important for antiquity, have, ac
 cording to Malte-Brun (Annales des Voyages, t. xiv. p. 30),
 been lately discovered near Tasch Kouprou, eight hours’
journey from the large place Voyavat, situated on a clay-slate
 rock; which may be the Sandarracnrgium of Strabo, where the
 chief mines for arsenical ores were situated (o-avSocpaxr) and ap
                                                              pewxov).

                   C. Keferstein   on White Copper.           127
psvmov).    Near Tasch Kouprou enormous heaps of slags are
even to be found, a sign     of a former extensive mining concern.
 Several'literati, particularly Beckmann, in his Annotations on
 Aristotle, consider the xwa; Moo-o'womwv to be our brass;
 and support their opinion by the circumstance, that, amongst
 other things Strabo alludes to, he says that brass is prepared
 from copper and an earth which is found in Asia Minor. But
 brass was a metallic combination well known to the ancients;
 and Aristotle speaks (cap. 59.) of opsiXano; in particular; the
 silver-white copper mentioned by him must therefore be some
 thing totally different: to this may yet be added, that the cala
mine which is mentioned by Strabo as coming from Asia Minor,
and which was employed in the manufacture of brass, came
from Ardira on the ZEgean Sea in the district of Mysia; the
earth for the white copper from Paphlagonia ; and therefore
the places where they were found do not agree.
    0f the antique white copper, various pieces still exist; for
 Winkelmann alleges, in several parts of his works, that
 amongst certain antiquities a white metal was found, which
 at <U+FB01>rst sight appeared like silver (Works, vol. ii. p. 272).
 In annotation No. 70 the Editor observes, that, in dig-gin in
the year 1779 in the Pontine marshes, a handsomely-worked
instrument of this kind was found,_on which was the name           >
and likewise the mark of the artist.         Further accounts on
this subject have not come to my knowled e; but, after the
facts which have been quoted, we shall prgmbly be 'usti<U+FB01>ed
in af<U+FB01>rming that the ancients were acquainted wit white
copper, that they employed it in the arts, and that they ob
tained it from a particular ore. It still remains uncertain,
however, whether the metal was an alloy of copper and arsenic,
or of copper and nickel.                                       ,95
    In modern times, the Chinese are the only people who un
derstand the art of preparing white copper, and of applying it
in various ways to useful purposes. Our scanty knowledge of
this country and its literature, interesting in so many respects,
is the cause why the preparation of this substance, as well as
that of so many others, is still a secret to us.     The Chinese
fabricate several metallic combinations, which are usually called
                                                           J
white copper, as Lauder has lately detailed. (Edinb. Phil. ourn.,
Jan. 1823.) One species of it is the Tuten , which forms an ar
ticle of commerce between China and In ia; it is exported in
slabs of from 8 to 9 inches long, and 512- wide, of a grayish
colour, not malleable, but very brittle.       N0 analysis of this
metal has hitherto been made; from trials made by Keir, it is
said to be a white alloy of copper, zinc, and iron; according
                                                                to

128                   C. Kef'erstein on lV/lite Copper.
to de Guignes, it consists of iron, lead, and bismuth, without
containing either copper or zinc.
    The real white copper is only used in China itself; and its
exportation is contraband.    Dr. Howison of Lanarkshire was
so fortunate, when in China, as to procure a basin and ewer of
this metal, a part of which he sent to Dr. Fyfe in Edinburgh,
who analysed       and published an account of
                 it,                                in The Edinit
bur   h Philosophical Journal for July 1822.
     he basin     of a whitish colour, approaching to that of
                 is
silver, and is very sonorous.   When held in one hand, and
struck with the <U+FB01>ngers of the other, the sound           distinctly     is
heard at the distance of an En lish mile.       It    also highly  is
polished, and does not seem to       easily tarnished.
                                              e
   The metal     malleable both when cold and when red hot,
                 is
but in white heat
       a               becomes brittle. By great caution
                         it                                    was           it
rolled into thin plates, and was drawn into <U+FB01>ne wire. When
fused in contact with the atmospheric air,         oxidated, and
                                                              it
burned with a whitish <U+FB02>ame like zinc: its speci<U+FB01>c gravityv was
 = 8'432.
    The analysis gave, in 100 parts,
                             Copper............40'4."
                             Nickel ...... ......81'6
                             Zinc
                             Iron                  2'6
                                     100
This result   agrees, as to the ingredients, with Engestroem’s
analysis;   he says, in the Stockholm'Transactions,  “ that the
Chinese white copper or pair/bug consists of copper, nickel
and zinc, in the proportions of             7.” This pair/bug
                                              5   :   7   :
bears a considerable price in China, since the above-men
tioned basin cost about      of its weight in silver. The me
                                   1
thod by which     it  prepared
                        is         unknown; but Dr. Howison
                                         is
mentions that Dr. Dinwiddie, who accompanied Lord Ma
cartney to China, showed him, when at Calcutta, specimens
of the ore from which he was told the white copper was pro
cured, and which he obtained at Pekin. The dear price of
this metallic combination renders probable this method of
obtaining it.         ,
   An ore was lately found, also, containing only nickel and
antimony, which could be employed in this country. (Annales
de Chim.   t.xx. p. 4-21.)
  It  results from the above considerations, that the white
copper of Suhl, and the Chinese paltfong, are similar allo                        s,
which consist principally of copper and nickel, and           is.
                                                       thatl
                                                          a loy,

                   C. Keferstein on I’V/zite Copper.           129
alloy, which will soon cease to be obtained, would be of great
value in the arts, if we were enabled to produce it in Germany
upon the same large scale as in China.
    With regard to experiments for this purpose, there are
two ways: viz. the chemical and the mining.          Perhaps che
mistry ma succeed in producing the nickel-copper on a large
scale; an it certainly is desirable that more accurate experi
ments should be instituted with this view by philosophical che
mists as well as by practical metallurgists.
    But as it is probable that the palg‘bng is smelted in China
from its peculiar ores, as the same was probably the case with
the white copper of the ancients, and as there is the greatest
probability that the nickel-copper was formed accidentally,
but in considerable quantities, which is not the case at other
copper-works, from the ores which were smelted in the old
copper-works at Suhl;—we ma conclude that the deserted
mines contained peculiar ores, gom which the nickel-copper
became formed with readiness.        It would thence be important
to institute further inquiries concerning those old mining
works, in order, if possible, to discover the ores a ain.
    How great would be the pro<U+FB01>t, if a metal coul be worked
upon a large scale, which so strongly resembles silver, and
which is so peculiarly distinguished by its clear sound !
    It is not yet known from what cause those old copper-mines
were given up; de<U+FB01>ciency of ore may have occasioned it; but
it is equally possible that other circumstances, such as war, and
the like, had that effect.    Perhaps even riches of copper may
still be found here ; but the most important object would be,
that the masses which were formerly thrown away as useless,
should now be, as far as possible, the chief objects of mining
and smelting.
    It is to he wished, then, that the Ducal Government of Saxe
Hildburghausen, as well as the Prussian Government, together
with its mining of<U+FB01>cers, who, in a technical as well as in a
scienti<U+FB01>c point of view, are so extremely active, would take
into consideration the patriotic ~subject here treated of, and
make arrangements for more exact inquiries respecting those
mines, as well as the obtaining and working of the white cop
per at Suhl. Some of the Explorers of Nature here collected
might interest themselves for this object: then, perhaps, we
should have the pleasure of seeing preserved a material for
the arts, now almost entirely exhausted, and new trades arise,
in a country which has su<U+FB02>'ered much from the circumstances
of the   times.
    Vol.  63. N0. 310. Feb. 1824.              R     XXIII.   Ex

180   Mr. J. Murray       on the Deviation     of the Magnetic Needle.
XXIII.     Experiments on the Deviation
                                         J OHNofMURRAY,
                                                   the Magnetic Needle, as
      ected by Caloric,       5w.    By                        Esq.    BSA.
     .L.S.  EHS.       Member     of the Geological and Wernerian So
   cieties, (Sc (frc.
   To  the  Editors   of the   Philosophical     Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
    TRUST       the followin detail of experiments on the devia
        tion of the magnetic needle as effected by caloric, 8w.
will prove not uninterestin . The at once corroborate and
extend some remarks of mme ou id me the honour to intro
duce in a former Number of t e Philosophical Magazine and
Journal.
   It may be only necessary to premise, that for the subsequent
experiments I used a very delicate magnetic needle, about six
inches long, the point on which it moved enterin an agate
cap.     So extremely mobile was the magnetic bar, t at simple
pressure by the <U+FB01>nger on the sealing-wax was suf<U+FB01>cient excite
ment, and a ribbon of silk once drawn over the glass tube
quite enough for the vitreous or ositive
   In the comparison of the p amomena,               electricity.
                                                           the    eated zinc
plate will be    found     to  accord with the excited glass, and the
silver plate with the sealing-wax.           The <U+FB02>ames of a wax taper
and spirit lamp       are  analogous,    but   the aphlogistic platinum
 wire peculiar.
    The north pole, in these experiments, moved usually about
 the octant of a circle eastward of north, and the south pole
 about the same number of degrees (45°) westward of south.
                              1. Excited Glass.
      Posited east of north, repelled .- and on removal, the needle
          moved eastward, and returned to its station.
      On the west of north, attracted .- moved eastward.
      On the east of south, repelled .- moved westward.
      On the west of south, attracted .-              ditto.
                         2. Excited Sealing- War.
      On the    east   of north, attracted    .- moved eastward.
      On the    west    of north, ditto .-             ditto.
      On the    east   of south, ditto .-         moved westward.
      On the    west   of south, ditto    .-          ditto.
                         3. Ir‘l<U+FB02>amed   Wax_Taper.
      On the east of north, attracted : moved eastward.
      On the west of north, ditto :                    ditto.
      On the east of south, ditto .-             moved westward.
      On the west of south, repelled .-               ditto.
                                                                    4. Spirit

     Mr. Vanuxem’s Description of a Lamellar Pyrowene.                      181
                               4-. Spirit Lamp.
        On the   east  of north, attracted .- moved eastWard.
        On the   west   of north, ditto .-              ditto.
        On the   east  of south, ditto .-         moved westward.
        On the   west   of south, repelled .-           ditto.
                           5. Aphlogistic Lamp.
        On the east of north, attracted .- moved eastward.
        On the west of north, repelled .-               ditto.
        On the east of south, attracted .- moved westward.
        On the west of south, repelled .-               ditto.
                        6. Heated Plate of Zinc.
        On the   east  of north, repelled .- moved eastward.
        On the   west  of north, attracted:          ditto.
        On the   east  of south, repelled .- moved westward.
        On the   west   of south, attracted    .-     ditto.
                        7. Heated Plate of Silver.
        On the east of north, attracted .- moved eastward.
        On the west of north, ditto .-                 ditto.
        On the east of south, ditto .-            moved westward.
        On the west of south, ditto .-               , ditto.
    The zinc and silver plates, merely heated, prove that positive
and negative electricity may be excited apart from chemical
action, and that the increment of temperature, superinduced by
the chemical action of the acid on the Voltaic plates, may be
the source of the communication of electric power.
     On the theory of these phaenomena I at present forbear to
touch ; an extension of such experiments appears to me, how
ever, fraught with the solution which involves the variation of
the compass. The thermo-electricity of the lobe, as produced
by the march of the sun in the plane of t e ecliptic toward
the tropics of Cancer or of Capricorn, may occasion the grand
outlines of variation.        Local peculiarities will give rise to par
ticular deviations from the general law.
                           Your obliged and obedient servant,
   Chester<U+FB01>eld,   Feb. 7, 1824.                              J.  MURRAY.
XXIV.         Description,    Analysis, &c. of a Lamellar Pyroxene.
                       By LARDNER VANUXEM.*
      HIS     mineral was brou ht last year from West Point by
       Professor Keating an myself; the locality, hitherto un
  ublished, having been shown to us by Captain Douglass,
glathematical Professor of the Military Academy.
   ' From the Journal    of the  Academy  of Natural Sciences   of Philadelphia,
vol.  ii. p. 68.
                                       R 2                                 The

132           Mr. Vanuxem’s Description of a Lamellar Pyror'ene.
 The lamellar pyroxene is found about three miles above
West Point, on the western side of the river, and near to the
water’s ed e.     It is associated with hyaline quartz, black and
bronze co oured mica, and feldspar; the latter but in small
quantity.    These minerals form an aggregate of limited ex
tent, which is a de endant of our sienitic formation, which
there covers the whole of the country included under the
name of the Highlands of the North River.
   The lamellar pyroxene of West Point is identical in all its
characters, both external and chemical, with that mineral of
Brandywine (Delaware State) which was <U+FB01>rst considered to
be hypersthene, from similarity of colour, and from its pre
senting the same lamellar structure in one direction, as exhi
bited by the Labrador mineral; the same which subse           ently
was analysed and described as an amphibole by Mr.            . Sey
bert; whose account was published in the Journal of the Aca
dem , vol. ii. p. 139; and to which, more recently, Mr. Nuttall
                                          the name of Maclureite,
                                            give
and    r. Torrey have proposed to
supposing      to be a new minera . (See Silliman’s Journal,
                 it
vol. v. p. 246.)
   Those to whom the characters of these minerals are fami
liar, will have much less dif<U+FB01>culty in identifying the mineral
in question with pyroxene, than with either of the other two
minerals, with which          has been confounded; and further,
                             it
will have no reason for believing that      should not be classed
                                                   it
with pyroxene, in the present state of our mineralogical know
ledge: this being admitted, its new name of Maclureite be
comes super<U+FB02>uous and objectionable.        To American minera
logists this circumstance cannot but be a subject of regret;
for   it
      is  not the only attempt" that has been made to confer
this merited tribute of respect to our illustrious president;
and to no one          more justly due than to Mr. Maclure.
                      is
                      it
   The West Point mineral occurs principall in lamellar
masses; also, but more rarely, in crystals, which though not
very perfect, yet are su<U+FB02>iciently well characterized to enable
an observer to refer them to the species ,to which they be
lon .                                                               .
   fhe form of the crystals an octagonal prism, whose
                                  is
are about 136° and 134“; the terminations are too imper     angles
                                                                ect
'      Vide Silliman‘s Journal, vol. v., No.2,    for Mr. H. Seybert’s account
“      the Maclureite, or Fluo-silicate of
    of                                      Magnesia, a new mineral species.”
Thls      the substance called condrodite, which, as Mr. Seybert found
         is                                                             it  to
contain
            <U+FB02>uoric acid, be judged to be di<U+FB02>'erent from the condrodite of
Europe. Since that paper was sent for publication, the same chemist has
              that this acid likewise exists in the European mineral; so that
discovered
l‘llS proposed name of Maclureite  is  inadmissible, the substances being the
                                                                              '
same.
                                                                             t'O

      Mr. Vanuxem’s Description qf a Lamellar Pyroxene.                   133
to ascertain their nature. There are several cleava es, two
of which are parallel to four of the alternate sides of t e octar
gon, producing a prism with a rhombic base; these two
cleavages are not very easy to obtain, their surface being
                                                                               ‘
rough, with but a feeble lustre; the angles which these cleav-
ages form, as determined by the solid so generated, and the
measure of their corresponding faces in the crystals, are about
92° and 88°.         This prism may again with ease be divided in
the direction of the smaller diagonal; the surfaces produced
are very smooth, and of considerable lustre; this is the claw
age to which the mineral owes its                        lamellar structure.
In the direction of the larger diagonal, there are indications
of a fourth cleavage, but none parallel with the base.
     The lamellar masses rarely exceed two inches in their
             dimension, generally elongated and prismatic, of a
greatest
   ark green colour with a tinge of yellow and bronze.                   The
shades of these colours frequently vary in the same specimen.
 Scratches glass with ease; fusible before the blowpipe into a
 shining black lobule.           Speci<U+FB01>c gravity about 8‘24.
     To the resu t of the analysis" of the lamellar pyroxene of
 West Point, is adjoined that of Delaware by Mr. H. Seybert,
in order to show the complete chemical identity of the two
minerals.
                                          West Point.          Delaware.
        Silex                               51'00               52-166
        Lime                                21'00               20‘000
        Magnesia                            11'50               11'333
        Alumine         .....                3'50                 #000
        Deutox1de of ll'OIl W1th
                                            11_53                10_733
           trace of manganese          a}
        Water........................         1'00                1'266
        Loss                                    47                  502
                                           100'00              lOO'OOO
     The mineral of West Point differs from hypersthene in                 the
angles iven by their cleavages, which are different; those of
hyperst ene being as the numbers 100, 80, and 50 ; and also
    " The analysis of the mineral was made in the following manner, having
 previously ascertained that it was composed of silex,lime, magnesia, alumine,
 and oxide of iron, with a trace of manganese :—Pulverised and calcined a
portion of the mineral for water; fused another portion with potash in order
 to decompose the mineral; dissolved the whole in nitro-muriatic acid, then
 evaporated to dryness ; added acidulated water, and <U+FB01>ltered, this gave the
 silex ; precipitated the metals and alumine by hydrosulphate of ammonia;
separated the alumine by otash ,- threw down the lime by oxalate of potash,
and obtained the magnesia by boiling the liquor with potash.                '
                                                                            1n

 1134:   Mr. Vanuxem’s Description of a Lamellar Pyroxene.
in the latter being infusible and different in its composition.     .
 From amphibole, because there are but two cleavages in
this mineral, obtainable with the same ease, and both possess
ing the same degree of smoothness and lustre, in short, abso
lutely identical.     The an les which they form are those of
124° 84", and 55° ‘26', angies which do not occur in the West
Point mineral. The chemical elements of amphibole and py
roxene are the same, the di<U+FB02>'erence being in the proportion
of their constituents.
    The essential character of pyroxene is derived from its
crystallization.    The primitive form determined by its cleav-_
ages,  and   with  the aid of its secondary forms, is an oblique
prism   with  a  rhombic  base; angles of the prism, by the com
mon goniometer, 92° and 88°, or more accurately by the se
condary forms, joined to certain theoretical considerations,
92° 18', and 87° 42'. The cleavages of pyroxene, as given by
its several varieties, are arallel to the faces of the prism and
diagonals of the base. (gne of the secondary forms of the py
roxene is an octagonal prism, with angles of 136° and 134°
by the goniometer, or corrected in the aforementioned man
ner 136° 09' and 133° 51'.        The degree of smoothness and
facilit of obtaining the different cleava es of pyroxene, vary
considerably in the di<U+FB02>'erent varieties 0 this mineral. Some
times a cleavage which is very evident in one variety is indi
stinct or scarcely to be perceived in another. Thus in certain
volcanic pyroxenes the cleavage parallel to the larger diagonal
is the most lamellar (according to Haiiy), and none exists in
the direction of the base, whilst in other pyroxenes that of the
base is pre-eminent; so that this character, in all cases, must
be considered as very secondary in value to the character
which depends upon the angles of the cleavages and those of
the crystals.
    Thus the mineral of West Point and of Delaware corre
sponds with pyroxene in the form and value of the angles of the
primitive <U+FB01>rm, and those of the octagonal prism ,- in the cleav
ages parallel with the sides of the primitive form, and diago
nals of the same .- in hardness, action with the blo'wpipe, speci<U+FB01>c
gravity and chemical composition.      The only difference bein
this, that its lamellar structure is parallel to the smaller antgl
not to the larger diagonal, as in volcanic pyroxene, a circum
stance which cannot be considered of speci<U+FB01>c importance.
                                                      XXV. N0

                             [185]
            XXV.        Notices respecting    New Books.
                         Recently published.
    EBER      new-entdeckte merlrtoz'irdige Eigenschq<U+FB02>en des Pla
     tins, 8Lc.—On the newly discovered remarkable
                                                         T e fol
of Platinum, 8w. By J. W. Doebereiner. Iena, 1823.Properties
lowing remarks on this work are given by Professor Schweig
                                                      “ We direct
ger, on the wrapper of his Journal for November:
the reader’s attention to this brief but instructive treatise.
Whoever is desirous of making practical use of Doebereiner’s
discovery, so remarkable in a theoretical point of view, either
for the purposes of eudiometry, or for its commodious appli
cation to a pneumatic apparatus for producing <U+FB01>re, will <U+FB01>nd
in its pages the necessary instruction.”
   A Translation of the New Pharmacopoeia of the R0 al Col
le e of Physicians of London; with a speci<U+FB01>cation of       the
                                                            doses
0 each article, and the diseases for the cure of which they are
employed, a table of the new names, a copious index, 8w. 8zc.
 By a Scotch Physician residing in London.
                            In   the Press.
  Dr. T. Forster   ispreparing for the press,
                                               “ Observations on
the local and casual Variations of the re<U+FB02>ective, refractive, and
dispersing Properties of the Atmosphere, in order to illustrate
the necessity of having different tables of refraction for each
particular observatory; together with an attempted analysis of
the variously composed light of different <U+FB01>xed stars, consi
dered as rendering necessary still further corrections for each,
in order to ascertain their real place by the observance of that
of their spectra; together with other prismatic experiments,
and rules for igniting various metallic and other substances,
in order to imitate different coloured starlight.”
   British Galleries of Art, now <U+FB01>rst arranged in one volume.
By Charles Westmacott, author of the “Annual Critical Ca
talogue to the Royal Academy.”         Published by Authority.
This work will contain a critical and descriptive Catalogue
to each Collection, with a History of the choicest Treasures
of the Fine Arts, ancient and modern, in the possession of His
Majesty and other noble and distinguished persons; includ
ing the Dulwich Gallery and British Museum.           Illustrated
with interior views of the principal galleries, drawn and en
graved by Cattermole, Finlay, and Le Keux; with eight ele
gant engraved portraits of illustrious and noble patrons and
academicians, by Wageman, Hawksworth, and Philips.
                 '
                                                        ANALYSIS

   136                             Royal    Society.
    ANALYSIS OF PERIODICAL              WORKS      ON NATURAL           HISTORY.
                   Curtis’s British Entomology.             No. 2.
    Nebria livida. A <U+FB01>ne insect, which has never before been <U+FB01>gured in any
English work : it varies considerably from the continental specimens.
—0denen's Pini, Pine Lappet, from an unique specimen in the British
Museum : the <U+FB01>gures hitherto published have been from German specimens.
—Clirysis fulgida, a rare species of this splendid genus, which can vie with
the Humming Birds in the brilliancy of their colouring—Anthrax ornata, a
very beautiful species from Hampshire of this rare genus: the accompany
ing plant is the Chamomile, from whence the o<U+FB02>icinal variet is obtained.—
 Notonecta maculata. We only know of a wretched <U+FB01>gure 0 this handsome
insect in Coquebert’s Illustratio Insectorum ; it is mentioned in the Ento
mological Transactions as having been taken so long back as 1807.
                    The Botanical Magazine.              No.     444.
    PI. 2455. Momardica Char-antim—Cprilla racemi<U+FB02>ora.—Echimqn strictu: ,
“ caule
           simplici stricto uni<U+FB02>oro, folils eroso-pinnati<U+FB01>dis      spinuloso-dentatis
supra glabris subtus tomentosis :” raised by A. B. Lambert, Esq., from seeds
sent from Russia by Dr. Fischer.-Nicandra phyealoides.—Ammobium alatum ,
 discovered by Mr. Brown in New South \Nales, and the genus (which is
undescribed, and belongs to the same tribe with Gnaphalium) so named by
him From its    growing   in sand. —Plectranthus   ternatus ; “ caule    sexangulato,
foliis ternatis petiolatis ovatis crenatis rugosis, radicibus tuberosis, spicis
 terminalibus verticillatis ;” this plant, which is from the Mauritius, has only
been brought into <U+FB02>ower amongstus at Bury Hill, the seat of Mr. Barclay.
                    The Botanical Register.            No. 107.
     Pl. 762. Narcissus Sabini, “ spatha uni<U+FB02>ora, scapo ancipitc, nectario
 columnarierecto plicato eroso petalis imbricatis patentibus breviore, stylo
 columnae tequali antheris paul?)                tubo   etalis subaaqualit” from a
 valuable collection of hardy bulbs   lon‘giore,
                                          ormed by     r. Sabine and given by him
 to the Horticultural Society.      With this we have the description of another
                             “
 species, N. Macleaii,         spatha l-Z-<U+FB02>ora, scapo compresso subancipiti,
 petalis patentibus imbricatis      tubo nectarioque      cylindrico truncato in
 tegerrimo paulb Ion 'oribus.” These have been the subject of discussion in
 our Magazine, vol. xii. p. 440 and p. l and 102 of our present volume.
 We would observe here, that the escriptions in the Bot.                    and Phil.
 M . appeared at the same time, the latter                             on the last day
 ofagie month—Ginothera acaulis, raised by beinglpublished
                                                   the    orticultural Society from
 seeds sent by Mr. F. Place from Chili.—Cauinia aurea, found by Mr. Brown
             J
  near Port ackson.-—Euphorbia       cyathq;hora.—Bromelirr       melanantha, “ ebrac
  teata? foliis ligulato-oblongis    casiis spina ni      ciliatis cuspidato-obtusis,
  s ica obeso-strobiliformi    hexasticha? distanter laxata, verticillis tri<U+FB02>oris
  a ternis, <U+FB02>oribus rigidis fundo lana immerso, calyce trialato.”—Hed_ychium
  heteromallum, a Scitamineous plant from Calcutta.—Curculigo recurvata.
               XXVI.        Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                                  ROYAL SOCIETY.
  Jan.               E readin of Mr. Scoresby’s paper was resumed
         29.THand conclu ed : and a paper was also read, entitled
   “ Observations on the Iguana tuberculata, the common
                                                                           Guana ; ”

                 Limuean Society—Geological       Society.         137
 Guana     by the Rev. Lansdown Guilding, B.A. F.L.S. Com
          ;-”
 municated by Sir E. Home, V.P.R.S.
    Feb. 5.——A paper was communicated, entitled “ A <U+FB01>nite
 and exact Expression for the Re<U+FB01>'action of an Atmosphere
                                         ”
 nearly resembling that of the Earth        by Thos. Young,
                                             ;
 M.D. For. Sec. R.S.: and the reading was commenced of
 “ The Bakerian Lecture, On certain Motions produced in
 Fluid Metals by transmitting the Electric Current; ” by F.       J.
 W. Herschel, Es         .   F.R.S.
    Feb. l2.—The (bakerian Lecture was concluded.
    Feb. 19.—Various Meteorological Journals and Astronomi
 cal Observations were communicated, by Sir Thos. Brisbane,
 K.C.B. F.L.S. Governor of New South Wales: and a paper
 was read “ On the Semi-decussation of the Optic Nerves;”
 by W. H. Wollaston, M.D. V.P.R.S.
                                                          '
                                                      » Y
                             LINNELAN SOCIETY.
     Feb. 3.—A notice was read from Mr. John Hogg, of Nor
  ton, Durham, statin thata <U+FB01>ne specimen of Falco Chrysaé'tos,
  Golden Eagle, was iter shot near the mouth of the Tees;
I being the    <U+FB01>fth known to have been killed in England.—
  Among the presents was a Collection of Plants made in a
 journey through Circassia, Persia, and Georgia; by Lieut. '
  Col. Wright of the Royal Engineers.
     The reading of Mr. Vigors’s interesting paper on the Na
  tural Af<U+FB01>nities that connect the Orders and Families of Birds,
 was continued this evening, and also on the 17th.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
   Jan. ‘2.-—A paper       was read “ On the Geological Structure
of St. Jago,      one   of the Cape de Verd Islands ” by Major
                                                         ;
Colebrooke.                                                            >
   From    the observations of the author and the accompanying
specimens,     appears
                it     that  at the landing-place near the town
of Porto Prago, in St. Jago, the rock of the cli<U+FB02>‘ composed  is
of fragments of trap imbedded in a pure white carbonate of
lime.   The fragments of this breccia are enerall small, and
none of them rounded by attrition.             he cli<U+FB02>? on which
stand the batteries and town of Prago,        regularly strati<U+FB01>ed,
                                             is
and at the bottom are beds of         calcareous sandstone alter—
                                       a
mating with others which contain specimens of a large oyster;
in both of these beds occur pebbles of trap. The stratum
which-crowns the cliff   from eight to twelve feet in thickness,
                             is
                                                    >
and consists of trap.     ~                                            '
   Jan. 16.-—A paper entitled     “  Outline. of the Geology of
Val. 63. N0. ‘310. Feb. 1824‘.                    S

1 88          ,       Astronomical Society.
the South of Russia,” by the Hon. William T. H. Fox
Strangways, M.G.S., was read in part.
   On the 6th of F eb., being the Anniversary of the Society,
the following gentlemen were chosen as Of<U+FB01>cers and Council
for the year, viz. President .- Rev. William Buckland, RR. S.
Prof. Geol. and Min. Oxford.—Vice-Presidents .- Arthur Aikin,
Esq. F.L.S.; John Bostock, M.D. RR. and              LS;  George
Bellas Greenough, Esq. F.R. and LS.; Henry Warburton,
Esq. F.R.S.—Secretaries.- Charles Lyell, Esq. F.L.S. ; Philip
Barker \Vebb, Es . F.L.S.; Thomas Webster, Esq.—-F0
reign Secretmy:     Henry Heuland, Es .——Treasurer:          John
Taylor, Esq—Council .- Sir Thomas             yke Acland, Bart.
M.P.; John Duke of Bedford, F.L. and H.S.; William
Clift, Esq. F.R.S.; Henry Thomas Colebrooke, Esq. RR.
and LS. ; Major Thomas Colby, LL.D. F.R.S. L. and E.;
Thomas Hors<U+FB01>eld, M.D. F.L.S.; Sir Alexander Crichton,
M.D. ER. and       LS;   Charles Stokes, Es . F.R.A. and L.S.;
Thomas Smith, Esq. ER. and           LS;        illiam Haseldine
Pepys, Esq. RR. L. and H_.S.; Rev. Adam Sed            ick, M.A.
F.R.S. Woodwardian Prof. Cambridge;              Wil 'am Henry
Fitton, M.D. F.R.S.—Keeper of the Museum and Draughts
man .- Thomas Webster, Esq.
   Feb. 20.—A notice was read of the discovery of a perfect
skeleton of the fossil genus hitherto called Plesiosaurus, by
the Rev. W. I). Conybeare, F.R.S. M.G.S.
   The Plesiosaurus which is the subject of this notice was
found in the blue lias of Lyme Regis in Dorsetshire.        In the
whole exterior portion of its vertebral column the skeleton is
entire, and of the remaining parts of the animal few are
wanting.    In the Transactions of the Geological Society,
vol. v. and vol. i. 2d Series, the author had attempted to
assign to the various dispersed and disjointed remains of this
animal which were then known, their relative places in the
skeleton; and his opinions, he observes, have now in all es
sential points received full con<U+FB01>rmation.      After pointing out
those errors into which he had fallen, Mr. Conybeare de
scribes the osteology of this remarkable fossil animal; the
most characteristic and distinguishing features of which are,
the extraordinary length of the neck, which fully equals that
of the united body and tail; and the number of its vertebrae,
which very far exceed that of any animal previously known.
                    ASTRONOMICAL     SOCIETY.
    Feb. 13.—This day being the fourth Anniversary of the So
ciety, a numerous meeting of the members took place at their
apartments ,in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, when a very satisfactory
                                                           Report

                       Astronomical Society.                 139
Report upon the state of the Society’s affairs and proceedings
during the last year was read, and ordered to be printed.
This Report paid a due tribute of respect to several members
which the Society has lost by death in the last year, and par
ticularly to C01. William Lambton of Madras, and Dr. Wal
beck (if the Observatory at Ab'o. It gives a succinct account
of the measurement of the largest continuous are of a meri
 dian yet measured, which Occupied the former gentleman
 upwards of twenty years in India.
    The chairman (Mr. Colebrooke) then proceeded to distri
 bute the honorary rewards of the Society, viz. the Society’s
 Gold Medal to Charles Babbage, Esq. F .R.S., as a token of
 the high estimation in which it holds his valuable invention
 of an engine for calculating mathematical and astronomical
 tables, bein    the <U+FB01>rst medal awarded by the Society.      A si
 milar Gold %'[edal to Professor J. F. Encke, director -of the
 observatory at Seeberg in Gotha, for his investigations relative
 to the comet which bears his name, and which led to the re
 discovery of it in 1822.   The Silver Medal of the Society to
 Professor Charles Rumker, for the redisc0very of Encke’s
 comet: and a similar Medal to M. Jean Louis Pons of La Marlia
 in Italy, for the discovery of two comets, on the 81st of May
 and 13th of July 1822-, and for his indefatigable assiduity in
                                           ‘
 that department of astronomy.
    The chairman prefaced the presentation of each medal by
 a most eloquent, learned, and interesting address of consider
able length, all of which were delivered in the most impressive
 manner.     They were replete with information on the succes
 sive improvements in machinery for assisting calculation, as
 well as on cometary astronomy; and we were happy to <U+FB01>nd
that in consequence of a motion made by Davies Gilbert, Esq.
 M.P., and seconded by John Fuller, Esq., they will be printed
for circulation amomr the members.
    The election for the Of<U+FB01>cers and Council of the Society for
the ensuing year then took place; when the following appeared
to be the unanimous choice of the meeting, viz.
    President .- Henry Thomas Colebrooke, Esq. F. R.S. L.&E.
8t F.L.S.—Vz'ce-Presidents .- Charles Babbave, Esq. M.A.
 F.R.S. L. 8: E. ; Francis Bail ,       F.R.S. 8LT.S.; Sir Ben
jamin Hobhouse, Bart.                   e  Rt. Hon. George Earl
of  Maccles<U+FB01>eld,   F. R.S.- E‘easurer:    Rev.  William Pearson,
LL.D. F.R.S.-—Secretaries:      Olinthus G.               LL.D.,
Prq<U+FB01> Math. Roy. Mil. Acad. Woolwich; JohnGregory,M1 lington, Esq.
 F.L.S., Prqu Mech. P/zil.         . Inst. — Foreign Secretary.
J. F.W. Herschel, Esq. M.A. F. .S. L. E.—C0uncil Major
                                        81.           .-
Thomas Colby, Roy. Eng. LL.D. F.R.S. L.         8:    E.; George
                              S   2                    Dollond,

140                     Meteorological Society.
Dollond, Esq. F.R.S.; Bryan Donkin, Esq.; Captain John
Franklin, R.N. F.R.S.; Davies Gilbert, Esq. M.P.V.P.R.S.
F.L.S.; Benjamin Gompertz, Esq. F.R.S.; Stephen Groom
bridge, Esq. F.R.S.; Daniel Moore, Esq. F.R.S. S.A. 8t L.S.
   Several new Members and Associates were nominated, and
the greater part of the Society adjourned to Freemasons’
Tavern, where a dinner was provided.
                     METEOROLOGICAL SOCIETY.
   Feb. ll.—A communication from Dr. W. Burney,                  of
Gosport, was read; also a Note on some curious Effects of
the Radiation of Heat; by Luke Howard, Esq. F.R.S. Memb.
Met. Soc. And the reading was commenced of a “ Memoir
on the Variations of the refractive and dispersive Powers
of the Atmosphere; by T. Forster, M.B. F.L.S. Member of
the Society.
        XXVII.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                     SILVER MINES OF MEXICO
     REAT      public interest has been excited of late by the for
      mation of companies in London, whose object it is to work
the silver mines of Mexico, and who have raised large capitals
for that purpose. We have made the best inquiries in our
power upon this subject, and we are enabled to lay before our
readers some correct information, which will we have no doubt
be acceptable, as it relates to undertakings which may have
great in<U+FB02>uence on political events, may enlarge our commercial
relations, and eXtend the <U+FB01>eld of scienti<U+FB01>c research.
   The mines of Mexico, though rich, have been abandoned,
owing to the joint operation of natural causes and of others
arising from lon -continued domestic contentions.         The <U+FB01>rst
of these causes r ate principally to the dif<U+FB01>culties arising from
increasin depth, and the consequent insu<U+FB01>icienc of the means
possesse     to extract the water and the ore: t ese it is ex
pected   will  be easily overcome by the application of our ma
chinery,  directed   by competent skill to be supplied by ersons
sent from this country: the other obstacles are likely, it is
hoped, to be removed by the settlement of differences among
the provincial governments and the arrangement of a'legisla
tive bod agreeable to the whole.                       ‘
   The rst company which has actually contracted for mines,
is called the Anglo-Mexican Mining Association, and ossesses
acapital of one million sterling in shares of £ 100 eac _. The
                                                             mines

                      Silver Mines   of Meriaoa.               14-1
    'mines which are engaged are    principally in the Real of Gua
    naxuato, near the city of that name, about 200mmiles N.W. of
    the city of Mexico; they include that of Valenciana, which
    is stated to have been carried to the extraordinary depth
    of 350 fathoms. This mine is spoken of at large by Baron
    Humboldt in his interesting works upon New Spain, and is
    reckoned b him to have.alone produced one fourth of the
    silver of     exico. It was originally quite free from water,
    but has been inundated by the influx from an adjoining mine,
    Tepryac, and has been nearly <U+FB01>lled in the last 12 years, owing
    principally to the neglect caused by civil commotion.     There
    are other mines also situated upon- the same vein (the veta
    madre of Guanaxuato), some of which will be worked by the
                                                         '
     company.
        Several steam engines, as well for pumping out the water, as
    for drawing up the ores, and for stamping and reducing them
    to a proper state for amalgamation and smelting, are already
     constructing in this country, and a select body of miners from
     Cornwall are engaged to go out and conduct the various
     operations.    The enterprize will be intrusted to Colonel
     Robinson, an officer of distinguished activity and merit, who
‘
    will shortly leave England to commence operations. The
     directors in London have been chosen from among gentlemen
    of great respectability and in<U+FB02>uence; and the establishment,
     which will be of an extent commensurate with the ma nitude
    of the object, is arranging under the direction of John aylor,
     Esq., whose connexion With the largest mines in this country is
     very well known;
        The second company consists principally of individuals
    engaged in mining in England, who have undertaken to work
    the mines in Real del Monte, about 60 miles N. of the city of
     Mexico, belonging to the Conde de Re la, a distinguished
     Mexican nobleman ; and also the mine 0 Moran, nearly ad
    joining, the property of Thomas Murphy, Es ., who was long
     resident in the country, and of Don Fausto d’ lhuar, formerly
     president of the mining college of Mexico. This company
     has raised a capital of £200,000 in 500 shares of £400 each.
     Their arrangements here are also intrusted to Mr. Taylor;
     but we have not heard whether their foreign appointments are
     made, although it is understood that their lpreparations are
     in great forwardness. The mines of Real del Monte are not
     represented as so rich as those of ’Guanaxuato, but they are
     spoken of by Humboldt as having been very productive.
      They are more troubled with water than the others, from
      which they'have from time to time been relieved by levels
     driven through great distances and at enormous charges;
                                                                  sthe
                                                               wor

    1 4-2                       Silver Mines   of Mexico.
    works were extended below these adits as far as the skill of
    those employed could carry them, but the depths to be drained
    by machinery are not very great. The mine of Moran was se
    lected many years ago as a proper place for t ing the e<U+FB02>'ect of
    a water pressure en ine which was erecte          by a German
    engineer; but after it ad drained the mine in a rainy season,
    it was found that in the long droughts the supply of water to
    keep it in motion was insuf<U+FB01>cient to produce any regular
    effect,
     -
            and the working was discontinued.
       The prospectus of another company has also lately appeared,
    whose capital is to be £240,000 in 6000 shares of £40 each.
    This association is formed to work mines, to raise or purchase
    gold and silver ores or metals, and to smelt, reduce, re<U+FB01>ne,
    and separate the same, by the combination of European skill
    and capital with Mexican interests, through the medium of
    Don Lucas Alaman, a native of and residing in Mexico; but
    it has not been deemed expedient to enter into actual contracts
    for working mines, until the association be formed and the
    extent of its capital ascertained.
       The above     we believe, a tolerably correct-outline of the
                         is,
    three great establishments formed for the purposes we have
    described, and they seem likely to possess the means of making
    the experiment with energy and effect.         If no injudicious
    rivalry should take place, which would be absurd where the
    <U+FB01>eld for exertion     so large, they ma mutually support and
                               is
    assist each other, and the chance of ultimate success may thus
    be much increased.
        As far as we can form an opinion, we should think that
    these speculations offer bright prospects of advantage,       but
    that the are attended with many and obvious risks.
        To      two countries the bene<U+FB01>ts are su<U+FB01>iciently appa
                 t   e
    rent: Mexico must gain by the                    of the principal
                                        re-opening
    sources of its wealth, by the increase  of ski and experience,
                                                            l
'
    and by the pro<U+FB01>table employment of its population; all tend
    ing to settle and improve the circumstances of the Govern
    ment.
       As far as England      concerned, the prospect of a trade
                                    is
    with such a region, where the distance        not formidable,
                                                            is
    where the interchange of the valuable metals for the British
    manufactures may be to a great and almost unlimited extent,
    cannot but be esteemed most important to our commercial in—
    terests; while the very employment of capital from this coun
    try    thrown into a channel that may create a source of pro
            is
    <U+FB01>table intercourse hardly to be anticipated.                        .
       The risks are principally to be classed under the following
    heads: political events, the uncertainty of all mining opera
                                                              tions,

                     Silver Mines quem'co.                       143
tions, the dif<U+FB01>culty of procuring a faithful administration so
far from home, and the obstacles to be expected from the
prejudices, the cupidity, or the bad faith of the Mexican pro
prietors.                             _
    Some of these appear to us to be formidable, and to de
serve serious consideration, and they will be appreciated dif
ferently by various persons as their minds may ' incline them,
or their information may be greater or less.                          .
   The political question we do not intend to examine, as it
involves considerations foreign to the objects of our publica
tion. As to the uncertainty attendant on mining, it appears
to us, from the authority of the highly respectable traveller be
fore quoted, that it is less in Mexico than in most places; and
as we know that the principal miners of this country have been
consulted, we conceive that their advice is satisfactory on this
point.    The distance from home, when ur ed as an objection,
has been met by the remark, that great a airs are managed
satisfactorily in more-remotefcountries, such as in the East Indies,
and that by a judicious selection of respectable of<U+FB01>cers, with
a system of proper checks, what is required in this respect
may be accomplished.        With regard to the interference of
Mexican in<U+FB02>uenceto the detriment of the English companies,
supposing the desire of it to exist, it is obvious that self-interest
must be esteemed as the strongest motive; and as the mines
will continue to exist only by the exertion of a peculiar skill
in the supply and management of complicated machinery, and
which skill must for a long time be vested in the English part
of the establishment only, so it will be evidently the interest
of the Mexican, to support and aid those upon whom the suc“
cess of the mines will depend.
   As to what advantage may accrue to the shareholder in Lon
don, it is of course at present not easy to form conjectures:
but there is evidence enough of the great pro<U+FB01>ts which these
mines formerly made; those who know them best speak with
con<U+FB01>dence of the future; and if the chances which we have
alluded to do not interfere injuriously to any formidable ex
tent, we do not see why the result should not be a prosperous
one.
   In a scienti<U+FB01>c point of view much may be expected: mining
establishments of such magnitude must necessarily include
many men capable of making observations of varied character
and research, and we hope that they will record and com
municate them.      The interests of Geology, Mineralogy, and
the other studies more immediately connected wth the object
in view, ma not only be served, but, as it may be possible to
include in   theestablishment persons devoted to other branches
                                                                    of

  1M-             Improvement    in making Anchors.
  of science,  we may expect also ood service to the cause of
  natural history, astronomy, an the arts: from the known
  character of the gentlemen who patronize and man               e the
  undertakin , we have a right to look forward to satisfactory
  results of t is kind.
    We understand that a work consisting chie<U+FB02>y of selections
 from the writings of Humboldt is in the press, which will con
 tain the most interesting information upon Mexico and its
 mines: it will be edited and revised by Mr. Taylor, who has
 engaged to add some explanatory notes to render it useful to
 those who may be desirous of inquiring particularly into the
 subject.
 IMPROVEMENT       ON THE PRINCIPLE or MAKING ANCHORS, BY
                  MR. G. stxas (THE PATENTEE).
    To prevent the di<U+FB01>iculty and danger attending Welding the
 shank and the <U+FB02>akes of the anchor, and the hazard of burning
 them a little distance from the part so welded, and where an
 chors most frequently break, it is proposed to make half the
 shank and all the <U+FB02>uke in one iece; and if the bars of iron
 should not be manufactured in engths suf<U+FB01>cient for lar e an
 chors, those bars can be welded, and the welds separate from
 each other in making up the bars in suf<U+FB01>cient numbers to make
 the <U+FB02>uke and half the shank. This being done, leaving iron suf
 <U+FB01>ciently large to make the crown, it is turned with the greatest
 possible ease to the form of half the anchor. This process does
 not require the heat approachin to burning, and will give the
 anchor such a trial as in all proba ility it will never receive after;
 and the dif<U+FB01>culty in making those pieces is no more than makin
iron knees, only that the iron must be faggoted, which wi<U+FB01>
ensure its              and will allow of an eye bein opened in
each half ofstrength,
              the s lank to admit the wood-stock passmg throu h
the anchor. Two pieces bein made this way, they are broug t
together and reconciled to t e size, and to suit each other;
leaving iron out at the crown to admit the opposite ring of the
palm, to clinch over each other, and bolt on to the <U+FB02>uke: thus
the palm ives collateral support to each half of the anchor;
and a su cient number of hoops are welded on the shank of
the anchor, and driven down each way till it is suf<U+FB01>ciently
strong: this allows the stock to be made much smaller; and
as the cutting one-third out to let it over the anchor is saved,
it will be much stronger, and will only require a thin plate of
iron with a shoulder screwed on each half of the stock in
wake of the anchor (which will prevent the anchor cutting the
wood); the shoulder is placed contrariwise on the half stocks;
when hooped with one hoop and a toggle through at each end,
                                                                   the

                   Mr.  Haw/res’s   imp'o'ued Capstans.           14-5
the stock can only turn round, and cannot possibly et out
while the hoops remain at the ends: the stock will thusie less
liable to break than by the old method of hooping and bolting it
over the anchor, and will prevent the cutting away the strengest
part of the wood to make the stock square. This method will
make it unnecessary to take spare anchors with the stocks,
which take up so much room, besides adding so much weight
to the fore extreme of the ship, which is the more detrimental
as the ship becomes in the greatest danger: those pieces can
be prepared to be put together in two pieces with an iron
stock with hoops prepared, and will only require warmin and
driving down, in much less time than is required to stoc the
old anchor.       And by putting three or four of these pieces to
gether, they   will  make the most effective anchor without a stock,
and the chain can be passed through the shank if required, or
make it fast to the shank.
    Mr. Hawkes rests all his hopes on the importance of bend
ing iron in preference to welding, which cannot be performed
without the greatest hazard of burning; and however inge
nious_the late contrivances may be, the welding dif<U+FB01>culty has
never been attempted to be dispensed with. There have been
all manner of welding scarfs proposed; but on considering
that the thin part of those scarfs (whatever shape they may
be) is equally subject to the same heat as the thick part, con
sequently must be destroyed, provided the thick part is suf<U+FB01>—
ciently hot to weld,—and as to the clinching the shank of the
anchor through, and on the crown of the <U+FB02>akes, the immense
wring or strain anchors are liable to sidewa s, must make this
very                      bending two pieces 0 iron and securely
      dangerous,—the
uniting   t em, must be considered stronger than one piece of
the same size, even if welded securely, and not burnt.           And
to do away this great dan er, that has been so destructive to
the lives and property of a nations, is the object Mr. H. hopes
to obtain; and though the price should exceed from 5 to 10 per
cent. other anchors which are made with all those hazards at
tached to them, independently of their being made without fag
goting the iron, which is fre uently done, time will prove that
anchors made on the princip e                    will be found ‘muc
superior to the present mode 0 fproposed,
                                                                   ~
                                        making them.
                                          ‘
   No. 9, Lucas-place, Commercial-road.
                              \
I‘MPROVEMENT ON THE PERPENDI-CULAR                AND HORIZONTAL
    cars'rans, DY MR. G. HAWKES, suavev'oa or SHIPPING.
   These capstans are either to be made of wood' or cast iron,
with from three to six segments of circles (as will suit best),        I
secured 'with bolts sideways through each other, and with
   Vol. 63. No. 310. Feb. 1624..                T              hoop

14-6            1%. Hawkes’s improved Capstans.
hoop-wheels on the drumhead and pallhead, with 'a winch in
midships, which is to turn these segments round the spindle,
or the spindle with them.
     To prevent the shock occasioned b the surge of the ropes
(all other capstans are liable to) from aving play between the
deck and pallhead, there are rollers <U+FB01>xed in sockets at the in
side of the pallrim, which rim is so constructed as to keep the
capstan always palled; and those sections which make the
barrel, whelps, pallhead, and drumhead, are suspended to the
upper part of the spindle in a turned      oove, being square ex
cepting at that place, and resting on t e live rollers within the
pallrim, bearing on the upper part of the hoop let over the
spindle at the deck, so that on the slightest strain they be
come a diagonal shore to the support of the spindle.
     As the drumhead and pallhead of these capstans, either of
wood or iron, need not be more than half the thickness of
other capstans, it allows room for two powers on the same
barrel, so that two ropes can be worked at the same time with
out interfering with each other; and ships that have double
capstans, one on each deck, the up       r part of the upper cap
stan is made to work independent 0 the other part, by dividing
the segments a little above the middle, makin the division
between the two powers, the pallhead and pa lrim, to the
 upper power; this will allow of four hawsers being worked at
 the same time, without the least confusion with each other,
 and must present a great advantage in case of ships getting on
 shore, or requiring an additional purchase, as both capstans
 can be applied to one object.
     The spindle of the upper capstan is securely <U+FB01>xed into the
 spindle of the lower one, so that the upper capstan can be re
 moved on getting clear Of harbour : as this capstan is only used
 on the old principle for trans orting the ship and for turning
 the capstan below, while the ower capstan on this principle is
 turned with a winch in midships, independently of the upper
  capstan, the winch is made to work the hand and chain pumps
  at the same time if found necessary.
      The horizontal capstans are e<U+FB01>'ectually secured with three
  (unless the capstan is wanted to be in the wake of the mast),_
  then four, iron pallbits, secured to the upper deck (to prevent
  partaking of the contrary working of the deck below) with
  iron knees before and aba<U+FB01>, let through carlings let up from
  the under part of the beams, and tog led on plates to the
  under part of those carlings, which are <U+FB01>rmly attached to three
  beams : those bits so secured receive the spindle, which is the
  whole length of the capstan, and will turn on sockets <U+FB01>xed to
  the pallbits: from three to six segments of circles are bolted
   .                                                      sideways

                                                                '
                                  <U+FB01>e late       Comet.                            14,7
      sideways round the spindle on each side, and the same num—
      her on the ends (the same as the perpendicular capstan), which
      are made to turn round the spindle, or to turn the spindle in
      case of using the bars.      This capstan is also double palled,
     and friction is destroyed, and is worked with wheels on the
      heads, the same way as the perpendicular capstans: indeed,
     the difference in these capstans is only in as much as the pall
     bits of the horizontal capstan become the pallhead of perpen
     dicular capstan, and offers twelve palls—six above, and the
     six below in a direction from the deck, which will save the old
     practice of checking from the deck for its security or safety,
     which is the principal object the inventor has in view, and has
    no doubt, if the late improvements on capstans are considered,
     they can only give ease, and no additional speed can be ob
    tained beyond the step or run of a man with the old palls, and
    play underneath allow of the same shock by the surge of the
    ropes as is the case in the old capstan; while the one proposed
    not only has the advanta e of two powers on each capstan,
    but three different speedsiy the winch and wheels, which are
'
    all external, and can be removed in a very short time to use
    the bars, is always palled, and is una<U+FB01>ected by the surging of
    the messenger or ropes, and if used by the bars will turn with
    the greatest case, not excepting the late improvement.—'The
   anchor and capstan are in progress at Messrs. Taylor and
    Martineau’s for the Triumph, Captain Green, and the Ex
   Inouth, Captain Owen, both of the East India service.
                FURTHER OBSERVATIONS              ON THE COBIET.
                                       Gosport Observatory,       Feb. 25, 1824.
   —~--_                —--
   \Vednesday Evening, Jan. 27th,          its Right Ascension
                                           its Declination
                                                               was 200‘,
                                                                     71
                                                                          10’
                                                                         00 north.
            .___..__._-
   Friday Evening,
       >
                    Jan. 29th,            its Right Ascension was 181
                                           its Declination           78
                                                                         30
                                                                         OOnorth.
   ___.____-—.
                                   1624 ’                  _
         ___—
   Saturday Evening, Jan. 30th,            its Right Ascension was 171   00
                                          its Declination            73  40 north.
   Tuesday Evening,   Feb. 2d,            its Right Ascension was 143    00
                                          its Declination            71  50 north.
       In the evening of the 27th of January, the Comet being
  nearly at its reatest apparent distance from the sun, as shown
  b the celestial globe, it had no tail, and appeared very much
  like the nebula in the constellation Cancer.                 In the evening
  of the 2d of February it was about 125° distant from the sun,
  and was scarcely perceptible by the naked eye; and at this
  time its daily motion under the <U+FB01>xed stars was about 2° 50'.
   Subsequent evenings proved that it had gone too far into
  space to make further observations on it.                                 -
                                                     ‘
                                                            XVM. BURNEY.
                                      T2                                      LIST

                                     [148]
                            LIST OF NEW PATENTS.
     To Thomas Bewley, of Mount Rath, in Queen’s County, Ireland, cotton
  manufacturer, for certain im rovements in wheeled carriages—Dated 24th
  January 1824.—6 months al owed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
    To John Heathcoat, of Tiverton, Devonshire, lace manufacturer, for
  certain improvements in the method of <U+FB01>guring or ornamenting various
 descri tions or kinds of goods manufactured from silk, cotton, or <U+FB02>ax.—
 24th anuary.
    To John Jones, of Leeds, Yorkshire, late of Gloucester, brush manu
 facturer, for certain im rovements in machinery and instruments for dress
 ing and cleansing woollian, cotton, linen, silk and other cloths or fabricks,
 and which improvements are also applicable to the dressing and cleansing
 of machinery of various descriptions and other articles or substances.—27th
 Janu     .—6 months.
    To ir William Congreve, of Cecil-street, Strand, Middlesex, bart., for
'his improved method of stamping—7th February—6 months.
    To John Arrowsmith, of Air-street, Piccadilly, Middlesex, esq., who, in
consequence of discoveries by himself, and communications             made to him
 by certain foreigners residing abroad, is in           ossession of an im roved
 mode of publicly exhibiting       ictures or painted) scenery of every     escrip,
 tion, and of distributing or directing the day-light u n or through them
 so as to roduce many beautiful effects of li ht and shiide, which he deno
 minates gioramar-lOth February.--6 ment 5.
    To Robert Lloyd, of the Strand, Middlesex, hatter, and James Rowq
 botham, of Great Surry-street, Blackfriars Road, Sur , hat-manufacturer,
 for their having invented and brought to erfection algat upon a new con
 struction which will be of great public uti ity.—19th February.—6 months,
    To Henry Adcock, of Summer Hill Terrace, Birmingham, Warwick
 shire, gilt-toy manufacturer, for his improvement in making waistbands, or
 umbilical, ventral, lumbar and spinal bandages or supporters to be attached
 to coats, waistcoats, breeches, pantaloons and trowsers, to be either permas
 nently <U+FB01>xed or occasionally attached and supplied.—l9th F ebruary.—             '
 6 months.
    To William Church, of Birmingham, Warwickshire, esq., for certain
 im rovements in machine         for printing.-.—19th February.-6 months.
      0 Augustus Applegaltii, of Duke-street,        Stamford-street,  Blackfriars,
 Surry, printer, for certain improvements in machines for printing.—19th
 February. -—6 months.
    To the Rev. Moses Isaacs, of Houndsditch, London, for certain im~
               in the construction of machinery, which, when kept in motion
 provements
   y any suitable power or weight, is applicable to obviate concussion by
 means of preventing counteraction, and by which the friction is converted
 into an useful power for propelling carriages on land, vessels on water, and
 giving motion to other machinery.—-l9.th F ebruary.—6 months.
    To John Vallance, of Brighton, Sussex, esq., for his method of communi
 cation or means of intercourse, by which persons may be conveyed, goods
 transported, or intelligence communicated, from one place to another with
 greater expedition than by means of steam-carriages, steam or other vessels,
 or carriages drawn by animals—19th F ebruary.—6 months.
                                                                       METEORO

                                                                         METEOROLOGICAL                           RESULTS
          the                             Presiure         and                                                    Wind,            &c.,     deduced         from         diurnal              Observations
 0f                 Atmospherieal                                       Tempa‘ature,             Rain,
                           made     at    Manchester,             in    the   Year       1823,         by    Mr.          THOMAS              HANSON,                 Surgeon.
                                         Latitude       58°       25'                                              2°        10'     West         of   London.
                                                                          North—Longitude
 1823.                       Barometrical      Pressure-                                                                                     Railh                                       Wind.
                                                                                                 Temperature.                                                                                                               12791301010912”
                            ,1;
                             0
                                    a
                                     U                  3.55%;
                                                                              “5?,
                                                                              c‘ 1:              2
                                                                                                  +5                                         3
                                                                                                                                             4:
                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                       Q         “J
                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                              :1     b.          - a-     '5   E .31:   -
                                     3                    11,:       A                                      ag          1:35? m:                                ‘                        f            '        "‘ "
Months.         1
                ’VIeau.     :-               Ran e.                9 U             =   Mean        he                   E” a
                                                                                                                                   g'ia-
                                                                                                                                              °        -                r'    ,- .           -   3
                                    5                                                                                                        ,5
                                                                              26                                                                       iZZHJLAIIJ                                    Z>5CD£
                                                    ggéiéns                                                             Mug;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sgynsag
 Jan.           29 66      30-14    28'90      124         -39     3-15        8       32-7      43         1‘5      33            12       1-290          3 0 0 .3 5 0
                                                                                                                                                        810                                                                   .qu
 Feb.           29 34      30.38    28 '10     1'68        -88     5-15        14      38’4-      50        2'1      23            15       3-275      14  '1 F1 8 1 0 0                 12
                                                                                                                                                                                             0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 91
 March          29-67      30-32    28 95      1-31        -65     5-60                429        54        29       25            13       2-664          a10310
                                                                                                                                                           6 2 2 :1 '1                       45113 1 00 0104
  April         29-75      30 30    2s 95      1-35        ~15     4-30        8 86    46-2       60        35       25            18       1-'105     10       110
  May           29-76      30 30    29-26.     1-04        ~32     9-10                51-4       '11       42       29            24       2-130      15     0 0    00                  12  001o000 00o00
 June           2979   3018         29-20      0-96        ~42     6-00        10      55-6       68        42       26            20       2-1’10     16        9                       12
                29 611 29-95        2930       0-65        -38     2-90        10      59-1       '11       4'1      24            22       5060       20
                                                                                                                                                                30
                                                                                                                                                                03                       1411
                                                                                                                                                                                             2s2 1 13 1 0 223 3
 July                                                                                                                                                           00
                29 69  30-02        29-28      0-24        -30     2-15        11      591        '10       50          20         15       4-680      24
                                                                                                                                                                00
                                                                                                                                                                00                           912
 August                                                                                                                                                                                      o 3 6 5 2 4 2 '1 8 1 5 5
 Sept.           29-76     3015     29 00      1-15        -5'1    3-90        11      551        69        $9          30         16       3-300      18                0 2         1       611
 Oct.            29-55     30-25    28'70      1-55        14      5-4-0       12      49-5       62        39       23            14       3-060      20       290 1    0 1             15  1 0 4 3 '1 4       006
                                                                               8                                                                                               100
 Nov.            29-92     30-40    29-06      1-34        -62     3'50                46-6       57        30       2'1           16       1-685      16                    010         12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -a.11qseouerI—-ggg[
 Dec.            29-46     50-26    2960        Hit;       "16     6-30        11      42-1       53        ‘28      25            13       3-560          13
                                                                                                                                                                0 0 00   0       2       111
                                                                                                                                                                                             4 s 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ’
Annual
                 29-67                                            49-48       11'?     4-8-7                                               35979189             11214         1016121594323                     120
    C
M23115,                                                p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6'H

 ‘1‘50     Meteorological Summary/0r   1823.—Lancashire.
      Mean annual temperature 4-8°'7, which is three degrees
  colder than the annual mean of 1822, but about an avera e
  mean ofa series of years: the mean of the first three months
  38°‘7; second 52°'1; third 57°“9; fourth 46°‘l: of the six
  winter months 45°'1 ; six summer months 54°'5. The highest
  state of temperature, which may be recognised in the above
  Table, was 71° ; it took place on the Slst of May, and 20th
 of July: and the lowest 15° on the 19th of January : variation
 of   these extremes  56°.
      Mean annual barometrical pressure 29'67 inches; highest
 3040 occurred on the 10th of November; lowest 28-60 on the
 4th of December: variation of the extremes 1'80 inches. Mean
 of the six summer months 29'73; of the six winter months
 29'66. Spaces described by the courses formed from the mean
 daily pressure 49% inches; number of changes 117.       Prevail
 ing winds as usual, south-west and west.                      .
     January was particularly remarkable for a severe frost. An
 average mean temperature of the highest extreme from the
 11th to the 22d was 33°‘7; and the mean of the lowest ex
 treme for the same period 27°‘3 : the coldest state was on the
 19th; there was a fog at the time, and the barometer rose
 during the day about 18 hundredths of an inch. The ther
 mometer in the morninn' indicated the cold of l5°—that is,
 17° under freezing: in the course of the day the temperature
rose to 27°.      The wind blew a gentle breeze from the north
 and north-east, the barometer gradually fell from the 11th to
the 19th, and became stationary about the very low tempera
ture, when it began to rise.    The ground, for the most part
of the month, was clothed with snow, and rivers and canals
frozen over. My friend’s thermometer at Crumpsall indicated
a cold of 13° on the morning of the 19th; the mean of the
two extremes on that day in town was 21°; in the country
probably 19°: mean of the means of the two extremes of the
above twelve days 30°25. A gentleman (Mr. Buchann) in the
neighbourhood of Ardwick noticed the thermometer on the
morning of the 19th to be 13°, the same as at Crumpsall.
On the 28d and 3 following days the wind blew strong from
the S.-E.      There was a general breaking-up of the frost on
the 27th; the mean daily temperature   ' got up to‘ 46°, and the
wind changed _to south-west.                                  ..5
    February was noticed for almost daily falls of rain, snow,
sleet, or hail ;_ and sometimes all at once.  The temperature
<U+FB02>uctuated from 27° to 50°.      Stron winds from the S.-W.,
on the. 1st, 11th, 12th and 22d: on t 1e 23d the wind was very
strong from the south-east; and during the night and following
day blew a hurricane. Barometer for the most part low.
                                                          March

         Metem-ological Summaryfor 1823.-—Lancashire.        151
    March commenced with stron         south-west winds,   which
blew a hurricane during the wht<U+FB01>e of the night of the 3rd,
and part of the following day: the pressure, during the time,
low, and temperature rather high.       On the 7th there was a
strong south-east wind with snow and sleet: on the 20th and
followin     night, a copious fall of snow; but which soon dis
appeare , as it was succeeded by rain. The Weather now con
tinued warm and open to the end, with occasional sungleams.
    April. April showers, which usually characterise this month
with mildness, were in the present instance attended during the
<U+FB01>rst ten days with the blustering west and piercing east winds
of March.       The north-east winds, which commenced on the
5th and continued to the 14th, felt more cold than the ther
mometer indicated, and were particularly distressing to per
sons disposed to the tooth-ache.      On the 18th and 19th there
was a strong north-west wind with hail and snow, and the
following ni t a sharp frost: ice on the ground a quarter of
an inch thici, yet the reporter’s thermometer only fell to 35°,
  that is three degrees above freezing. The same uncongenial,
 weather prevailed to the 27th, which retarded vegetation much :>
 but on the 28th, circumstances changed, as the temperature
 rose, the sky became clear and mostly cloudless, the barome
 ter high and steady, and the wind changed from an east to a
 south course, which terminated the month.
     May commenced with summer weather, and increased in
 heat to the 7th: the highest state of that day was 71°, which
 was one of the greatest extremes of the year; there were loud.
 claps of thunder about two in the morning, with rain: on the
 8th, gradual fall of the barometer, and sudden one of the tem
 perature, attended with frequent heavy showers of rain, and
 hail at intervals. The 1 1th Was a very rainy day in and about
  Manchester, but in Liverpool no rain fell: 13th, strong south
 west wind, with frequent rain and hail showers; the hail was
 uncommonly large and indurated: 15th, a few swallows were
 noticed on the wing for the <U+FB01>rst time this season. About this
  time it was <U+FB01>ne but cold for spring, but from the 19th to the
  end, warm and showery. \                                         .
     June: <U+FB01>ne and warm to the 14th, with frequent showers of
  rain : 15th, nimbus, or thunder clouds, which deposited much
 _rain ; wind variable, but which <U+FB01>nally settled and blew keenly
  from the north-east; the consequence was, much damage done
  to garden shrubs and tender vegetables, by annoying them with
  insects of the aphis tribe.   The wind remained northerl to
  the 26th, when it changed to west, and on the 29th there were
  loud peals of thunder, with 1i htning and rain.                   _
      July upon the whole was co d, gloomy, and wet; on
                                                          thel28d
                                                            t iere

152      Mcleorological Summaiy for l823.—Lancashire.
 there was hail, with rain: three days before, the temperature
 was 71", the same as in May; but the mean of the day was
 2° higher. The rain that fell measured upwards of <U+FB01>ve inches.
    August. The average temperature was just the same as that
 of July; and the rain, which measured nearly <U+FB01>ve inches, was
 pretty evenly distributed throughout.        An observer of rural
 affairs says, about the 9th, that “ the weather most unfortu
 natel still continues unfavourable to the ripening of corn,
 whic , on the whole, presents a very healthy and full appear.
 once.     The hay is only partially got in ; and a great deal of
 grass  is yet to cut.   Very fortunately, this wet state has not
 been common throughout the country; on the contrary, many
 places south have been in great want of rain.”        He also re
 marks, “ It is observed, this summer, in point of wetness, is
 equal to 1816.” This certainly is not correct; for on referring
to that year, I <U+FB01>nd only about nine inches of rain fell in the
 three months of June, July, and August; but in the three
months of the following year there fell upwards of <U+FB01><U+FB02>een and
a half inches : in the corresponding months of the present year
near twelve inches.
    September: weather generally gloomy, cloudy and wet, with
occasional sun-gleams. Mr. Cobbett was enabled to state from
his rural ride through Kent, &c., in the beginning of the month,
that the result of his observations and inquiries,   is, the cropis
a full average crop of every thin except barley, and that the
barley yields a great deal more ian an average crop.
                                      t
    October. Partial showers of rain almost (lail to the 10th;
on the 12th, hail.     First indication of winter at
                                                 t   e  close of the
month, by a decrease of temperature, and a slight fall of snow.
    November. The temperature on the second under freezin        :
  loomy and foggy state of the atmosphere now prevailed. Rain
 gel]
     on sixteen days, but very slightly except on the 30th, when
it continued the whole of the day.
    December commenced with strong wind, showers of hail,
and a falling barometer. On the 3d, in the morning the ba
rometer stood at 2994-, wind blowing strong from the south~
west; in the evening the pressure was lowered to 28-78, wind
west, and approaching to a gale; and in the course of the
night and following morning blew quite a hurricane, nearly
equal to the storm that took place on the 4th of December,
1822. On the 12th, gusts of eastern wind with hail; the 17th
was very stormy and rainy;                   much agitated; in the
course of the day                    an inch; indeed, the barome
                        lost '76 0 fpressure
                        it
trical pressure has been much disturbed throughout the month.
Temperature high for the season.
  Bridge-street,   Feb. 16th, 1824.
                                                           Resulls

                                         Results   of     a                                   Journal
                                                              Meteorological                                    for     the    Year      1823,             at the                                of    the                                       Hams
                                                                                                                                                  kept                    Observatory                         Academy,         Gosport,
                                                                                                                              By     WILLIAM                              LL.D.                ~
                                                                                                                                                        BURNEY,
                                                                Latitude             50°     47’     20”                                           1°   7'                                                                4"
                                                                                                                North—Longitude                              West         of     Greenwich.                  In   time         28”.
                                                                                    Barometer.                                                           Self-                                                    is
                                                                                                                                                                  registering      Thermometer.                                 De Lucis          Hygmmeter'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.x
                                                                                     ~50      .5585                                       $5..                                                          5-4                -
                              Months.     Max.     Min.       Media.                    E“    8.2
                                                                                                                       32'         a;                        .
                                                                                                                                                            .3           .iéggg                 '55
                                                                                                                                                  :5"                gb      >3            _            E%                5    ,5     s5
                                                                             7                at        153322.294             "8         <U+FB01>g                 °                     %             g_                 5.;                     .5     .5    .5
                                                                                                        25-     TM                        w-
                                                                           4 5° M
                                                                                     22                                                          22        2         5.»-            86-         ~<     2°-                           :2     aha-9
                                                                                       Q                                           go:   200                         p:                                            »sss
                                                                                                                                                                                                2%      £400      2
                                                                                              mé'ogfgigw                                                                    @2201                                                           EWEQ‘S‘”
                                           ]n.      In.         In.        In.               _1n           In          In.         In.
'IOA '99 'ON '019 "PH “+58!
                                                                                                                                         I'In,      0                                                    o                        v
                              January     30-10    28-96   29-625                                                                                                                                                                                    0i
                                                                       1-14           19      502       0-46                                                        32       1?;                                                      49/
                                                                                                                      29-62829-61229-625§21%34-64                                  3796132929          3510415200          9550             751    77151780
                              February    30-20    28-52   29-433      168            21                0-68
                                                                                             10-24                                          502841-16               22      17     4478 39-89          40-57 48-54         9254       38
                              March...    30-37    28-85                                                              29-43129-418f29-442                                                                                                   722    79'81781
                                                           29-801      152            20      8-13      0-93      29'79329‘796‘29-809573043'79                      27      20     48-65 4189          43%   4818          934°       53
                               49111      30-48    29-02   29-836      146            20                0-62                                                                                                                                6067301744
                                                                                              7-33                29-83929-82809-839    613247-53                   29      20     53-47 47-07         4693 4868           8338
                                          30'40                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                               May                 29-55   29-939      085            26      4-83      0-36                                                                                                                                5466251651
                              June                                                                                29-93729-94729-938    734256-71                   31      24     63-03 58-23         56-64 49-18         8432       52    49-7 561621
                                          30-35    29-33   29-934      1'0-2           15     4-47      0'42      29-93729-93429-929    76425807                    34      24     64-43 59-13 58-63              50-27    8031                          58'1
                                          30-13    29-60                                                                                                                                                                              49    44-7 50'9
                              July                         r29-866     0'53          -31      5-30      0-43      29-86529-87429-87075     50 62-08                 25      23     67-26 61-58 60-06              5129     9042       48    52-9 59-4
                              August      30-26    29-55   29928       0-71           24                                                                                                                                                                 65:0
                                                                                              4-50      0'38      29'92829-93329-92974149                62-63      25      18                                    52-12                     56's
                                          30-39                                                                                                                                    67-90 63-06 6193                        93 45      48
                              Septemb.             29-32   30-027.     1-07           21      5-86                                                                                                                                                64:2
                                                                                                        0-64                                                        27             64-33 5790 57'70               53'”    9°39        51    49'1597      (he-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          39
                              October     3044                                                                    30-03330-0233002271I4458-43                               17
                                                   28'70   '29'705     1‘74           19      9-08      0-76      29-68429-71329-72163     38 51-42                 25      19     55-55 50-26 50-39              53-25   9543        52    58-9
                              Novemb-     30'60    29-50      30-107   1-10           16      4-92      0-76                                                                                                                                     69:2    70:1
                              Decemb-                                                                             30-10730-10130.107   56314722                     25      23     50-33 4543  46-93                      9052        38    66-2 710     718
                                          30-51    28-97      29769    1-54           22     10-26                                                                                                                52-25
                                                                                                        099       29-75329-76729-75453    28 42-86                  25      20     45-87 41-32 43-32              51-04   94 58       36    70'9 76'6 76'0
                                                                                                                   -—
                              Averages                                                                                                                                                                                                                           \
                              (“1823-     30-60    2852    29-831      14-36254              79-88      0-99      29-828                         7618    50-54    27-4      24     55-27       49-79   50065047           9731464
                                                                                                                               29-829'29-832
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5916661696!

a».
                                                                50550005
       .
           oswiono<U+FB01>iin<U+FB02>                                     mmswaanmnaaa
                                                            342212231424
                                                            . . . _.1..l     .......                    5
                                                                                                        m
                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                        M
                      .
                                 .                           857 0500505
                                                            me<U+FB01>eow71vcsqo                               8
                                     Pa.                                                                a
      .252; E.                       cez<U+FB01>ome<U+FB01>m
                                       .                    0 0 1 2         3332       211 0            4
                                                                                                        2
                          010023210013
                                cow—.3;                                                                 U
       m.
                          000013311113
                                .miciwmsm                                                               M.
       m
       o
       n        .2332
                          622242|217452
                                  2 2 2                                                                 9
                                                                                                        9
       m
               .mkoseme:  110011310103                                                                  m
      m
      .c     .meiiaeezq   383310002234                                                                  W,
      h
       m      .inIaEQw    121386231301                                                                  w
       W      Ammo—wanna; 000020001020                                                                  5
                .omeseanm 110613001502                                                          _       W
      m
      A         a<U+FB01>Etc<U+FB02>    010001000000                                                                  2
                   .thQ   181010110101                                                                  5
           a. se<U+FB01>z Eat 323333333333                                                                     6
                                                                                                        3
                               L1
               6a.. Ea
                            11
       Y
        ..
                     a
                          6H4653892869                                                                  W
      t
      .m
                 .          12
                                         mmmoh              1110000000120                               4
                                                            55H 8 798 8 47m... w
                                                                        11  11
      %
      W
                          aha-w          $5.65 :<
                                                                     11                12
                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                        %
                  .2520 5?»                          Farm   7wHMHUUDWU8w                                B
                                                                                                        1
                               aso_o<
                           emu—w                            212344226332
                                                                     I...    12
                                                                                                        %
                                                                 8
                                ash-EWZ                     UHIMW%%%BMH%                                m
       w                  33:83:50                          wwwme%%M559                                 m
                                                                                                        2
      U
      .m                        2.3.56                       lUvo.   WWer/MM4U                          m
       s                                                                                                1
       m                                 .2526              401011001000                                8
      .u                    .
                          ,muunhmots                         9292
                                                            2222M22HV2WJWUW
                                                                             49 4                       m”
      .m
      .1                                                                                                nnvl
      d
      .m                  53:53926                          SHUWWob<U+FB02>WUMGU                               %
      NA                                                                                                1
                                     .
                                         ma.me
                                                            961085          J
                                                            112222Mm<U+FB02>.%<U+FB02>u,|0.                           04w.
                                                                                                        2
                                             .wae<U+FB02>          181010110101
                                                            323333333333                                5
                      .“o       3:8:2                13°F
                                                                                                ll
                                                                                                        %
                            -                                                      2
           .
                                385-532                      4674325<U+FB02>6549_                              uh.
                                                                                                        5
       s                                                                                                  1
                                         .
                                             “we?            04632
                                                                1.1
                                                                     47$5538
                                                                          a
      W .m
      .1                                                                                                “no
                                                            ldiflsl
       E
                            u
                             omokvi<U+FB01>zem                      274509448639
                                                                      1?;
                                                                   II 11
                                                                                   1
                                                                                                        H1
                                                                                                        9
      h                                  .                           xi
       0.                                                                                               "In...
      b:
      8_
                            .
                                omeml<U+FB01>som                     603451212251
                                                                  12
                                                                                                        2
      “M.                                Anew“                522141001431                              M4
                                                                                                        2
                                                              1 439351 £4346 0
                                                                  17.11
                          -
                                “mam-éez                      2                                         4
               .a h                                                                                     5
                                     .582                   .
                                                              134117212232                              ulz
                                                                                                        2
                                               ..            h   H              r .re r
                                                                      . . . . . e
                                              m               Wm.
                                                                    .
                                                                        .
                                                                        .    th rbm                 .
                                                                                                    %3
                                                                                                         .
                                                              mhl
                                                              a                             m
                                              n.                     mm           m                 M02
                                                             mbmnmegwmwm
                                                                                            m
                                              0
                                                                                                    am
                                                             89 P UMUPCOE                           vr
                                                            JFMAMJJA&OND
                                              M
                                                                                                    Am
                                                                                                        v

        Meteorological Summary     for l823.—Hampshire.                   1.55
                   ANNUAL RESULTS FOR 1823.
                             Barometer.                               Inches.
Greatest pressure of atmosphere, Nov. 11th. Wind E.                  30'600
Least        ditto     ditto         Feb. 2d. Wind N.E.              28 “'520
Range of the mercury                        .     .           .        2'080
Annual mean pressure of the atmosphere                    .          29'831
Mean pressure for 181 days, with the moon in North
     declination       a   I    .  a   I    .     .   .   .   .  .   29'887
Mean pressure for 204- days, with the moon in South
   declination         .                         -.                  29-810
Annual mean pressure at 8 o’clock A.M.                               29'828
                         at 2 O’clock      P.M.                      29-829
                         at 8 O’clock      P.M.                      29-832
Greatest range of the mercury in October                  -   -  a     1-740
Least range of        ditto         in July                            0-530
Greatest annual variation in 241 hours in December                     0-990
Least of the reatest variations in 24- hOurs in May                    0-360
Aggregate O the spaces described by the alternate
     rising and falling of the mercury             0-. a             79'880
Number of changes      .                                            2541'
      \ Sew-registering   Day and Night Thermometer.
Greatest thermometrical heat, June lst. Wind S.                  .
-————                        cold, Jan. 19th. Wind E.
Range of the thermometer between the extremes
Annual mean temperature of the external air
—-—                            of do. at 8 A.M.
                               of do. at 8 P.M.
-————                          of do. at 2 P.M.
                                               ’
Greatest range in January and June                .   .   Q   Q
Least of the monthly ranges in February
Annual mean range                        .    .     .   .  .   .  .
Greatest monthly variation in 24- hours in May and
     June
Least of the greatest variations in 24- hours in Fe
     bruary and September          .         a     o   a   0
Annual    mean temperature of spring water at             8  AIM:
                DE Luc’s Malebone Hygrometer.                        Degrees.
Greatest humidity of the atmosphere on the 27th Jan.                 97
Greatest dryness of ditto on the 17th June                           31
 Range of the index between the extremes                             66
Annual mean of the hygrometer at 8 o’clock A.M.                      66'6
                                         at 8 o’clock P.M.           69’6
                                         at 2 o’clock P.M.           59'1
                                        at 8, 2, 8L 8 o’clock        65°l
                                  U2                                Greatest

7156
        Meteorological Summaiy                            for l823.—Hampshire.
Greatest mean monthly humidity of the atmosphere
     in February  .   . .    .  .   . .  . .  .   .                                                                                 76'7
Greatest mean monthly dryness of the atmosphere in
       June   .       .   .     ..           .        .       .       .           .           .       .       .       .    .        512
                    Position of the Winds.                                                                                Days;
       From North to North-East . . .                                                             .       .       .        27i
            North-East to East    .  . .                                                          .       .       .        51%
            East to South-East    .  . .                                                          .       .       .        2415
       Ill    South-East to South
              South to South-West
                                                                  .           .
                                                                              .
                                                                                          .
                                                                                          .
                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                           82%
                                                                                                                           21-1,
       —      South-West to West
          West to North-West
                                                                  .           .
                                                                              .
                                                                                          .
                                                                                          .
                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                           911,:
                                                                                                                           56
       —— North-West to North                                                 .           .       .       .       .        57%
                                                                                                                                    365
Clouds,    agreeably to the Nomenclature,- or the number                                                                       of days
             on which each modi<U+FB01>cation has appeared.
                                                                                                                           Days.
       Cirrus    .        '.    .        .       .        .       .           .           .       .       .       .        248
       Cirrocum ulus            .       .        .        .       .           .           .       .       .       .        168
       Cirrostratus             .       ..       .        .       .       ,.              .       .       .       .        327
       Stratus     .   .  .  .     .      . .  . .'.              .                                               .             8
       Cumulus . . . . . . . . . .                                                                        .       .        181
       Cumulostratus                                                                                                       200
                                                                                                                      '
                          .  .  .  .  .  .         .                                  .           .               .
       Nimbus         .   .
                          .     .     . ..         .      .                           i.          .               .        225
                     General State of the Weather.                                                                        Days,
       A transparent atmosphere without-clouds                                                                    .            35
       Fair, with various modi<U+FB01>cations of clouds                                                                  .        14-3
       An overcast sky, without rain . . I . .                                                                    .        105
                  '
       Foggy          .         .                                 .           .           .       .       .       .             4
                                                                                                                                     '
       Raln, hail, snow, and                     sleet                    .           .           .       .       .            78
                                                              -
                                                                                                                                    365
                              Atmospheric Phwnomena.                                                                      No.
       Anthelia, or mock-suns diametrically opposite
            to the true sun       .  .    .  .  . >.
                                                  .    .
       Parhelia, or mock suns on the sides of the
            true sun . .       .  .      .
                                         .  .  .    . .           .                                                            20
       Paraselenae,  or mock-moons . .         .    .                                     .                       .            5
       Solar halos     .    .   . . ..    .         .                                     .       .               .            31
       Lunar halos . . . . . . . . . .                                                                            .            29
       Rainbows, solar and lunar     .         .    . .                       .           .                                    l2
       Meteors of various sizes   .  .   .  .  .    .                                                             .            99
       Lightning, days on which     happened       .  .   it                                                                   14
       Thunder, ditto                ditto     .   .  .                                                                        13
                         Evaporation.                                                                                 Inches.
       Greatest monthly quantity in May                                                       .       .       .           3'80
                                                                                                                                Least

       iMeleorological Summary   for 1828.-—Hampshire.           15'7
      Least monthly quantity in January      . . _ . I     0'63 In.
      Total amount for the year        . .
                                           \
                                             . .    .    24'28
                               Rain.                    Inches.
      Greatest monthly quantity in October /      .      4-820
      Least monthly quantity in May . . . .               1125
      Total amount for the year near the ground 34665
      Total amount for the year 23 feet high      .     81165      ~
    N. B. The barometer is hung up in the observatory 50 fee
above low-water mark ; and the self-registering horizontal day
and night thermometer, and De Luc’s whalebone hygrometer,
are placed in open-worked cases, in a northern aspect, out of
the rays of the sun, ten feet above the garden ground,          The
pluviameter and evaporator have respectively the same square
area: the former is emptied every morning at 8 o’clock after
rain, into a cylindrical    lass gauge accurately graduated, to
Ttlmth  of an inch;  and  t e quantity lost by evaporation from
the latter is ascertained at least every third day, and some
times o<U+FB01>ener, when great evaporations happen, by means of 8.
hi h temperature and dry northerly or easterly winds.
   §3AROMETRICAL PRESSURE—The maximum pressure was
not so high by T1 th of an inch this year, as it was in the ge
nial year 1822;     e minimum was nearly T5§ths of an inch less,
and the mean 0-103 inch less.        The mean pressure for the
present year corresponds very nearly with that for 1816.        The
aggregate of the spaces the mercury has described in its all-         —
ternate rising and fallin , is 10'58 inches greater; yet the
number of changes is 18 ess than that of last year. For 181
days in which the moon ranged in North declination, the
mean pressure was %%Uths of an inch higher thanvthat in the
                                                      '
204 days she range in South declination.
    TEMPERATURE.—The annual mean temperature of the ex
ternal air a few feet from the ground, is nearly 3i: degrees
 less than that of the preceding year, and less than it has
been since the year 1820: but it corresponds exactly with the
annual mean temperature for the years 1817 and 1819.            It-is
a remarkable circumstance in the temperature of the air, when
the maximum height for the year does not exceed summer
heat, or 76 degrees, which was the case this year; and, what
is equally as remarkable, it happened on the <U+FB01>rst day of June.
Even the cold and wet year 1816 produCed a maximum tem
perature of 78 degrees, which also happened in June. The
annual maximum temperature of the air has occurred in June
<U+FB01>ve years out of the last nine, viz. in 1816, 1817, 1820, 1822,
and 1823.
    The annual mean temperature, and the mean at half-past
 8-o’clock A.M. this year, correspond within three quarters of
                                                           a degree;

158    Meteorological Summaryjbr            1823.—Humpshire.
a degree; and the mean at 8       A.M. and     8    RM.   within a quar
ter'of a degree. .
   The annual mean temperature of sprin      water, as taken at
8 o’clock A.M., coincides with the annua mean temperature
of the external air within Tgmths of a degree. The difference
between the mean temperature of the air and that of spring
water for the last three years does not amount to three uar
ters of a de ree; which serves to point out the analogy (tlhere
is between       tie
                 mean temperature of the air and that of the
ground.
   The mean state of the air by De Luc’s whalebone hygro
meter, this and the preceding year, coincides within 136th of a
de ee.
      IND.—In comparing the scales of the prevailing winds
for 1822 and 1823, there will be found a remarkable coinci
dence, the greatest difference in point of numbers, from the
eight divisions of the compass, being only 9% days, which was
minus in the south-east wind.      The south-west wind, which
frequently comes across the A<U+FB02>antic Ocean, has been more
prevalent this year than for the last nine years, and the most
pre'valent for the three preceding years. The following is the
number of strong gales of win       or days on which they have
                                       ,
prevailed this year, viz.
       N.                   E.    s.           W. N.W.\Days.
                                       {swl
          4'11l2'2l5‘57‘6                             s       95
   Hence     appears that the south-west wind here,
            it                                           not only
                                                             is
the most prevailing in light breezes, but in brisk and strong
                                                               ‘
gales; which     also generally observed at sea.
                  is
   CLOUDs.—Of these the cirrostratus was the most prevalent,
and the cirrus, from which        produced, the next: but
                                  it
                                  is                               it   is
impossible that we can always perceive the aim-us in its descent,
before it   transformed into cirrostratus
            is                              because, in the ab
                                               ,~
sence of the sun, or when          under the horizon, the cirri
                                  it   is
quickly descend, and put on the appearance of linear cirro
stratz'. The cirrose crowns of nimbi are not noticed here, but
are included in the latter modi<U+FB01>cation.     In a series of years
the cirrus and nimbus are pretty equal in the numbers of their
appearance, or days on which they have prevailed.
   WEATHER.—-—The di<U+FB02>'erence in the cloudless and fair days
this year and last,     31 days; and the difference in the over
                             is
cast and rainy,     30 days: both in favour of 1822.
                       is
   ATMOSPHERIC PHENOMENA.—N0thing peculiar in the ap
          '
                                                        pearance

        Meteorological Summary  for l828.—Hampshire.         159
pearance of atmospheric and meteoric phenomena has been
observed here this year, except a FIERY METEOR of an extra
ordinary size, which appeared about 20 minutes past 6 o’clock
in the evening of the 26th of January. The extent of its
sudden li ht, and of its <U+FB01>ery train, was terri<U+FB01>c, from which
proceederf some degree of warmth while passing over this
neighbourhood in a westerly direction.     This meteor was-seen
nearly at the same time by some of the inhabitants of the Isle
of VVight, Southampton, Salisbury, Blandford, Dorchester,
and other places to the westward.     The air was frosty, and
the sky mostly overcast; and much rain fell on the following
da .                                         >
    %n the 5th of February, at mid-day, a large semi-halo,
45° from the sun’s centre, appeared over the sun, accompa
nied by a concentric semi-halo of the usual extent, from which
it is probable the large one was formed by re<U+FB02>ection.        The
colours of both were conspicuous in an attenuated cirrostratus
cloud.
    The most perfect of the anthelia appeared at 1 P. M. on
the 25th of June, in the side of a slow-passing cumulostratus,
or compound cloud; it was 90° from the sun’s centre, within
a few minutes, and in an opposite direction to that luminary;
and considering it was the imago solis, it showed but a mild
 silvery light, which occasionally contracted its circular shape,
and expanded into a ion        and irregular diameter, arising
from the slow motion an uneven surface of the cloud from
which it was re<U+FB02>ected. The sun’s altitude then, was about
 59°, consequently the height of the anthelion was 81° nearly.
    The rain is rather more than an inch in depth this year than
it was last. The evaporation this year is nearl one-third less
than the uantity of rain at the ground; but ast year it was
 upwards of onefourth more than the rain, on account of the
 copious falls in the summer months, and the high unprece
 dented mean temperature: and it is from this latter circum—
 stance that we have been more minute in our meteorological
 comparisons of the last two years.
                         DAMP  DETECTOR.
     An useful application  of hygrometry   to the purposes of
   and housewifery and the preservation of health has lately
 Eeen offered to the public, in Essex’s Portable Damp De
 tector, a small and neat instrument for ascertaining the hu
 midity of the atmosphere, and for enabling travellers to detect
 the damp in beds and linen.

A     METEOROLOGICAL                                TABLE:                 comprlking       the Observation:                       0)“   Dr.       BURNEY       at                  Mr.       CARY     in                and Mr.
                                                                                                                                                                      Gosp‘orf,                             London,                 VEALL    at Boston.
             Gosr-om,at                half-past        Eight       o’Clock,A.1vl.                           Cwmm                                      Height    of       Thermometer.                    R4“,
                              =                                 _
                                                                                                   1                                                                 in                          -                                 Wanna.
                                  L;          “a    L:                                                                                   -
                                        o-                                                                       .                 a                B¥rorlileueréz
                                                                                                                                                       nc es,      c,     LONDON
       Daysof                  “513                _g                           é_          $.25    m.                                                                    _      .i‘                 a.
       Month.                 51:       5      g;          E E.                                                                                                                                                         HAM“
.       1824.                            9                  >-        E3        25151411552“...122                                                                                                               58
                              15-5             ,o_         m                    a“    55 13552555110114.1311“.
                                        15                                      2                                                                                          2.5.15...        <2       59          8       Lod             BOB-0"
                              =1:              ~75                                    .11                                                                                 .22:
                                                                                               592'552111-18141-
     Jan.        26           30-10     48                  82         SW         ..                             30-14                                        29-80
                                                   491                                              1::                                                                                 49-0                            Cloudy     Cloudy
                 ‘27          29-88     45                             SW.                                       1                                                        515l|47
                                                            84                                                                                 129-78         2960        465239                                  -ll
                                                                                                                                                                                    45-01                               Cloudy     C1011t1y,ru.inp.m.
                 28           29-59     41                  70          w.      010                               1.                       1... 29-53         29-40       38422012551                                   Stormy     Fine
                 29           29-84     39                  68         NW                                         1..              1       15.2987            29-64       304355045                                     Fair       Fine
                 30           30-11     31                  70          N.                                 1      l.,.                          30-10         29-95                                                     F211-
                                                                                                                                                                          32401381305                                              Cloudy
     Q           31           30-00     37                  70         s.            10                                                             30-03                                                               F1111
                                                                                                                                                              29-85                                  0-04                          Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                          33441341336
     Feb.                     29-93     39                  69          s.                                                                          29-96     29-85                                                     Fair       Fine
                  1 2                              495
                              30-97     40                             sw.                                   l1                                                           3545134‘32
                                                            75                             ......                                                   30-10     29-95                                                     Fail-      Fine
                                                                                                                                                                          324455131
                              3010      42                  78         SE.        '09      ......                                                   30'“      29'95       324442137                               '20   Fair       Misly,rainp.m.
                              29-75     46                  80         w.                   -110     l.'..                     _    1...          129-77      29-50                                                     Fair       Fine
                                                                                                                                   1                                      425042142
                              29-85     38                 74          W.                   -150     1...                          1              129-91      2965                                                -17 Fair         Finenain    am».
                                                                                                                                                                          4045|38135'5
                              30-06     36                 78          w.         '06      ......    l...                                           3°12      29-80       351424236                               '02 Cloudy       Fine. rain p.21
                              30-16     47         49      70         sw.                   010......                                             130-17      2980                                   020
                                                                                                                                                                          4214950145                                  Cloudy       Cloudy.
     11                       30-28     49                 78         sw.                   0105,...                                              130-34      2982                                                                               a.m.
                                                                                                                                                                          48-54'49;48                             03  Cloudy       Cloudy,rain
                 3456 78 9
                              30-40     49                 78         sw.         .,                                                              130-45     30-15                                                00               Rain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cloudy
                 10                                                                                                                                                       5054'45147-5
                                                                                                               1 1 1 1 1 1 1
                              30-40     48                 85         sw.        ~08        085......                                    1        139-30     3022         455352.38                                     Cloudy     Cloudy
                 11           30-37     42         49      73         NW.                   005     1...                            1...          130-34                                                                Fair       Fine
                                                                                                                 l...                                        30-15        4514739 37
                 12           30-04     44                 80         sw.                   235......                                                                                                                   Fair
                                                                                                                                                  129-87     29-80        44147|39138-5                                            Cloudy,   hail&rain
                 13           29-26     42                 73         sw.        07         015     1...                       .                  129-10     29-05                                                00               Fine
                                                                                                                                   1 1 1  1                               371401401375                                  Cloudy                   [.0 ulglu
    O        14               28-87    39                  80         SE.                   055     1      1                   .                  129-04     28-92                                   115                Fair       Rain
             15              29-42     37                  68         NE.                                                                                                 384936139
                                                                                           ......   l...     llll              .           1...     29-51    29-40        3543-35   34                            40    Fair       Finer mini-~111
             l6              29'55     33                  70         NE.        ‘10        ‘015 l...                          .
                                                                                                                                     1 11 1
                                                                                                                                                  129'58                                                                Fair
                                                                                                                                                             2950         3040736 32                              '05              Cloudy
             17              2936      41      49          68         SE.                                        1.....                    1...     2940     2935                      35                                          Fine
                                                                                                                                                                          3214034                                       Cloudy
             18              29-24     42                  74          s.                   -150......       1                 .         1        129-34     29-23        35‘46f35 34                                   Fair       Fine
             19              29-30     43                  73         SE.        06         820......                                             129-39     2940         34547145 37'5                                 Fair       Fine
             20              29-44     44                  79         Nw.                   010......                                             129-58     29-45        40:44‘38 40-5                                 R5111      Cloudy
    Q        21              2972      37                  '76        NE.                  ......   l...                                            29'81                                                                          Rain
                                                                                                                                                             2955         3614187 40                 0'44         '09   Cloudy
             22                        38                             SE.        '08                1
                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                             l111
                             _29-79                        73                              500                                           .        129-95     29-80                                                      Cloudy     Misty
                                                                                                                                                                          35149140 40
             23               29-88    41                  80          E-                  145......                           ......
                                                                                                                 l...‘                            120-03     29-80        39‘4338      39-5                             Cloudy     Cloudy
             24               29-88    40                  78         NE.                 ......   l...                                  1...                                          385
                                                                                                                                                    29-95    2990         384440                                        Cloudy     Cloudy
             25              29-74     39      49          73       _NE.         24       ......                 l..'l                            .29-83     29174                     37
                                                                                                                                                                          3037135                                       Cloudy     Cloudy
    Arr-rages:         '29-82141-1949'12                  754                             2-71516          330                 Ilng<U+FB01>‘—                       29-67        Tl           38            1-83        1-19
                                                                                                                                                                               —       ___.               —¥-‘-__-¢.                 _       ~

                                    'l‘   HE
     PHILOSOPHICAL' MAGAZINE
                      AND      J   OURNAL.
                         3]“     MARCH              1824.
    XXVIII.        On the Application of algebraic Functions to prove
                     the Properties qf'parallel Lines.
              TRANSLATION       of Legendre’s excellent Elements of
          Geometry has lately appeared, under the care of Dr.
    Brewster of Edinbur h. The principal novelty in this work
    is a defence, furnishet? by the author himself, of his celebrated
    demonstration of the fundamental property of parallel lines
    drawn from the doctrine of algebraic functions, which Pro
    fessor Leslie has attacked in the last editions of his Geometry.
    It much to be regretted that a discussion of this kind should
         is
    degenerate into a contestation. On the present occasion there
    is  no intention to mingle in the controversy.        But
                                                            it   must be
    interesting to every one, who has paid any attention to geo
    metrical studies, to inquire, how         happens that a di<U+FB02>iculty,
                                               it
    which has been found insurmountable in geometry, has never
    theless been so easily overcome by the methods of the modern
                                                    -
    analysis.
       In laying down the elements of geometry, Euclid comes,
    in the 17th of his <U+FB01>rst book, to prove that any two angles of
    a triangle are less than two right an les.         The plan of his
    work required that the author shoul demonstrate the con
    verse of the same proposition; namely, that two straight lines
    will meet, and tbrm      a  trian     with a third line, whenever
                                          le
    the sum of the two angles w ich they make with the third.
    line,    less than two right angles.
              is                             But of this proposition no
    demonstration could be       found;   and  the efforts of geometers,
    continued incessantly   for  more   than two  thousand years, have
    failed in supplying the defect.        The most candid method
    of proceeding would therefore have been, to put down the
    converse proposition in the place          ought to occupy, fairly
                                               it
’   stating that, although   it was not proved,       would be assumed
                                                       it
    as an admitted truth in the subsequent part of geometry.
     And this is, in effect, what Euclid has done, by placing the
    defective proposition_at the head of his work in the form of
    an axiom, or more properly of a postulate.
        When the circumstances in which two lines will meet one
    Vol. 63. No. 311. March 1824-.                 X             another

  162          On the Application  qf algebraic Functions
  another are accurately de<U+FB01>ned, the conditions of their not in
  tersecting, or of their being parallel, are immediately inferred.
   And again, the properties of parallel lines being known, we
  arrive at the famous theorem, the 32d of book lst; namely,
  that the sum of the three angles of every triangle is equal to
  two right angles.      Now, if we could prove this last proposi
  tion independently of parallel lines, and without referring to
  the undemonstrated postulate, we should, by inverting the
  order of investigation, be able to lay down the elements with
  the strictest accuracy, and to remove the blemish which has
  always been viewed by geometers with so much regret. There
  is no doubt that, in this manner, geometry may be treated with
  all the ri mm of ancient demonstration, without any peculiar
  axiom relating to parallel lines; and it is some satisfaction to
  know that this may be done, although the process of reason
  ing may be too long and cumbersome to be introduced in an
 elementary treatise.      It is by pursuing the same rout that the
 analyst professes to demonstrate the properties of parallel
 lines
    '      by means of the theory of functions.                -
        Legendre’s demonstrations respecting parallel lines are
 founded on what is called the law of homogeneity in algebraic
 functions.      In the problems of plane geometry, where lines
 and angles are Combined in the same equations, the quantities
 dependin on the angles invariably contain in their expression
 nothing else but ratios, or the quotients of homogeneous mag
 nitudes; which renders the equations independent of the man
 ner in which the angles are themselves compared or measured.
 It is not the same with regard to lines; for the algebraic sym
 bols of. these always involve an arbitrary unit.         Hence we
 may lay down this eneral rule, that the expression of an an
gular qnantity, det uced from an e nation, can involve the
 ratios only of the lines concerned;       or otherwise it would be
dependent on the arbitrary measures of the lines, and would
have no determinate value. But in the expression of a line
no conditions are required with respect to angular quantities,
their values being in no respect arbitrary.        As the principle
of homogeneity 13 clear, and liable to no di<U+FB01>iculty or objec
tion, we shall not extend further our remarks upon it.              .
      Two functional equations are employed by Legendre to
prove that the third angle of a triangle depends wholly upon
the other two. Put 0 for the base of a trian le, C for the op
posite angle, and A, B for the other two anglyes; then the <U+FB01>rst
of the equations is thus investigated.
      It is proved by superposition, that two triangles are identi
cal when their bases, and the angles at their bases, are re-v
spectively equal. It follows that the vertical angle of a tri
  '
                                                              angle

             to prove the Properties                       qf parallel Lines.                  163
        will be of the same magnitude in all cases when the base
 anglethe other two angles have the same values.
 ant                                                   Therefore,
 in every trian le, the <U+FB01>rst of these quantities must be the same
 function of t e other three; which may be thus expressed
 analytically, viz.
                                 C= ¢               (6,   A, B).
   If theforegoing rocess seem clear when we consider      as                              it
an algebraic calcu ation,    becomes clouded with
                                      it
when we apply       to geometry.
                      it                           obscurity
                                       so shortly expresse It    is                                ,
that the geometrical grounds of the demonstration cannot be
brought into view, without expanding the steps of the res.
soning.   For this purpose, conceive another triangle of which
the vertical angle   C’, the base
                       is            and the other two angles
                                                          0',
the same as in the <U+FB01>rst triangle; and suppose that, in this in
stance, we have this equation, viz.
                                 CI =    \l'   (0,9       A, B),
the form of the function being different from what     was in                         it
the former case.   But when the two bases        and  become                  0       0’
equal, the triangles will be identical, and the angle  will be                        C
equal to C’: wherefore by            c=c’ and C=C’, we have
                           = puting                (c,
                                 CC       ‘l’ (p
                                                           a
                                   =               (c,    A,         i
 and this proves that the function must be the same for all tri
 an les.
      he real ground        of     the         demonstration              is      now apparent.
The force of the reasoning turns upon this assumption; that
the base of a triangle may vary from   to   while the angles
                                                                 is c'
                                                                         0,
at the base remain the same.    This  assumed, not proved.
If any   one deny     it,
                      there    no argument to compel his assent.
                                   is
Now   if  we follow the laudable example of the ancient geo
 meters and state separately the principles of our reasoning, we
 shall be led to this postulate: Let       be granted that upon it
 any proposed base a triangle can be constructed having the
,angles at the .base equal to two         of a given triangle.                                     If
 this postulate be admitted, Legenangles
                                      re’s demonstration will be
 legitimate and conclusive; otherwise,     will lose all its force.
                                                                 it
   But the postulate    deducible from, and therefore subor
                            is
dinate to, Euclid’s 12th axiom.    What then does geometry
gain by the functional process                     ?
   We shall next give the investigation of the second functional
equation. It has already been proved that
                             C     =     ¢         (C,   A, B),
the form of the function being the same in all triangles.   But
the angle   C   a determinate ratio, or a value independent of
                is
all arbitrary measurement;         since the measure of the line
                                         111?,       2                                     -   c   15

161-        On the Application          of algebraic Functions
0    is arbitrary,   it follows, from the law of homogeneity,
 that the line cannot enter into the expression of the angle.
  Wherefore the equation must simply be,
                             C = ¢ (A, B).
 And this proves that the an le C is determined b the other
 two angles independently o the sides of the triangle.
    In this investigation triangles that have the same angles at
their bases are compared together; and the existence of such
 trian les is therefore assumed.
    It 15 not difficult, it may be argued, to admit that the base
 of a triangle may vary, while the angles at the base remain
 the same; and when this is granted, the functional demon
 strations are not liable to objection.    But the present question
 relates solely to what is consonant to the principles of geome
 try; and that science does not permit the gratuitous assump
 tion of related <U+FB01>gures.       You may draw one triangle, for in
 stance that upon the base c; and you may assume as many
 bases 0’, 0", 8:0. as you please; but you cannot be allowed
to suppose that, upon these bases, triangles exist which
have two angles in common with that already drawn.           In this
manner we might be led to reason about <U+FB01>gures that have no
existence; an absurdit which is guarded against in geometry
by the postulates '2        ou have all the data necessary for con
structing the <U+FB01>gures about which you are to reason; and you
must construct them by the admitted postulates, without the
help of Euclid's 12th axiom, which you propose to prove.
But the triangles cannot be so constructed; and therefore the
functional demonstrations cannot be held good in geometry.
    The dif<U+FB01>culty about parallel lines lies in the strictness of
geometrical principles.       The least relaxation of these would
open a door to innumerable solutions.               If
                                                  the analyst, by a
latent assumption, evade any of the rules imposed on the geo
meter, the different results of the two modes of investigation
can occasion little surprise.
    Without objecting to L endre’s mode of reasoning, we
have endeavoured to show t at his analytical demonstrations
cannot be applied in geometry, unless it be assumed, that the
base of a triangle may vary while the angles at the base re
main the same; a proposition which is deducible from Euclid’s
  '1' In the Greek geometry the postulates are not to be considered        as
having a reference to practice.   '1‘
                                   hey are theoretical principles precluding
the geometer from introducing arbitrary <U+FB01>gures and constructions in the
course of his reasoning.    Legendre does not enumerate the postulates.
And even Professor Leslie has degraded from its place, and thrown into the
shade, this important and essential part of the geometry of Euclid.
                                                                       12th

              to prove the Properties         of parallel Lines.            165
12th axiom.     But we may also object to the soundness of his
reasoning.
   Since the symbols A, B, C denote ratios, by the law of
homogeneity, there cannot be an e uation between them and
the single line 0; for, on account 0 the arbitrary measure of
                                                                                     '
e, such equation would have no <U+FB01>xed or determinate meaning.
Therefore the equation
                             C=   at   (c.   A, B)
is absurd.     But from an absurd equation, or rather from no
equation   at  all, you cannot, in a legitimate manner, infer that
another equation is true, viz.
                           C = ¢ (A, B).
   A process of reasoning ought to be stopped whenever the re
lation between the magnitudes concerned implies contradiction,
or can no longer be clearly understood.         It seems to be an
odd argument to infer that there must be an equation in one
form, merely because there cannot possibly be an equation in
another form.        The proper conclusion seems to be, that, in
analysis  as  well  as in geometry, there is, in the present in
stance, a peculiar dif<U+FB01>culty, or a failing and breaking of in
the usual train of investigation.
   Professor Leslie has attacked Legendre’s demonstrations
on other grounds.        He objects to the law of homogeneity:
but, in a case so very clear and undeniable, his arguments
have no weight. He contends likewise that the measure of
an angle estimated by its proportion to a right angle is just
as arbitrary as the measure of a line in yards.      This is more
specious.     It is urged with great con<U+FB01>dence, and clothed, as
usual, with the imposing garb of philosophical accuracy.
Perhaps Legendre and his supporters have not furnished the
proper answer to it. But there are few mathematicians who
would oppose the opinion of that eminent geometer on a point
of the modern analysis, without great dif<U+FB01>dence; and some
re<U+FB02>ection will show that the functional equations may be vim
dicated from the charge brought against them by the learned
Professor.                        _
   Conceive that A, B, C, instead of denoting an les simply,v
are the arcs subtending the angles in a circle 0 which the
radius is r; and let Q be the quadrant of the same circle;
then    %, %,       3—,   which   are no other than Legendre’s an
 les, are ratios, or quantities of no dimensions, that remain
  518same in all circles, and however the arcs are measured
or compared. Now we can obtain equations between the.
sides   of the triangle and   the trigonbmetrical        quantities   3—"
                                                                            FA
                                                                                 ’
                                                                            COS

 166                  On the Application                of algebraic Functions
  cos       A        sin B
                ’               8lc.; and      if  we supp0se that the same quantities
        r              r—
                            ,
 are        changed into the equivalent values expressed in terms                              of
 g.         %.
                     &c.;    we shall obtain the functional equations                     of Le
 gendre,             between       the sides            of the triangle and the angular
 quantities               ht,     —le-,            It   must be acknowledged, however,
 that this    some abatement in the simplicity of the
                     is                                     uations.             e
 Yet     seems di<U+FB01>icult to conceive any other way in w ich the
            it
 ratios of the angles of a triangle to a right angle, can <U+FB01>nd their
 way into the same equations with the length of the sides.        It
 deserves to be particularly noticed that there      no trigonome           is
 trical equation corresponding to the case                              _
                                           C   =   ¢     (69   A, B),
   which      a mere symbol without meaning, or rather an absur
                is
   dity, marking an impossibility in the course of investigation
, pursued, and from which no certain conclusion can be drawn.
      But may be questioned whether, in sound philosophy, the
                it
   algebraic analysis can be applied to investigate a really funda
   mental principle in an science.        Analysis treats of number,
   and of measured magnitude, and of these alone. Some pre
   vious discussion founded on the peculiar nature of the mag
   nitudes we have to consider, seems therefore to be necessary;
   their elementary properties must be explored at least to a
   certain extent; in order to enable us to compare and measure
  them, without which they cannot be brought within the scope
  of analysis. The excellence of the modern method of mathe
  matical investigation consists in reducing the <U+FB01>rst principles
   in every case to the least number possible, not in dispensing
   with any one that        essential.   This may be illustrated by
                                          is
  referring to what so often happens in ph 'sical science.      When
  observation and experiment have faile in discovering suf<U+FB01>
  cient data, the analyst has recourse to the most probable            -                   h
  potheses   for obtaining the requisite  number   of equations.                               e
  are not now to discuss the proper use of such hypothetical in
                 in promotin physical knowledge; our intention                                 is
  vestigations
  mere     to show that wit out su<U+FB02>icient data analysis
            y                                                    a use               is
  less instrument.     Fundamental principles there must be, either
 legitimately obtained, or assumed                        or mixed up
  in a latent manner in the process 0h‘ypothetically,
                                           investigation.    Whether
 there be any general character that distinguishes the principles
 inherent in the nature of things, which we should in vain en
 deavour to deduce from a foreign source; and whether the
 dif<U+FB01>culty about parallel lines in geometry do not belong to
 that class; are points which we do not undertake to settle.
                                                                                           The
                                                                                 \

              to prove the Properties  of parallel Lines.          167
 The modern analysis, from the universality of its application,
 has the supremacy of the mathematical sciences.             It is the
 most powerful instrument of investigation that has yet been
 invented.     But this potent engine cannot put forth its strength,
 until a proper fulcrum has been prepared for it.
    Professor Leslie has himself attempted to improve the theo
 of parallel lines, and we shall add a few observations on his
 manner of treating this dif<U+FB01>cult subject.        His de<U+FB01>nition is
 most faulty, involving the idea of in<U+FB01>nity.       For what notion
 can we have of two lines with no mutual inclination, except
 We conceive that they make at <U+FB01>rst a small angle which de
 creases to zero.      But the de<U+FB01>nition is set down only pro
forma, and may be blotted out without bein missed, since it
 is doubtful whether it be once referred to in t e whole treatise.
 In reality we are left to gather the sense we must a<U+FB01>ix to pa
 rallel lines from the descriptive and illustrative writing in
  Prop. 22. book lst; for demonstration it cannot be called.
 Allfthis may be very elegant, but it is not in the spirit of the
  Greek geometry.       It is directly opposed to the example of
  Euclid, who has taken so much pains to avoid whatever is
 vague, and to exhibit every point to the understanding of his
 readers in a de<U+FB01>nite form.        But the learned Professor has
 not been successful in removing any dif<U+FB01>culty, or in throwing
 light upon any obscure subject, in elementary science.        If new
 proofs of this were wanting, we mi ht refer to the manner in
 which he has treated the composition of forces; the perma
 nent axes of rotation; and other matters, in his late Volume
 on Natural Philosophy.
    Legendre complains that a part of a private letter of his to
 the learned Professor was published without leave asked and           7
 obtained.     But the anonymous correspondent who has been
 dragged before the public in so notable a manner in this dis
 pute, has a much more grievous cause of Complaint.               His
opinion with respect to these demonstrations, communicated
in a private letter, was partially published without his know
ledge: the part of his letter which seemed to corroborate the
 opinion of the Professor being laid before the public, while
no notice was taken of another part which coincided with the
 opinion of Legendre and was opposed to that of the Pro
fessor.
      March 3, 1824.                                      DIS—IOTA.
                                                       XXIX.     QEx

                                [168]
        XXIX.      Experiments on the Adhesion of Nails.          By
                             B. Bevan, Esq.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
                                                      Leighton Bussard.
       AILS    of various kinds     have   been used for many cen
        turies, in almost every part of the world, and constitute
one of the most general modes of fastening substances together.
Every carpenter is familiar with the use of the nail, and pos
sesses a practical knowledge, more or less accurate, of the
force of adhesion of different nails and in different substances,
so as to decide without di<U+FB01>iculty, what number, and of what
length, may be sufficient to fasten together substances of va
rious shapes, and subject to various strains.               But so far as
my inquiries have been made, I have not been able to <U+FB01>nd
any authentic experiments, of the real force of adhesion of
different nails, when driven into wood of different species; or
to learn the actual weight, without impulse, necessary to force
a nail a given depth into wood, and also the proper force re—
quired to extract the same when so driven.               With a view to
obtain some useful knowledge upon this elementary mechani
cal question, I had a machine constructed to measure the
force of pressure and tension with extensive power, and ap
plied it to the extraction of nails of different lengths, from a
quarter of an inch to two and half inches.
  ‘
     Theoretical investigation points out an e uality of resist
ance to the entrance and extraction of a nail, supposing the
thickness to be invariable; but as the general shape of nails
is taperiun' towards the points, the resistance to entrance
becomes ofnecessity rreater than that of extractionz—in some
of my experiments I lave found the ratio to be about 6 to 5.
     The following abstract will exhibit the relative adhesion of
nails of various kinds, when forced into dry Christiana deal,
at right angles to the grain of the wood.
                         Number to     Inches      Inches       Pounds V
                         the pound              forced into required to
                                        Ion g _
                          avoirdup.              the wood.      extract.
    Fine sprigs             4-560        0'44        0'40         22
   Ditto..............      8200         0'53        0'4-4-       37
   Threepenny brads          618         1'25        0'50         53
   Cast-iron nails...         380        1'00        0'50          72
   Sixpenny nails...           73        2'50        1'00        187
   Ditto..............                               1'50        327
  Ditto..............                   ......       2'00        530
   Fivepenny.    .            189        2'00        1'50        320
                                                                      The

              Mr. B. Bevan      on the Adhesion            of Nails.            169
     The percussive force required to drive the common six
penny nail to the depth of one inch and half into dry Chris
tiana deal, with a cast-iron weight of 6'275 lbs., was four blows .
or strokes falling freely, the space of 12 inches; and the stead
 pressure to produce the same e<U+FB01>'ect,           I    found to be 400 lbs.
     A sixpenny nail, driven into dry elm to the depth of one
inch across the grain, required a pressure of 327 lbs. to ex
tract; and the same nail, driven endways or longitudinally into
 the same wood, required a force of 257 lbs. to extract.
     The same nail driven two inches endways, into dry Chris
tiana deal, was drawn by a force of 257 lbs.;—to draw out one
inch, under like circumstances, took 87 lbs. only.                      The rela
tive adhesion, therefore, in the same wobd, when driven trans
versely and longitudinally,         is 100 to 78, or about 4 to 3 in
dry    elm; and   100 to 46,  or    about 2 to 1, in deal.              The rela
tive adhesion under like circumstances to elm and deal is
 found to be about 2 or 3 to~ 1.                                                  >
     The progressive depths of a sixpenny nail into dry Chris
tiana deal by simple pressure, were as follows:
          One quarter of an inch a pressure of                     . '24‘ lbs.
   .      Half an inch . . . . . . . . . 76
          One inch     .    .   .     .   .   .    .     .    .   . 235
          One and half inch           .   .   .    .     .    .   . 400
          Twoinches         .   .     .   .   .    .     .    .   .610
     I may observe, that in the above experiments great care
 was taken to apply the weights steadily, and that towards the
conclusion of each experiment the additions did not exceed
 10 lbs. at one time, with a moderate interval between, gene
rally about one minute, sometimes 10 or 20 minutes. In
other species of wood, the requisite force to extract the nail
was different. Thus, to extract a common sixpenny nail from
 a depth of one inch
       Out of dry oak, required . . . . . . 507 lbs.
              dry  beech  .   .     .   .   .    .     .    .   .    667
              green sycamore . . .                          .   .    312
     A common screw of l-5th of an inch diameter,                           I  have
 found to have an adhesion about three times that of a six
 penny nail.
     From these experiments I am able to infer, that a’common
 sixpenny nail, driven two inches into dry oak, would require
 a force of more than half a ton to extract by steady pressure !
                       I am,    gentlemen, yours            Ste. Ste.
                                                                      B. BEVAN.
 Vol. 63. No.    311.  Mm];       1824.               Y          XXX.       Papers

                               [170]
 XXX.        Papers relating to the Earthquake       which   occurred    in
                            India in   1819.               ,
                         [Concluded from p. 119.]
 Extracts from Letters of Captain BALLANTYNE, Agent in Katti
     war, for his H. S. the Guic'war, concerning the Earthquake.
              Letter addressed to Lieut.-col. BARCLAY.
                                         .        Jooria, June 17, 1819.
  “l   E    have had a complete earthquake since yesterday even
          ing at half past seven o’clock.     The shocks have been
 numerous and severe, and the tremulous sensation does not
 yet cease.
    The whole town is literally a ruin: the works are shaken
 from the foundation, and in many places thrown down. The
 old tower, which I had given up to Dr. Roy, is a complete
 ruin: the roof falling in, crushed all his things, and it is al
 most miraculous that we happened to be out. My sitting
 bun alow and sleeping apartments are one shattered ruin.
       e Dewanjee has quitted the town, and lives outside, it
 being really not safe remaining in buildings so much injured
 as those here are.
                 Letter addressed   to  Mr. WILLIAMS.
                              '
                                                 Jooria, June 18, 1819.
    YESTERDAY morning we went out to the westward of the
town to see some rents which had been caused b the earth
quake in the <U+FB01>elds there. The earth separating, ad in some
places emitted water and <U+FB01>re.          On examinin         the different
rents, we found them to be of various extent, from an inch to
a foot in breadth; the depth however in all of. them was con
siderable, being to 10, 15, and 20 feet.            In some places a
black sandy and gravelly soil had been thrown out; in others,
a black wet earth.
   The shocks during the night of the 16th were frequent, but
not         severe, and the tremulous motion of the earth scarcely
ceasevelry
        .
    On the morning     of the 17th the weather was close, and the
tremulous motion continued in a very sensible and‘disagree
able degree: about 10 A.M. a distinct and severe shock was
felt, but it did not last lon .
    We have had no rain, t under, or lightnin , for these six
or eight days.      The thermometer has range from 86 to 90
and 92 degrees.        We had remarked on the 18th that the
thermometer had risen two degrees.
   The dreadful noise accompanying the earthquake was of a
                      >
                                                              rumbling

        Papers relating to the Earthquake in India in 1819.   171
rumbling kind, and resembled sometimes that produced by
   quick motion of wheeled carriages, and sometimes of a
[the
distant cannonade.
   It is now between <U+FB01>ve and six o’clock (morning. of the 18th):
I have felt the motion frequently durin the night, and am
anxious as to what may yet happen.         he morning is close,
and appearances     unfavourable.   My table and chair are at
this moment shaking under me.
   We have already had accounts of this earthquake’s having
been severely felt and committing great havoc at Nowanuggur,
Zoona-bunder, Moorvee, Tunkaria, Dhewrole, Amrun, &c.;
at the last place much of the fort has been thrown down,
and eight or ten persons have been killed, besides many horses
and cattle.
   P.S. June 19th, another considerable shock has been felt;
the weather is unusually hot, and appearances unfavourable,
    To GEORGE OGILVY, Esq. Secretary     to the   Medical Board,
               ~            Bombay.
    SIR,—I    havethe honour to report, for the information of
the Medical Board, all the circumstances which have come to
my knowledge regarding the earthquake which took place in
Cutch on the 16th instant; and which, if we take into consi
deration the severity of the shock, and the damage sustained
within the range of its operation, has seldom been equalled in
modern times.    This subject,    Iam aware, is but little con
nected with medical science; but as forming by far the most
interesting and awful part of the natural history of the globe,
I have no doubt every thing relating to it will be acceptable
to the Board.
   Di<U+FB01>'erent from what has generally been observed in the
greater number of severe earthquakes, nothing in this pre
viously occurred, in the state of the atmosphere or otherwise,
to indicate the probability of any unusual phaenomenon taking
place.    The months of March and April were extremely hot
and oppressive; but during May the weather became milder,
and remained much the same as it generall is in that month.
About the second or third of June, at nig          there was
                                                  1:,         a se
vere squall of thunder and rain, which lasted for about an
hour and a half.    After this the temperature of the air became
mild and agreeable; and till the very moment that the earth
        took place,           could be observed to indicate even
gpake
    esmallest changenothing
                       in t
                          e     weather, far less the approach‘ of
 such a dreadful convulsion.
   The <U+FB01>rst and great shock took place     a   few minutes before
seven o’clock in the               of the 16th, and the general
                          evening(2                        opinion

  172              Papers relating to the Earthquake
 opinion is that it lasted nearly two minutes.         The motion of
 the earth during this period Was most awful and alarming,
 giving to most people' the feeling as if it was about to open
  and swallow every thin up. In this short space the town of
  Bhooj, nearly three mifes in circumference, became almost a
 heap of ruins; most of the houses were thrown down, and
 the greater part of the ramparts and towers, with the guns,
 were precipitated into the ditch.       Nothin was seen by those
 at a distance but a thick cloud of dust. 5The same occurred
 in a greater or less degree in every town and fort from the
 eastern extremity of Wagur to Luckput on the Indus; and
  even the smallest villages have been levelled with the ground.
J The shock appeared to increase in violence as it continued,
  and suddenly to stop, leaving a kind of tremour; some people
  said it was preceded by a noise like thunder or the rattling of
  a number of carriages, but this was not generally observed.
  Difference of opinion also exists as to the kind of motion that
  took )lace; some people considering it was undulatory, others
 as a 1kind of tremour, and others again as coming directly
 upwards.      The last kind of motion appeared to me Very evi
 dent, though being at the time surrounded by houses and
  walls falling in every direction, I might not be so well able to
 judge.     I felt as if the force was acting directly where I stood,
  and as if the earth was making an e<U+FB02>'ort to burst immediately
  under m       feet.   People appear to differ as much as to the
  quarter rom which the shock came; nor is it to be ascer
  tained from any general direction in which the walls of the
  towns or houses have fallen : they appear to have tumbled in
  every direction indiscriminately,      and fre uently one half of
  the same wall has fallen on one side an            the other half on
  the other.
     As far as I have been able to ascertain, in no place has the
  surface of the earth suffered any important alteration from the
  shock.    There are reports of <U+FB01>re having issued from hills to
  the westward of Bhooj, but I do not think they will be found
  correct.    On the 17th I travelled between Bhooj and Anjar,
  a distance of twent -seven miles, and part of the road through
  hills; and though looked carefully in every direction,       I could
  perceive no recent changes. In the bunds of tanks and the
  steep banks of ravines, small rents could be perceived: in the
  hard rocky soil, which forms the general surface of the coun
  try, no alteration was to be seen.     After the shock several dry
  rivers became <U+FB01>lled with water, which afterwards gradually
  subsided.     About Anjar the water in the wells became of a
  milky colour, but was not altered in taste.
     With respect to the places affected by the shock, Anjar
                                                                   and

                   which occurred  in India in 1819.                173
  and   Bhij   appear to have su<U+FB01>‘ered much more than any other
  I  have yet heard of; in the former nearly 200 dead bodies
  have been dug out of the ruins, and in the latter 1000 are sup
  posed to have perished, besides numbers in both towns miser
  ably maimed. It would be impossible even to guess at the
  number of victims throughout the country: it will be suf<U+FB01>cient
  to remark that not only in large towns the fatal effects of
  the shock have been felt, but even in the smallest villages
  some lives have been lost.      In Anjar the effects of the shock
  appear to have been greatly modi<U+FB01>ed by difference of situa
  tion; the quarter of the town towards the east, and which is
  the lowest, has been reduced to one mass of ruins.           Neither
  street nor lane is to be discovered, and literally there is not
  one stone remaining on the top of another: the town wall on
  this side has suffered in an equal the ree.     The other part of
  the town, with the wall, though dreadfully shattered, does not
  appear to have suffered one tenth part of the injury.            This
  must be accounted for from the lower part being situated at a
  considerable distance from the rock, upon a bed of white
  aluminous earth, while in the higher part the foundations of
  the houses are situated immediately upon the rock.           It could
  not be owing to the shock being more severe in that particular
  place, as, extendin over such a considerable tract of country,
  its force could not ave differed in such a small space.
      Since the 16th constant shocks have been felt, perhaps all
  together nearly thirty in number.         The weather continues
  much the same as might be expected at this season.        The wind
  is very variable: heavy squalls are suddenly succeeded by
  dead calms. The atmosphere is cloudy, with a haz horizon.
  There is nothing peculiar in the appearance of t e sun at
  rising or setting; only one meteor (a ball of <U+FB01>re) has been ob
  served since the occurrence of the earthquake, and that was
  on the night on which the <U+FB01>rst shock took place.
      I have to apologize for the unconnected manner in which
  the above account is detailed; but the mind cannot be quite
  at ease in the midst of so much desolation, and while the awful
  pheenomenon      that produced it is still in some degree im
  pending.      Should any thing additional worth'reporting come
   to my knowledge, I shall immediately communicate it to the
   Board.      I have the honour to he, sir,
                         Your most obedient humble servant,
                                     (Signed)   JAMES M‘ADAM,
                           '
  Anjar, 29th June 1819.                             Assistant-Surgeon.
      P.S. I had no opportunity of forwarding the above letter
  till to-day. Shocks still Continue ’to be felt, and there was a
  very smart one yesterday evening. The earthquake appears
'
                                                                      to

  174-            Papers relating to the Earthquake
to have been felt all over Kattiwar, and as far east as Kaira
and Baroda; also at Radhunpoor,           and I believe in Sind.
 Cutch, from all accounts, appears to have been the centre of
its operations, and especially the western part of it.     Moondra
and Mandavi, two large towns on the sea-coast, have suffered
in comparatively a tri<U+FB02>ing degree; but the inland towns and
forts towards the Indus have been almost completely de                 '
stroyed.     There has been a heav fall of rain at this place,
and the weather continues cool an pleasant.
    (True copy)                   (Signed)    GEORGE OGILVY,
                                                 Sec. Medical Board.
              Cogy  qfa Letter from Captain ELwoon.
                                          Poorbunder, June 7, 1819.
    WE yesterda evening experienced in this fort and city        one
of   the most awfi'il scenes in nature, that of   a violent and de
structive shock from an earthquake.
    The weather was close and sultry: the thermometer ranged
at 86° at sunset, and a light air, scarcely perceptible, was
sometimes felt from the southward.          An o<U+FB02>icer and myself
were taking an evening walk on the ramparts of the fort, and
had gone nearly all round, when, at 40 minutes past six, we
observed to each other how excessively close and oppressive
the atmosphere was; and <U+FB01>ve minutes after, I heard a distant
sound not unlike that of a cannonade at sea. A thought had
scarcely passed the mind as to what could give rise to the
sound, when I felt a violent shock beneath my feet, and in—
stantl exclaimed, “ An earthquake l”         Looking at the same
time orwards, I saw the stone parapet at two yards distance
violently agitated by a quick, short, wave-like motion, bend
ing in and out with the reatest pliability, and with the vibra
tion of about a foot, an attended with an incessant hissin
cracking noise. I thou ht it impossible that the works could
stand, and, expecting t eir immediate fall, I instantly deter
mined on descending as quickly as possible; but as the ram
part was a perpendicular height of masonry of about 20 feet,
I   was obliged to run back towards the nearest ramp, which
was a <U+FB02>ight of stone steps at some distance.          The o<U+FB02>icer     I
was walking with followed; and as we passed along at a nick
rate, the sensation felt was similar to that dangerousan         dis
agreeable one of running along an elevated and elastic plank,
the ends alone of which are supported.          I every instant ex
pected   to fall with the works, or to be precipitated  from them;
 but, reaching the steps, ran down as fast as I could, each
 lower step apparently meeting the descending foot (which            I
                                                               really

                which
                        occurred
                                   in India in 1819.             175
 really believe was the case, as the whole <U+FB02>ight of steps was
 violentl agitated).
                           I
    While passing down, expectedto be overwhelmed by the
 works, which were touching my right shoulder, and above my
                                                         '
 head.
    Althou h the rampart and parapet are about twelve feet
 thick, an twenty-<U+FB01>ve feet in height, yet this wall of masonry
 waved to and fro.
    Fortunately the steps were broad; had they been narrow,
 as is frequently the case, so great was their agitation that it is
 doubtful if we should have got down without being thrown
 over the side.    Arrived at the bottom of the ramp, we did
 not cease running until we had           to a suf<U+FB01>cient distance
                                          fgot
 from the works to prevent their alling on, us.       On halting,
 we were surprised to <U+FB01>nd that the works had not fallen after
 so extraordinary an undulating motion.
    On reachin a place of comparative safety, for there was no
 place absolute y   safe, the attention was attracted by a vast
 cloud of black dust arising at about three hundred yards di
 stance, and from the sea face of the fort, which ran at right
 angles with the one we had quitted.      The danger being past,
 my curiosity  became    excited; and  approaching the cloud of
dust,I     foundit  to be occasioned by the fall of towers and
of large portions of the curtain, leaving several breaches, some
forty and some sixty yards wide. This devastation extended
for <U+FB01>ve hundred yards, and over       apart of the fort which    I
had been walking on not <U+FB01>ve minutes before.
I     do not imagine that a twenty-four hours’ <U+FB01>re from ten
pieces of heavy ordnance could have roduced so extensive
a destruction as was thus effected in        tspace of a minute
                                                 e
and a half.     We conjectured that the aw<U+FB01>il shock had not
lasted more than that short period.      Short as     was,
                                                       it   itwas
powerful enough to destroy the work of ages.
    We now directed our attention towards home, and the <U+FB01>rst
occurrence that was met with near         it,
                                           was the horse-keepers
with thehorses in their hands standing in the open air; hav
ing been apprehensive, as they said, that the stables would
have fallen and killed the horses.
    On entering the house, my servant informed me, that while
making my bed in one of the upper apartments he had been
thrown down on the <U+FB02>oor, and that before he could make his
escape he was thrown down a second time.
    A gentleman and lady, on hearing all the tiles of their
house in motion, and crackling as     ifin a <U+FB01>re, and observing
the whole of their furniture shaking, immediately got down
stairs into the open air.    The gentleman informed me, that
                                                        although

  176     Papers relating to [he Earthquake in‘India in 1819.
  although his stairs were broad and built of very solid masonry,
  such was the agitation they were thrown into by the earth
 quake, that he experienced much dif<U+FB01>culty in descending.
      An of<U+FB01>cer’s house, a very substantial stone building about
  forty feet          which stands by itself, appears to have been
 affected byhigh,
                t e shock more than the other houses.       The sepoys
 describe it as having rocked from side to side as a tree in a
 high wind. On examination, so many rents were found in
 the walls that it was deemed unadvisable to sleep under 'its
 roof.
      I believe there are few houses throughout this large city
 which are not more or less injured.         Some have fallen so as
 to block up the streets in which they were situated.
      The rajah and the principal inhabitants are now encamped
 outside; which they prefer to trusting themselves in their own
 houses, the fall of which would prove very destructive, as they
 are made of a thick terrace supported by stone or weighty
 timber.
     The earth opened, and water issued from the cavity, in a
 plain fourteen miles hence.
     The atmosphere to-da has been impregnated with a strong
 smell of sulphur; and          etween 10 A.M. and 2 RM. there
 were several other shocks, which brought down some old
 houses: but these shocks were not to be compared with yes
 terday’s awful phaenomenon.
     It was observed that all animals were much frightened: the
 do      lay down on their bellies and would not be moved.
        he earthquake in the interior appears to have been less
 violent than near the sea-shore.
     I am this moment informed that <U+FB01>fty men have been killed
by the fall of walls at Mangarole, which is distant hence 80
miles in a S.E. direction.
           CORy  of a Letter addressed to Captain KENNEDY.
                                          Camp, Sirdas, June 17, 1819.
    SIR,-—Being a Member of the Literary Society, I deem it
a kind of duty that attaches to me, to record for the informa
tion of the Society any fact or circumstance of considerable
interest which may fall under my observation connected with
the objects of the Society.
    In   these sentiments,   I now have to mention the occurrence
of   the shock of an earthquake here yesterday evening.           It oc
curred about seven o’clock.          It was such as to alarm every
one who felt it.       The earth under us seemed to rise and fall
very considerably;        so considerably, indeed, that       I  myself
could not stand steadily.         Every  one who felt it became in
                                                                   some

                Mr. F. Baily   on the   Circular Micrometer.                 177
    some degree giddy. 1 It was not felt by any one who was on
    horseback; and this was the case with several of our of<U+FB01>cers.
    Every one, however, who was on the ground felt it to be very
    alarming.
       The duration of it was not measured by any one, but                      I
    think it lasted about two‘minutes.     It was at <U+FB01>rst slight, and
    towards its termination the motion became less and less vio
                                                                  '
    lent.
       We have had no accounts of it from neighbouring towns;
    so that I am led to suppose it has not been so violent as to do
    much mischief in other places.                                                   _
       This country, Kattiwar, is rocky and rugged. The rock
    is of the trap kind, containing great quantities of agate and
    crystallized quartz.
      I   have observed nothing of a volcanic nature, unless the
    trap be considered such.—I now have the honour to remain,
                             Sir, your very obedient servant,
                                       (Signed)    G. A. STUART,
                                         Assistant Surgeon,
                                                              1st   Light Cavalry.
     XXXI.      On the Circular Micrometer.          By F. BAILY, Esq.
                                   ER.S.
          circular micrometer is an instrument which has been,
    THE
      for man years past, much used on the continent, and is
    still held in igh and deserved estimation there by astrono
    mers of the <U+FB01>rst rank.      From the simplicity of its construc
    tion, and the facility with which it may be used in any posi
    tion of the telescope, it is frequently preferred, even in public
    and national observatories, to‘ micrometers of a more complex
    nature, which require to be adjusted to the equatorial motion
    of the star. Moreover, there is no necessity for its being il
    luminated; on which account it is peculiarly adapted to the
    observation of comets and small stars: and it is indeed to
    these two classes of the heavenly bodies, that its application is
_   now principally con<U+FB01>ned; although some astronomers of great
    eminence have considered that it is capable of equal accuracy
    to the wire micrometers.     To voyagers and others, who are
    travelling  for the improvement of astronomy and eography,
    it will prove of considerable advantage. The sma lness of its
    size  (itbeing not much larger than    shilling) rendersit very
                                              a
    convenient for carriage; and the simplicity of its construction
    prevents any liability to injury.  On this account      ought toit
    form a part of the apparatus of every person travelling under
    the circumstances above alluded to.
       Astronomy    is  indeed more indebted to this little‘ instru
                                                          -
    VOl. 63. No. 311. March 1824:.                      Z       ment

 178           Mr. F. Baily     0n the     Circular Micrometer.
   ment than is perhaps generally known.                   Three out of the
   four new planets which have been discovered in the present
   century, Were discovered with very small telescopes, and their
   motions watched, and the elements of their orbits deduced
 from observations made with the circular micrometer only :
  whereby astronomers were enabled to look out for them with
  certainty, at the time of their re-appearance at the next op
  positions.       And at the present hour it is almost the only in
  strument used on the continent for the observation of comets.
  To the labours of ()lbers, Bessel and Frauenhofer, we are
  indebted for the high reputation which this little instrument
  enjoys. To the two former, for the talent which they have
  displayed in explaining the analysis, by which the observa
  tions may be reduced: and to the latter for the recent im
  provement which he has introduced in the construction of the
. instrument.        In a communication like the present, it cannot
  be expected that I should enter very minutely into a subject
  of this kind: my object being merely to draw the attention of
  practical astronomers in this country to an instrument which
  appears to be very little known here: but which is capable of
  (loin much useful work at a very little expense; and of assist
  ing  tie   observations of those who are fortunately possessed of
  more splendid and powerful instruments.
      By the kindness of Professor Schumacher, who                      is  ever
  zealous in promoting the interests of astronomy,             I       have ob
  tained one of M. Frauenhofer’s circular micrometers, of the
  most improved and recent construction.                   This instrument   is
  the same that was exhibited at the last meeting of the Astro
  nomical Society of London"; and              is     called by lVI. Frauen
  hofer the suspended circular micrometer, from the circum
  stance of its appearing (in the telescope) as           if     suspended in
  the heavens without any support.               It consists, in fact, of no
  thing more than a circular piece of plate-glass about one inch
  in diameter, in the centre of which a circular hole               is   cut, of
  half an inch in diameter. To the inner edge of this glass.
  circle a narrow ring of 'steel      is    <U+FB01>rmly and securely fastened;
  and, the whole being put in a lathe, the steel ring              is    turned
  perfectly circular, and reduced to a very thin edge, both at
 its  exterior and its interior circumference.                The glass, with
  its steel circle, is    then burnished into    a     brass ring or cap, by
  means of which     it    may be placed, when required, in the focus
  of the telescope.
     The                     attending this construction are, 1° the
                    of
             advantagles
  preservation      -t   e  circular   form of the ring, as  it     comes from
  the lathe, without the risk of its being injured in attaching              it
  *.   See                    of this-Society, at the end of the present Number
            thepr'oce'edings
     our Journa
 of               . \                  I                                      to

                Mr. F. Baily     on the   Circular   Mim‘ometer.             179
   to the telescope in the usual manner: 2° in the use of steel
  instead of brass, whereby a <U+FB01>ner edge may be given to the
   circumferences“:         3° in rejecting the metal arms by which
   these rings were formerly attached to the sides of the tele
   scope, from the unequal expansion of which (or any external
   violence      iven thereto) the perfect form of the circle might
   be injured, without being immediately detected: 4° in thus
   avoiding the obstructions which those arms might in some
   cases, by their position, occasion in the observations of the
   passage of a star before it entered the interior of the ring.
       In Plate III. <U+FB01>g. 4,      I  have given a drawing of this micro
   meter, on a scale just double its real dimensions: the whole
   instrument, in fact, not being larger than the broad inner
   circle there delineated.           By means of the outer glass circle,
  ,the star can be seen, from the time that it enters the <U+FB01>eld of
   view, until it reaches the steel circle; at which time the ob
   server must be prepared to make the observation required.
    But, previous to the application of this instrument to any
   useful purposes, it will be necessary to determine with ac
    curacy the radius of the inner circle (which 1 shall denote
    by r) in the following manner. Let the telescope be turned
    towards any known star, situated as near to the equator as
   possible; and as nearly in the direction of the meridian as
   possible, in order to prevent the errors arising from refrac
    tion.                                  I
            In the diagram (<U+FB01>g. 4) have presumed that the tele
   scope inverts; and that the star makes its appearance in the
   <U+FB01>eld of the telescope on the right-hand side at Q.                    If we
   suppose the path of the star to be along the line QQ’, then
   will this line be one of the parallels of declination, and the
   line NS, perpendicular thereto, one of the horary circles:
   N beinrr to the north and S to the south. A very few trials
   will ena le the observer to place the telescope in such a man
   ner that the star ma pass madly through the centre of the
   <U+FB01>eld of the circle.       Nldte, by the clock, the time ofthe ingress
   of the star, from behind the broad circle at O; and also the
   time of its egress at O’.          Let t denote the former, and t’ the
I
   latter; then will
                             15 x
                                  Tr-¢
                                    I
                                         x cos  8 =  r
   be the radius of the inner edge of the broad circle; and will
                                                                        “a
                                                                        .1;1 s
   be a constant quantity to be used in all the subsequent com~
   putations.      In this equation I have assumed '6 equal to the de
   clination of the star observed; which, in this case, is the same
   as the declination of the centre of the circle.
                                                                                '
      4‘ As steel may be liable to rust, particularly on sea voyages, probably
   gold would be preferable on such occasions.
                                        Z   2                          When

180               Mr. F. Baily              on the       Circular Micrometer.
    When an observation is to be made with this micrometer, let
 the telescope be directed towards the object (a new planet, a
 comet, or other small body) which may be made to describe
 any chord of the inner circle; and note the time of its ingress
 at p, and its egress at 11’: let us represent the former by 'r, and
 the latter by 'r'. The telescope remaining perfectly steady,
 note also the ingress and egress of any known star, contiguous
 thereto, at s and        and represent the respective times, as
                                  .s/
                                  :
 shown by the clock, by and 0'.          Then will
                                           T T
                                              0
                                           el-f-q'                II+I
                                                       and
 be the respective times of the transit Of the planet and the
 known star at     and     or at the horary circle
                             h              k,       S. Con                                            N
 sequently the difference in the right ascension of these two
                               '
 bodies will be
                                  de. =              I—‘j-i
                                                              —
                                                                      I'll-T                            (A).
   The method of determining the difference of declination                                                        is
 somewhat more complex.
                                                                                   v
                                                                                   '1'
      It   is   evident that the semi-chord pl: =                                      T115.           cos (3': and
 that the semi-chord s]: =
                                                     [24.15.            cos      A: A             being the de
 clination of the known star, and A' the estimated declination
 of the small planet or comet.  Make
                             -
                            51!] .z'   =    i! =
                                             Y
                                              k           7'5
                                                              r
                                                                  .
                                                                      (V—<U+FB02>). cos             A
                                                          7'5
                                 a":                                                             A,
                                               ll
                                            -l'—     =
                          .
                          sin
                                             T                T
                                                                  .
                                                                       (1"—      r).   605
                                                                                             \
 then we shall have
                Clc   =     cos 1 = the dist.         of from the centre
                Ch =  r r   cos .1": the dist.                        I: I:
                                                      of from the centre                                    CC
 whence we obtain the                      difference of declination
                            dD =       r     (cos      .r- cos            .r')                        (B)
    These computations are founded on the supposition that
 the known star and the comet both pass through the circle,
 on the same side of the centre C: that the known star                                                           is
                                                                                                                 si
 tuated to the northward of the comet“; and that           passes                                           it
 through the circle after the comet. But            easy to apply                      it        is
 the same principles to any other relative position of the bodies
 observed: since         only necessary to attend to the signs of
                                it
                                is
 the respective quantities.   Suf<U+FB01>cient has been here stated to
        out the general mode of computation in such cases.
 qpint
   he reader who     desirous of pursuing this subject more at
                                is
                                                           length

              Dr. Walchner’s Examination of Hyalosiderite.                      18]
   length may consult the Monatliche Correspondenz by Baron
   Zach, vol. xvii. xxiv. and xxvi.; where he will <U+FB01>nd formulae
   adapted, by M. Bessel, to almost every case that can arise in
   practice.     See also Santini’s Elementi di Astronomia, vol. i.
                                                                  '
    page    261.
       Although I have, in this communication, alluded ,only to
_  the immersion and emersion of the bodies with respect to the
   inner circumference of the ring, yet it is evident that the same
   principles may be applied to the immersion and emersion of
   the bodies with respect to the outer circumference of the ring,
   at 1r, 0', and 1|", 0", respectively.     And these double observa
   tions will tend to ensure reater accuracy.                 M. Frauenhofer
   however considers that t e edge of the inner circle is more
   perfect than that of the outer one.
       It must be evident that the correctness of any results, de
   duced from a micrometer of this kind, will depend on the ac
   curacy with which the circles are turned and <U+FB01>nished.                          In
   this respect M. Frauenhofer’s micrometer seems as perfect as
   human skill can make it: and it certainly does credit to the
   talents of this distinguished artist.
    XXXII.       Mineralogical and Chemical Examination of Hya
       losiderite, a new Mineral. By Dr. WALCHNER, ngreibm‘g
       in tile Breisgau.*       (With a Plate of Crystals.)
                       I. Mineralogical Description.
                                       §1.
         HE     mineral, of which I now communicate an examina
           tion, is found on the Kaiserstuhl in the Breisgau, a
    rock belongin to the trap formation, in the neighbourhood
    of the village gasbach, in a basaltic anlygdaloid, of a reddish
    and liver-brown colour, accompanied with augite and bitter
    spar.
       I found it so long ago as the year 1819, when on a minera
    logical excursion which I undertook upon this interesting
    mountain.      The opinions concerning it were very various:
    sometimes it was declared to be olivine, and sometimes it was
    pronounced to be augite. Both assertions appeared to me im
    probable, and I felt inclined to look upon it as a mineral
  _hitherto unknown.           A more particular examination of its
    form and composition strengthened my opinion.                     At Gottin
    gen,     where  I  afterwards    continued       my    studies,   I resumed
    my investigation      of  the subject,    and     communicated         the re
        "' From Schweigger’s   Neue: Journal f iir C/zemie, 810. band  ix. p. 65.
                                                                               su 1ts

    182            Dr. Walchner's Mineralogical and Chemical
    sults of   together with the mineral, to my honoured teacher
                  it,
    M. Hausmann; who acknowledged            to be a new mineral,
                                                    it
    and was so        as to direct my attention to the analogy be
    tween   an dgood
              it crystallized iron slag.
                                      §    2.
    Hyalosiderite occurs for the most part in crystals; but like
 wise in small blunt-edged, friable, loosely coherent grains.
 The crystalline forms hitherto observed in are the following:
                                                         it
    (1.) The rectangular octahedron, having its terminal solid
 an les replaced by tangent planes (<U+FB01>g. 1).
       his form varies,
    a.) By the different proportions of the terminal planes to
 those of the octahedron.     The former are sometimes so lar
 in proportion to the latter, that the crystallization acquires                t<U+FB01>ee
 appearance of rectangular four-sided tablet bevelled on each
                        a
 side (<U+FB01>g. 2).
    b.)    By the elongation in either direction of the edges of
 the base, which        sometimes so considerable, that the form
                            is
 becomes prismatic (<U+FB01>g. 3).
    (2.) The same crystallization (l) with the greater edges
of the base replaced by tangent planes, those planes generally
 small (<U+FB01>g. 4).
    (3.) The same crystallization     1), with the greater edges
                                                (
of the base replaced by two planes. The size of the new
planes varies in proportion to that of the others. They are
sometimes small (<U+FB01>g. 5), and sometimes so enlarged that the
planes of the octahedron on which they rest almost disappear
(
    <U+FB01>. 6).
           The.same crystallization (l), with the solid angles of
the base replaced by two triangular planes, usually very small
                                                              '
(
    <U+FB01>   .   8);
        The same crystallization (l), with all the edges                 of   the
base replaced by two planes (<U+FB01>g. 7).
   Twin crystals have not met with.
                        I
                                      §   3.
‘
   The crystals are very small, scarcely of the size of lentils;
they appear when the amygdaloid has become
as they resist the action of the elements for a disintegrated,
                                                    reater ength
of time; they are either attached to augite, or geely dissemi
nated in the amy daloid; and are, for the most part, imper
fectly formed.    T eir surface smooth, and exhibits, in an
                                          is
oblique light,   sometimes  a brass yellow, or a gold yellow co
lour, sometimes the colour of tarnished steel; which     owing to is
a thin coat of perhydrate of iron, investing most of the crystals.
Their proper colour      reddish- or yellowish-brown.
                                 is
                                                                       Fracture

            Examination          of Hyalosiderite,       a new     Mineral.                  "183
   Fracture small conchoidal; external lustre metallic, of the
fracture vitreous; hardness, in newly exposed crystals, be
tween that of felspar and that of apatite; cleavage at right
angles to the axis of the octahedron AA’ (<U+FB01>g. 9), not very
perceptible.
   Transparent on the thin edges, or in small splinters, with
a hyacinth red colour passin into a wine-yellow; the streak
of a cinnamon colour. Speci c gravity 2-875 ; temp. 707 F.
   Single crystals are sometimes attracted by the magnet; but
always after they have been made slightly red hot, by which
they are rendered black.
   Before the blow-pipe they immediately become black and
melt into a globule, which is attracted by the magnet.
   With borax they are readily and completely reduced to a
transparent glass, which, while hot, has a yellowish-green co
lour, that almost entirely disappears on cooling if but little of
the mineral has been employed; but if the borax be saturated»
with      it,
            becomes black and opake.
                it                          They are dissolved by
salt of phosphorus into a clear reenish glass, leaving a skeleton
of silica behind,'and the glass after cooling becomes colourless.
     Ifthe boracic   lass, containing     small portion of the mi
                                                    a
neral, be cautious     treated with tin, the globule, after
                            y                                  has                      it
become quite cold, exhibits       slight but determined beautiful
                                         a
green colour.
                                         m.
   From the nature of the forms above enumerated we may
assume, that the system of crystallization of this mineral   a                              is
trimetric one *. The planes     and      presenting
                                            d       themselves
                                                        d,
most frequently, and which form the rectangular octahedron,
appear then as boundin planes, which truncate rectangularly
the edges of the base 0 the ground form; the planes a as the
horizontal, and the planes    as the primary planes, since the
                                       P
edges, which those planes form with the planes   and    are in           d'        d,
parallelism with each other.
                                                         i
                                        §      5.
   The primary planes are too small for the measurement of
their mutual inclination.     The inclination of the planes and                         d
d’ may be determined most exactly, although, on account of
the smallness of the crystals, even these measurements remain
imperfect.    The inclination of     on      was determined to be
                                               d        d'
141°,  and  the inclination  of   on a  amounted
                                         d’         to rather more
than  130°.    Now     theseifmeasurements   are taken  as the basis
for determining the mathematical character of the primary
            ‘    Hausmann    Unterl.      d.   Form.   d. 1061.   Nat.   i.   p. 417.
                                                                                        form,

184-        Dr. Vl'alchner’s Mineralogical and Chemical
form (<U+FB01>g. 9), then the following proportion of inclination for
the base would pretty nearly approach the truth :
                  B'E: EC: CA= V28:7:10.
   The inclination of the primary planes on the principal axis,
or   the angle   EAC,     would, according to this proportion, be
=35." 59' as", and the angles of the base B B'B= 111° 10'6",
and   B’BB'=68°      4-9' 54'”.
                                      § 6.
   Besides the primary planes, the bounding planes A, B', D,
D’ occur in the crystals hitherto observed, the inclinations of
which may be found immediately from the proportion of in
clination on the base.         The planes r' and r, on the contrary,
are secondary lanes, from the second division of the vertical
edge-zones.         e inclination of the planes r' which appertain
to the <U+FB01>rst vertical edge-zone, was ascertained with some
exactness.      They answer to the secondary proportion 2C B':
SCA; whence the sign B'A§ belongs to them. The planes 1‘
probably answer to an analogous secondary proportion in the
second vertical edge-zone.
                                     § 7.
   The denotation of        the different crystalline             forms hitherto
observed in this mineral would consequently be,
            1. 2A. 4D'. 4D.               (<U+FB01>g. 1, 2, s.)
                  a        d'      d
            2. 2  A.   2  13'. 4-D'. 4 D.          (<U+FB01>g.   4-.)
                  a       b’      d'        d
            3. 2  A.  4- D’.    4 D.    4- B'Ag. (<U+FB01>g.         5, 6.)
                  a       d'       d        r'
            4-.  2A. 4D’.       4-D.    4B’A§.         4-
                                                          BA§?      (<U+FB01>g. 7.)
                  a      d'        d       r                          ‘
            5.   3R 2A. 4D'. 4D.                 (<U+FB01>g. 8.)
 I                       a        d'       d
   The chief inclinations       are,
                      PonP’=llO°               0'  414'"
                       a  ...d'=130         18 56
                       a  ...d =141           4-  54'
                       d'...d'= 99          22      8
                       d...d = 77           5O    12
                       d'...b'=139         41       4'
                       1"...a =119         29 4-7
                       r'...d'=169          10 51
                       1"...1" =121          0 26
                                       8.
   On   a comparison    of the crystallization of              the hyalosiderite
                                                                             with

                  Examination     quyZzlosider-ite,   a mic Mineral.   185
    with  the crystals of slags, formed in various metallurgic pro
    cesses, we <U+FB01>nd a corresponding similarity not only in the
    forms in     neral, but also in the angles of inclination of a the
    planes. [The measurement of these angles, which M. Haus
    mann has given in his Specimen Crystallographinetallurgicw,
    § 32, could be but very imperfect on account of their small
    siZe.   The determinations here communicated, which cannot
     indeed boast of very great accuracy, will contribute to adjust
    in  some measure the determinations published in that treatise.
         The rectan lar octahedron described by M. Hausmann
    (<U+FB01>g. 14, 15, 16 is formed by the planes which are here
    marked d and 1’ ; the planes d answer to the planes M, chosen
    in the de<U+FB01>nition of that treatise; so that the planes 1" corre
    spond with the planes P.        Later observations have also ac
    quainted   us  with the  planes  d’ in the crystallized slag.   The
    rectangular   bases  of the  rectangular  octahedrons   in  the cry
    stallized slag, namel in that from the copper pyrites smelting
    works at Lauten ( ausm. Spec. C1yst. Met. <U+FB01>g. l8),‘~‘answer
    perfectly to an octahedron formed by the bounding planes            (1'
    and d. The angles which the diagonals of the rectan ular
    bases form with their edges, are similar to the semi-an es of
    the base of the ground form, consequently =             CB'
                                                              A     and
     LCBB’. . These an les measure, according to the funda
    mental proportion       o inclination above assumed, 55° 35' 3”
    and 34° 24" 57”.
                            II.    Chemical Anaiysz's.
                                        §   9.
       The hyalosiderite brought to a red-heat, whether in a glass
    retort or in a. platinum crucible, becomes black, but does not
    yield any perceptible quantity of water; nor
                                                            is
                                                         perceptibly
                                                            it
    altered in texture or in weight.
       Concentrated muriatic acid attacks the mineral even when
    cold, dissolves     by the aid of a gentle heat, and forms with
                       it
    it,on evaporation,      gelatinous mass, which after desiccation
                            a
    was evidently silica.
       a.) A few decigrammes of the powdered mineral were now
    treated with concentrated muriatic acid, until their solution
    was completely effected; the solution evaporated to dryness
    by a entle heat; the residuum extracted by water, acidulated
'
    with  t   same acid, and separated by
              e                                <U+FB01>lter.
                                                  a   The yellowish
    <U+FB02>uid thus obtained was mixed with caustic ammonia, which
    produced a reddish-brown precipitate.        This was again dis
    solved in muriatic acid, in order to ascertain whether mag
       Vol. 63. No. 311. March 1824-.               a  A       nesia

 186        Dr. Walclmer’s Mineralogical and Chemical
 nesia was     present, and the solution was carefully neutralized
 with carbonate of soda.        Perhydrate of iron was separated,
 which was treated with caustic potassa and then separated by
 <U+FB01>ltration from the alkaline <U+FB02>uid, from which muriate of am
 monia precipitated a little alumina. The solution, from which
 iron and argillaceous earth had thus been separated, was
 mixed, at a boiling heat, with carbonate of soda.        The co
 pious precipitate thus obtained consisted of magnesia, which,
 after desiccation and exposure to a red-heat, and re-solution
 in dilute nitric acid, yielded a little oxide of manganese.
 The neutralized solution of magnesia in nitric acid became
 turbid, but in a scarcely perceptible degree, by the addition
 of oxalate of ammonia.
     b.) A second portion of the mineral was treated with
 muriatic acid, in order to ascertain the alkali which it
 might contain: the solution was evaporated to dryness, the
 silica separated in the usual manner, and the <U+FB02>uid remaining
 after the separation of the silica precipitated with caustic am
 monia and with its carbonate.        The residuum Obtained by
 evaporation, was ignited in a platinum crucible, in which mu
 riate of potassa remained.
     It will be seen from these experiments that the hyalosiderite
 consists of silica, oxide of iron, magnesia, alumina, oxide of
 manganese, and potassa.
                              § 10.  A.
     In order to determine the proportions of the constituent
 parts of this mineral, it was subjected to the followin analysis:
    a.) 1040 gramm. of hyalosiderite, reduced to the <U+FB01>nest pow
 der, were exposed to a moderate red-heat for about half an
 hour in a platinum crucible, with three times its we' ht of
 anhydrous carbonate of soda.         The mixture, after usion,
 was of a brownish-yellow colour, and gave, when softened
 with water, and treated with concentrated muriatic acid, a
 clear yellow solution.     By evaporation to dryness 81c. 0'329
 of calcined siliceous earth were obtained.
    b.) After the separation of the silica, the remaining <U+FB02>uid
was accurately neutraliZed with carbonate of soda.       The pre
cipitate thereb occasioned, after having been separated from
the <U+FB02>uid, was digested, whilst yet in its moist state, with a so
lution of caustic potassa, so long as it became diminished in
quantity; and the residual iron well dried and calcined gave
0'380 ramm. of peroxide of iron, =O'309 protoxide of iron.
             e alkaline <U+FB02>uid of
    c.)                         (b) was now treated with a solu
tion of muriate of ammonia so long as precipitation took place.
                                                  -
                                                             This

          Examination    of Hyalosiderite, a         new     Mineral.   187
This precipitate, after calcination, amounted to 0023 g'l‘almn.v
and had the properties of pure alumina.
   d.) The <U+FB02>uid (6), from which the iron and argillaceous earth
had been precipitated, and which did not become turbid by
the addition of oxalate of potassa,was again acidulated, evapo
rated to the requisite degree, and precipitated at aboiling tem
perature with carbonate of soda. The precipitate dried and
strongly calcined gave 0'277 gramm. of magnesia, which, af
ter being dissolved in dilute nitric acid, left 0'005 of oxide of
manganese.
   e.) The In vnesia still contained in the remaining <U+FB02>uid of
(d), after that ad been previously neutralized with muriatic
acid, and su<U+FB02>iciently concentrated, was precipitated by means
of carbonate of ammonia and phosphate of soda; by which
01641 gramm. of calcined phosphate of magnesia were ob
tained, which answer to 0065 gramm of pure magnesia.
                                        B.
    In order to determine the proportion of potassa in the hy
alosiderite, 0'567 gramm. of the mineral were treated with
muriatic acid; the iron, alumina, magnesia, silica, and mane
ganese,  se arated in the usual manner, the remaining solution
evaporate    to dr ness, and the residuum calcined in a pla
tinum crucible.       hat remained was dissolved in distilled wa
ter, and treated with muriate of platinum, and thus gave 0'055
gramm. of the triple salt =0'016 gramm. pure potassa.
   As the relative e<U+FB01>‘ect of glass of borax in the treatment with
tin seemed to indicate the presence of chrome in this mineral,
a quantity of        exactly weighed, was fused with nitrate of
                   it,
potassa in order to discover that metal.         The melted mass
was of a yellowish-brown colour with some grass-green streaks
which originated from sub-manganesate of potassa.          The so
luble part was now properly extracted with water, the <U+FB02>uid
thus obtained carefully neutralized with nitric acid, and then
treated with   a solution of protonitrate of mercury, on which
a  slight reddish turbidness merely took               so that the
quantity of chrome could not be ascertaine (place,       .
   According to this analysis, 1'04-0 gramm. of hyalosiderite,
yield        Silica (a) . .          .  .
                                        .  .      0'329 gramm.
             Protoxide of iron (6)            -. 0309
                                                 .   .
              M      esia (d) .       . ..  .      0'272 .
              1335;1(8)     .     . . . .   .  .   0'065
                                ‘
               Alumina    (c) .    .     .       .   .   .
                                                              0'023
               Oxide of manganese (d)                .   .    0'005
               Potassa (B)    . .  .             .   .   .    0'029
               Traces of chrome
                                A       a,   2                1'032

188          Dr. Walchner’s Mineralogical                              and Chemical
    100 parts    of this mineral therefore contain
                Silica      .  .    .       .       .     .       .      .    31'684
                Protoxide of iron                    .     .       .     .   29'711
                Magnesia . . . . . . . 32'403
                Alumina . . . . . . .                                          2'21]
                Oxide of      manganese                    .       .     .     0'4-80
                Potassa        .     .       .       .     .       .     .     2'788
                Traces of chrome"
                                                                              99'227
                                         §       11.
    Throu h the kindness of my honoured teachers MM. Haus
mann and Stromeyer of Giittingen, I was enabled to submit
to a chemical analysis some slags, the mineralo ical similarity
of which with our mineral has been mentione above.                                         The
same method was followed in the analysis which was observed
in that of the hyalosiderite, and I therefore brie<U+FB02>y state the
results.
                                          §      12.
     An iron slag from          the      iron smeltin works near Dax in
the Pyrenees, which M. Hausmann                                           as described f, and
which M. Stromeyer kindly presented to me, had the speci<U+FB01>c
gravity of 8'700 at the temperature of 73'4 F. and contained,
in 100 parts, Silica             .    .        .       .     .       .     32-959
                     Protoxide of iron                       .       .     61'235
                     Magnesia          .       .       .     .       .      1.896
                     Alumina           .       .       .     .       .      1'560
                     Oxide of manganese . .                                 1'50]
                     Potassa . . . . . .                                    0'204
                                                                           99'155
                                            §     13.
     Another iron slag, from Bodenhausen in the Hartz, which
 in its external appearance bore the greatest resemblance to
 our mineral, was kindly presented to me by M. Hausmann.
 Its speci<U+FB01>c gravity was 3-529 at the temperature of 70'7 F.
  and it contamed,
                     Silica . . . . . . 82'346
                     Protoxide of iron . . 62'04-2
                   '
                     Magnesia              .       .     .       .         1'404
                     Oxide of manganese                          .         2'645
                     Pota'ssa      .       .       .     .       .         0'285
                                                                        99'74-6
     1* My honoured    friend Professor                                  directed my attention to
  the presence of chrome in this mineral.        Buzenéeiger   hrome has probably been over
  looked in many minerals.       On a future 0 portnnity I shall have occasion
  to oint out its existence in a mineral long nown and frequently analysed.
     i) Moll’s Ephemerides, d. B. u. H. “I. 1815, p. 39. 51
                                                                                        A third

       Examination.     of Hyulosiderite, a                             new   Mineral.       189
                                        §       14.
   A third slag, which had been found many years ago at
Lautenthal    in the Hartz at copper-works where copper
pyrites was smelted, and the crystallization of which has been
described above (§ 8), I likewise obtained through the kind
ness of M. Hausmann.       Its speci<U+FB01>c gravity at the temperature
of 65'8 F. was 3'870.
   As I had convinced myself by a previous analysis, that it
contained copper, I directed through the solution in muriatic
acid, after the silica had been separated from         a current of               it,
sulphuretted hydrogen gas, treated the precipitate thus ob
tained with nitric acid, and then separated the oxide of cop
per by caustic potassa.    The <U+FB02>uid remaining after the separa
tion of the copper, was treated, whilst warm, with nitric acid,
and heated for some time, so as to brin the iron to the maxi
mum of oxidation; the analysis was           en proceeded with as   t
 usual.
   This slag from Lautenthal contained
                 Silica  .   .  .  .  .      29'245                 .
                Protoxide of iron     .  .   63'316
                Peroxide of copper            2'64-6                .
                 Magnesia       .  .  .  .    1604‘
                 Alumina           '.    .  . 1'244 .       -
                 Oxide of      manganese                            .
                                                                            1"4‘60
                 Potassa.          .        .       .       .       .       0'184
                                         ‘99'399
  I  consider that mineral as a slag likewise which Karsten
has described, and which Klaproth analysed, under the name
of volcanic iron-glass       According to Klaproth’s analysis,
                              *.
100 parts of   consist of
               it
               Silica      .  ..     . .   29'50        .
               Protoxide of iron     . .   66'00
                 Alumina                .       .       .       .       .     4'00.
                    Potassa    .        .       .       .       .       .     0'25
                                                                            99-75
                                            §       16.
    The crystallized slag consequently a silicate of iron. This
                               is
 in the hyalosiderite appears to be combined with magnesia,
 which seems to replace the quantity of iron in the slag.
    * Beiln'ige, V. 222 <U+FB01>'. Stromeyer in the G611 el. Anz. 1810. st. 194.
 p. 1935.    M. Hausmann has given further particu ars of   in V. Moll’s                it
 Ja/lrb.d.  B. u. H. Ill. 1815. p. 39. <U+FB02>“.
                                                                                             From

190       Mr. Samuel Seaward on High-pressure Gauges.
From    the anal sis above detailed, 'it is evident that the mi
neral from the {(aiserstuhl is actually a new one.     The name
hyalosiderite has been sug    sted by its  roperties and its com
   sition, and is derived      m Ilde g 855, and 0181190; iron.
  he formation   of this mineral, it is probable, could not have
been the result  of operations like those by which the primitive
rocks were     reduced; and we may thence assume, that the
rock in which) it occurs is of volcanic origin.
XXXIII.              On     High-pressure Gauges.       By lllr. SAMUEL
                 >                   SEAWARD.
  To   the    Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
                                                  of your ingenious cor
ITrespon
    is        creditable
       highly Mr. H. Russell, that
                 ent
                          the       to    taste
                                                  he can extract so much
amusement from the manufacturing of high-pressure gauges.
I ho e no one will be so sel<U+FB01>sh as to envy him the recreation
of t is harmless ursuit, more especially as he appears very
prudently to con ne his views to his own individual grati
<U+FB01>cation.
    Complexity in a machine or instrument should certainly
be as much as possible avoided; but if all instruments are to
be condemned which have a diversity of parts (which I un
derstand by the term complex), we should never have en
joyed the bene<U+FB01>ts of a clock, a loom, or a steam-en ine.
    M idea of a high-pressure gauge               is,
                                                that   shou
                                                         it   be used
ful;    hut  if   itintended to be merely an amusing toy, wh
                       is
then should commend Mr. Russell’s choice of what he laudys
      I
 so much as being simple and easy.
    The instrument described by your correspondent in the
 last Number of your Magazine,             substantially the same as
                                           is
 the common gauge which has been in use a long time past at
 the Portable Gas Works, where its defective and uncertain
 operation has been long l<nown,—practically known in the
 way of business, not speculatively conjectured: in con<U+FB01>rma
 tion of which      beg to state, that the superintendents of that
                     I
 establishment    were   lately in serious contemplation of erecting
 a gauge 70    feet long, in order that the divisions of the scale
 might   be of   adequate length. This simple fact           think,
                                                              is,
                                                               I          a
 complete   answer    to  Mr.  Russell’s crudities.
    Mr. R. seems to entertain great fear of its being practicable
 to make
             “ tight joint between the glass tube and metal box.”
             a
                                                                        It

         Mr. Samuel Seaward       on High-pressure Gauges.        191
It  gives me pain to observe this display of ignorance; for I
am sure I felt disposed to ive credit to that gentleman for a
greater share ofmechanica skill than what such doubt would
 seem to argue. The making of such a joint is an every-day ope
ration. However, to tranquillize his fears upon this point, I beg     .
 to say, that if a tri<U+FB02>in escape of air should take lace at this
joint (which is quite a surd to suppose), it woul not neces
sarily prove fatal to the instrument; because the defect can in
a few minutes be detected and remedied b a method which
for simplicity and case will, I <U+FB02>atter mysel , almost satisfy the
fastidious notions of the worthy gentleman himself.
    The method of rectifying “ my own ” gauge, I ought to
 have included in- the description which      I  had the pleasure of
transmitting   to you;   but it  was inadvertently omitted r and I
be to return my grateful acknowledgements to Mr. H. Rus
                                                      -
     _for a<U+FB01>'ording me the present opportunity of supplying
se                                                                the
omisswn.
    All gauges acting by the pressure of con<U+FB01>ned air require
occasional recti<U+FB01>cation, because, from the oxidation which
takes place on the surface of the mercury, a portion of the air
becomes absorbed; and if oil or other liquid be employed in
stead of mercury, there will be as great inconveniencies.
                                                                l
    It is proposed that the chamber A (hide description of the
gauge in your Magazine for January last) should be furnished
with a small screw plug, and the induction pipe (e) with a
small stop valve, similar to what is employed in the common
          by the closing of the latter the pressure of the aswill
gaugle:
be s ut off; and a communication made between the c amber
B and the external air : in a similar manner, if the screw plug
be removed, a communication will also be made between the
chamber A. and the external air:v therefore, if there should
be, from any cause whatever, a de<U+FB01>ciency in the proper quan
tity of inclosed air, it will thus be immediately supplied, and
the equilibrium restored.       And with regard to any insensible
escape of air at this joint, it is proper to observethat as the
pressure of the gas is generally above 20 atmospheres, the
mercury will therefore be some height up the glass tube; con
sequently the joint in question will mostly be sealed, and all
escape totally prevented.
   With many apologies for troubling you with such a long
letter, I remain, gentlemen,
                                  Yours  Sac.
London, March 8, 1824.                          SAMUEL SEAWARD.
                                                     XXXIV.     Me

                             [192]
XXXIV.       Memoiron the Variations of the re<U+FB02>ective, re<U+FB01>'actiz'e
    and dispnsivePo'wers qftheAtmosphere,¢frc. By T. Fons'rr: 11,
    MB. EL.S. Member of the Astronomical and the Meteoro
    logical Societies of London, and Corresponding Member of
    the Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia, 51'.“
    N the infanc     of every science, the <U+FB01>rst great object to be
     achieved is   theaccumulation of phaenomena appertaining
thereto.    In proportion as we are enabled to lay out these in
their natural order and arrangement, in the same proportion
we advance the science; and where we are enabled to unravel
the particular causes of each, we promote       a    knowledge of     it
in the highest degree.
    In the following observations      it  will be found that   I   have
been enabled by observation and re<U+FB02>ection to collect a con
siderable number of facts, and to place them in some sort of
arrangement.       And though much progress has not‘yet been
made on the development of their precise causes, yet such as
has been already known has been arranged in a way which               is
likely to facilitate and'direct the future inquiries of more able
and industrious speculators than myself; and        it   iswith  a  view
of thus en        'ng  the   cooperation    of  the  many    intelligent
members w 'ch compose the Meteorological Society, that               I
have ventured to obtrude the ensuing crude observations on
their notice at this early           of our investigations.
    The refractive power of   stage atmosphere has been long well
                                   e
known, and corrective tables of mean refraction intended
to be applied to astronomical observations have been em
ployed for many years.          In my endeavour, therefore, to be
brief,   in order  not  to  become    obscure,
                                            I     shall avoid as much
as possible the reiteration of observations already before the
public, as the reader ma            refer immediately to Bradley’s
tables, and to various wor     s    on refraction.     But though the
refraction of light by the intervention of the atmosphere             is
well known, that part of the subject which more immediately
belongs to meteorologists, has been particularly             neglected;
I  mean the Variation in the Atmosphere’s re<U+FB02>ective, refractive
 and dispersive powers, resulting from the di<U+FB02>iision therein of
 different modi<U+FB01>cations of cloud at di<U+FB01>‘erent times and places.
 And the various ejects which this aforesaid variation produces,
 considered as a <U+FB02>uctuation in the prismatic property of the air
 through which the modi<U+FB01>ed light       ofthe sun, moon and stars se
 verally is transmitted   to the  inhabitants  of our globe.
    The object of this paper therefore to show the liability of the
                              is
    " Read before the Meteorological Society of London in February and
March 1824, and published by permission.
                                                              atmosphere

    Dr. Forster   on the dispersive   Power    of the   Atmosphere.   198
atmosphere to great variations in this its power of re<U+FB02>ecting,
refracting and dispersing the rays of celestial luminous bodies,
and consequently the necessity of some further corrective
tables of refraction; and to show what particular modi<U+FB01>ca
tions of cloud produce these properties of the atmosphere in
the highest degree by being diifused therein.
    Previous to entering into the ensuing inquiry, I wish to
caution the general reader against ever confounding re<U+FB02>ection,
refraction, and prismatic dispersion, which are distinct pro
perties.    For example, the lightness of the sky in the day time
is produced by the re<U+FB02>ective power; while its appearing of a
blue colour is an effect of a certain property which accom
panies  it,  whereby certain blue rays are separated from the
rest.    As a more striking example of the dispersive power,          I
may instance the beautiful red, crimson, and yellow colours of
the clouds produced on certain occasions by the light of the
                                                                               ‘
sun re<U+FB02>ected by their surfaces, being refracted and dispersed by
the aqueous atmosphere in its passage to the earth’s surface.
I     am aware that the clouds themselves may on some occa
sions possess the property of separating light; and to this cause
I  was formerly inclined to ascribe their colour; but subse
quent experiencerand re<U+FB02>ection have convinced me that the
most brilliant tints seen in the clouds are the_result of the
dispersive power of the aqueous vapour existing .in a state of
general diffusion in the lower atmosphere, whereby the light
re<U+FB02>ected from the surface of the cloud    is
                                          prismatically dispersed
into separate rays in its passage through the lower atmosphere
to the earth.
   It must be borne in mind, that my observations below do
not relate to those remarkable and special refractions which
occur in certain de<U+FB01>nable clouds, as the rainbow, which re
sults from re<U+FB02>ections and special refractions of certain rays at
a determinate angle in the nimbus or raincloud, producing con
centric rin   s of colours conformable to their different degrees
of refrangigility.    Nor do I  include those special refractions
of light in its passage through the cirrostratus, called halos,
whereby concentric coloured rings are produced in the order
of their respective refi'an ibility, and re<U+FB02>ected at an an                le
which equals the angle su tended by the semidiameter of           e   t
halo.
I     allude in this paper to the ordinar effects of more
diffused and almost invisible cloud in   t                  thinly;
                                            atmosphere, throug
                                               e
which the luminous’ celestial bodies appear clear and distinct,
but which nevertheless refracts and disperses their rays in some
de ree, even in apparently the clearest nights.
      efraction has been hitherto considered as so general an
effect of the atmosphere, and so unconnected with any_ par
   Vol. 63. No. 311. March 1824'.                  Bb      ticular

194-          Dr. Forster        on the Variations     of the  re<U+FB02>ective,
ticular cloud, that universal               tables of mean refraction have
been made          out,  as   if  they  would   apply to all places. This is,
however, an essential error: and in developing it I <U+FB01>nd the
                                                                        considera
subject naturally divides itself into three distinct
 tions, as follows:
                                             I
                                                                                  at
 On the Variation in the refractive Power of the Atmosphere
                                 the Night    and  Day    and    on              Oc
      di<U+FB02>‘erent Times of                                             di<U+FB02>‘erent
      casions and Seasons.
      There is one question in the history of refraction which for
 obvious reasons ought, if possible, to be cleared up; namely,
 Wherein consists the dispersive power of the atmosphere, which
 is found to vary. at different times and in different places?
 To me it appears that this variation is owing principally to
 the quantity and nature of the aqueous particles suspended in
 the air.        Astronomers have hitherto con<U+FB01>ned their considera
 tions too exclusively to the refractive property of pure air,
  and have overlooked the circumstance that the atmosphere is
 seldom pure for any length of time; they have consequentl not
  taken into account the varied effects of different sorts of dif
 fused vapours, which, though unseen by the common observer,
  exist in the air in different proportions at sundry times and
                                                                                   at
  places, and which prevail much more at some places than
  others.        I was led to discover this by observing              the  vast  dis
  proportion between the result of my observations on the stars
  made at different times and seasons.                 In observing the planets
  and brightest of the stars through prismatic glasses,                    I   found
  that the spectrum              was   less oblongated     while    the  red  colour
  was more distinctly apparent at the time of the <U+FB01>rst fallin of
   the dew than at almost any other time of the same nights.
   Venus and Jupiter afforded a <U+FB01>ne opportunity of ascertaining
   this fact last spring, as these planets could be both seen
   of an evening as early as the period of the vapour point“.
       '1' The vapour point is that precise period which occurs in the progress
   of   evening, when, from the declining temperature, the air can no longer
   hold in solution the same quantity of aqueous gas that it maintained du
   ring day; and when consequently the aquosity is <U+FB01>rst deposited in the form
   of visible vapour or cloud, and gradually descends to the earth; on arriving
    at the surface of which it eventually forms a stratus or fog, called for this
    reason the fallcloud.          In the morning the coiinterpart of this process
    takes place, and the gasi<U+FB01>ed water being taken into the composition of the
                          till rising into a colder region it is again condensed into
    air again, ascends,
    nsible clouds which <U+FB02>oat on the vapour plane, or that precise elevation
               the air begins to be too cold to hold the vapour in solution. At
     whereat
    this elevation it forms clouds dissimilar in their modi<U+FB01>cations, according to
                        which exist in the air, but generally speaking cumuli, the
    electrical causes
    lighter modi<U+FB01>cations of cloud occurring higher up from local electrical and
    other causes which disturb the equilibrium of the temperature of the at
   mosphere.
                                                                                 And

          refractive and dispersive Powers            of the Atmowhere,   &c. 195
       And the most common observation on the rising and setting
      moon will always con<U+FB01>rm it on favourable nights.
          On other occasions, at the same time of night, I found an
      unexpected difference in the appearance of the spectrum of
       the very same planets; the violet and in general the most re
      frangible colours being most conspicuous, and the spectrum
       being more oblongated than ordinary.                                  I
          To reconcile this difference of effects with existing causes
      apparently so similar, was now an interesting object; and at last
     I   found out that the difference was referable to a difference in
      the quality of the falling dew, or diffused cloudiness.
          The greater prevalence of the red in the spectrum uniformly
      accompanied that state of the atmosphere when the cirro
      stratus or wanecloud diffused itself after sunset; while the more
    voblongated- spectrum with the violet and most refrangible co
      lours attended an atmosphere in which the descending dew was
      stratus or fallcloud.   I will not say positively that in the <U+FB01>rst
      case the falling mist was itself cin'ostratus, but it was a different
      kind of mistiness and less purely white, when seen in the valleys,
      than the common mist, and it happened when there were cir
      rostrati in the higher air. Another circumstance which con
      <U+FB01>rms my explanation of the phaanomenon                 is,
                                                          that during the
     falling of ordinary dew in clear and settled weather, particu
      larly with east wind, the horizontal haze shows beautiful tints
      of the more refrangible colours, varying upwards, so that the
     atmosphere becomes a sort of natural prism, of which             have
                                                                      I
     cited many examples in my “Researches about Atmospheric
     P/zcenomena.”       Whereas when cin'ostratus prevails, particu
     larly before wind, the red the predominant colour of the haze,
                                  is
     and also of the clouds above           which appear of the <U+FB01>nest
                                            it,
_    crimson and vermilion.        In some cases       believe the clouds
                                                        I
     may themselves become prismatic, and the colour of which
     they appear may be produced by their own structure; but                  it
     is more generally the effect of the haze through which re<U+FB02>ected
     rays pass in coming down.        Clouds in this case may be com
     pared to planets viewed in    a prismatic lass, their surfaces re
     <U+FB02>ecting the borrowed light of the sun, w ich becomes dispersed
     by the chromatopoietic properties of the atmosphere through
     which it   passes.
          Another circumstance which        I witnessed several times in
     November 1822, and which          is of common occurrence, strik
     ingly corresponds with the above observations; namely, that
     clouds whose irregular surfaces and depending fringes were of             a
     golden or silvery colour, that          re<U+FB02>ected all the sun’s rays
                                             is,
    just as they received them, during a whole afternoon, were, on
     the occurrence of the vapour point, suddenly turned red
                                       B    b     2                    asblf   y

196       Dr. Forster    on the   Variation qft/le      re<U+FB02>ective,
by some dispersive power imparted to the circumjacent atmo
sphere by the <U+FB01>rst falling of the dew.
   The state of the atmosphere which shows the red colour for
any length of time is a forerunner of high wind.
   There is an obscurity of a denser kind which often causes
an apparent dilatation of the disks of the celestial bodies, which
it elevates without colouring them. The moon for instance
looks pale, expanded and confused. This state is a prognostic
of rain, and is contrasted to the former as well as to the clear
ness of the serene sky which follows an ordinary fall of dew,
in a well known proverb expressive of the prognosticative co
lour of the moon on each several occasion :— p
           “ Pallida luna pluit, rubicunda   <U+FB02>at, alba serenat.”
   Another state of the cirrostratus, when di<U+FB01>'used, seems to
possess dispersive properties of a very peculiar nature, re
fracting certain coloured rays at an angle of about 5°; and
others at an an le of about 23°, so as to cause two cohcentric
                olg
halos or rings    colours the inner one being about. 10°, and the
                           ;
outer one about 46° in diameter. Sometimes single rings occur
which are colourless; but as all these phaenomena do not pro
perl belong to our subject, and are otherwhere treated of,               I
shal not dwell longer on them.
   All the above circumstances show that the changes in the
qualities of the diffused vapour in the air must cause        great  a
variety in the atmospherical refraction. They also explain how
the atmosphere about different places may have a different
mean refractive power, according to the local prevalence of
the above diversi<U+FB01>ed vapours which hang in it.        For am not   I
certain whether, independent of temperature and pressure, the
pure atmospheric air differs in its refractive ower all over the
world :I   believe the di<U+FB02>'erence to arise from     vapours always
                                                     t   e
more or less suspended therein and generally electri<U+FB01>ed.
   Two more facts con<U+FB01>rming my hypothesis must now be
cursorily mentioned.        The cast wind produces changes in
the appearance of the spectra of the celestial bodies, even
in the <U+FB01>eld of ordinary telescopes      the spectrum seems to
                                        :                                vi
brate or dance about in the <U+FB01>eld of the glass in a way that
defeats many very delicate observations.         Had not this re
mark been con<U+FB01>rmed by other people,           should have ascribed
                                              I
it to the nervousness of the observer, the east wind being
very liable to produce nervous disorders of the eyes and other
parts. I    have not observed the precise effect of the east
wind on the larger prismatic spectra, as far as respects their
colours; but the whole spectrum seems often on such occasions
to move, and to <U+FB02>uctuate more than ordinarily.
   Astronomers, ever since the time of Newton, have known'
                                                               that

       re<U+FB01>-active and dispersive    Powers ofthe Atmosphere,               rfrc.   1.97
  that pure atmospheric air will vary gradually in its refrac
  tive powers according to the degree of heat; and remark
  able instances of the great elevation of the disk of the sun
  above the horizon in cold climates, when calculation showed
  him to be below        it, have been adduced as striking exam
  ples.     But  it should   be  remembered by all, and              it
                                                                     already
                                                                     is
  known to meteorologists, that changes in temperature are
  never unattended with chan es in the quantity and modi<U+FB01>cation
  of aqueous vapours suspen ed in the air. And this circum
_ stance must add considerably to the effect of low temperature,
  and may impart to an atmOsphere condensed               by
                                                           cold some great
  and peculiar dispersive properties.          The inordinate elevation
  of the mast of ships at sea by refraction               an instance and
                                                         is
  proof of the undoubted great effect of vapours occasionally
  suspended in the air.        The cast wind         connected with the
                                                    is
  arrival of peculiar vapours in         it,
                                         and the vibration or irregular
  movement of the star in the telescope may be owing to such
  vapour being agitated by the electrical commotions that so
  generally attend a change of wind from any other quarter to
  one blowing from the east.
      Besides the general want of correspondence between the re
   sults of different observations, where           necessary to subtract
                                                it
                                                is
  9. given quantity of refraction, we may make               particular ob
                                                              a
   servation on the still greater disagreement that                found to
                                                                     is
  exist in the declination of several particular stars, as published
  by   different observers; for this disagreement, when applied
  to certain individual stars,      is referable to a compound cause;
  for the light of the stars severally being composed of different
  proportions of the primitive colours, the red ones, as Alde
  baran, Arcturus, and Betalgeus, are less refrangible than Sirius,
  Lyra, Capella, and the white stars in general. Of this shall             I
  treat in the third section.       It may suf<U+FB01>ce to remark slightly      it
  here, in order that, when we are considering the varieties in
  the atmosphere’s dispersive property, we may also take into
  account the compound effect produced by the various colours
  of the stars whose   li   ht is thus variously dispersed.
     The projection of Aldebaran and other red stars on the
 disk of the moon when the conjunction happens near to her
  upper limb, as noticed by Mr. Lee            *,  an illustration of the
                                                    is
  above fact;      the greater proportionate refrangibility of her
 white light, than that of the red light of the star, elevating her
  apparent disk so 'as to cause the star to seem to be within                       it
 just before or after the respective points of contact.
     When the wind <U+FB01>rst changes to become east, and when the
   '
   I     wish my readers to peruse the whole of Mr. Lee’s ingenious paper in
Phil. Trans. ;for though it becomes necessary to cite     it,   order to make
                                                                in
due acknowledgements,      nevertheless every individual Essay should be read
entire, and not in citations.                 ,                            all‘

   T98        Dr. Forster  on the   Variation of the    re<U+FB02>ective,
  air is encumbered with       the cirrostrativeness of the wanecloud,
  then all the celestial bodies appear redder than at other times,
  from the greater disposition of the air at those times to se
   parate and transmit the red colour, which must considerably
  in<U+FB02>uence the foregoing observations.
      The last observation     I have here to make relates to a phle
  nomenon hitherto entirely unexplained.               I allude to rapid
p alternations in the colour and brilliancy of the light of certain
  stars viewed near the horizon.
      Some years ago, on looking towards the constellation of
  the Scorpion, I observed a remarkable changing of colour in
  the <U+FB02>uctuation of Antares: for a second or less of time it ap
  peared ofadeep crimson colour, then of a whitish colour; then
  the crimson was resumed; and so on at alternating periods.
  Sometimes every other twinkle showed the red colour, while the
  alternating twinkle appeared of the ordinary colour of starlight.
       What IS commonly called the twinkling of a star seems to
  be an apparent <U+FB01>t of dilatation and increased brilliancy rapidly
  succeeded by the opposite state of apparent contraction of
  surface and dulness.       I  have observed, also, that the twinkles
  are of longer or shorter duration, at different times: now, in
    eneral, the intense red light I allude to occurs in every alternate
    ilatation; but sometimes only in every third, and at other
  times quite irregularly: moreover, it lasts longer sometimes
  than at others, and scarcely ever exceeds two seconds of time
  at once.     This phaenomenon as viewed in Antares was par
  ticularl    conspicuous at Clapton, in autumn 1809, at Tun
 bridge {Wells on June 19, 1817, and during the whole summers
  of 1822 and 1823 at Hartwell.              saw this phaznomenon also
 in other stars, in France, in September 1823; and I have seen
 it in the summer of 1822, in the atmospheres of Switzerland,
 Alsace, and all along the Rhine: it is evidently not con<U+FB01>ned
 to any local cause.
      I  have formerly published accounts of this phaanomenon in
 the    Journals, and have ascribed it to some sort of change in the
 star itself, or to a revolution round an axis, whereby di<U+FB01>'erent
  coloured portions of the luminous sphere might be presented
 to us: but this explanation vanishes on a moment’s re<U+FB02>ection;
 and     I am inclined to ascribe it to some atmospherical cause.
 I  have sometimes thought that the upper portions of the atmo
 sphere might have some undulatory motion, and that the al
 ternating colour might be produced by its refractive powers:
 for the atmosphere, in this case, acting as an imperfect prism,
 might present different colours, according to the va ing in
 clinations of its wavy surface“.         I have thought, too, {hat por
 * SeePhil. Magvol. xlix. p. 452,- and the Perennial Calendar, Jan. 16,
                                                                        p. 17.
                                                                        tions

      refractive and dispersive Po'wm's   of the Atmosphere,  ‘51.   199
  tions of the aqueous atmosphere, possessing different rismatic
  powers, might be transmitted downwards in dew, or             at there
  might be some other unknown motion in the real air, which
  might cause the appearance. Antares, Betalgeus, and some
  other red stars, show this change of colours Very strongly, par
  ticularly the former: while Sirius and the brilliant white stars
'
  show this alternation of colour in a less degree.        It is not ob
  served in Proqyon, is weak in Capella, but is considerable in
   Vega and in Arcturus, the latter being a red star.            Antares
  shows this phaenomenon more brilliantly than any of the others.
  Differences in the composition of the light of stars may explain
  these varieties of effect.
       Nobody can,    I think, re<U+FB02>ect on all the above details, hasty
  and imperfect as they may be, without at once seeing the
  importance of extending our observations on the phaenomena
  to which they relate, in constructing tables of refraction; and
   I shall still be excused, I trust, in the absence of more ma
   tured and extended details, for this imperfect attempt to em
   cite the attention of philosophers to facts which seem calcu
   lated to produce an important in<U+FB02>uence on many of our most
   useful astronomical calculations.
                                     II.
    Of the  Variation of the mean refractive Power ofthe Atmosphere
                            in dli<U+FB02>erent Places.
       Although the refractive and dispersing power of the atmo—
   sphere varies at different times in the same place of observation,
   yet by dividing the sum of a vast number of observations by
   their number, we shall get at a mean or average ofthe refractive
   power of the atmosphere of any particular place. This I call
   the mean refractive power of the atmosphere, and this mean
   differs very much in different situations, so that tables of
   mean re<U+FB01>action will not apply universally, but must be made
   out separately for each place of observation.          Thus a cor-‘
   rection which would be applicable to observations made at
    Greenwich, would not equally appl to Dublin or to Paris,
   much less to Palermo or the Cape of Good Hope: and they
    would be still less applicable in Peru, where the dispersive
    power of the atmosphere is prodigious. I was led to the adop
    tion of this opinion, in the <U+FB01>rst instance, by analogy, it being
    strictly conformable to a thousand other corresponding in-.
    stances of local variation in atmospheric phaenomena.            Ex
    periment seemed to con<U+FB01>rm it. And I have lately heard of a
    further corroboration which this opinion has received from
    the able observations of Dr. Brinkley, communicated to the
    Royal Society. But as I have only heard casually of that
                                                                   paper,

 '200        Dr. Forster    on the Variation ofthe  re<U+FB02>ective,
  paper, and have never seen his observations, I cannot speak
   positively to that point.
     If the opinion which I have long entertained, that the mean
  refractive power of the atmosphere varies in different places,
  be correct; its promulgation may lead to important results:
  it may explain certain apparent discordances in the places
  assigned to the <U+FB01>xed stars as described in different catalogues.
  For if corrective tables calculated for Berlin or Paris were
  to be applied to observations at Greenwich, there might be a
  considerable difference in the result.
     Another very important observation results from this con
  sideration.     Suppose, for example, a given corrective table
  of mean refraction were to be applied to a catalogue of ap
  parent places of the <U+FB01>xed stars observed at Pisa a hundred years
.ago, and that the same table were to be applied to a catalogue
  observed this year at Dublin, the result of a comparison of the
  two catalogues would be a positive error.           For Dublin and
  Pisa requiring a di<U+FB01>'erent correction, altogether independent
 of longitude and latitude, and depending solely on the dif
 ferent refractive powers of their respective atmospheres, the
  consequence of applying the same corrective. table to the ob
 servations of both places would be the certain error of one of
 the catalogues.      And as one catalogue would, according to our
  supposition,   be  a hundred years older than the other, the stars
 would be thought to have changed their places.           Some misap
 plication   of tables  of refraction  seems to me to  be  the cause of
.an idea of a southern motion recently promulgated by certain
 astronomers. Independently of the great prima facie improba
 bility of such a motion, it seemed to me, when I <U+FB01>rst heard the
 opinion mentioned, that it would turn out to be an error de
 pending on the want of a proper application of corrective tables
 of refraction.     I speak, however, on the point with deference
 to the better judgement of learned astronomers.
                                    III.
 Of   Varieties in the Composition and Nature of the Light of
    difere-nt Stars, considered as still further varying the Ejécts
    ofatmospherical Refraction, Rdection and Dispersion.
    It must have occurred to almost every body to perceive
 that the colour of different stars is very dissimilar; that some
 appear more red or copper coloured, others yellow like brass;
 some of a bri ht and almost silvery whiteness, while yet others
 are of a dul white colour.         These di<U+FB01>'erences become much
 more striking when viewed through such bad telescopes as,
 being but imperfectly achromatic, become in a measure pris
 matic, and separate the primitive rays of light, producing a
                                                               coloured

    rq<U+FB01>'active  and dispersive Powers ofthe Atmosphere,     érc.   201
 coloured spectrum in the <U+FB01>eld of the glass.         By the adapta
 tion of a more perfectly prismatic lens to the telescope, we get
 a still more distinct spectrum, and are enabled to contemplate
the particular composition of light possessed by each star re
spectively.      I was not aware of the best means of detecting
these differences, till I read the excellent paper On the Disper
sive Power of the Atmosphere, by Mr. Stephen Lee, published
in the Transactions of the Royal Society*. As some of my own
observations coincide with those detailed in the aforesaid paper,
I feel additional con<U+FB01>dence in giving them to the public, as
the acuteness and ability of that gentleman as an astronomer
are well known.       Mr. Lee viewed the stars through a prism
adapted to the eye glass of a re<U+FB02>ecting telescope; and,
prompted by a laudable desire to ascertain how far the disper
sive power of the atmosphere could produce an effect on astro
nomical observations, he proceeded to examine several stars,
with a view to ascertain, if possible, the exact degree of se
paration of the several rays. As the above paper ought to be
read by all observers, I shall not extract any of the observa
tions now, but proceed to the subject under consideration,—
the varieties of stellar light.
    According to my observations, the stars should be classed
according to their colours, into the red, the yellow, the bril
liant white, the dull white, and the anomalous.          For though
each star may differ somewhat from every other, yet we shall
be assisted by this general classi<U+FB01>cation.
    When observed with a prismatic glass as above described,
Sirius shows a large brush of extremely beautiful violet colour,
and, generally speaking, the most refrangible rays in great
quantity.      The same applies more or less to all the bright
white stars.
    Prose/0n is far less beautiful than Sirius, and shows more of
the yellow colour.
    Aldebaran, together with many of the other red stars, exhi
bits a very small proportion of the more refrangible colours.
    Arcturus much resembles Aldebaran, but differs in the lesser
proportion of the red to the other rays.          _    I         '
    Betalgeus is another red star, little inferior in magnitude
to the two above.       This star shows also but little of the more
refrangible rays; but the spectrum is always a bad one, and is
for some unknown cause more liable to <U+FB02>uctuation than the
above two.
    Antares, the most extraordinary star of all, contains, like
Aldebaran and Arcturus, much red light; but owing to its
                          ‘  See Supplement.
Vol. 63. No. 311. March        1824-.        C  c             greater

202        Dr. Forster   on the  Variation of the    re<U+FB02>ective,
greater southern declination, as well as to something very pe
culiar in the composition of its light, we cannot get so perfect
a spectrum as might be desirable.           This star, too, exhibits in
the greatest de ree a peculiar and hitherto unexplained phat
nomenon, whic will always interfere with our observations on
its ermanent spectrum.           I allude to the rapid permutations
of t e colour of its light, every alternate twinkling, if may so I
express myself, bein of an intense reddish crimson colour, and
the alternate one o a brilliant white. As I have before de
scribed and speculated on this phaenomenon, common, though
in a less degree, to other stars when near to the horizon,                 I
shall not further dwell on it here, but observe that Antares,
considered with reference to its light, must be put among
anomalous stars.
    Atair in the Eagle, and also the dull white stars, exhibit a
vast quantity of intense green light.         This is very conspicuous
in many stars of the 2d and 3d magnitudes.
    The planets likewise present spectra very considerably dif
fering from each other. Jupiter possesses all the colours; but
from something in their respective proportions, or from some
unknown cause, this planet is liable to produce, even in good
and almost achromatic glasses, so bad and so coloured a spec
trum, that    I have always found him a disagreeable star to ob
serve.    As a prismatic spectrum, however, he is beautiful. The
green colour seems somewhat de<U+FB01>cient in his spectrum ; never
theless Jupiter appears green in comparison with Sirius when
an opportunity offers of viewing both at one time“.                  Venus
appears less green than Jupiter, but still she is not of so bright
and blueish a white as Sirius.        Her spectrum in the prismatic
glass shows most of the rays, but the green colour is very pale.
    Saturn seems composed chie<U+FB02>y of the mean ra s, and has a
very small quantity of the extreme colours.                 r. Lee, who
also notices this, subjoins the following judicious question—
Whether this may not explain why Saturn bears magnifying
better than Jupiter or Venus ?
    Mars, who shines with a red light, appears as a spectral
image on the prism to possess less of the middle and most
refrangible colours.        The red is very conspicuous in the
prismatic spectrum.
    Mercury is said to show a similar spectrum : confessI           I have
not made observations on Mercury myself.
   * We may imitate the different colours of the spectra of the several
stars and planets, by burning antimony, steel, and other metallic <U+FB01>lings, in
pyrotechnical   WM, and .viewing them through a prism. Compare the
prismatic spectrum of ignited steel with that of Jupiter, of burning anti
mony with Sirius, of copper <U+FB01>lings with the spectrum ofMan; and so on.

          refractive and dispersive Powers ofthe Atmosphere,           $0.   203
   Of the varying spectra of the Moon, and the composition
of moonlight, I shall speak hereafter.
   The next consideration                is,
                                the effects which the above-de
scribed variety in the colour of the light of the celestial bodies
will have on our astronomical observations: and           appears     it
to me that this effect will be very considerable.    Sir William
Herschel has already noticed this circumstance, and has ob
served,  that the prismatic power of the atmosphere should
not be overlooked, as in observations on very low stars                       it
must make a great difference in the correction which mi ht
become necessary.     He has stated the measure of two ia
meters   of Sagittariz', and from his observations thereon de
                 e
 duced the refraction of the extreme rays as being about g;-               i
 the mean refraction           *.
    To me       appears evident that the different stars will, in
                 it
 consequence of the different composition of their light, require
 very different corrections; and that tables of refraction should
 not only be made out for each observatory, in order to apply
 to the mean refractive power of the air in di<U+FB01>'erent places as
 before described; but also, that some rules should be ap
pended for applying a correction for each particular class of
stars, accordin      to their predominant colour.
   As      natura deduction from the foregoing facts, we must
            a
infer that the real declinations of Sirius and of Aldebaran, for
example, cannot have been determined by the application of the
same correction to the apparent places of both of them; since
Sirius     composed of a large quantity of the most refrangible
            is
colours, while Aldebaran         particularly de<U+FB01>cient in them.
                                    is
   We cannot, think, easily pass by the above facts, without
                      I
inquiring into their particular causes, which will be found to
involve us in some exceedingly curious speculations.
   The difference in the colour of the light of the <U+FB01>xed stars
is  probably owin to a real difference in the proportions in
which the severa rays are combined.             Thus Szrz'us sends
forth more of the violet; Aldebaran more of the red; and
perhaps Capella more of the yellow ra s. Ataz'r and the
dull white stars perhaps have more of             yellow and blue
                                                      t   e
together,   and   less  of  the red,  so as  to
                                                make green. light;
and so onf.      The stars differ too in the intenSity or brilliancy
of their light; the largest apparently not being always the
brightest.    And         curious to observe that some stars seem
                         it   is
  *       Phil. Trans. vol. lxxv. On Double Stars, by Dr. Herschel.
     1-
      Ihave worded     thus on the very
                         it
                                        doubtful supposition
                                                               of three pri
mitive  rays, merely in conformity to received opinion:      hainomena are
decidedly against that notion; forl cannot separate their green light in
the spectrum.
                                         C c
                                           2                                 to

 204-                 Dr. Forster            on the      Variation of the                         re<U+FB02>ective,
 to possess a greater power of penetrating through an imper
  fectly obscure atmosphere than others of equal apparent big
  ness, as thePleiades and the Hz/ades.    On the other hand, the
  two small stars in Cancer, called Aselli by the Romans and
 '0m by the Greeks, were found to be obscured much before
  the rest during the progressive condensation of the atmo
  sphere; and their dimness and progressive disappearance, to
  gether with that of the ’nebula Presepe, was consequently re
  garded as the <U+FB01>rst sign of approaching rain, as is mentioned
  by Aratus in his Diosemea, and which had been before observed                                                               p
  by Theophrastrus in his treatise Hsg‘i enua'irwv ris-ruTw. The pas
  sage is exceedingly curious, and is as follows:
     'Ev       Trii   Kagxivq:       860 a'w'rs'esg
                                                                     8E oi
                                                         sio'iv,             xakoriusvol           (ii/0|, aiv 'n‘i pté'mEu
  15 vs¢éMovi7             (poi-rm                       "rob-r0             aiv
                                     naMuus/m‘                                     §o¢r5325        'ys'vn'rai, bSa'rixo'v.
     And afterwards he                       observes           respecting the signs of rain:
     'H      1013 8mm (pain?)           ei   o'uvio'ra'rm            and       goeegai         yivsrau Xsiptwva       m1
  pail/EA.
    Aratus in following up this observation makes      distinc                                             a
 tion between the indications of the northern and those of the
 southern of the two stars, which we can hardly reconcile with
 any conceivable hypothesis.
               El; air     nag' Bogs'ao,           volrrp       8'
                                                                     éms'gxsrau               dkkog'
              Kai      rol lair xakéavrau               o'vm'    ice/o'er;         85'   r:    $027”),
              "Hrs xad 550ml”); 1miqu                     Au}; sriehaiovro;
              Fivsr' o’iqbaiv'rog 57M)“ roi               3%
                                                                da¢orégwbsv                   liters;
              'Aa'rs'gsg 0006;va   abroaxsbhv ivba'mkovrm'
              O<U+FB01>x (hiya: XEIILLCIJW 'ro'rs
                                           xMi§ovra| aigou at.
              El [astivq'z-ai, 'roi at'm’x’ éoixo'rs; waw
                      5%                           3'
              'Au're'gag ducpo'rsgoi nsgl   58:41:       X'
                                                   U<U+FB02>fl-Otil/Ol<U+FB02>h
              Bi      3'
                      6
                        air éx <U+FB02>ogs'w ¢airmg             .pasx'vv) haswnvai
              Aim-5; inaxkuo’wv, mine;                      8'   (ivo; dry/A015; em,
                                              vo'rou‘                    8%
              AaSs'XQai dwinow                            <U+FB02>oge'w               (Mike: xgr‘;
         ‘EairaAw éxkuo'svrl (paewopts'wp 1's onsbew.
    The peculiarity of this observation has struck
                                                          many com~
 mentators, and      <U+FB01>nd the following note
                              I                     appended to the
 above passage.
    Meteorologica astronomicis con<U+FB01>indit.        Nam diverse, harum
stellarum species, non a propria ipsamm
                                                  atmospheera, sed a
nostro aere e<U+FB02>iciuntur quare, ergo, hcc,
                                               magis quam alice stel
                                        ,-
lw, per obscuritatem suam tempestates portendere
                                                        possint?    Si
guidem ab ipsarum ae're aut aliguo circa eas <U+FB01>eri possit speciei
varzatzo; guis credit tantam inter tam remota
                                                    sidera relationem
eaistere, ut aliquid, in stellis visum pluviam
                                                   in mundo pra’mm
neret   P      Sensus est            —Qu0d         .etiam            confestim,                 coelo    sereno,    <U+FB01>t
                                                                                                          evanidum

     rgf-ractive and dispersive Powers        of the AtmosPhere,     $0.   205
  wanidum iotum ,- atque stellar utrimque coeuntes, si. invicem
  vicinw apparent; non modica tempestate arm inundant.                       Si
  autem nigrescat, rursus vero eodem colore amine stellar: existunt,
 pluvias signg'<U+FB01>cant.      Si vero hie (5110;) qui est 6 presepz's borea
  modice tenebrescens, languide splendeat, cum austrz'nus asellus
  lucidus sit, ventum Austr-um erpecta.             Boream vero e contra
  tenebrescente lucentequé observare oportet.—Arat. Dios. 167.
                                                                   '
     Many corresponding quotations                    be added.
     Some years ago Mr. Barker publis         mighted a paper in the Phi
 losophical Transactions, tending to prove that many of the
  stars had changed colour in the lapse of a es; sOme being
 described as red, which are now white.                I 0 not, however,
 attach any importance to the remark, because the ancients
 used the names for colours with the utmost latitude and variety
 of signi<U+FB01>cations. Rube-re, splendescm'e, purpurascere, and many
 others only-signi<U+FB01>ed to shine brightly*.                             .
     Nevertheless, certain remarkable changes in some stars,
 and the alternate disappearance and reappearance of others,
 while some have been actually lost, seem to warrant an opi
 nion that the gradual work of destruction and reproduction,
 so conspicuous through all mundane nature, is likewise going
 forward on a grand scale among the ponderous systems of
 worlds which <U+FB01>ll eternal space.            This consideration does not
 bear immediately on the subject under discussion, but it ought
 to be kept collaterally in view.
     Hitherto we have been discussing the probable causes of
the colour of the <U+FB01>xed stars shining by their own light, and
have supposed the di<U+FB02>erences of colour to result from the re
spective composition of the light of each.             But in considering
the planets which shine only by re<U+FB02>ecting the light of the sun,
we have other things to take into the account.              If the planets
have no light of their own, the di<U+FB01>'erence observable in their
respective colours must arise from a difference in the dispersive
powers of their own respective atmospheres, through which the
sun’s re<U+FB02>ected rays may be separated in their passage.                    We
know, indeed, little or nothing about the composition of pla
netary atmospheres; but analogy would lead us to ascribe the
variations of their light rather to properties of their surround
ing atmospheres, than to the colour or other qualities of the
substance of the planet itself.           It may be observed, that the
particular position of the Ring of Saturn does not affect the
colour of his prismatic spectrum, and therefore probably it
throws back the same sort of light as the body of the planet
does.      Ofwhat are called the Belts of Jupiter, we know almost
nothing; but we may conjecture that they may have some
* See Phil. Mag. vol.xlix. p. 49,where l have endeavoured to refute this idea.
                                                                        thing

 206         Dr. Forster     on the    Variation ofthe      re<U+FB02>ective,
 thing to do with the peculiar tendency of this planet to produce
 a bad spectrum for observation even in the best telescopes.
 Out of the consideration of the chromatopoietic property of
 the atmospheres of the planets, a question arises, Whether
 that property be subject to variation?                  There is a manifest
 dif<U+FB01>culty in ascertaining this, because the re<U+FB02>ected light of
 the sun passes through our own atmosphere as well as that of
 the planet; and consequently we cannot always tell to which
 atmosphere to refer any colour which we may observe in
 the spectrum.          Observations made on two or more planets
at once, where the changes in the light of the two or more
 severally did not correspond, might lead more directly to the
 solution of this question.           But we are getting now away from
 our object, and must retrace our steps before we wander too
 far into the wide <U+FB01>eld of speculation which lies open before
 us.      Observations are as yet wanting to establish and sy-~
 stematize      the facts brie<U+FB02>y alluded to above; but it is to be
 hoped, from the united efforts of numerous astronomers and
 meteorologists now beginning to be in communication with
 each other all over the world, that the desiderata, quantum
 possunt, will be supplied.             The present subject a<U+FB02>brds an
 example       of  the   natural    connection    between      the two sister
 sciences, and affords a hope that the many learned men who
 compose the Astronomical and Meteorological Societies will
 cooperate in the attainment of a common object, and that
'the peculiarities and variations of atmospheric refraction will
 be more fully known than they have been hitherto, by the
 multiplied observations of individuals acting in concert“.
                          Of the  Colours   of the Moon.
      The Moon viewed in the prism seems to possess all the co
 lours; and their proportions, as far as we can judge, are very
  similar to those observed in Venus.           But the observations I am
  about to make on the lunar disk, are intended rather to con<U+FB01>rm
  a point that I am contending for in meteorology, than to esta
 blish the proportion which her component rays of light bear to
     it It appears that the ancients were not inattentive to the different co
  lours of the planets.
     Pliny thus distinguishes them; which, though not a very clear description
  on account of the very promiscuous use of names for colour among the
  ancients, shows at least that considerable differences in their light had been
  observed even in his time.      In Hist. Nat. lib. ii. cap. 18. we <U+FB01>nd, " Sum
  quidem cuique color est; Saturno candidus, Jovi elarus, Marti igneus, Luci
 fero candens vcsperi refulgens, Mercurio radians, Lune hlandus.         Soli cum
  orilur ardens postea radians.”     He then goes on to notice the varying co
  lours of the same planets and of the Sun at different altitudes and in dif
  ferent states of the atmos here.       Of the observations of the ancients I
   shall say more in a future    umber.
                                                                             each

 refractive and    dispm-sz've       Powers   of the     Atmosphere,       51'.   207
each other.      Viewed as I have seen her from the heights of
mountains and in the clearest nights, she appears of a brilliant
white light.     And the varying colours of her disk seem to be
caused by varieties in the colouring power of our atmosphere
alone.    What I am trying to clear up               is,
                                              that astronomers, in
considering the refractive powers ofatmospheric air, have over
looked the circumstance that there          almost no state of the
                                                    is
air in which the diffusion more or less of aqueous gases or
cloudiness does not exist, though in a very small degree; and
that on this diffusion of cloudiness depends in a greater degree
than is  imagined, the dispersive power of the atmosphere and
the peculiar colours of the celestial bodies seen through it.
I     shall conclude my remarks on the Moon with the de
scription of a curious lunar refraction, which      observed some
                                                            I
  ears ago.     About seven o’clock in the evenin        the Moon
being <U+FB01>ve days old,      Inoticed a remarkable doub      refraction  e ,
of her image of the following form and relative position                          D   ))
                                                                                       ,
that is,  two distinct crescents instead of one, and both so pre
cisely similar as not to be distinguished; so that said to a gen
                                                              I
tleman who was with me, “ Which do you think             the Moon,   is
and which the paraselene P” Neither of these images was
coloured, and both were as bright as the ordinary brightness
ofthe Moon.       The cause of this phaenomenon did not Siwgest
itself at the time; but have since thought that
                           I                           so much re
                                                                it
sembled the double refraction by which two images are seen
in certain laminated spars, that       might be referrible to the
                                          it
same cause, and that       might be an indication that there ex
                                it
isted atmospherical laminae at that time.          do not conceive
                                                           I
that the existence of laminated air       by any means improba
                                               is
ble, and   it  may be connected possibly with the various con
trary currents of air, which exist contemporaneously in suc
cessive altitudes in the atmosphere, of which observations on
the varyin direction of small air balloons have furnished me
with abun ant proof.
    The above subjects deserve more consideration than they
 have hitherto met with, and       trust many members of the So
                                      I
        will co-operate with me in pursuing them.
 cieiy.8. Since I   wrote the above,    have repeated various ob
                                          I
 servations on the stars and planets with a prismatic glass of
 another kind, the adaptation of a prism to the eye glass of the
 telescope being at all times an awkward contrivance.      The re
 sults have varied, however, but little from those above stated,
 andI     subjoin the following rude table of the spectra of the
 stars observed during the present month, and arranged ac
 cording to the intensity of light of the stars severally.
  Hartwell, Feb.   3,   1824.

                                                        Table      representative              of      the                                  qf
                                                                                                              Singularities                        Starlight.                                                               805
      NB.        The     signs   under       the                denote      whether      the stars                   that       of    a   mean        correction        of            +,        or of minus        —,
                                                     names                                               require
                                   than      the                  Refraction                    =                                          it    ,-doubtful        is   mar
                                                                                                                                                                               plus
                                                                                                                                                                                  ed with       a  ?.
                                                     ordinary                         Tables;           signi<U+FB01>es     they       equal
                                    .
                                    .                                                     Whether        or                     -
       Name          0                             or            Apparent                       .                Altemalton            of    colours                           .        .
                                 Brzl/mney                                                                                                                               Pmmatw
                                   dullness.                      colour.                                                                                                                   ‘Pedmm'
             stanf                                                                                                  in the <U+FB02>uctuation.
                                                                                          not<U+FB02>ixzkle',
         Smlus.                             -
                                            -                          -                      .                     Alternates             with               Beautiful           violet,   and            the   most
                                 very     bnnlant'                White'                conSIdel—ably'
             +                                                                                                            red        faintly.                                   refr. colours.                               'Jq Jamsxog
       Paocron.                                                                         Less        the                                                     Less        violet,                         yellow   than       no
                                                                 White_                       than                   Not      discernible.                                            and _more
             +   ?                 Brightish.                                                                                                                                          Sinus.
                                                                                           preceding.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .9117
                                   Brilliant.               Blueish      white.         Considerably.                                                           Resembles             Sirius,     but   more     blue.
         VEiA'                                                                                                     Altegli<U+FB01>lei<U+FB01>ghtly
       CAPELLA.                                                                         Less         the                                                      Much        yellow         light,     and the      mean
                                                                Yellowish-                    than                                   lime-
           =                            Bright.                                                                       Ivory                                                           colours.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              uoyaun/l
                                                                                           preceding.
       Ancrlmus.                                                                                                                                              Much        red      light, and        the less refr.
                                        Bright.                  Reddish-               considerably                   Not           strong.
            _                                                                                                                                                                        colours.                             2111/22
      ALDEBARAN.                                                                         Inconsider-                                      with     a          Much        red                        the    less refr.
                                                                   Red“                                            Very     slight,                                                light, and
           —                        Steady'                                                                                                     of red.                               colours.
                                                                                                ably.            greater        degree
       BETALGEUS.                                                                       Rather         more     Rather        more        than        the     Much        red      light,   and      the less refr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          papal/5.:
                                        Steady'                    Red'
           —                                                                             than    the    last.                   the same sort.
                                                                                                                 last,and                                                                 rays.
     SYICA    VIRGINIS.           Somewhat                                                                                                                  Much         intense         green      light, and     also
                                                            Blueish        white.         Very      little.          Inconsiderable.
                                  less bright.                                                                                                                           the      more     refr.     colours.
31

   refractive and dispersive   Pu'wm-s   ofthe   Atmosphere,   $0.   209
   It may be noticed that the alternating colours observed in
the <U+FB02>uctuation, and recorded in the 5th column of the table,
are cateris par'ihus most observable when the stars are near
to the horizon; and   Ihave observed that the maximum of the
intense red colour which distinguishes the alternate change
happens at the elevation of about 10 degrees above it.
   The phenomena noticed by Kepler in the new star dis
covered by him in 1604- in St’iyientarz'us, and now lost, if rightly
recorded, afford a striking instance of the converse of what
we usually observe.      For in that large and memorable star,
the colours were continually changing when the star was high,
but when it got near to the horizon it was uniformly white.        It
is much to be wished that observations had been made on
the changeable stars and on those that are now quite lost.
The Stella mira may afford interesting observations. Comets
ought also to be very accurately observed. The great comet
of 1680, which is expected again in 1838, will probably be the
subject of much curious research.
    The ordinary distribution of stars into the lst, 2d and 8d
degrees of magnitude, and so on, though it may serve com
mon purposes, is nevertheless very imperfect; the stars re
corded as being of the <U+FB01>rst magnitude differing as much among
themselves as some of them do when compared with those of
the reputed 2d mannitude.         In the above table of large stars,
 I have endeavoured to arrange them in the order of their ap
parent size and intensity of light, the best way of ascertaining
 which is by observing the relative degrees of light in which
each can <U+FB01>rst be seen, either at evening or morning, measured
b a photometer.        But it is evident that this plan will include
a so their brilliancy, which is a thing quite different from their
apparent size.     Some small stars have a more piercing light
than others for their size, as the Pleiades, for example.          In
 order therefore to ascertain and compare the relative apparent
 size alone, we must trust a good deal to our own jud ement.
     It is my intention to pursue the above subjects, ant to make
 as accurate comparisons as I am able between the li ht of
 individual stars, dispersed by means of prismatic glasses
 adapted to telescopes, and the light of various combustible
 substances in a state of ignition viewed through prisms.
     There have appeared to me to result some very extraor
 dinary phmnomena, from the adaptation of a prismatic glass to
 different parts of the telescopes: but as I cannot account for
                                                                           -
 them on any known principles, I only state the fact as a hint,
  in order that others may repeat the experiments. Finally, we
  must ever bear in mind that the retina, and the cerebral parts
  in connection with  it, are a necessary part of the optical ap
   _ Vol. 63.
              No. 311. March 1824.               D    d      paratlls

 210     M. Frauenhofer’s Description qf a        new Micrometer.
 paratus which we employ in all experiments on light; and
  we must guard against being deceived by any peculiarities or
  affections in our own organs of vision, which we need not fear,
  provided only we make the same experiments repeatedly and
  with due attention.
                             [To   be continued.]
 XXXV.       Description  qfa new Micrometer.            By M. FRAUEN
                         HOFER. of Munich. *
      HERE     is probably no instrument, if we except the helio
       meter, better adapted for determining the right ascension
 and declination of two stars, than the circular micrometer. To
 this simple instrument, which can be applied to any telescope
 provided with a good stand, we owe, besides many other im
   ortant observations, a great part of those made on comets.
   mprovements in this instrument are therefore desirable.
     Some astronomers still prefer the rhomboidal micrometer
 for determining the relative places of two stars.            It cannot be
denied that the calculation of observations made with such
 a micrometer, is more simple than that made by the circular
micrometer, and that the result possesses about the same de
 gree of exactness, whether the di<U+FB02>'erence of declination of both
 stars be great or small; while in observations with the circular
 micrometer we ought to have, for a smaller difference of de
 clination, a smaller circular micrometer also. Any one pos
sessed of practical knowledge will soon perceive that a rhom
 boid, in whatever manner it may be made, cannot obtain the
prescribed form to such a degree of accuracy as is required
for good observations; whilst, on the contrary, there are seve
ral means of making a circle to a great degree of exactness.
It cannot be expected to <U+FB01>le out a hole exactly in a rhom
boidal shape. We may indeed obtain a rhomboid with straight
lines, by screwing together bars of equal breadth ground per
fectly straight; but to give the required angles of the rhom
boid is not very practicable.         In stretching four wires, in the
form of a rhomboid, we have to encounter the same dif<U+FB01>culties,
                                                                           ‘
as far as regards the angles of the rhomboid; besides this,
there is seldom a piece or wire exactly straight, even if ever so
strongly stretched; but thin wires cannot be made use of for
the purpose, because in a dark '<U+FB01>eld of view they cannot be
seen.     This is the reason why circular micrometers have such
a decided preference.
    With the circular micrometer, consisting merely of the dia
       ' From  M. Schumacher’s   Astronomisclze Nac/zricbten, No. 43.
                                                                    phram

     M. Frauenhofer’s Description of a           new Micrometer.       211
phram of the telescope, the ingress of a star into the <U+FB01>eld of
view, cannot be observed with the same exactness, as its egress;
because, since we do not know at which place it will enter, the
eye is not directed to that point, and is consequently only di
rected towards it when the star is already in the <U+FB01>eld of view.
With the open diaphram it is likewise (li<U+FB01>icult to let the star
describe any given chord of the <U+FB01>eld; which is in fact neces
sary, because small segments give the declination, but larger
ones the right ascension, more correctly.        Instead of the open
diaphram they      have  also frequently  made   use of a small ring,
which, by means of four bars, is suspended in the <U+FB01>eld of
view. A small ring can only accidentally succeed in being per
fectly round, as in good observations it ought to be; and even
from its being suspended by wires, whidii may be stretched,
its perfect form may be lost; and even the expansion or con
traction of the metal with which it is connected, may alter it.
    In order to have in the <U+FB01>eld of view of a telescope a small
unchangeable ring, whose inner edge is exactly round, and
remains so under all circumstances, I cut a round hole in a
thin plate of glass, and <U+FB01>xed a small steel ring into          in the
                                                             it,
same manner as glass-lenses are <U+FB01>xed in brass mountings;
viz. by laying over the projecting marvin by means of            bur
                                                                   a
nisher.    After this ring was <U+FB01>xed in the plate glass the inner
edge could be turned in a lathe exactly circular, which        isdone
in a manner that leaves no doubt respectin the necessary ac
curacy.     As the objects are seen through       t   glass as well as
                                                      e
without  it,  we see the star approach the external edge of the
small ring, and know where      it    to appear at the inner edge;
                                     is
the observer   is   consequently prepared for the moment, and
the ingress at the inner edge can be observed with the same
exactness as the egress from it.       Partly for the purpose of ob
taining, at the transit of both stars, the exact difference of de
clination, and that of the right ascension, partly to enable me
to use one and the same micrometer likewise for smaller dif
ferences of declination,   I     have introduced two small steel
rings, in the above-mentioned manner, into the <U+FB01>eld of view,
where the diameter of the one         considerably larger than that
                                     is
of the   other,   and both   of which  are plainly seen at the same
 position  of the  eye-glass.
    Although the observations with this circular micrometer are
 more to be depended on than with the usual one, yet even
 these leave much more to be wished, particularly in the ob
 servation of comets; and more particularly since the differ
 ences of declination, derived from different observations, fre
 quently deviate considerably from each other.            One of the
 causes is, that in a comet, which        always badly de<U+FB01>ned, the
                                          2 is
                                      d                         centre

212    M. Frauenhofer’s Description of a       new Micrometer.
   centre must be estimated ; but we cannot judge with exactness
  whether the half of it has made its ingress or egress, because
  the other half is not seen, and the mere approach of a weakly
  illuminated object to a proportionally broad dark ring causes
  easily a deception in estimatin the correct time.             Through
  the eye-glass, which cannot we 1 be achromatic, the inner edge
  of the small steel ring becomes blue, but the outer one is seen
  to be red; the star on the contrary is blue outwards and red
  inwards, so that, for instance, at the egress of the star from
  the inner circle of view, the blue end of it gets to the blue
  edge of the small steel ring, and the star lengthens itself still
  more, which must cause an uncertainty respecting the time of
  its e ess. As the star always lengthens itself in the direction
  of t e centre of the <U+FB01>eld of view, and both the passing stars
  usually out different segments of the circle, the errors of ob
  servation cannot easily compensate themselves.             In an eye
  piece with compound glasses the colours of the star can indeed
 be lessened; but the small ring would be seen the more co
 loured. For other reasons, too, these eye-glasses would not be
 advisable.
      The reason why the observations in a transit instrument are
 capable of so great a degree of exactness,         is,  without doubt,
 because the threads are so thin, that they hardly cover the
 star, or do so for  a      moment only, and that the space passed
 within a      second of time next to the thread can be divided.
If    the observations with   a    circular micrometer were to give a
 similar exactness, then the circles in the <U+FB01>eld of view ought to
 be as thin as those threads, but would require to be illuminated
 in the dark <U+FB01>eld of view, because in comets the <U+FB01>eld cannot be
 illuminated.
 I      tried to cut with a diamond <U+FB01>ne circular lines upon a thin
 piece of plate glass; and having brought          it  into the focus of
the telescope, illuminated the cut lines in the same manner as
I    had formerly done in lamp-wire micrometers.           But in what
 ever wayI      altered the illumination, there were always small
 segments only of the cut lines weakly illuminated;           viz. those
 segments upon which the light which came from the lamp fell
 nearly vertically.      It
                         is     also the case with the wire-lamp mi
crometer, that the threads are only then illuminated strongest,
when the light falls vertically upon them      ;     thus, for instance,
the vertical wire can be                    illuminated, while the ho-.
rizontal one  is               splendidl‘y By increasing the lamps,
                    quite unilluminate
which were used for illuminating the cut lines, the object
could not be accomplished.        I   observed, however, that already,
                          '
with one lamp, the small particles, accidentally adhering to
the glass, were illuminated splendidly bright, and had the ap—
                                                               pearance

         M. Frauenhofer’s Description of a   new Micrometm‘.    218
   pearance of stars in the <U+FB01>eld of view. If thereforethe circular
   lines were composed of small dots, then they would be illumi
   nated by one lamp equally at all places.      We have however
   to'contend with great dif<U+FB01>culties, to make a circle consisting
   of dots exactly round.
      I recollected that a line deeply etched in glass by <U+FB02>uoric
   acid gas, examined under the microscope, consists in its depth
   of inequalities, and has nearly the same appearance as if it
   consisted of dots.   The circular lines deeply etched in this
  manner were illuminated suf<U+FB01>ciently and pretty nearly equal
  at all parts, by a lamp.      The glass on which lines are to be
  etched is covered for this purpose with a very thin coat of
  etching ground, on which the lines, intended to be etched, are
  to be scratched with a steel point.     Covering the glass with
  leaf-gold, instead of etching ground, as is frequently done for
 etching with gas, is not advantageous for circular micrometers,
  because the <U+FB02>uoric acid gas acts, next to the scratched line,
  also beneath the gold, and in etching deep, the polish of the
  glass likewise suffers in other places.   With a brittle etching
 ground the scratched .lines become impure, and the gas, in
  etching the lines deep, acts next to them beneath the etching
 ground.       With a too soft etching ground the etched lines
 easily   receive  unequal strength.   The etching ground must
 intimately cohere with the surface of the glass, and be of such
 a consistency, that the steel point, in scratching, cuts only <U+FB01>ne
 threads, which repeated practice will teach. If the <U+FB02>uoric acid
 gas acts too short a time on the glass, then the etched circular
 lines are illuminated but very weakly by the lamp ; too strong
 etching, even with good etching ground, makes the lines
 coarse and rough.      Common plate glass is unequally acted
upon at different places by the <U+FB02>uoric acid gas.         The glass
used therefore for lamp-circular micrometers must be very ho
mogeneous. In several sorts of glass, the time which the acid
takes to act, differs, and some sorts ofglass, deep even as they
may be etched, never give a circular line, which shall appear
in all its parts strong and equally illuminated by the lamp.
     In order to give the circles made by the scratched lines the
degree of exactness that is required, and to scratch upon the
same glass many circular lines, which are exactly concentric,
I contrived a particular engine, whose description is here su
per<U+FB02>uous; with it circular lines of '003 to 1'3 inch diameter
can be made at any given distance from each other.
     We have to contend with some dif<U+FB01>culties, in <U+FB01>nding a con~
struction of eye- lasses, which at one and the same position
plainly show the inner and outer circular lines in the <U+FB01>eld of
view, and which are so contrived, that the light from the
          -
                                                            lamp,

214   M. Frauenhofer’s Description of a             new Micrometer.
lamp, illuminatin    the circular lines, cannot come to the eye;
and that the <U+FB01>el of view remains dark.          In the eye-glasses,
which I made for the lamp-circular micrometers, this has been
very well accomplished. In order to keep off thelight comin
from the lamp as much as possible from the eye, a great dea
will depend also upon the form of the setting of the e e-glass.
    The micrometer with which the astronomer               Soldner
made some observations, and who under favourable circum
stances will make more with           it,
                                    contains circular lines, which
follow one after the other, as       represented on a larger scale
                                       is
in Fig. 1. The smallest circular line appears to the naked
eye as a small dot, and       only distinguished by the eye-glass.
                                 is
With a higher power, which in a telescope of 60 inches focus
magni<U+FB01>es 110 times,        circular lines are seen, including the
                            5
smallest: through    the  middle  eye-piece, magnifying 68 times,
8  circular lines are seen; and with the lowest eye-piece, mag
nifying 4-5 times, eleven circular lines are seen. As with many
circular lines    could perhaps not be correctly jud ed at the
                      it
moment how many of the lines the star has cut, an an error
mi ht easily take place,       gave to the 5th and 6th, the 8th
                                 I
an the 9th larger distances from each other, than to the rest;
so that        known in a moment with which circular line the
              is is
         it
observer       occupied.    With the magnifying power of 45
times, the largest circular lines are illuminated somewhat
weaker than the rest, and are less plainly seen; for which rea
son the weaker one        used only in great differences of decli
                            is
nation, where the stronger oculars cannot be made use of;
and also for this reason, that with a less magnifying power
the same exactness       not possible as with higher ones.
                           is
    The different circular lines of the above-mentioned micro
meter have the following dimensions, the Paris inch taken as
unity:
                       Dimension of    I.     =   '0038
                                       II.    =   '0243
                                       III.   =   0840
                                       IV.    =   '1678
                                       V.     =   '2513
                                       VI.    =   '3590
                                       VII.   =   4426
                                      VIII.
                                         '5264=
                                       IX.
                                         '6388=
                                 X.      '7178=
                                XI.      '8012=
   These dimensions        measured with the microscope, with
                            I
which I   determined the breadth of the interstices and thick
ness of the threads of those squares, which appertain to the phae
                                                          nomena

       M. Frauenhofer’s Description qf a      new Micrometer.     215
nomena produced by the mutual action of bent rays *, so that
their exactness cannot be questioned. By the same microscope
I also ascertain whether the circular lines be exactly round and
concentric.     It is only wanted to determine the proportion of
the diameters with the microscope.         This proportion, and at
the same time the value of the dimensions, could be derived
with suf<U+FB01>cient precision from the transit of a star near the
pole, if the telescope was set suf<U+FB01>ciently <U+FB01>rm.        If the propor
tion of the dimensions was determined by the microscope,
then it is required only to determine the value of the dimen
sion of one of the largest circular lines, in order to know also
the value of the remaining ones.         As the circular lines are
exactly concentric, the values of their dimensions, which they
have at the focus of any object glass, can be determined in
many di<U+FB02>‘erent ways.       If the telescope were placed extremely
steady, and could be at the same time very sensibly moved,
then the determination of the values of the dimensions might
be the most simple, by means of the pole-star.          For it is only
necessary to place this star in the middle of the smallest cir
cular line, and to observe the time of its transit through the
other circular lines. But this transit requires much time, for
which reason a telescope might not be easily placed su<U+FB02>iciently
<U+FB01>rm ; nor is it easy for the motions of the telescopes to be suf
<U+FB01>ciently sensible, in order to place a star exactly in the centre
of the smallest circular line. If the proportion of the dimen
sions of the different circular lines is known, then their value
can likewise be derived from the transit of a single determined
 star, even if it does not pass through the centre.
    For a star therefore of small declination, if it passes through
the centre of the <U+FB01>eld of view, the greater part of the circular
lines in the above micrometer are distant from each other
about 10 seconds of time; which time might perhaps su<U+FB01>ice
to note the observation.       As this time is proportionally longer
for northerly stars, double the number of circular lines might
be made in the <U+FB01>eld of view, without incurring the danger of
being uncertain with which line the observer is occupied.
One might, for instance, give equal distances to the <U+FB01>rst 5
circular lines, from each other, then, for easier distinction, to
make the distance from the 5th to the 6th larger; then again
5 in equal distances, 810.       With this micrometer one half of
these circular lines could only be made use of in stars of small
declination; because the intervals of time for noting would be
too short. As the declination can only, be exactly derived
from those observations where the star has cut a small segment
        # See New Modi<U+FB01>cation of Light, &c., by M. Frauenhofer.
                                                                    0 f

 216   M; Frauenhofer’s    Description  of a new Micrometer.
 of the circular line (but where there are many circular lines,
 one of them at least must have an advantageous position), it
 might even in this respect be desirable to make as many cir
cular lines as is advisable for other reasons.     Should even in
some of the circular lines the ingress merely have been ob
served, and the interval of time had been too short, in order
to observe the egress too, yet in that case the observation is
not lost; because the circular lines are concentric, and their
distances are known.
    The circular lines are so strongly illuminated by the lamp,
that their light does not vanish, even if a large star approaches
them.     In very weak comets, however, this strong illumina
tion might endanger the exactness of the observation.       With
out lessening the <U+FB02>ame of the lamp, the illumination of the
circular lines can be diminished, by putting into the small
tube, with which the lamp is annexed to the eye-tube (<U+FB01>g. 2),
a smaller one, which contains a diaphram.         The oil-vessel a
of the lamp can in every position of the telescope assume, on
an average, a horizontal situation, partly because it can be
turned round the axis 6 of the cylinder, which forms the
lamp, partly because the lamp in the small tube, with which
it is annexed to the eye-tube, can also be turned. The <U+FB02>ame
is, in all positions of the 1elescope, in the axis of the lamp.
The light of the lamp, next to the <U+FB02>ame, falls upon a convex
glass, through which it is thrown upon the micrometer.          The
oil-vessel can belifted out of the lamp, by pushing back at
the screw 0.    By the pushing back of this part an opening at
the top of the oil-vessel takes place, through which oil may
be added.
    The glass on which the lines are etched, is so placed that
the etched surface is turned towards the eye-glass.          A re
versed position of this glass produces a                         re
                                              disadvantageous
<U+FB02>exion, and the circular lines are less advantageous      y illumi
nated.     The three different eye-glasses can be screwed to the
same frame in which the etched glass is <U+FB01>xed, so that the lat
ter need not be changed or brought out of its position, while
the different magnifying powers are applied.       Each eye-glass
has in the front towards the plane-glass a diaphram of such
an aperture that it takes in the necessary part of the <U+FB01>eld;
and betwixt this and the <U+FB01>rst eye-lens still a second one,
through which a part of the light, coming from the lamp,
which does not strike upon the circular lines, is intercepted.
    One might perhaps suppose that, if the etched class were
not perfectly plane, it might have a very detrimental in<U+FB02>uence
upon the observations; but we may only imagine what would
take place if this glass was in reality perceptibly concave or
                                                           convex ;

   r
       M. Frauenhofer’s Description qfa     new Mia‘omem'.     217
convex; and we shall <U+FB01>nd, that, if not thick and if it stands at
the focus of the object-glass, no detrimental effect can take
place. As the eye-piece is not achromatic, the stars become
somewhat coloured at the margin of the <U+FB01>eld; however, they
do not change their form when a circular line cuts them, and
even small stars do not vanish at the moment of the transit
through the illuminated circular line.       I have tried to make
an achromatic eye-glass, but hitherto I see no possibility of
hitting upon one which shall, at the same time that the mid
dle circular lines are plainly seen, show also the outer ones
tolerany plain, without moving the                    As the eye
glasses strongly magnify, every particle eye-glass.
                                            w ich adheres to the
cut glass is perceptibly seen, because it is illuminated by the
lamp.     It is almost impossible to keep the cut glass totally
free from dust.      Although the illuminated particles appear in
the <U+FB01>eld of view like stars, yet we soon accustom ourselves to
their presence, and they are no obstacle to the observation,
because they do not change their places, but real stars are al
ways in motion, and can therefore be easily distinguished
from those dusty particles.      That too much dust should not
be suffered to adhere to the glass, is a matter of course.
     As in all instruments, where seconds of time are of conse
 quence, a <U+FB01>rm position is the main object, so likewise is this the
 case here: and nothing ought to be neglected which is capable
of producing it. If the micrometer is to give such exact obser
vations as it is capable of, then the place where it is to be
put up, must be carefully chosen, every possible draft of air
avoided, and the observer must remain, during the transit of
 the stars, unalterably quiet, without touching the telescope
 with his eye, which is almost super<U+FB02>uous to mention.          For
 this reason, it might be well if the observer did not note the
 observations himself, because he must change his position for
 that purpose.      A considerable alteration of the instrument,
 during the transit of the stars, could however be often detected
 at the calculation of the observations.
     For determining the relative place of two very near stars,
 for instance a double star, there might still remain a good deal
 to be wished for in the described micrometer.       In these stars
 the interval of time from the transit of the one to the transit
 of the other, is' much too short, in order to be observed with
 any certainty.     For this purpose a micrometer, consisting of
 straight parallel lines (<U+FB01>g. 3), whose distances from each other
  are exactly known and which cut through one another at an
  acute angle, which is exactly ascertained, might be very ad
  vantageous. The glass on which these lines are etched can
  be so turned on the telescope, that the lines which run pa
     Vol. 63. No. 211. March 1824.             Ee             rallel

218   M. Frauenhofer’s Description ofa     new Mz'crometer.
                                             f
rallel with d 2 stand nearly vertical upon the parallel circle of
the star; the lines running in the direction      g would therefore
be inclined thereto.      From the times of transit of the stars
through the vertical and those through the inclined parallel
lines, the difference of right ascension and declination can be
derived with accuracy.       T0 place the lines running in the di
rection d e exactly vertical upon the parallel circle, might not
well be accomplished, even if still another line was drawn, of
which one knew that it cuts these parallel lines exactly under
a right angle.      As the distance of the vertical lines from each
other, and also that of the inclined ones, in the same manner
as the angle under which they out each other are exactly
known, the proportion of the times of transit of a star throu h
the vertical to those of the inclined parallel lines, will ma e
us correctly acquainted with the position of these lines with
regard to the parallel circle.      The calculation of these obser
vations will always be still more simple, than what is made
with the circular micrometer.         Even at a transit of both the
stars we alwa s obtain several observations, which on an ave
          give
rage         declination and right ascension equally exact, whe
ther  t  eir difference of declination be great or small. Where
the difference of right ascension   is   small, as For instance in
double stars, the transit of both, indeed, could not be observed
through one and the same vertical line; but the observer would
for instance observe one at the <U+FB01>rst vertical line, the other
at the second, 811:.    This lamp net-micrometer has, amongst
others, this advantage; viz. that an alteration of the instru
ment, during the transit of both the stars, can be detected pre
vious to the calculation.       I have given to the parallel lines
such a distance from each other, that the distance of the in
clined to those of the vertical ones bears about the same pro
portion, as the cosines of the inclined angle to the radius, in
order that about as man transits of the star, through the in
clined as well as through the vertical lines, may be observed.
Five lines always have an equal distance only; the 5th     is   one
half more distant from the 6th, than the rest amongst them
selves.    From this  it   is easy for the observer to know with
which line he    is occupied.
 I   have constructed an en ine, with which straight lines can
be cut exactly parallel, and to '0001 of an inch at equal di
stances.     This engine   is at the same time so contrived, that
the parallel lines can be cut through the others under any
given angle, exactly to a minute of a degree.          For this net
micrometer the same lamp and the same eye-glasses are
used, as to the above-described circular micrometer; and        it
is  only necessary to screw on the frame with the net, in
stead of that with the circular lines.

                              [219]
              XXXVI.      Notices respecting New Boo/cs.
 The English Flora, Vols. I. and II. By      Sir J. E. SMITH, MD.
       RR.S. President of the Linn. Soc.     6'0. 8'0. ‘31: 1824.
           public will accept with pleasure this portion of a work
THE    which has been long promised. These two volumes com
prise about one half of the phaenogamous plants, and the author
purposes to proceed immediately with the remainder.                 The
 preface gives a succinct and masterly outline of the nature of
a Flora, con<U+FB01>ned as it should be to botanical illustration and
description, with such remarks concerning the properties of
plants as may be new or important; with philosophical views
arising from the nature of the subject, tending to the general
elucidation of botanical science.      A great improvement upon
the author’s Flora Britannica is introduced, by combining as
much as possible some account of the natural af<U+FB01>nities of each
genus with the Linnaean character.         Thus, not only is the in
dividual species pointed out in the clearest way to the student
by means of the arti<U+FB01>cial system, but the natural relations to
other species and genera, and much of its history and physio
logy, which constitute the philosophy of the subject. By the
plan here adopted, the repetition of the species twice over is
avoided.      Although English botanists have been conspicuous
for their acute search into species, somewhat to the exclusion
of more general views, this work, with others of the learned
author, will give them a taste for the higher departments of the
study, and not leave them satis<U+FB01>ed with an acquaintance solely
with the individual.
   If, the Flora Germanica of Schrader, a small portion of which
has reached this country, be more minutely discriminative in
the descriptions, and be aided by some illustrative <U+FB01>gures of
dif<U+FB01>cult species, the English Flora of Sir J. E. Smith surpasses
all others in its critical department. The descriptions are am
ple for all purposes of distinction, and the diagnostic views
greatly assist the inquirer.    There is an amenity and candour
about the whole work highly creditable to the feelings of the
author and to his subject, and he does but exemplify in his
own practice what he says is the tendency of all natural
science :—“ to enlarge the understanding by a perpetual dis
       of the power and wisdom of God.”
   '
play  he language is accommodated, much beyond what we
could have expected, to the merely English reader, who will
not be deterred by the Latinity of the nomenclature, adopted
by Dr. Hull in his “ British Flora,” and by some other an
                               E  e 2                             thors,

220                    Notices respecting New Books.
 thors. The typographical arrangement claims no small share
 of praise; and the various heads of information under each
 species catch the eye in a convenient and instantaneous way.
 Indeed we'can suggest no improvement in this department,
 unless the habitats, as in the Flora Britannica, had been ex
 pressed in adi<U+FB01>'erent type.
     A few only of the nOVelties, which are to be found in peru
 sing this work, can now be noticed.           Salicornia radicans and
fruticosa    are  said  to  be possibly varieties,  and most of our best
 botanists concur in this view. Callitriche autumnalis, which is
 aquatica 'y of Fl. Br., is now <U+FB01>rst admitted on the authority of
 that keen observer, Dr. Wahlenberg. The lovers of Flora
 will be glad to see Veronica hirsuta established as British, and
 for which we are indebted to Mr. James Smith, who belongs
 to that useful class, the Scotch gardeners.            Has the learned
 author ever noticed the St. Vincent Rock’s specimens of
  V. hybrida .P One of our lynx-eyed friends always insists that it
 is distinct from the Humphrey Head plant. The V. Allionii of
  Hooker   is,  with propriety, made a variety of g<U+FB01>icinalis. Schoenus
 Mariscus, on the authority of Brown, affords the type of new     a
 genus called Cladium. Fedia, comprehending the old Valeriana
 locusta (now      E olitoria) and dentata,  is  immutably established.
  Schwnus albus and fnscas furnish another new genus, created by
  Vahl, called Rhynchospora,—the only real Schoenus left bein
  nigricans.     Eleo‘charis, again, embraces Scirpus palustris an
  some others allied in habit; but why crespitosus should still be
  left among the Scirpi does not satisfactorily appear. The articu~
  lated style    isthe character of the new       enus.     Cypems fuscus
  appears    here  from    Hooker’ s Flor. Lon    ., but its claim to be a
  native is   probably to be suspected.        Eriophorum pubescens        is
  new, from Cherry Hinton near Cambridge.
      The Grasses have under one great changes, by the division
   of the arti<U+FB01>cial     enera, and by   a   new arrangement of their
  proximities.      T old Phleum paniculatum
                         e                             is   now asperum,
   which is   the more common and appropriate name.               Phalaris
   arenaria   is now Phleum. The genus Trichodium of Michaux
                        a
   and Schrader, to which our Agrostis canina and setacea were
   supposed to belong, by habit as well as by character,           is  not
   admitted. The total absence of the inner valve does not seem
   essential, as may be seen in T. rupestre, which          is  considered
   as an indubitable species of this genus.         The A. setacea seems
   scarcely to be known by the continental botanists.               It to
                                                                      is
   Curtis that we are indebted for the <U+FB01>rst complete establish
   ment of this species.       His <U+FB01>gure and description are, as usual,
   clear and accurate, and leave nothing to be desired. Witherin           g
   mistook it   for A. alpina, from which   it differs widely in the pani
                                                                       cle,

                   Notices respecting New Boo/cs.                 Q21
cle, and in the general roughness. Hudson a'sserted, that when
transplanted into a moistish soil it became canina ,- and thus
it is 'y of that author.   Perhaps its nearest congener is A. ru
bra, to which Hudson referred it in his <U+FB01>rst edition, and of
which it is, improperly, made a variety by Wahlenberg.            His
remark is, “ Var. (3 in Suecia. inferiori quoque crescit, et om
nino convenire videtur cum A. setacea Smith—paniculam satis
densam habet.       Flosculi vero in utraque iidem, ita et nonnisi
varietate a Lapponica diff'ert.”      There is this difference, how
ever, between his plant and ours, that the valve of the corolla
of the Lapland species is “ apice subintegra subenervis,”
whereas the nerves of our setacea are conspicuous, and end in
 a macro.     Though this difference is but tri<U+FB02>ing to the eye, it is
much more to be depended on than many more obvious ap
pearances.      A. mutabilis of Sibth. is rightly rejected as a
synonym of setacea.      He describes his plant as awnless, “pa
nicula patente,” &c., all of which agrees well with some of
 the varieties of alba, and not with setacea.      There is nothing
 but his reference to Scheuchzer to favour the idea of his having
 had that plant in view, whose description and <U+FB01>gure, how
 ever, are equally applicable to alba. In addition, it may be
 remarked, that the writer of this has sought in vain for setacea
 in the habitats mentioned by Sibthorp, and he thinks he may
 safely af<U+FB01>rm, that A. mutabilis is not setacea, but most pro
 bably a variety of alba.
     A new speci<U+FB01>c character is drawn up for A. canina, which
 was left in the Fl. Br. in considerable obscurity.        The syno
 nym of Leers is now added, whose character and description
 are completely satisfactory.        In referring to Witherin s
 A. vinealis as A. canina, some doubts suggest themselves, for
  which there is not room in this place. The canine of the 2nd
  edition of the “ Botanical Arrangement
                                                ”
                                                   is probably Lin
 naeus’s plant. Panicum, which included a completely arti<U+FB01>cial
  assemblage of species, is now divided into Panicum, havin
 P. viride for its type; Qynodon being the old P. Dactylon ,- and
 Digitaria, which is the Cook’s-foot grass. Aim ltem'gata E. B.
 is here transferred to alpina, after Wahlenber .          Hierochloe
  hm'ealis (sometimes spelt by the learned Pres1dent, as if by
  intention, Hierocle) is a new and curious arctic species.       “ It
  is a very natural genus of grasses,”v as Mr. Brown observes,
  “ natives of the colder regions of both hemispheres.” It is re
  lated in some particulars to Anthowartthum.         Glycm'ia, com
  prising Poa aquatica and its allies, is another well authorized
  change sanctioned by Mr. Brown. The true Pow are con<U+FB01>ned
  to that section which has ovate spikelets. Poa<U+FB02>exuosa is ascer
  tained by Schrader to be lama,- subca’mlca and hmnilis are
 brought back to pratensis as varieties; and cwsia is made a var.
                                                                    of

  222                   Notices respecting New Boo/rs.
 of   glam-a.     Poa decumbens, which has always been regarded as
  an unnatural Poa,          is,
                              with Brown, made into a natural genus,
   Triodia. Sir James E. Smith concurs with Schreber in making
  Dactylis stricta a Spartina.
     Festuca cwsia, E. 13.,        brought back to ovina, which will
                                    is
  be concurred in; but           not F. tenugfolia good? The absence
                                   is
  of the awn       isprobably     suf<U+FB01>cient character joined with the
                                    a
  habit.    Schrader and Hooker had abolished F. vivipara, but
  the President still retains it. Festuca tri<U+FB02>ora         very properly
                                                              is
  made    a var. ofF. gigantea, as              E
                                           decidua    of calamaria.
                                                         is            It
  had been thought that this last-namedspecies was con<U+FB01>ned in
  England to the North but that accurate botanist Mr. E.
                                   ;
  Forster has lately found        at Harrison’s Rocks near Tunbridge
                                    it
  Wells. Bromus pinnath             again joined with Festuca, as Hud
  son had done before.             It   is is
                                     not con<U+FB01>ned to chalk, but      most
  abundant on the oolite; and Mr. Greenough says                              is is
                                                                    very it
  plentiful on magnesian limestone.          Schrader and Hooker are
 followed in B. multi<U+FB02>oms, which turns out to be a different
 plant from what the H. Br. had made it. B. pratensis, E. B.,
 and ar'oensis, E. B. 920, are merged in racemosus.            B. squa
 mosus most botanists will think ought to be excluded as not
 English. Lon Sleddale in Westmoreland has been ransacked
 often enough for Stipa pennata, to warrant the assertion that                        it
 is not to be found there; and Dr. Richardson, the supposed
 <U+FB01>nder,   is  of little authorit        .
     Avena planiculmis, a discovery of that extraordinar lucky
 botanist G. Don,           now alpina.
                            is              The writer of this       en        has
 deavoured in vain to understand the Arundo epigeios of
 Schrader; many of ours answering much better to his <U+FB01>gure
 of pseudoplzragmites, and none of them to his <U+FB01>gure of epigeios.
 He relies chie<U+FB02>y on the insertion of the arista. Rottbollia
<U+FB01>liformis     issurely not worthy of notice. Elymus           not con
                                                                    is
 <U+FB01>ned, as the present writer has observed, to chalk; and he
 would notice,      b   the by, that the learned President often in
 correctly uses     t   e  word limestone as synonymous with cal
 careous soil.        Triticum repens           treated
                                                y   is         by
                                                            many good
 botanists as a species under the trivial name of maritimum, but
it   ishere regarded still as a variety.       Holosteum umbellatum                   is
 not made with Hooker a Cm'astium; in which most systematic
botanists will concur.
    Among the Galia, of most di<U+FB02>icult discrimination, are two
new ones, cinereum and aristatum, still from Mr. George Don.
Any one who would illustrate this dif<U+FB01>cult family would con
fer great bene<U+FB01>t on systematic botany.             The foreigners have
man more than we have admitted.               Sanguism-ba media    new        is
from G. Don.           For Epimedium alpinum there are some new
habitats. The one on Skiddaw should be ascertained, as that
                                         -                       looks

                   Notices respecting    New Books.               223
 looks as if the plant were truly wild. Mr. Thomas Hutton, the
 well known guide to the Lakes, never could point the plant out
 to any of the numerous botanists who went searching for it.
 Potamogeton     cuspz'datum of Teesdale is admitted upon the
 authority of Schrader.      Sagina erecta, so different from the
 rest, is here, as well as by Hooker, called Maenc/zz'a glauca.
     The genus Myosotz's, raised lately to some popularity under
 the name of For et-me-not, is well illustrated.           Three new
 species   are adde   , M   cwspiiosa, syl-vatz'ca (Ray’s plant), and
 intermedia. The two <U+FB01>rst are not uncommon.               The author
 follows Lehman, the great authority in this tribe, in calling
 rupz'cola, E. B., alpestris, Litbospermum marz'tz‘mmn is the old
 Pulmonarz'a maritima.       Does it not turn out that most of the
 habitats assigned to Pulmonaria q<U+FB01>cz'nalz's are those of ang'usti
folia P The Echium italicum is very justly excluded. Ray’s
 plant, brou ht from Jersey by Joseph Smith, Esq., F.L.S,
justi<U+FB01>ed, as ar as the present writer noted at the time, all the
 changes of synonyms here made ; and in addition he recollects
 consulting the Sherardian Herbarium to ascertain the Echium
 mmosius, &c. (Moris. sect. xi. t. 27), and he found it the Jersey
 plant, and not the z'talz'cum.     It will probably be found here
 after to be a good species.        Those who love the Primroses,
 with all their agreeable early associations, will be pleased to
 <U+FB01>nd the addition of P. scotica to our Flora.         Cyclamen euro
paeum, the old Sow-bread, turns out to be hederg'fblz'um.         Me
 nyant/zes nymplucoz'des, so aptly termed the Fringed Water
 lily, is not, with Professor Hooker, removed to Villarsz'a.
 The remark that the trivial name is not meant to compare
 the plant with a nymph, but with a Nymphcea, is obviously
just. The pretty Anagallz's ccerulea, which has no speci<U+FB01>c cha
 racter, though all the beauty, of a noticeable species, is still re
 tained. Campanula persicg'folz'a is an addition. Viola jiavicomis
 is made out of canz'na y. Is not Sibthorp’s V. arvensz’s as good
 as any?      A very curious instance of irritability is recorded
 under Verbascum pulverulentum : if the stems be smartly struck
 three or four times with a stick, all the <U+FB02>owers then open will,
 in a few minutes, throw off their corolla, the calyx closin
 round the germen, so that after eight or ten minutes none wil
 remain on the plant. Chirom'a has disappeared, all our species
 being true E1ytlz1'cece.    E. latg'folia is well established as a
 species, being     the  second   var. of Chronic Centaurz'um in
 Fl. Br.
     So much has occurred to interest us in perusing the <U+FB01>rst
 volume, that we have lengthened our observations much be
yond our original intention.       The second volume will furnish
another paper for the next Number.
                                                             Recently

224                           Royal   Society.
                            Recently published.
    Dr. Forster     has   just published a work, entitled “ The
Perennial     Calendar,”    being a sort of compendium of the na
tural history    of each   day in the year, arranged according to
the days in the Calendar, and interspersed with numerous
notices of popular customs and superstitious ceremonies and
rites which belonged anciently to particular                seasons, or to
festivals and days.       The work was the amusement of his lei
sure hours many years ago when a student, and having been
increased by the addition of numerous essays and observations
by his friends, has been arranged in a popular form and
published.      It contains among other things, notices of the
particular days on which certain plants have been found to <U+FB02>ower
in the climate of London; deduced from journals of twenty
or more years regular observation. The whole forms a very
thick octavo volume.
                               In the Press.
    Mr. R. Phillips’s Translation of the New Pharmacopazia
Londinensis, with copious Notes and Illustrations, will appear
in a few days.
   ANALYSISYOF PERIODICAL WORKS ON NATURAL HISTORY.
                      Curtis’s British Entomology.
                   No. 8. contains the following subjects :
    P1.~ll. Molorcbus minor, a curious insect, of which Linnaeus said, it had
the antenna: of a Cerambyr, the legs of a Leptura, and the elytra of For<U+FB01>
cula.—Pl. 12. Lycwna dispar (the large copper Butter<U+FB02>y), a most splendid
species which has been discovered, in some abundance, in Huntingdonshire.
—PI. 13. Eumenes atricorm's, a new genus to this country, discovered in
 Hampshire by the Rev. Wm. Kirby: this genus of Hymenoptera is found
as far east as China—Pl. 14. meobora pallipes, a perfectly new genus of
the curious order Omaloptem of Leach, found by Mr. Samouelle in the New
 Forest, Hants, where the forest <U+FB02>y abounds upon the horse to an astonish~
 ing extent; and this possibly may be attached to the deer, as those animals
                                                                            ‘
 are found in every part of that neighbourhood.
            XXXVII.        Proceedings    of   Learned    Societies.
                              ROYAL SOCIETY.
  Feb.              SERIES of observations          were presented “ On
        26.—A       nearly all the principal Fixed Stars between
 the zenith of Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope, and the South
  Pole;” by the Rev. Fearon Fallows, M.A. F. R. S., Astronomer
  at the Cape of Good Hope.
     A paper was read “ On the different Degrees of Intensity
  of the local Magnetic Attraction of Vessels in their different
  Partsf’ by George Harvey, M.G.S. M.A.S.
                                                                      March

                         Geological Society.                     225
   March 4-.—-A letter to the President was communicated from
Sir E. Home, Bart. V.P.R.S., entitled “ Some curious Facts
respecting the Walrus and Seal, discovered in the Examination
of Specimens brought by the late Expeditions from the Polar
Circle.”
   A  paper was also read, entitled   “ Some further Particulars
of a Case of Pneumato-thorax, by John Davy, M.D. F.R.S.”
   March 11.—-A paper was read, “On the Parallax of a Lyra;
by the Rev. John Brinkley,-DD. F.R.S. 8w.”
   March 18.—-—A paper was read, entitled “An Account of
Experiments on the Velocity of Sound, made in Holland; by
Dr. G. A. M011, and Dr. A. Van Beck.”
   March 25.—A communication was read from L. W. Dillwyn,
Esq. F.R.S. On the geolo ical distribution of Fossil Shells.
A letter was likewise read om Thomas Tredgold, Es¢ . Civil
Engineer, to Thomas Young, M.D. For. Sec. R.S., “ n the
Elasticity of Steel at various Degrees of Temper.”
                      GEOLOGICAL    SOCIETY.
   Feb.  20.—— A   notice was read on the Megalosam'us,           or
Great Fossil Lizard of Stones<U+FB01>eld, near Oxford; by the Rev.
W. Buckland, F.R.S. F.L.S. President of the Geological So
ciety, and Professor of Mineralogy and Geology in the Uni
versity of Oxford, Ste. 8m.
   The author observes that he has been induced to lay before
the Society the accompanying representations of various por
tions-of the skeleton of the fossil animal discovered at Stones
<U+FB02>eld, in the-hope that such persons as possess other parts of
this extraordinary reptile, may also transmit to the Society
such further information as may lead to a more complete re
storation of its osteology'. . No two bones have yet been dis
covered‘in actual contact with one another, eXcepting a series
of the vertebrae. From the analogies of the teeth they may
be referred to the Order of the Saurians or Lizards. From
the proportions of the largest specimen of a fossil thigh-bone,
as compared with the ordinary standard of the Lacerta', it has
been inferred that the length of the animal exceeded forty feet,
and its height seven.     Professor Buickland has therefore as
signed to it the name of Megalosaurus.       The various organic
remains which are found associated with this                  lizard
form a very interesting and remarkable        assembgigantic
                                                       age.    After
enumerating these, the    author cOncludes   with a  desoription   of
the plates and observations on the anatomical structure of such
parts of the MegalOsaurus as have hitherto been discovered.
    March 5.—The paper entitled “ Outline of the Geology of
                       ”
 the South of Rossia,    by the Honourable William T. H. Fox          .
 Stran    ays, M.G.S., was concluded.
    V0 . 63. No. 311. March l824.               F t              The

 2‘26                   Geological Society.
  7 The term Steppe    is applied to vast tracts of country in the
  E. and SE. of Europe.       It is neither a heath, nor a-moor,
 nor a down; wold would give the best idea of it. in En lish,
 and it is given by the Russians to any waste land which is
 neither mountainous nor wooded.         The Russian Steppes are
 bounded on the west by the Carpathian chain of Transylvania
 and the Banat of Temesvar; on the S. by lVIount Haemus,
 the T auric Chersonese, and Caucasus; on the E. by the
 Oural mountains to beyond the Caspian Sea and the 'sea of
 Aral; vaguely to the N. by a line from the mouth of the Kama
 to the Dniester on the frontiers of Podolia and Kherson.
 Their length is about 2000 miles, breadth 900. The soil is
 similar throughout; the geolo 'cal structure very di<U+FB01>'erent.
  ‘
    A trough or basin stretchmg across from Perecop to the
 Caspian, and thence beyond the sea of Aral, forms a natural
division of the Steppe into the N. and S. High Steppe; this
 trough or basin Pallas and others well describe as the low
 sandy saline steppe, the two former as the high rich calca
 reous and granitic steppe.                               ~
    The Northern High Steppe admits of <U+FB01>ve divisions:
  '
    l. Steppe of red marl, salt and gypsum, lying on both sides
the Volga above the reach of Samara. 2. Steppe of Saubof
and the middle Volga, from Samara to Tzaritzin ; its northern
part consists of the white central limestone, its southern of
 sandstone   which connects it with the steppe of the Don.
 8. Northern   calcareous steppe of the Don is composed of
sandstone to between Cherkask and the mouth of the Donetz;
here commences an immense tract of a peculiar modern shelly
limestone; the steppe limestone probably extends across the
Ukraine, and is connected with the calc. gross. of Volhynia.
and Gallicia.    4. S. and S.E. of this occurs the primitive or
granitic steppe, a singular instance of a <U+FB02>at tabular granitic
country connected, according to Pallas, with the priinitive
range of the Carpathians, passin the Dniester at Doubosar,
a'nd traversing Moldavia.       5.    iddle calcareous steppe, of
steppe limestone separated by a sandstone from the preceding;
this is a prodigious mass extending throughout Wallachia,
 Bessarabia, the south of Moldavia, and Government of Kher
sdn.    The trough or basin before alluded to forms the steppe
of the oldsea, which involves the singular problem of the
connexion and extension of the Caspian and Black Seas.         To
the south of this lies the southern calcareous steppe, compre
hending the Crimea, and stretching to the foot of Caucasus,
is composed of steppe limestone resting on calc. gross.       The
high steppes, from the occurrence of marine plants and'other
causes, have been supposed to have
                                           once‘formed a vast sea;
                                                   ' >
                                                               but

                          Geological Society.                         227
but their height, in some places 700 feet above the Black Sea,
     1000 feet above the Caspian, precludes the possibility of
     apd
t     is.
 '
      The author, after enumerating and describing      the‘series'    of
the     above-mentioned beds, and their accompanying fossils,
  concludes with remarks on the probable extension of the
  Caspian Sea, and theses. of Aral, and their connexion with a
  the Black Sea by means of the low steppe.
                                                                '
      A letter from Mrs. Maria Graham to Henry Warburton,
  Esq. V. P.G. S., was read, giving an account of the effects of the
  Earthquakes which visited the coast of Chili in 1822 and 1823. _
      The <U+FB01>rst shock by which the towns of Valparaiso, Melipilla
  and Quillota were nearly destroyed, was felt at a quarter past
  10 o’clock on the evening of Tuesday the 19th of November
   1822; and from this time continual shocks were felt daily                '1
  until the 18th of January, when the authoress'ceased to reside
  in Chili.    These shocks are said not to have terminated wholly
  so late as September last.     The sensation experienced during ‘
  the more violent shocks was that of the earth being suddenly
   heaved up in a direction from N. to S., and then falling down
   again, a transverse motion being now and then felt.
                                                            -
                                                              On the
   19th of November      a general  tremour   was felt, and  a sound
   heard like that of vapour bursting out, similar to the tremour
   and sound which the authoress observed while standing on
   the cone of Vesuvius during the jets of <U+FB01>re at the eruption of
   1818.     In all the alluvial valleys in the neighbourhood of
   Quintero, 30 miles N. of Valparaiso, quantities of water and
   sand were forced up, which covered the plain of Vina a la Mar
   with cones or hillocks four feet high.
      The promontory of Quintero, consisting of granite covered
   by sandy soil, was cracked in various directions down to the
  sea; and the cracks occasioned by the earthquake in the gra
   nite on the beach were parallel to the more ancient rents in
’
   the same rock.      _
      On the morning of the 20th, after the <U+FB01>rst earthquake the
   whole line of coast from N. to S. to the distance of 100 miles
    was found to have been raised out of the sea; the elevation at
    Quintero being about four feet, that at Valparaiso about three
   feet, beds of oysters and muscles, adhering to the rock on
    which they grew, being seen lying dry on the beach.
       Similar lines of beach with shells are found parallel to the
    coast to the height of 50 feet above the sea, which probably
    have been occasioned by earthquakes which have in former
     years visited Chili.     , -
                                       n
        The earthquake of the 19th was felt along the coast to' the
                                                       -
                                                    '
     distance of 1400 miles at least.
                                  F   f2                    LINNALAN

 928                              Linmtan Socier.
                                 L! N NA-ZAN    SOCIETY
     March 2.—-An additional portion of Mr. Vi ors’s paper on
 the Orders and Families of Birds was read t iis evening, as
  well as on the 16th; it is not however concluded.
     March 16.—-Am0n                 the presents received were the <U+FB01>rst
 two volumes of the valuable English Flora, just published by
 the much esteemed President of the Society.
     The following communications were read:
     Description of Erythrina Secundg<U+FB02>ora.                   By Don Felix Avel
 lar Brotero, Emeritus Professor of'Botany in the University
 of Coimbra, For. Mem. of the Society.
     On the insect 'called Oislros by the ancient Greeks, and
       _
 Asilus by the Romans.                   By W. S. MacLeay, Esq. F.L.S.
 Communicated by the Zoological Club of the Linnman So
 ciety.      In this paper, which may interest the lovers of classi
 cal antiquity as well as of natural history, Mr. MacLeay has
 produced many interesting prool's that the @strus of the an~
 cients,
     "                 cui nomen Arilo
       Romannm       est,_a€stron Graii vertére vocantes,"      (Vme. Geor. II.)
 was    not the insect to which this name is now given, but a
 Tabanus.         Olivier <U+FB01>rst observed that it was different from the
 @3th of the moderns. Pliny uses the name Tabanus
 for the Muwtb, which Aristotle says is nearly related to (Eslrus,
 both bein wgweimwga; it cannot therefore be the modern
 @strus; ge also says that both are bloodsuckers, which agrees
 with the Lirineean Tabam', but is wholly inapplicable to the
modern <U+FB01>sh-us.              As the insect is too well known for its name
to have been forgotten or misapplied, there can be little doubt
that the Latin Tabanus, the Italian Tabano, Spanish Tavano,
and French Taon are identical, which latter name Mou<U+FB01>‘et
gives as the same with the En lish Breese”, Clegg and Clinger,
mentioned by Shakspeare, w in speaking of Cleopatra, says:
                    “ The Brize
                                   upon her, like   a cow in  June,
                       Hoists sail and <U+FB02>ies."
Some elucidation is also brought from Homer, and the                           Pro
metheus of Eschylus, and it is observed that Virgil describes
the Asilus or @strus as abundant and acerba sonans, whereas
   '  This name appears to he of great antiquity in all the Teutonic dialects. The
Anglo-Saxon
                _has
                      B Inoya, [Its]. Brissio], and Bplmya, which latter Junius gives
from one,“ his ancient glossaries D; and Skinner says “ apud Higginium solum
occurrlt.     They render ‘Brit and 95112513 Estrum, Asilus, and Tabanu-s ; as does
Klll<U+FB02>n the Belgic Brrmmc and “lSrcma‘r.           In the Suio-Gothic we <U+FB01>nd “Emma,
        lhre explains by cmbm; as our {Elfric renders (Estrus
                                                                   bear hypnecte.—
  on.
Ehich
                                                                                 our

                            Astronomical Society.                             229
our (Estrus      bovis is a rare and silent" insect.                   were <U+FB01>rst
confounded by Valisnieri, who has been followed
 and others.       It is inferred that Aristotle did not even know
the latter, from his assertion that no dipterous insect has a
sting behind.
                          ASI‘RONOMICAL socm'rv.
     March 12.--T he papers read at this meeting of the Society
 were as follows:
     A letter from Sir Thomas Brisbane, Governor of New South
 \Vales, to F. Bail , Esq., accompanied by Mr. Rumker’s ob-
 servations of the S'ummer' Solstice 1823 at Paramatta; the re
 sults of which are,
     For the mean obliquity of the Ecliptic                 23° 27' 44"‘89
     For the latitude of the place of observation 33° 48' 42"‘61
 Also the mean of twelve months’ meteorolo ical observations
 made at Paramatta between May 1822 and                        ay 1823.
     A letter from Professor Schumacher of Altona, including
 Mr. Hanson’s computations of the elements of the comet of
 1823—4, from observations made in the month of January 1824-.
     Two letters from Mr. Taylor jun. of the Royal Observa
 tory, Greenwich; the <U+FB01>rst containing the elements of the same
 comet as computed by himself from the Greenwich observa
 tions of January 1824, using Boscovich’s method; and the
 second, a comparison of anticipatory ephemerides of the places
 of this comet, from the elements computed severally by Schu
 macher, Carlini, Dr. Brinkley and himself, with the Greenwich
 observations.
     On the Recti<U+FB01>cation of the Equatorial, by J. F. Littrow,
 Director of the Imperial Observatory at Vienna. In this paper
the author directs his attention to those errors only which de
pend upon the placing and use of the instrument, which the
 Observer himself must either be able to obviate or allow for;
 and he therefore enumerates the greater part of them, and
points out means for their recti<U+FB01>cation.
     On the Utility and probable Accuracy ofthe Method of de
termining the Sun’s Parallax, by observations on the planet
 Mars near his opposition; by Mr. Henry Atkinson, of New
   '  [hrs and others derive the Teutonic names %rnma‘, "Brzmse, <U+FB01>re. from
human.     trummen, trrmmzn, murmurare, sonilum edere, but Wachter prefers
timing them to brzmm, pungere .- from which he also brings
—“ hum, tram, a thorn (from Otfrid, a writer of the ninth century) :
   1mm, tram, rubus .--bu:m-bzrzn, bramble:
   brem, genisfa ; A. S. bpom, broom.
   bums, brrms‘r, crabro, inscclum aculeatum, A. S- bplmfa up. Benson. non n
Bertha nec a brummen, bombu-m cdere, sed a bremen,1mngere.       lnde mayhem,
musca cquis infesta, mstrus, asilus, tabanus."    Probably therefore all the names
have a similar origin—Owe“    from 015'“, sagitta, and Gad-<U+FB02>y. q. Goad-<U+FB02>y, A. S.
Gun, gab, stimulus, cuspis, goud ; Island. ((8058, pungere.- Eon.
                                                                           castle

230                Curious Astronomical Fact.
castle-upon-Tyne.      In this paper the author shows that in a
series" of'observations on Mars, taken with good instruments
used in north and south latitudes, the probability of error is
very small; and as the synodical revolution of Mars takes‘
place in about 780 days, that planet will be 23 times in op
position before the next transit of Venus on the 8th December
1874-.  Hence he infers that if careful corresponding observa
tions are made on each of those 23 oppositions, the probable
error would be reduced nearly 4~'796 times. The author con
cluded his paper by describin      what he regards as the best
means of carrying this metho into effect.
   A new annular Micrometer by Frauenhofer was submitted
to the inspection of the Meeting by Mr. Francis Baily: but
as this instrument is described at page 177 of our present
Number, it is unnecessary ' to give any further account of it in
                         '                                    ' '
this place.
       XXXVIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                  CURIOUS   ASTRONOMICAL FACT.
      HE eighth   volume of M. Bessel’s Observations (for the year
    1822)   is arrived in this country. In the preface to that work"
there are recorded some singular facts relative to the habits
of observing, by di<U+FB01>‘erent astronomers; which we consider
worthy of particular consideration.       It is known to our astro
nomical readers that in the Greenwich observations for 1795,
page 339, Dr. Maskelyne has the following remark :
                                                           “ I think
it necessary to mention that my assistant, Mr. David Kinne
brook, who had observed the transits of the stars and planets
very well, in agreement with me, all the year 1794, and for a
great part of the present year (1795) began, from the begin
ning of Au ust last, to set them down half a second of time
later than      e should do, according to my observations: and
in January of the succeeding year (1796), he increased his
error to 8 tenths of a second. As he unfortunately conti
                                                  I
nued a considerable time in this error before noticed        it,  and
did not seem likely ever to get over     it,   and return toa   right
 mode of observin ,-—-therefore, though with reluctance (as he
 was a diligent an useful assistant -to me in other respects),     I
 parted with him.”      Dr. Maskelyne then proceeds to state the
 manner in which the discordancies were discovered, and points
 out some useful hints to those who are much engaged in .this
 branch of practical astronomy.
                                                          M. Bessel

                             Curious Astronomical vFact.                         23!
        Ni. Bessel     has met with a similar         circumstance at the. db
   servator at         Koni-gsber . During the visit of the late Dr.
    Walbecl; to       that place in the winter of 1820—21, these two
   astronomers        instituted a set of comparative observations on
  the following        stars:
                  954- Mayeri                        x’ Piscium
                  q>  Aquarii            '
                                                     971   Mayeri
                      Piscium                        xxiii. 136 Piazzi
                  )1
                  b               A                 —_-_ 147            -
                  962 Mayeri                         979 Mayeri
  The right ascensions of these stars were observed by them
 alternately, with the same instrument, for several days; and
  the result was (taking'a mean of the whole number of obser
 vations) that Dr. Walbeck observed them 1".04-1 in time later
 than M. Bessel. The observations were made with the me
 ridian circle of the observatory, and with a power of 182.
  We have not room, in this extract, to give more than the ire
 sults: the detail of the observations occupies several folio
            in the work above alluded to.                                          -
 paggse then proceeds to mention some comparisons that were
 made with M. Argelander of Abo, by which he <U+FB01>nds that this
 astronomer observed the right ascensions of several stars in
 the constellation Gemini, 1".223 in time later than M. Bessel.
       The comparisons made between Dr. Struve and M. Bessel
 are the most singular: in 1814‘ the difference was 0”.044; in
 1821 it was 0”.799; and in 1823 it was l”.021.                    By a direct
 comparison of the culmination of a Piscis Australis on Nov. 313,                '
 1820, the difference was 0”.68.                               .    ,    I     7
                                                                                      I
       Other com arisons were afterwards made between the ob
servations of           r. Struve and Dr. Walbeck; and between Dr.
 Struve and M. Argelander *: and the result of the whole is
shown in the following table; where the names of the above
mentioned        observers are denoted by their initial letters.
  ‘
       B-W=          -1".011
                                         '
                                                         _0".044      1111814
                                                   _' -0 .680
  '                                                                   ‘
       B—A = --1.223                                                                I,
       S-W=          -0.24.2
                                           B_S_          -0 .799
                                                                           1820
                                                                           1821
   '
       S-A     =     _o    .202                          --1.o21           1823
       From    some experiments which were afterwards made,
M. Bessel seems to think that a part of this difference may
arise from the peculiar mode, which each observer may ado t,
of {counting the time by his ear, whilst he is watching                            e
motion of the star with his eye.                For, by trying a half-second
pendulum clock, some of these differences vanished;                            and
     l“ The detail of these
                              experiments is also given by Dr. Struve himself, in
the 3rd vol. of the Dorpat Observations, pages L and 42.
                                                                            others

232                  Opposition   ofMars with   the Sun.
others were considerably reduced.       The subject however de
mands   further  illustration  and inquiry; as it is one of consi
derable importance     when   comparing the observations of dif
ferent astronomers;      and even of different observers at the
same observatory.
   Besides a detail of these singular phaznomena,      the volume
contains, 1° a determination of the scale of the barometer used
at the observatory: 2° observations to determine the refrac—
tion near the horizon: 3° a new table of corrections for that
purpose: 4° the usual daily observations of the observatory;
amongst which we observe the transits of those stars which'are
pointed out by M. Schumacher as culminating about the
same time as the moon : and lastly above seven thousand addi—
tional stars, observed in zones, agreeably to the plan laid down
in the former volumes; together with the elements for their
reduction.
   The present volume has reached this country much more
early (even by many months) than usual: it has in fact arrived
before the presentation copies intended for the public societies.
This unusual ex edition must be attributed to the exertions
and activity of      r. Bohte, bookseller, of York-street, Covent
Garden; who is determined, as much as possible, to remove
the impediments which obstruct the early transmission of Ger
man books to this country.
                      M. PASQUICH      AND M. KMETH.
  A   scandalous attack has recently been made on M. Pas
quich, the venerable director of the observatory of Buda, by
his assistant M. Kmeth; and which has unfortunately been
circulated in many respectable journals.      The latter accuses
the former of having forged the observations of the observa
tory: that     in fact, of giving to the world a statement ofob
               is,
servations that were never made.       Some of the principal as
tronomers on the continent have taken up the subject, in
order to convince the world of the innocence of M. Pasquich.
Amongst those who have come forward on this laudable oc
casion are MM. Gauss, Olbers, Bessel, Encke and Schu—
macher.
  To   the   Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
                OPPOSITION OF MARS WITH THE SUN
                                   i
                                                Gosport, March 25th, 1824.
  As the announcement of the opposition of Mars must have
excited some curiosity among our astronomers, and as cor
                                               responding

                      New Orrery—Aé'rolites.                       238
responding observations on the place of this lanetin the
northern hemisphere, may be found useful with t use that may
be made in the southern hemisphere,         I therefore beg to send
                                               I
you the result of some observations that have made respect
ing the place of his opposition with the sun. At 8 o'clock
this evening Mars was distant from y Virginis 3° 24' 15", and
from n Virginis 2° 33' 4-5”; from which, and with recent obser
vations made on his daily motion towards stars lying
in his path,   I make the place of Mars at his oppositionnearly   wi
the sun this morning 65 5° 3' 40" of longitude, and latitude
 1° 12’ 80” north; or JR185° 3’ 40", and declination 1° 12’ 30”
north.    This will differ, but not materially, from what may be
ascertained of the place of this planet in the Nautical Alma
nac for 1824; and not having used a micrometer, for want
of stars situated nearer to the planea—only a good sextant,—-I
am not certain of extreme accuracy: however, the above result
will be found near the truth within a few minutes either way.
                                         Yours &c.
                                              WILLIAM Bonn-1w.
                             NEW oaaEnY.
    Mr. B. M. Forster of Walthamstow            has just invented a
pendent orrery to represent the solar system.           It consists of
globes, <U+FB01>xed to horizontal rods, and suspended by means of
catqu which twisting or untwisting itself slowly, as the cir-.
cumjacent air dries or moistens, produces the revolutions
of the imitated planetary bodies, the distances of the globes
which represent the planets being calculated to correspond
with those pf the planets themselves.         Mr. Forster considers
the machine as capable of great imprQVement, so as to be
able in time to represent the whole of the planetar            system.
The catgut             which suspend the gl be twist t-emselVes
              string;y being broughtinto a dry room from a
hygrometrically
moist one.
                              45391413.,
    The subjoined néticehss appeared in the newspapers; but
no information on the whisét has transpired from more au—
thentic sources,=.—
    A letter from Molinella, in the Legation of Bologna, of the
6th ,of March, says. "‘ “’ithin the last few          a great number
of meteoric stones have fallen in the neig       daysbourhood of the
village of Arenazo.        The largest of these stones is twelve
pounds in weight-       IIS fall was mess-dad. by claps of thunder
of extreme violence, accompanied by                   a phaeuomenon
which much astonished the inhabitants of the country,             The
largest a'érolite has been taken tothe museum            Bologna.”
    Vol. 68. No.  811.   March    1824'.            G g

    2154‘                              Coal.
            ANTHRACITE OF SCHUYLKILL            IN PENNSYLVANIA.
       We extract       the  follbwing from the New York Evening
                                                                      ‘
    Post for the 30th of June last:
        Coal.-—We are pleased to find that there is a rational
    prospect of this city being supplied, during the-ensuing winter,
    with coal from the extensive mines which are now workin                in
    the‘    eat   Schuylkill    coal  range  of Pennsylvania—Phil         el
    phiagi-as long enjoyed this                    and the e<U+FB01>'ect there has
    been to reduce the price advantage,
                                      of woor at least one third.       New
    Jersey appears to be following the example, by makin ar
    rangements for the transportation from Philadelphia 0? the
    Lehigh coal, which is said to have produced a saving on one
    trial of 50 per cent.       Efforts are likewise making in this city
    to obtain sales for this article.         When we know, as we do,
    that the Lehigh coal sends out nearly doule the heat of the
    Liverpool coal, and will burn considerably longer, the pro                '
    priety of its introduction to this city, in preference to the im-
    ported coal, cannot be questioned.            Still we understand that
    there is a coal du from the same range of mountains, called
  1 the Schuylkill coa , which we have reason to believe is superior
    to the Lehigh coal, and which brin s in Philadelphia <U+FB01>ve
‘
    cents more per bushel.           The Schuy kill coal belongs to a
    company     in this  city, recently incorporated by the legislature;
    and we are informed it is the intention of the directors to bring
    5000 chaldrons of this coal into our market next fall, with the
    double view of pro<U+FB01>t and to make it more generally known,
    preparatory to a full supply the ensuing season.            We are at
    all times ready and willing to encourage the improvements
    of neighbouring states; but certainly, when these come 'in
    competition with the enterprize of our own citizens, it cannot
    be thought invidious, or even unreasonable, if we should give
    a preference to the latter; the more especially when we are
    satis<U+FB01>ed, as in this instance, that that preference is founded on
    general utility.      That the Schuylkill coal is superior to the
             coal, we have had no opportunity of determining by
    Lehighexperiment; but we have the testimony of those in its
    actua
    favour who are well skilled in these matters, and who, from
    having used both in various ways, have decided in favour of
    the former.      From this source we learn, that no just and ade
    quate conception of the Schuylkill coal can be formed from
    those specimens of the Susquehannah and Lehigh coal, which
    have been exhibited in New York. The Schuylkill coal is
    lighter, purer, and more in<U+FB02>ammable.               In appearance it is
    bright and glossy, and often beautifully iridescent.            It does
    not pulverise and throw off a begriming dust, like the common
                                                                        coal.

                            Voyage of Discovery.                    235
  coal.    It is all taken out in large masses, and when broken
  up,   which   is necessary to prepare it for the grate, it does not
  pulverise,   but  separates into small pieces of curved or prismatic
  forms.     It ignites with perfect facility; burns with a small
  <U+FB02>ame, but with a most vivid and intense heat, leaving an
  ash small in quantity and white like that of hickory wood.
  It has no sulphur and no smell. Having no bitumen, it
  creates no smoke or soot.         The permanence and durability
  of this coal is as astonishing as the stren th and vehe
  mence of its heat, which circumstances renfler it the most
  economical and cheap <U+FB01>re that can possibly be found.            These
  peculiar qualities of this coal are not'only established by the
  general voice of Philadelphia and the counties on the Schuyl
  kill, but are attested by the published statements of the Board
‘
  of Direction of the Schuylkill Canal Company, composed of
  gentlemen of the highest distinction and character.-—They
   state, that from “ repeated experiments,” it is found that
                                                                   “ one
   bushel of Schuylkill coal goes as far as three of Liverpool;
   and that ten bushels are equal to a cord of the best oak.
   wood.”      The purity of this coal is without example or parallel;
   being 97 parts out of a 100 pure carbon.         Hence it is
   and admirably <U+FB01>tted for certain valuable purposes, to        perfectly
                                                                   whic
   the common coal cannot be applied without a tedious and ex
   pensive process of preparation, as in smelting and air furnaces,
   in breweries, and in kitchens, where it is used for cooking,
   and answers admirably.         In melting iron ore and iron, besides
   requiring but half the quantity of coal, and saving much time, it
   improves the quality of the iron—a matter of the highest im
                                   ——
   portance—renders it more closely textured, tougher and more
   malleable.
                           VOYAGE   OF DISCOVERY.
       Accounts dated in May last have just been received in
    Paris from the French maritime expedition of discovery CODI
   manded by Captain Duperrey.             They contain some interest
   ing   details  on  nautical  and  ma  rnetical observations, and an
   nounce the discover of four idlands in what the French call
   the Dangerous Archipelago,          to which they have given the
   names of Clermont-Tonnere, Lostanwes, Angier, and Frennet.
   The inhabitants could not be inducec to have any intercourse
    with the voya ers.      Driven thence by stress 'of Weather, they
   proceeded to talleite, where the witnessed the-happy change
   that has taken place in the moral; of the natives since the in
   troduction of Christianity.       Idolatry, human sacri<U+FB01>ces, poly
   gamy, and child-murder, are now unknown among them; and
   many exhibit great fervour in the profession of Christianity.
                                      Gg2                           The

236                   New Analyses      qf Minerals.
    The following ANALYSES or MINERALS are extracted from
late numbers of various German and French journals.
Strey‘enspat/z.    Bernhardz' and        Aluminite, from the mountain
              Brandes.                      of Bernon, near Epernay
Carbonic acid               42'500          (de la Marne).              Lassaigne.
Lime .                      5-3'66]      Alumina           .      .         .- 39'70
Magnesia                      0-592      Sulphuric acid                          20'06
Oxide of iron                 1'376      Water       .     .      .   .    .     89-94
Oxide of manganese            0'308      Sulphate of lime             .     .        30
Water                       w0-250                                             100'00
    or,                     98-687       Scbm'l quibenstoc/c              in Saxony.
Carbonate of lime          944524              Gmelin qf Tubingen.
Carbonate oi'magnesia 1 '2240            Boracic acid .                          1'890
Protocarbonate of iron 2'8000            Silica                                33'04-8
 Carbonate of manga                      Alumina                               38'235
    nese                    0'4995       Protoxide of iron                     23'857
 Water                      0-2500       Soda with Potassa .                     3'175
                           99-2259       Lime, with a trace
                                            of magnesia                          0'857
Calcareous Garnet       qf Lindbo.
                                                                              101'062
             Hisinger.
Silica            .   .       3-7 '55   Semi-opal,           from       Quegstein
Peroxide of iron .            51'35       (Siebengebirge).              Brandes.
Lin-1e                        26'74'     Silica        .       .    .          86'000
Protoxide of     manganese      4'78     Protoxide of iron                       2'540
                            100'42       Subsulphate of do. .                    0.843
                                         Alumina                                 0500
    Pitchs‘tone   9f Meissin.            Carbon                                 0'03?
             Du <U+FB01>lem‘l.
                                         Water                                  9'968
Silica                        73-00
   lumina                     10'84~
                                                                               99'88'3
Protoxide of iron               1'90    Ditto, with a             woody       texture,
Lime                            1 '1 4'   from Obercassel. Brande-s.
Soda                            1'48     Silica                                98'000
Volatile matter                 9'40     Alumina                                0'250
                              97'76     Oxide of iron               .           0'375
                                         Subsulphate         of'  do.   .       traces
Rubellite quozena, in Mora
  via. Gmelin of Tubingen.              Water                                   612.?
Boracic acid                 5'74-4                                            99'750
Silica                      42'127      Lepz'dom'ocite        .- Siebengebirge :
Alumina                     36'430                     Brandes.
Oxide of manganese           6'320      Oxide    of iron .                      88'00
Lime                .    .    1'200     Oxide    of manganese .                   0'50
Potassa                      2'405      Silica     .     .       .                0'50
Lithia              .        2'043      Water                                    10'75
Volatile matter .             1'313                                             99'75
                            97-582"

        Universities in the Net/zerlands.—-Standard Weights.    237
                UNIVERSITIES IN THE NETHERLANDS.
      The Report just laid before the‘States General of the King
  dom of the Netherlands by the Minister of Public Instruction,
  gives the following account of the present state of the Univer
  sities:—-“ At Louvaine the most laudable efforts are made to
  form good                  who may one day be the ornament of
              philologists,
  the Athenées and bolle es in which they may be placed. The
 clinical department 0 midwifery has received a ver useful
 extension.     At Liege they apply themselves particu arl to
 modern history under a political point of view. The stu y of
  the law also, as well as other branches of science, is very
 <U+FB02>ourishing.      The legal part of medical education is attended
 to with great care.        At Ghent nothing is neglected, which
 can tend to unite the cultivation of the <U+FB01>ne arts and the sci
 ences.     The mathematical instruction is excellent; several
 excellent scholars have already left the schools.    At Leyden,
 the instruction preserves its ancient reputation, and Oriental
 literature is there making great progress.       At Utrecht the
 study of Greek and Latin is the favourite pursuit; and at
 Groningen, no expense is spared to improve the Clinical
 Hospital, and to form a brilliant Academy.”        At the end of
 the Report, the number of Students in the six Universities of
 the Kingdom is given, and in November they amounted to
2,127; 1,058 belonging to the Southern Provinces, and 1,069
to the Northern.                                                  .
                  CABINET    or STANDARD  WEIGHTS.
    The commercial and scienti<U+FB01>c world will learn with satis
faction that the standard weights of foreign countries, which
were some time since transmitted to the British Government,
and compared with English Standards, have been lately de
posited at the London Mint, in a commodious cabinet con
structed for the purpose, where they are to be carefully pre
served for permanent reference.
    This National collection is the <U+FB01>rst of the kind ever made
on a great scale, though long considered a desideratum.         Its
utility, which has been already extensively proved, may be
further experienced when any of the standards in use, whether
En lish or Foreign, shall become worn or impaired.
    ‘vhe following account of this important collection is in
scribed on the cabinet :—
    “ The foreign weights here deposited, having been duly
veri<U+FB01>ed, were transmitted to London, in the year 1818, by the
British Consuls abroad, in pursuance of a general plan, for
comparing the weights, measures, and moneys of‘all trading
countries, by of<U+FB01>cial experiments on veri<U+FB01>ed standards.
                                                            ‘‘
                                                               Tl 1c

    288                     List of New Patents.
        “ The  experiments were made by Robert Bingley, Esq., the
    Kin   ’s Assa   Master of the Mint; and the calculations by
    Dr.    elly, w o planned and conducted the general compari
    son, and in 1821 published the Results in the Universal Cam
    bist, under the sanction of His Majesty’s Government.
       “ The undertaking was ori inally patronized and recom
    mended by the Board of Trifle.         The standards were pro
    cured from abroad by circular letters issued by Viscount Castle
    reauh and Earl Bathurst, Secretaries of State for the Foreign
    an Colonial Departments;     and the whole plan was essentially
.   promoted by    Lord  Maryborough, Master of the Mint.”
          DEATH OF MR. BOWDICH,          THE AFRICAN TRAVELLER.
        We lament to                    of this accomplished travel
                         state the decease
    ler and naturalist, which  took  place on the 10th of January,
    at St. Mary’s'River   in Gambia,  Africa, in consequence of his
    over-exertions in making a survey of the river. A widow and
    three orphans survive him, who are altogether unprovided for;
    and we take this opportunity of announcing that a work which
    Mr. Bowdich completed prior to his death, entitled “ Excur
    sions in Madeira and Porto Santo,” will be published by sub
    scription for their bene<U+FB01>t. A prospectus of      we believe, will
                                                         it,
    shortly be issued.
                                                               I
                *
                                   LECTURES.
        Mr. John Edward Gray’s Course of Lectures on Natural
    History and Materia Medica, will commence in      the middle of
    April; they will be illustrated with numerous specimens, prac
    tical demonstrations and excursions, which he has found to
    be the only plan by which the pupil can be quickly furthered.
                            LIST OF NEW PATENTS
        To Abraham Henry    Chambers, of New Bond-street, Middlesex, es ., for
    his improvements in preparing and paving horse- and carriage-ways.—     ated
    28th February 1824.—6 months allowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
       To Richard Evans, of'Bread-street, Cheapside, London, wholesale coffee
    dealer, for his method or process of roasting or preparing coffee, and other
    vegetable substances, with improvements in the machinery employed; such
    process and machinery being likewise applicable to the drying, distillation,
    and decomposition of other mineral, vegetable, and animal substances; to
    gether with a method of examining and regulating the process whilst such
    substances are exposed to the operations before mentioned—28th Feb.—
    6  months.
       To John Gunby, of New Kent Road, Surry, sword and gun manufacturer,
    for his process by whicha   certain material
                                               is  prepared and rendered suit
                                                                         a
    able substitute for leather.-28th
                                                                              '
                                     F   ebruary.—‘6 months.
                                                                             To

                               List of New Patents.                           239
       To John Christie, of Mark Lane, London, merchant, and Thomas Har
    per, of Tamworth, Stati'ordshire, merchant, for their improved method of
<U+FB02>u
    combining and a plying certain kinds of fuck—28th February.—6 months.
       To Wllliam ~etts, of Great Yarmouth, Norfolk, merchant and ship
    owner, for‘certain apparatus to be applied to a windlas>‘.—-28th February.
    —2 months.
       To James \Vright Richards, of Caroline-street,    Birmingham,   Warwick
    shire, metallic hot-house maker, for an improved metallic frame and lap
    applicable to all hot-houses, green-houses, horticultural frames and glasses,
    sky-lights, and other inclined lights and glasses.—28th February.—6 mon.
      To \Villiam Greaves, of Shef<U+FB01>eld, Yorkshire, merchant, for certain im
    provements on, or additions to, harness princi )ally applicable to carriages
    drawn b one horse—28th February—2 mont 5.
      To   \  illiam James, of \Vestminster, Middlcsex, land-agent and engineer,
   for certain improvements in the construction of rail- and tram-roads or “ ays,
    which rail- or tram-ways or roads are applicable to other useful purposes.—
   28th F ebruary.—6 months.
      To Maurice De Jongh, of \Varrington, Lancashire, cotton-spinner, for
   his mode of constructing and placing a coke oven under or cOntiguous to
   steam or other boilers so as to make the heat arising from making coal or
   other intense combustion in the said oven subservient to the use of the
   boiler instead of fuel used in the common way, and to exclude such heat
   from the boiler when required without detriment to the operations of the
   oven. ~28th February.—2 months.
      To Charles Bagenell Fleetwood, of Parliament-street,      Dublin, gent., for
   his liquid and composition for making leather and other articles waterproof.
    —28th February.——6 months.
      To Joel Spiller, of Chelsea, Middlesex, engineer, for his improvements
   in the machinery to be employed in the working of pumps.—6th March—4
    months.
      To John Heathcoat, of Tiverton, Devonshire, lace-manufacturer, for his
    method of manufacturing certain parts of the machines used in the manu
   facture of lace commonly called bobbin-net.——9th March.—6 months.
      To John Heathcoat, ofTiverton, Devonshire, lace-manufacturer, for his
   improvements       in machines now in use for the manufacture of lace com
   monly called bobbin-net, and a new method of manufacturing certain parts
   of such machines.--9th March—6 months.
      To John Heatllcoat, of Tiverton, Devonshire, lace-manufacturer, for his
   economical method of combining machinery used in the manufacture of
   lace, in weaving, and in spinning, worked by power. ——9th March.—
    6 months.
      To \Villiam Darker Mosley, in the parish of Radford, Nottinghamshire,
   lace-manufacturer,    for certain improvements in the making and working of
   machines used in the manufacture of lace commonly called bobbin-net.—
    10th March.-- 6 months.
      To William Morley, of Nottingham, lace-manufacturer, for his various
   improvements in machines or machinery now in use for the making lace or
   net commonly known by the name of bobbin-net.—l5th March—:6 months.
      To Rupert Kirk, of Osborne-place, Whitechapel, dyer, for his method
   of preparing or manufacturing a certain vegetable substance growing in
   parts abroad beyond the seas and imported to and used in these kin doms
   as a dye or red colouring matter for the use of dyers, cnlled Sa ower
   (Cart/mums), so as more e<U+FB01>ectually to preserve its colouring princi le from
   decay or deterioration in its passage from the places of its growt     to En
   gland, and other parts of Europe.—20th March—2 months.
                                                                     METEORO

A                                                                                                                         Dr.     BURNEY      at                 Mr.      CARY     in    London,   and Mr.    VEALL      at Boston.
 METEOROLOGICAL                                   TABLE:           comprising        the Observation:              qf                               Gosporl,
                                                                        11.11.                                                                         Thermometer-                  Rm.
        Gosrmvr,                  whiff-past         Elgmo'chck,                                          gwm,                         1151511101"
                                                                                                                   .                                                           _____.____                     Wanna.
    Daysof
                            :
                            "Ta
                                  o   _
                                          6
                                                ‘5
                                                13
                                                     h,
                                                                        11'!         ~75
                                                                                              j       ‘
                                                                                               555.6155
                                                                                                                                   B¥mzlxl1eterézin
                                                                                                                                     "0957      c-
                                                                                                                                                    "—LONDON
                                                                                                                                                           '51;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     umm-h
                                                                                                                                                                                 :5 %
    Month,
                                                M         F: E,   '2                 g5                                                                    :
                            541
                                          ‘1’
                                                                         is
                                                                         2“                       °
                                                                                             EBg§335——————1:
                                                                                                                                                        .2-
                                                                                                                                                               ~53               5          58
     1824.                                      $3        >-                                         655510.11.                              B051
                            5%                            m                            55°“-U                                                                          :23!“                4;     London.             Boston.
                            m:
                                          gg
                                                kg
                                                                        a                                      g   662;            h.“-      S<U+FB01>M"       2%:                       A
                                                                                                                          1                            35137 35        33'5                        Cloudy       CIWdYJain       am:
 Feb     96                 29'75         38     49       70      NE.                0040                                         L29'55129'74
                                                                  NE.          .                       .                                               343740          37                    08    Baillie-Cloudy,        rainP-m
         27                 29-60         37              70                          030...               1.                  129-86f29-60
         23                 29'78         33              72      E                            l           1..             1... 29-95.    2970         364136          38                    -23   Cloudy       Cloudy
         29                 29-83         34              74      NE.                           1...       1..                 129-72     29-85         374137         37         0-30             Cloudy      Cloudy_
                                                                                                  l                 111                                                57-5                                    Flne<U+FB02>mr-m
March     -1-               29-77         40     49       71      NW.                 100...               1..                 129-67     29-56         364633                                   Cloudy
                                                                   N                            1..                  1
                                                                                                                   -..          1    28-96   29-50      303431         28                    02 Fair           Stoymy
                            2964          35              56                            315                1..
                                                          68      NW                  ......           .   1..       1.           129-93     28-82      374930         34                    ~10 Snow                stormy
                                                                                                                                                                                                               1177111,           day
                            29-05         37                                   25
                                                                  NW
                                                                                                11     .            1      1                            28-3836        26                        Fair          F1110
                            29'86         31              64                           065                 1..                      29-62    29-74
                                                                                                                           1 1                                                               ~26 Fair          Ram
                            09'61         43              72      SW.                  050......                                  12986      29-33      385343         42
                                                                  sw.                                                                        29-64      435348         41         0-15           Fair          Cloudy
                            29-84.        46     48%      74                   -15    -950..................                      129-55
                                                                                                1                                                                      45-5                      Rain          Swrmy       '
                            29-56         49'             80      sw.                  210                1...                    129-20     29-20      475348                                                                     _
                                                                                                11 l                11                                                                       -20 Rain          Stormy     wnh     ram   ;
1)                          29-20         50              80      SW.                 040                 1..                     129-70     28-90      525237         50
                                                                                                                                 1                                                                 Fair        Cloudy
             2 3 456 78 9
                                          44              68      SW.      ‘10        '455......                                  12972      2960       374742    37
                            297°
                                                                                      220      1...                                                               37                               Cloudy      Rain
         10                 29-60.        43              76      SE.                                                             12994      29-55      434437
         11                                                       NW.                                      1...                   12946      29-85      324640.346                           '06   Fair       Finenainp-m
                            30-00         34              78                          -o4o..:...
                                                                                                                                                                                             -15   Hailwith
                                                                                                                          1 11 111
         '2                 29-54         42     48%      73       W.      -10        -025 1...            1...                     29-32    29-35      354538    37                                          Cloudy
                                                                                                                    111
         13                 2940          40              65      NW.                ......                l...            1...     2995     29-15      364233    35              0'65             Do. [11111.Cloudy,rainp.m.
                                                          60       N.                          ll1         l...    l                                              35-5                       -13   Fair      Fine
         14                 29-80         38                                         ......                                1...     30-04    29-75      334515
0                                                                 SW.      -12        -o2o...
                                                                                               l1                                                       33464.6        36-5                        Cloudy      Cloudy,    ninat     nig.
         15                 30-04         41              63                                                                      130-01     29-90
                                                                  sw.                           1...       1..                                                         47                    09    ‘oir        Cloudy             do.
         16                 29-98         48              77                         4-030                                        130-20     29-74      475550
                                                                  NW.                 ......               1...    .1               30-26                              44                    -03   Fair        Fine
         17                 30-16         46              73                                    111                                          2992       445444
         18                                                        w.      -20                             1......                  30-30                              47                          F<U+FB02>il'       Fine
                            30-24         46I             78                                                                                 29-95      465751
                            30-28         49              74      NW.                 045
                                                                                                111        1...    1..            130-21     30-04      495842         47-5                        Cloudy      Cloudy
         19
         20                                                       SE.                .....                 1..                    129132                               43                          Fair        Cloudy
                            30-25         45              75                                                                                 30-00      395346
         21                                                       SW.
                                                                                                1
                                                                                                1          1..
                                                                                                                          11      129-59                454743         45         0-28             Rain        Rain
                            29-80         45-    48%      75               -15        235                                                    2965
([       22                                                        W-                                      1..                    12992                 434135         42‘5                  '31   Rain        Fine, rain at night
                            ‘29'62        42              74                          935......                                              2950
                                                                                                                                                                                             76    Rain        Fine        -
         ‘23                29'79                ---      77       N.          ...   ......    l...        1‘...     1.....          30‘01   29'70      334539         42
                                          37_
                                                                  NE.                                      1...                                                        39                    04    Cloudy      Rain
         24                 29—90         38              78                         ......                                          30-12   29-88      394446
                            30-00         43              64      NE.      23                              1...                      29-95   30-00      384139         405                         Cloudy      Cloudy
         25                                      48%
                                                                                                                                   "
Averumes:                   QQ-‘7'7141-17 48-79 71-7                     rm          3%2—7—                        127751-                   00m       (—1.!—           20-2      1-39      2-16

                                          'l‘   HE
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
       AND aGURNAL
                            30‘h   APRIL                  1824-.
X XXIX.    Letter from ROBERT HARE, MD. Professor ofChe
  mishy in the University of Pennsylvania, to B. SILLIMAN,
  Professor of Chemistry in Yale College, on some improved
  Forms of the Galvanic De<U+FB02>agn‘ator  on the Superiority of its
                                                     ,-
  de<U+FB02>agrating Power.- Also, an Account of an improvedSingle
  leqf Electrometer; of the Combustion of Iron        a Jet of      by
  Sulphur in Vapour; and of an easy Mode      imitating native
   Chalybeate       Waters.“‘
     FTER      Ihad discovered that the de<U+FB02>agrating power of                   a
      series    of galvanic pairswas surprisingly increased by
 their simultaneous exposure, after due repose, to the acid, va
 rious modes suggested themselves of accomplishing this ob
ject.   In the apparatus which     sent you, the coils, being all
                                           I
 suspended to two beams, could be lowered into tron hs con
 taining the acid. In another apparatus, of which      a terwards   I
 gave you an account, with an engraving for your Journal, the
 troughs containing the acid were made to rise, so that all the
 plates might be immersed at once.      A better mode has since
occurred to me.     Two troughs are joined lengthwise, edge to
 edge, so that when the sides of the one are vertical, those of
 the other must be horizontal.    Hence, by a partial revolution
 of the two troughs, thus united, upon pivots which support
 them at the ends, any <U+FB02>uid which may be in one trough must
<U+FB02>ow into the other, and, reversing the motion, must <U+FB02>ow
 back again. The galvanic series being placed in one of the
 troughs, the acid in the other, by     movement such as above
                                                     a
 described the plates may all be instantaneously subjected to
 the acid, or relieved from it.    The pivots are made of iron,
 coated with brass or copper, as less liable to oxidizement.    A
 metallic communication      made between the coating of the
                                   is
 pivots and the galvanic series within.     In order to produce
 a  connexion   between  one  recipient  of this description, and
 *   From a tract reprinted,» with corrections and additions, from Silliman‘s
Journal, No.    vol. vii. and published at Philadelphia; with
               1.                                                    copy of
                                                                        a
which we have been favoured by the author.—Em'r.
 tVol.   63.   No.   312.    April      1824'.              H   h        another,

242            Prof. Hare      on some improved   Forms
 another, it is only necessary to allow a pivot of each
 to revolve on pieces of sheet copper severally soldered trough
                                                              to t e
 different ends of QAer of meat}; I To connect with the ter
 mination of the series, the‘ieaden rods (to which are soldered
 the vices, or spring forceps, for holding the substances to be
 exposed to the de<U+FB02>agrating power) one end of each of the
lead. rods is soldered to a piece of sheet copper.      The pieces
of copper, thus soldered to the lead rods, are then to be duly
placed under the pivots, which are of course to be connected
with the terminations of the series.     The last-mentioned con
nexion is conveniently made by means of straps of copper,
severally soldered to the pivots, and the poles of the series,
and screwed together by a hand-vice.
    Fig. 1 (Plate IV.) represents an apparatus, consisting of
two trou hs, each ten feet long, constructed in the manner
which  I    ave described.     Each trough is designed to contain
 150 galvanic pairs.     The galvanic series in the upper trough
is situated as when not subjected to the acid. In the repre
sentation of the lower trough, the galvanic series is omitted,
in order that the interior may be better understood. The
series belonging to this trough may be observed below              it,
in three boxes, each containing 50 pairs, <U+FB01>g. 2. In placing
these boxes in the trough, some space        isleft between them
and that side of the trough on which the acid enters, so that
instead of <U+FB02>owing over them,          may run down outside, Iand
                                        it
rise up within them.
    The pairs of the series consist of copper cases, about seven         >
inches long by three inches wide and half an inch thick;
each containing a plate of zinc equidistant from its sides, and
prevented from touchin          by grooved strips of wood—Each
                               it
plate  of zinc is  soldereid  to the next case of copper on one
side.    This may be understood from the diagram,         <U+FB01>   3.
                                                              .     It
must be observed, that the copper cases are open on         y  at the
bottom and top. They are separated from each other by
very thin veneers of wood.
    Fig.4,   represents a    smaller trough, differing from the
others only in length. 7 This       made, with a view to some ex—
                                    I
periments on the comparative power of the galvanic pairs of
the form of copper cases, with zinc plates, above described,
and those made on Cruickshank’s plan, or of the form used
by Sir H. Davy in the porcelain troughs.
        5, represents box, containing 100 Cruickshank plates
                      a
(each   consisting of a plate of zinc and copper soldered face
to face) and slid into rooves, at a quarter of an inch distance
from each other; all   t   e copper surfaces bein in one direc
tion, and all the zinc surfaces in the other.       11 this case the
                                                                  me

                    ofthe Galvanic Dg<U+FB02>agrator,       41-.          248
   zinc plates are exposed only on one side.          The sum of the
\u
   surfaces on which the acid can act is therefore the same as in
   a de<U+FB02>agrator of 50 pairs, in which each zinc plate is assailable
   on both sides.     It ought to be understood, that the box con
   taining the 100 Cruickshank plates is open at bottom, and is
   of such dimensions as to occupy the place of a box, contain
   ing 50 pairs of the de<U+FB02>agrator, receiving the acid in its inter
   stices from below, in the same manner, by a partial revolution
   of the trough, <U+FB01>g. 4.
       Fig. 6. represents a box, containing 200 Cruickshank plates.
   This di<U+FB01>’ers from the common Cruickshank trough only in hav
   ing the interstices as narrow as those between the copper and
   zinc surfaces of the de<U+FB02>agrator pairs represented by <U+FB01>g. 2; and
   in the mode in which the acid is thrown off or on the whole
   series, which does not differ materially from that described in
   the instance of <U+FB01>g. 1.                     us"
       On contrasting the series of 50 (<U+FB01>g. 4) with Cruickshank’s
   plates in the box (<U+FB01>g. 5) the de<U+FB01>agrating power of the latter
   wasfound comparatively feeble; and even when compared
   with the Cruickshank trough (<U+FB01>g. 6) in igniting metals or car
   bon, the 50 pairs (<U+FB01> .4) were found greatly superior.           The
   shock from the Crulckshank trough was more severe.             You
                                                 I
   must recollect, that in former experiments found that galvanic
   plates, with their edges exposed as they are in the porcelain
   troughs used by Sir Humphry Davy, were almost inef<U+FB01>cient
   when used without insulation, as are the pairs of the de<U+FB02>a
       ator. This demonstrates that an unaccountable difference
   1s producible in the galvanic apparatus by changes of form or
   position.
       Being accustomed to associate the idea of the zinc pole, in
   a Voltaic series, with the end terminated by zinc, and the
   copper pole, with the end terminated by copper,          I was sur
   prised to <U+FB01>nd that, in decomposing water, the oxygen was at
   tracted by the wire connected with the copper end of my de
   <U+FB02>agrator, while the hydrogen went to the wire connected with
   the zinc end. Subsequently, however, it occurred to me, that
   in the de<U+FB02>agrator the zinc ole is terminated by copper, the
   copper pole by zinc; and ence the apparent anomaly, that
   oxygen appears to be attracted by copper,           and hydrogen to
                                                   ‘
   be attracted by zinc.
       The projection from the carbon, exposed between the poles,
    takes place at the negative pole of the pile, and not at the posi
    tive pole, as you have allegedrand thus your observation,
    that the current of igneous matter is from the copper to the
   zinc, may be reconciled with the Franklinian theory.             _
        The observations which are the subject of this communica
                                 Hh2                              tion,

24-4-          Prof. Hare    on a Single-lequlectrometer,           6%.
tion, combined with those which you have made of the inca
pacity of the de<U+FB01>agrator, and Voltaic series in the usual form,
to act when in combination with each other, must justify us
in considering the former as a galvanic instrument having
great and peculiar powers.
    Since the above was written, I have tried my series of 300
pairs.   The projectile power and the shock were proportion
ally great, but the de<U+FB02>agrating power was not increased in
proportion.    The li ht was so intense that, falling on some
adjacent buildings, it rad the appearance of sunshine—Having
had another series of 300 pairs made for Dr. Macnevin of
New York, on trying it I connected it with mine, both col
laterally and consecutively, so as to make in the one case a
series of six hundred, in the other a. series half that in num
ber, but equal in extent of surfaces.     The shock of the two,
consecutively, was apparently doubly as severe as the shock
produced by one; but the other phzenomena seemed to me
                                                               '
nearly equally brilliant in either way.
   The white globules which you noticed were formed copi
ousl ' on the ignited plumb      0, especially in name.     have          I
not had leisure to test them,a%eing arduously occupied in my
course of lectures, and in some efforts to improve the means
of experimental illustration.
Account        of an Electrometer, with    a single          chf;
                                                       by which the.
   Electricity      excited by the Touch of heterogeneous Metals is
   rendered       obvious qfter a single Contact.
   Fig.                  an electrometer, with a single leaf sus
              7 represents
pended    from  a  disk of zinc six inches in diameter, which con
stitutes the top of the instrument.      Opposite to this single leaf
is a ball supported on a wire, which may be made to approach
the leaf; or recede from                   by
                                     means of a screw.
                                     it,                   Above the
instrument        seen
                   is      disk of copper with a glass handle".
                             a
The electricity produced by the contact of co er and zinc,                       is
rendered sensible in the following manner.          glitce the disk of
copper    on the  disk  of  zinc  (which forms the canopy of the
electrometer): take the micrometer screw in one hand, touch
the copper disk with the other, and then lift this disk from the
zinc.    As soon as the separation       effected, the goldleaf will
                                                is
strike the ball, usually,      the one be not more than T57; of an
                                 if
inch, apart from the otherf.       Ten contacts of the same disks,
of copper and zinc, will be found necessary to produce a sen,
'       For
          the experiment with this electrometer        metallic handle would
                                                         a
answer. .
           lts belng of glass enabled me to compare the indication thus ob
tained With that obtained by     acondenser.
                                                     '
  1r
   1   have seen     strike at nearly double this distance.
                    it
                                                                              sible

                    Prof. Hare    on the Combustion         qf Iron,     &c.
                                                                                   '
                                                                                       2&5
sible divergency in the leaves of the condensing electrometer.
That the phaenomenon arises from the dissimilarity of the
metals, is easily shown by repeating the experiment with a
zinc disk in lieu of a disk of copper.      The separation of the
homogeneous disks will not be found to produce any contact
between the leaf and ball.     I believe no mode has been here
 tofore contrived, by which the electrical excitement resulting
from the contact of heterogeneous metals may be detected by
an electroscope without the aid of a condenser.        It is pro
bable, that the sensibility of this instrument is dependent on
that property of electricity which causes any surcharge of                              it,
which may be created in a conducting surface, to seek an exit
at the most projectin    termination, or point, connected with
the surface.    This gisposition       no doubt rendered greater
                                                   is
by the proximity of the ball, which increases the capacity of
the gold leaf to receive the surcharge, in the same manner as
the uninsulated disk of a condenser in<U+FB02>uences the electrical
capacity of the insulated disk in its neighbourhood.      It must
not be expected, that the phaenomenon above described can
be produced in weather unfavourable to electricity.        Under
favourable circumstances,       have produced
                                        I         by means of a     it
smaller electrometer, of which the disks are only 2% inches in
diameter*.
    The construction, as respects the leaf, and the ball, re
gulated by the micrometer screw, remaining the same; the
cap of a condensing electrometer, and its disks, may be sub
stituted for the zinc disk.
     On the Combustion            quron           by
                                                  a    Jet qf Sulphur in Vapour.
    If a gun barrel be heated red hot at the but end, and a
piece of sulphur be thrown into it; on            the mouth with
a  cork, or blowing into     a jet of     closing
                                        nited
                                       it,    su phurous vapour
                                                       i
will proceed from the touch-hole.      <U+FB01>xposed to this, a bunch
of iron wire will burn, as      ignited in oxy en gas, and will
                                             if
fall down in the form of fused globules in         state of proto
                                                               t    e
sulphuret.    Hydrate of potash, exposed to the jet, fus‘es into
a sulphuret of    <U+FB01>ne red colour.
                        a
               An   easy Mode     ofimpregnating IVater with Iron.
     Iffew pieces of silver coin be alternated with pieces of
          a
sheet iron, on placing the pile in water,     soon acquires a  it
ehalybeate taste, and a yellowish hue, and in 24 hours <U+FB02>ocks
of oxide of iron appear.                     Hence by replenishing with water
    '1'
     I    think  I    have seen an effect from a disk only an inch in diameter, or
from      a   zinc disk havinga  copper socket to its handle.
                                                                               a vessel

246      Further Remarks     on the Themy                qfparallel Lines.
a vessel in which such a pile is placed, after each draught,
we may have a competent substitute for a chalybeate spring.
    Clean copper plates alternating with iron would answer,
or a clean copper wire entwined on an iron rod; but as the
copper when oxidated yields an oxide, it is safer to employ
                            '
silver.
   XL.    Further Remarks on the Theory                   of parallel Lines.
                             [See p. 161.]
        apology can be required for resuming the discussion
NO     of parallel lines with the view of extendin and com
pleting the observations already made in the last       umber of
this Journal.    A subject liable to many subtile distinctions
must be placed in a variety of aspects, before the reader can
form a decided opinion upon it.     Besides, the validity of Le
           demonstrations by algebraic functions has been so
  eenly contested by men of great eminence, that the full elu;
1gendre’s
cidation of this point must be not only very curious and in
teresting, but is even of some importance in geometry.
   1. If we have a number of algebraic equations, viz.
                        C =        ¢ (6    A! B),
                                           a
                         C”:        ¢'(c/: A: B),
                         C”:        ‘Pu(c”:     A, B):
                                   810.
in which the letters e,     cp',  &c. are the marks of functions
                                   rp”,
of unknown forms; and        if the numbers that vary from one
equation to another, be so related that when              0': c", we   c:
must likewise have C=C’=C";                will be evident that the
                                                 it
functions cannot be of different forms, and that all the equa
tions will be represented generally by the expression
                      _  C:   ¢(c, A, B).
   Now   if, with Legendre, we apply the foregoing reasoning
to triangles, we must conceive a separate         ure answering to
                                                          <U+FB01>
every equation; the bases being,        c’, c"  a,  vertical angles,
                                                         ;   t   e
C, C’, C” and the other angles common to all the triangles
           ;
and equal to A, B: then because, by the principle of super
position, we know that, when the bases                c” are equal,
                                                                 0,   c’,
the vertical angles C, C’, C", will likewise be equal;            will           it
follow that, in all the triangles, the vertical angle      the same         is
function of the base and the other two angles; or, that the
equation                 C   =       A, B)
                                     q:   (0,
                every  case.
    T at we have here faithfully explained Legendre’s process
comprehends
of reasoning   ismanifest from his own words: Car,          plusieurs       si
angles C  pouvaient con‘espondre a-ua: trois données c, A, B,                         il
                                                                                       y
                                                               aurait

          Furtker'Remark-s on the Theory qf parallel Lines.                                    24-7
auraz't   autant de triangles dg<U+FB01>’é’rents qui auraient 1m céié e' al
 adjacent a‘ deua: angles e’gaua', ce qui est impossible *. For       is
 means that, if the functions              ct" were of different forms
                                                ap,   o',
 in the several triangles, the vertical angles C, C', C" would be
 unequal, when the bases               c” are supposed to be equal,
                                         0,    c’,
 which    iscontrary to what        proved by superposition.
                                         is
    It manifest therefore that the reasoning of Legendre ne
      is
 cessarily supposes the existence of trian les that have differ
                       is c',
 ent bases, viz.  c,     c”, and the same ang%es at their bases, viz.
 A, B; or, which          the same thing,      supposes that the base
                                                            it
 of a triangle may vary while the angles at the base remain
the same.       We may therefore inquire what authority there
is  for this assumption.
    If the base of a triangle vary, we may adopt two supposi
tions with respect to the angles at the base: either they may
remain the same when the base varies, or they will neces
sarily undergo concomitant changes. Since                     admitted       it   is
that the vertical angle may var with the base, there can be
no good reason for exempting               other two angles from the
                                                t     e
possibility of a like variation.       The two cases we have men
tioned are a complete enumeration; and never can be main         it
tained that one    is  true and demonstrated, until the other be
excluded.       Thus the assumption, on which Legendre’s de
monstrations are founded,           one of two hypotheses that seem
                                         is
equally possible.        It   therefore certain, as we have already
                                is
shown in the last Number, that the functional investigation
respecting parallel lines, like the geometrical process of
Euclid, rests upon a peculiar postulate, in this respect per
fectly resembling almost every other method that has been
proposed for overcoming the same dif<U+FB01>culty.                 as:
   2. Admitting, with Legendre, that the an les A, B,              de                      C
note ratios, or numbers independent on ar itrary measure
ment,      follows, from the principle of homogeneity, that there
          it
cannot be an equation between A, B,             and the side C  which                  0
is measured by an arbitrary unit.          Thus the two equations,
                                0    =   o    (A, B, C),
                                C    =   Q    (C,    A,
are equally impossible and absurd:   the <U+FB01>rst, because a mag
nitude that may be converted into a number by any assumed
measure, cannot be expressed by three determinate numbers;
and the second, because     determinate ratio cannot involve in
                                     a
its expression, a number that may be varied in an arbitrary
manner.     But   the equation,
                  if
                                C    =   p    (c,    A, B)
                   '   Elem. de Geom. edit. l0me,                p.   280.
                                                                                               b
                                                                                               '   e

24-8     Further Remarks on tile T/lemy ofparallel Lines.
be impossible, is not the whole of chendrc’s process nuga
tory? What are we to think of the attempt to prove that a
function, which is a nonentity, must have a determinate form,
the same for all triangles?
   The truth seems to be, that, in order to render the mode of
reasonin     imagined by Legendre intelligible, we must strip
off the unctional dress in which it is clothed. Since the
third angle of a trian le has the same magnitude in all cases
when the base and t e other two angles have the same
values, there must be some general relation between the four
magnitudes, or between the vertical angle and some of the
three things that are given.       But, by the principle of homo
geneity, there cannot be an e uation between the base and
one or more of the angles: w erefore the equation we are
seeking must subsist between the three angles. And since
this equation has no dependence upon the sides, it must be
the same in all cases; because no reason can be assigned why
it should be variable in its form.          In this statement of the
reasoning, nothing    is brought    forward   except what bears con
clusively  upon  the point    to be  proved;    and the full force of
the evidence is therefore perceived.          It certainly amounts to
a great degree of probability.         It is such a train of thought
as, in a process of invention, would lead, with great certainty,
to the desired success.     But the requisites of a strict demon
stration are in many respects wanting; and, as the -whole pro
cedure is a comparison of triangles that have the angles at
 their bases common, it depends upon the postulate already
 mentioned.
   There is one conclusion onl that can be reasonably drawn
from all that has been said. The same di<U+FB02>iculty about pa
rallel lines which has so long baiiied the geometer, opposes
an equally e<U+FB01>‘ectual resistance to the power of the algebraic
analysis. The same cause operates in both cases.             The de
<U+FB01>nition of a strai ht line is indirect and imperfect, furnishing no
property that wi 1 enable us by a direct train of reasonin         to
investigate the relation between the three angles of a triangle.
    3. Legendre estimates all angles by their respective pro
portions to a right angle. But he might, with equal pro
priety, have adopted any other‘determinate angle as the basis
of comparison. Professor Leslie has therefore ar ued that
angles are not to be considered as numbers independent of an
arbitrary unit; and that their measures are 'ust as indeter
minate as the measures of lines.          In the last umber of this
Journal, we proved the justness of Legendre’s procedure; but
it may not be improper to add some further elucidation, and
for this purpose we shall choose a particular case.
                                                                  Let

     Further Remarks on the Theory                               qf parallel Lines.                   24-9
   Let a,b denote the two remaining sides of the triangle;
then the angle C opposite to the base 0, must be a determi
nate function of a, b, c; for the angle has always the same
magnitude when the sides have the same values.         But, ac
cording to the principle of homogeneity, the expression of C
can contain the ratios only of the sides of the triangle; it Will
therefore be of this form, viz.
                                     C =        p    (.2.
                                                       ,
Again, by trigonometry, we have
                                                     “up-c!
                                Cos       C     =                     .
                                                         215
Now the value of       deduced from this equation does not de
                            C
pend upon any preconceived mode of measuring.           It   not                                 is
the ratio of the angle to a right angle;       the length of the      it   is
arc subtending the angle in a circle of which the radius                                                    is
unit.   In another circle of which the radius      r, and    the                is               C
length  of the arc subtending  the angle, the same  equation will
become
                                 cos     C           (1'1+ bi—c"
                                     r                   2ab
                       C    .
We   can <U+FB01>nd           —;
                            in terms of
                                                     foic        ;   and by substituting the
           cos
value of         , C   we shall obtain an equation                          of this form,            viz.
            1‘
                                T"
                                 C       __          a       a
                                              ‘1’
                                                    (7’ T)'
Again, let  Qdenote the length of the quadrant, or any other
determinate arc, in the same circle: thus
                 3:121 WHY, %)=¢(%’                                             i)
And,                   is   the proportion                  of   the angle           of   the   triangle
       since—g-
to a right angle, this last equation coincides with that found
by Le endre’s process.
   Pro essor Leslie    therefore not borne out in his philoso
                                is
  hical argument respecting the similarity of the measures of
 ines and angles.    But    is no more than justice to observe
                                          it
that his reasoning     very naturally
                                is    suggested by Legendre’s
 de<U+FB01>nition.
    An angle a. magnitude sui generis. It cannot be directly
                  is
 compared with a magnitude of a different kind. If        enter                                 it
into the same equation with the sides of a triangle, this can
be effected in no other way than by the intervention
                                                '
                                                       of some
    Vol. 63. No. 812. April  1824.                  magnitude        Ii

   250      Further Remarks         on the Theory   qfparallel Lines.
   magnitude       to which it has a relation.          The transcendental
   iuantities
   q
                 g    and.
                             (J
                                   <U+FB01>nd their way into the e q nation b 3'
                  r          Q
   means   of    515:2,
                         which is the ratio of two straight lines.        All
              . .      -  C     C    C            .               .     .
   the quantlties 595—,        0;,      areefunctlons    of no dimenswns
                                     Q
   derived from the same angle; and we know that any one of
   such quantities may be substituted for any other of them,
  in a proposed function.             This proves that Professor Leslie’s
  reasoning fails; but it does not appear that the fallacy of it
  could be deduced merely from Legendre’s de<U+FB01>nition, which
  determines all angles by their proportions to a right angle.
  It follows from what we have shown that the angles of the
  triangle may be considered as ratios, or as numbers indepen
  dent of arbitrary measurement, whether they be estimated in
  parts of a right angle, or of any other determinate angle.
  But Legendre’s procedure is defective inasmuch as he infers
  inconclusively from a de<U+FB01>nition, what can be proved only by
  the principles we have explained.                                   -
      When the understanding is made fully master of the case
  by acquirinv distinct ideas on the disputed points, it will
  hardly be alTowed that the functional e uations are so simple
  as they appear to be.          To reason about t em with intelli ence,
  many notions seem to be necessary that are far remove <U+FB01>oxn
  the <U+FB01>rst principles of eometry. They cannot, with much
 propriety, be considereg as propositions merely elementary.
  We are almost inclined to think that the geometer must have
 plodded on to the end of his science, before he has acquired
 knowledge enough to judge critically of the functional demon— ,
 strations of the <U+FB01>rst principles.
     In this Journal for February, we observe that Mr. Walsh
 is a strenuous advocate for Professor Leslie’s opinions.               His
 communication is remarkable for being wrong in every point
 relating to                       What can be a greater mistake than
 to suppose tgeometry.
                    at the angles of a triangle must be evanescent at
 the same time with the base?             Every one knows that the an
gles may     remain      the    same,  while the sides increase to be in
<U+FB01>nitely great       on   one    hand,  or decrease   to zero on the Other.
 But Mr. Walsh makes ample amends by the display of his
 recondite researches.            We are carried back to the principles
of philosophical grammar; we are taught to speak accurately
in the language of the schools; and the poor geometers, made
the sport of every petty whipster, are utterly condemned as
ignorant of the philosophy of number.               If there be any doubt
               ‘
                                                                    whether

           Further Remarks on the Heory         of parallel Lines.         251
   whether all this be in its proper place, every one must agree
   in admiring the writer’s profound learning.
        4. Eve Y attempt to overcome the di<U+FB01>iculty about parallel
   lines, uni ormly leads to one conclusion; provin                that it is
  insuperable by a direct process of reasoning. New e<U+FB01>nitions;
  new postulates; every mode of investigation that can be devised ;
  only place the same dif<U+FB01>culty in various aspects.              The cause
  lies in the imperfect nature of the de<U+FB01>nition of a straight line;
  and, as in other similar cases, we cannot hope for success in
  this research, except by having recourse to the indirect me
  thod of demonstration.
       In this Journal for March 1822, the foundation of an exact
  theory of parallels is laid, by proving, in an indirect manner,
  that the three angles of a triangle are equal to two right an
  gles.     It is shown, <U+FB01>rst, that the sum of the angles cannot be
 greater than two right angles; and, secondly, that it cannot
 be less.      The <U+FB01>rst proposition is made out by transforming any
 proposed triangle successively into a series of others, so that the
 sum of the angles of every trian le shall be the same, while
 one angle continually diminishes t. lat length it is less than any
 given angle however small.            Thus the sum of the three angles
 of the <U+FB01>rst triangle approaches without limit to the sum of
 two angles of another; and as the latter sum is always less
 than two right angles, the former sum cannot exceed the same
 quantity.       We have lately seen a theory of parallel lines by a
 professor of the mathematics at Basle", which, like the attempt
 in this Journal, follows the indirect mode of demonstration;
 and further resembles it in proving the proposition here
 spoken of by the same procedure.            But in demonstrating that
 the angles of a trian 1e cannot be less than two right angles,
the Professor at Bas e follows Le endre in the <U+FB01>rst editions
 of his geometry, a new postulate iein'g added for the sake of
 rigorous accuracy.         We conceive that this is a blemish in the
 theory; because, when the indirect method of reasoning is
employed, the demonstrations should be effected without any
    ratuitous assumption.         In this respect the advantage is in,
favour of the proof of the same proposition given in the Num
ber of this Journal already cited, since it proceeds upon the
admitted principles of geometry.            We shall brie<U+FB02>y sketch an
outline of the reasoning.          If a quadrilateral <U+FB01>gure be divided
into an number of triangles that have their angles upon the
sides 0 the <U+FB01>gure, or at points within the <U+FB01>gure; then, be
cause all the angles at a point on one side of a straight line,
     " Nova Theoria de Parallelarum Rectarum Proprietatibus, Auctore Daniele
Hubero, Basileense, in Acad. patria Mathem. Professore, et Bibliothecario.
 Basileas, 1823.
                                      Ii 2_
                                                                        are

252            Lieut. Zahrtmann   on the Mathematical
are equal to two right angles, and all the angles round a point,
to four right angles; it will follow that the sum of all the angles
of the triangles is equal to a certain number of right angles to
gether with the four angles of the quadrilateral. But, as the an
gles of a triangle cannot exceed two right angles, the sum of all
the angles of the triangles will be equal to twice as many
right angles as there are triangles, wanting the sum of the de
fects of the angles of every triangle from two right angles.
 Wherefore, by comparing the two equal sums, it will appear
 that the angles of the quadrilateral are equal to four right an
 gles, wanting the sum of the defects of all the included tri
 angles.     Now suppose a triangle that has the sum of its angles
 less than two right angles by some given angle; then a qua
 drilateral may be constructed that shall have the sum of its
 angles less than four right angles by any multiple of the
 same angle; which is absurd, because the multiple may be so
 taken as to reduce the angles of the quadrilateral to zero, or
 so as to be less than any proposed angle.              We have men
 tioned these demonstrations because we have never met with
  any other indirect proof of the equality of the angles of a tri
  angle to two right angles, which is both unexceptionable in
  point of accuracy, and requires no peculiar postulate.
     In taking leave of parallel lines, some apology seems to be
  due to the readers of this Journal for the great length of our
  observations.     But the subject is very curious in itself; it has
  been keenly debated by very able men; and the contest has
  been lately resumed in a very high tone, and with additional
  forces. It therefore seemed very desirable to bring the mat
  ter to some decision; and we hope some light has been thrown
  upon it. On the whole we are inclined to think that much
  more importance has been attached to the functional investi
  gations than they intrinsically deserve.       It seems very certain
  that there was a time when such demonstrations would not
  have passed current for sterling geometry in the Athens             '
                                                                        of
  the North.
     April 5, 1824.                                         DIS-IOTA.
    XLI.     On the Mathematical and Astronomical Instrument
             Makers at Parts.     By Lz'eut. ZAHRTMANN.*
       EFORE I        subject myself to the uncertain event of a sea
                                                                    '
        voyage, I will endeavour to perform the task you have
   proposed to me, by communicating to you some particulars re
        "  From M. Schumacher’s  Astronomische Naehrichten, No. 42.
                                                                 specting

              and Astronomical Instrument Makers at Paris.        253
specting the most distinguished artists of Paris.     These are,
for chronometers    the family of Breguet; for mechanical and
mathematical instruments MM. Fortin, Gambey, Lenoir,
Richer and Jecker; and for optical instruments MM. Lere
bours and Cauchoix.
   The father of M. Breguet died at the age of nearly 77 years;
he was born in Switzerland of French parents, but resided at
Paris for the last 60 years of his life, during the whole of
which time he applied himself to the making of clocks: but it
was only within about 40 years that he constructed chronome
ters.    M. Breguet was a member of the mechanical class of the
Academy of Sciences, a member of the Legion of Honour,
artist to the Board of Longitude, and manufacturer of chr0
nometers for the navy.      I am unable to speak of M. Breguet
without expressing the lively grief which I feel at being obliged
to substitute the expression of he 'was for that of he is.- my
connection with him, while I remained at Paris, had so greatly
endeared him to me, that I could not but participate in the
sorrow with which all his numerous friends were overwhelmed
 by his sudden and unexpected death.       I shall always recall
him to m memory as the most amiable of men; and I am
persuade that if (which I do not suppose to be the case)
there are any who would dispute with him the honour of hav
ing been the most di'stin uished of philosophical artists, and
 of possessing the utmost ertility of genius in his art, yet there
 are none who would deny that he possessed the best of hearts,
and sustained the noblest of characters.       His son, who is a
man of 40, directed the business of the house during the life of
his father, and will continue the establishment on exactly the
 same footing as formerly.     M. Breguet cultivates the sciences
 with attention, particularly the physical sciences; and his son,
a young man of 18, has already applied himself to the mak
in of chronometers ; and, as is stated, with much success.
  lug.
      Breguet has for several years been engaged in concludin
 a work on clock-making, an undertaking by which he          muc
                                                             is
 occupied and interested.       Ihope that   will shortly appear,
                                             it
 and     itunnecessary for me to state the de ree of attention to
 which        it is
           will be entitled. The address of       <U+FB01>rm of Breguet
                                                  t   e
is  No. 79, Quai de l’I-Iorloge.
    After the family of Breguet, those most distinguished for
 clock-making, and who also are all manufacturers of chronome
 ters, are Ml\/I. Perlet, Duchemin, M. Berthoud the son, and
  M. Motel; the <U+FB01>rst two of these are pupils of M. Breguet,
 and the others      of M. Louis Berthoud; the Navy Board
 employ M. Motel in repairing and cleaning the chronometers
 of Berthoud, and are well satis<U+FB01>ed with his performance.
                                                          M. Janvier

   254-             Lieut. Zahrtmann   on the Mathematical
   M. Janvier      is another who is possessed of considerable know
  ledge   in   clock-making,    but has not yet applied it to the manu
  facture of chronometers.
     M. F ortin is 72 years old; he is a provincial by birth, and
  came when quite young to Paris, where he commenced busi
  ness in some of the most humble Workshops.                He has al
  wa s worked very assiduonsl , but has been unable to raise
  a fortune by his labours.              . Fortin <U+FB01>rst attracted notice
  by  the  perfection    with  which  he   executed balances and pneu
  matic machines: he still works, and with much accuracy,
  notwithstanding his advanced age; and in the construction
  of measures, barometers, and pneumatic machines, he has
  scarcely ever been surpassed.           The most remarkable instru
 ment which has left his workshop is the great meridian cir
  cle erected at the observatory, to which it was presented by
  the Duke d’An ouleme. This instrument is in imitation of
  the Greenwich circle, but the divisions are executed in a dif
 ferent manner, peculiar to M. F ortin; the fastening of the radii
 at the centre is more <U+FB01>rm in his instrument, and the divided
 limb is formed of an alloy of gold and palladium, a sixth part
 of which consists of the latter metal ; this combination, without
 becomin oxidated like silver, and without being too hard for
 the divi ing point, as platinum is, produces a metal upon
 which the divisions are very easily discerned.              M. Fortin
 possesses a dividing instrument which he has been for 40 ears
 endeavouring to perfect, and of which he makes a profbund
 secret; but notwithstanding all his care, his repeating circles
 are far from being correct with regard to division.            He is a
 member of the Le ion of Honour, and received a gold medal
 at the exhibition of 1819.-—M. Fortin has no son, but will be
 succeeded by M. Herman, a man of 37 years of age, and a
 native of Dresden, who has married his youngest daughter.
 M. Herman has resided 16 years in Paris, where he has been
 under several masters ; and he worked for a considerable time,
 under M. F ortin’s direction, upon the meridian circle. M.
           lives at No. 14, Rue des Amandiers, near St. Géné
 Ifortin
 vieve.
    M. Gambey is          a native of Champagne, and is 36 years
old;    he began his career at Paris as a clock-maker, but has
since devoted his time to the construction of instruments: he
is a man of great merit, and who does not con<U+FB01>ne himself to
imitation; he has made for the observatory a great equatorial,
to be moved by a pendulum: the circle is three feet in diame
ter,         is divided upon its edge in equal divisions of 5'; the
      and
reading     is  effected by two microscopes furnished with micro
meters, and placed upon projecting              arms from the centre
                                                                     of

               and Astronomical Instrument Makers at Paris.              255
  'of the axis. The telescope is by Lerebours; its length is
   <U+FB01>ve feet, and the diameter of the aperture is *5 lines. The
   axis, which is seven feet in length, appears to be less conical
   than in the instruments of Reichenbach; but it is balanced by a
   counterpoise, by which it is supported at the end upon two
   wheels; the instrument is in general perfectly balanced in all
  its parts: the movement by the pendulum, which is communi
  cated by a screw, is sustained uninterruptedly during a period
  of time rather longer than an hour; the level, or, more pro;
  perly speaking, levels (for there are two) are constructed in
  a particular manner, so as to suffer the axis to be levelled
  independently of its form, bein more or less perfectly cylin
  drical.     This instrument, which was shown at the late exhi
  bition of French industry, is without doubt the best of the
 kind that has ever been executed in France, and the other
 artists of the exhibition have subscribed to that opinion
 by attaching4to it some lines in honour of M. Gambey.
 M. Gambey has constructed for the observatory a magne
 tic declination circle, and a heliostat.               As to his repeating
 theodolites, of which Ihave already spoken to you, he has
 hitherto made three: the <U+FB01>rst for the Polytechnic School; the
 second for M. Francoeur ; and the third for England". These
 instruments give great satisfaction, and by M. Francoeur in
 particular I have often heard them praised“ The dividing in
 strument of ' M. Gambey’s invention possesses the advantage
 of not requiring the centering of the instrument that is i~
 vided,-—-a process which he has hitherto kept quite secret.
 M. Gambey obtained a cold medal at the exhibition of 1819.
 His. address is No. 52, <U+FB01>ne Fauxbourg St. Denis.
      The. productions of M. Lenoir the elder are well known,
 and he now actually works no lon er. He is member of the
 Legion ofHonour, and artist to the card ofLonwitude; his son,
who is a man of about 40, directs the establishment at pre-v
 sent; he works considerably, but it is rather for engineers and
mariners than for astronomers; his nautical instruments ap
pear well made.           He lives at No. 340, Rue St. Honoré.
     The age of M. Jecker is about 50 years.                He is a native
of Aix-la-Chapelle, and formerly                worked     at  Ramsden’s.
Though        the   exterior  of  his  instruments   is in general  imper-.
fectl     <U+FB01>nished, and though they possess a certain varnish,
yet l7 do not think that they are bad, at least there are some
    it
       [This last instrument was made expressly for Mr. F: Baily, under the
direction of M. Arago.      The circles are only 10 Inches in diameter, and
are divided so that 2 seconds are easily distinguishable with a vernier.
The execution of the various parts of the instrument does great credit to
this celebrated artist.—Emr.]
                                                                    among

256         Lieut. Zahrtmann     on the Mathematical
among them of        0d quality.      M. Jecker manufactures more
instruments for t e navy than any other artist: but this        I sup
pose may be attlibutetl to his moderate prices, for he sells a
re<U+FB02>ecting circle 10 inches in diameter for 4-00 francs, while
M. Lenoir charges 4-30, and M. Gambey 500; M. Jecker al
ways makes use of the dividin           machine of Ramsden.       His
residence is at No. 32, Rue de         ondy.
   M. Richer is dead, and his son does not appear to have any
intention of continuing the establishment.        He was possessed
of considerable merit, and invented a machine for calculating
the distances of the moon from the stars; several of the in
struments which M. Freycinet employed in his voyage round
the world, and with which he was much pleased, were of his
construction.     His son, the present M. Richer, lives at the
 Rue Harlais aux Marais.
    M. Lerebours is a man of more than 60 years of a e, and is
esteemed the <U+FB01>rst optician in France; his workshop<U+FB01>ias pro
duced several excellent instruments, of which the most im
portant is a telescope, the object-glass of which is nine inches
diameter, which he has constructed for the observatory.
He sent a quantity of object-glasses of different dimensions to
the observatory, in order to be examined, and the greater
number of them were found very good; he is a member of
the Legion of Honour, and artist to the Board of Longitude.
 He resides on le Pont Neuf, at the corner of the Quai de
l’Horloge.
    M. Cauchoix, who is nearly 50 years old, is regarded as
possessing a more complete knowledge of his art than M. Lere
bours, though he has not brought it so much into exercise : he
has constructed a telescope of 11 inches aperture, the largest
which has ever been made in France; and likewise a stand of a
very ingenious construction to support a telescope.           M. Cau
 choix lives Quai Voltaire, opposite the Pont Royal.
    Amon the other opticians of Paris, I shall notice only
 M. Solei , who has distinguished himself by his activity in the
 execution of lentilles a‘ e'c/zelon,which are used for light-houses:
 but though he has received rreat assistance from the glass
 houses, and from M. F resnel: who furnished him with better
 tools than those which he possessed, yet they still appear ca
        of considerable improvement.        M. Soleil lives at No. 21,
 pable
   assage Feydeau, and his manufactory is France Nouvelle,
 No.21, Rue de Poissonniéres, near the Barriere Poissonniére.
        I
    As have never seen a large optical workshop, I am unable
 to 've an opinion respectin them: but M. Thiele, who came
 to aris after having worker? a year with M. Frauenhofer, was
 quite astonished at the mechanical poverty which he observed
                                                                     in

             and Astronomical Instrument Makers at Paris.           257
in all the optical manufactories of Paris; and remarked to
me, that at Benedictbeurn no one would take the trouble to
work glass with the hands, in the way in which it was done at
Paris.
   M. Kutsch       is one   of the   best workmen    for common     mea
suring instruments.         He lives at No. 41, Rue       des Lombards.
   Many of these particulars I owe to some interesting con
versations which I had with M. Arago, and they are but a
slight specimen of the kindness which I have received from
him during my residence in Paris. But it is not myself only
who am indebted to him; and           I
                                 consider it my duty, before
I leave France, to apprize you of your obligations to him for
the care and assiduity with which he has compared and ex
amined the instruments intended for you, as well as for the
time he has devoted to them at a period when he was more
than usually occupied by the exhibition of the products of
French industry, of which he is one of the examiners. So
that this cannot be attributed solely to the interest which he
takes in every thing which relates to the sciences, but also
to his desire toServe you, and to evince his friendship for
y on.    ,
   M. Pecqueur, the superintendant    at the Conservatoire des
arts et metiers, showed me a clock which exhibited with great
accuracy sidereal time and mean solar time.      He has con
trived this by means of a mechanical invention, which en
ables him to give the same force to two dilferent movements
of the clock: for instance, to two wheels, whose movements
are to each other in any given ratio.    The pendulum of this
clock is compensated by mercury contained in the annular
space formed by two concentric cylinders, the inner one of
which‘is made of iron, and the outer one of lass: and, as the
expansion of iron by heat exceeds that of g ass, this serves to
augment-the compensation already produced by the expan
sion of the mercury.     The cylinder of iron is hollow, and
open at both ends; and consequently enables the air as much
as possible to a<U+FB02>'ect the temperature of the mercury.      The
rod of the pendulum is made of steel.     M. Pecqueur has not
yet <U+FB01>xed the price of this pendulum; at least, I have asked
him for it in vain. He has also shown me a similar contri
vance for pocket chronometers. The movements of the watch
being attached to this piece of mechanism, the watch will in
falliny adapt itself to the motion required. This e<U+FB02>'ect is
 produced by a spring which acts upon the spiral.
  '
    This invention was presented to the Institute some years
 since; 'but no report had been made of        when a letter of
                                                    it,
 M. Pecqueur induced the President to call for this report in
    Vol, 68. N0. 312. April 182*.          K          k     the

        ‘
258               On the Instrument Makers   of Paris.
the sitting of the 8th of September, in consequence of which
the reporter, M. Prony, made his report in the sitting of the
15th of the same month; the other members of the Commis
sion were MM. Arago and Bre uet. The invention of M. Pec
queur was much praised, as a t ing which had already proved
its utility; and the future results of which could not be fore
seen: the Commission therefore proposed that the invention
of M. Pecqueur should be received by the Institute to be in
serted in its records; which was adopted after some discus
sion.
     M. Pecqueur has besides exhibited an ingenious pump which
re uires very little force to carry water to a prodigious height.
      (hi.
         Rieussec junior, the king’s watch-maker, No. 18, Rue
neuve des petits Champs, has exhibited a chronograph, a sort
of counter by the touch, which by pressure given to a spring,
 makes at the same instant a black mark upon the dial-plate
whilst        in rotation.
             it
             is              It this invention which M. Breguet
                                is
 improved by applying     it,but in different manner, to chrono
                                     a
 meters z—a chronograph costs 400 francs.
     M. Peschot the elder, No. 18, Rue des <U+FB01>lles St. Thomas,
 has exhibited an extraordinary sort of clock, already rather
 common at Paris, and which consists only of         a  needle on a
 dial-plate of glass; for example, a mirror, without any visible
 mechanism; this consists in a rotatory weight, contained in
a   round box applied to the other end of the needle.
     In instruments of astronomy and optics the exhibition pre
 sents nothin       very remarkable, except the instruments of
  Gambey, of       erebours, and of Cauchoix.       There are some
 samples of <U+FB02>int glass from the r0 al                  of St. Louis,
 near Bitsch, Department de la          ozeglass-works
                                             e.
     It said that the Minister of the Interior, M. de Corbiéres,
            is
 has an intention to render France independent of foreigners
 for <U+FB02>int glass, by making advantageous propositions to M. Gui
 naud, established in Switzerland, and known by his produc
  tions in that line, to establish himself in France.
     There has also been exhibited a light-house with lenses      ti
  éehe’lon on the plan of M. Fresnel and executed by M. Soleil,
  the mechanism of M. Wagner and the lamp with concentric
  wicks of MM. Arago and Fresnel; the ‘detailed description
  of such a light-house    is  to be found in M. Fresnel’s memoir
  on this subject.--It appears beyond doubt that these light
  houses with lenses are, as to intensity of light, much superior
  to those with re<U+FB02>ectors: but   I    believe that the greatest dif<U+FB01>
  culty will be to make them 'quite distinct from each other,
  especially on    a coast where there are man of them. For in
  making them <U+FB01>xed they lose too much 0 their
                                                         advantages,
                                                               un ess

             Suggestions regarding the Force   of Steam.            259
unless they are made cylindrical, which has been projected,
but which without doubt must be dif<U+FB01>cult enough in execu
tion.   By making them all rotatory, like that of Corduan,
they  will be distinguished only by the difference of the poly
gons of which they consist, producing intervals of light more
or less lengthened; but this difference, if it be not very great,
which it can hardly be here, will often be diflicult enough
to observe by sea, and the dif<U+FB01>culty will be the greatest pre
cisely in the circumstances most dangerous for mariners.
                                                 ZAHRTMANN.
XLII.    Suggestions regarding some probable Sources of Error
     in the usual Modes of ascertaining the Force of Steam.
      Gentlemen,
      HEN Mr.        Philip Taylor published his scale for the
         force of steam, I was somewhat puzzled to account for
 its differing, especially at high temperatures, from the results
 obtained by Dr. Ure; and in seeking an explanation, it oc
 curred to me, as it seems to have done to Mr. Herapath, that
 Dr. Ure’s elasticities were increased by the vapour of mer
cury; but whether the like                might not apply to Mr.
Taylor’s table I could notobjectionetermine without knowing his
mode of experimenting.       If,  however, the force of mercurial
vapour follow a law analogous to that of steam,            I should
suspect it    must be very small at the temperature of 310° or
320° Fahr., since   it   only amounts to about 30 inches at the
high temperature      of  680°.  The separate force of mercurial
vapour might      surely  be determined   by experiment, though,
for reasons which will appear by and by, fear the task would
                                           I
be a dif<U+FB01>cult one; and, for aught that      is known to the con
trary. mercurial vapour, besides exerting its own elasticity,
may so act upon or cOmbine with steam as materially to af
fect the result; or, in other words, the joint effect of steam and
mercurial vapour    in   a mixed state may be different from the
sum of their separate elasticities.  I   would therefore suggest,
as a more certain mode of proceeding, that the mercury em
ployed in experimenting on steam be always kept at       '
                                                            a com
paratively low temperature.
    But there seems to be another objection of an opposite kind
which attaches to the results of several experimenters, and
which does not appear to have been attended to.          It    well
                                                               is
known that, within certain temperatures at least, the par
ticles of water attract glass and some other substances more
strongly than they do each other; and Professor Leslie has
shown that, for this reason, air included in   a glass vessel can
                             K
                             k   2                              not

260                 Suggestions      regarding the Force    qf Steam.
not be saturated with moisture, because the vapour is con
tinually attracted and condensed by the glass*.       Now      as             if,
De Luc and many others allege, the quantity of vapour con
tained in a given space be independent of the presence of air,
might we not suspect that the force of aqueous vapour not
mixed with air will also be diminished by its contact with
  lass, since        known to be so in the mixed state? But
                      it   is                                                       I    '
gave no idea of the amount of this diminution, nor how                              it
may vary at di<U+FB01>'erent temperatures.      However,       probably it is
so much the greater as the bulk of the vapour in proportion
to the containing surface       less; and perhaps every sort of
                                         is
vessel has some effect on the tension or temperature of an in
cluded vapour.      May not even the electrical states of the se
veral parts of a complex apparatus have some in<U+FB02>uence on the
elasticity      ?
    In such an apparatus as Dr. Ure employed, this supposed
e<U+FB01>'ect of glass and of mercurial vapour might be in a great
measure obviated by making that end of the tube which
contains the vapour to consist of metal. This metallic part
should be of such a length as to reach below the oil-bath,
and then      may join into
                it            glass tube; but such a joint would
                                         a
be a matter of some nicety.        The water again ought to be
continued down through the metal part and even .a little way
into the glass, in order that its contact with the mercury may
be seen and kept at the same height in the tube.         By this
means the mercury may be kept away from the heat, and the
pressure of the column of water and vapour resting on the
mercury will remain nearly the same, except that       may vary    it
a  very little as the width of the tube    affected by change of
                                                       is
temperature, or by change of strain proceeding from the dif
    * The peculiar agitation and <U+FB02>uctuation of temperature, which water
 exhibits while boiling in glass vessels, are probably referable to the same
 source, being something like the converse of the above process; the force
 or tem erature requisite to form vapour in contact with glass being greater
 than w at would form       in contact with metal; for vitreous surfaces are
                                it
 known to attract moisture more strongly than metallic surfaces: and so
 this vapour on leaving the bottom, being of temperature above 212°, sud
                                                   a
  denly expands and mounts up through the water with greater violence
 than if   only of that temperature.    Hence when bits of metal are thrown
 in, the vapour rises from them in preference to the glass; and thus the
 ebullition is  rendered more steady.     There may, however, be something
 electrical in this phaenomenon.      And    may be remarked, in reference to
                                              it
 the foregoing explanation, that the temperature at which vapour       formed
                                                                         is
 under water must always, on account of the hydrostatic pressure, be greater
 than what would form        at the surface.
                                it
    The particles of mercury again are known to attract each other more
strongly than they do glass      but to af<U+FB01>rm that this should increase the
                                     ;
elasticity of mercurial vapour included in a glass vessel, would be going too
far until  itwere settled by experiment.
                                                                              ferent

             Mr. Ivory   on the new Tables  que<U+FB01>action.            261
  ferent elasticities of the vapour.    The longitudinal expansion
  of the hot part of the tube or of its contents cannot sensibly
  affect the results; but as the tube widens, the column of water
  will shorten, and consequently its hydrostatic pressure on the
  mercury will be diminished in a very small degree. It is cu
  rious to observe what strange mistakes regarding the effects
  of the expansion of the tube, one of our <U+FB01>rst-rate authors has
  fallen into, while playing the critic on Dr. Ure’s experiments.
     In making experiments on aqueous vapour at a lower tem
 perature than that of the apartment, the whole column of
 water or mercury should be reduced to the temperature of the
 vapour; otherwise, on account of the facility with which cold
 descends in <U+FB02>uids, the result might be uncertain.        But if the
 water be frozen, its adherence to the tube will obstruct the free
 motion of the mercury.        It must therefore be very dif<U+FB01>cult to
 make accurate experiments on aqueous vapour at or below the
 freezing point: because the vapour may be partially con
 densed if in contact with glass, or the motion of the <U+FB02>uids
 may be liable to obstruction in the tube.        Besides, in these
 cases, the mercurial column being about 30 inches long, an
 error in its temperature may materially affect the observed
 elasticity, which is then a very small quantity.
                                                 Yours 8w.
                                                                     -
    March 29, 1824.                                           H.
 XLIII.     Remarks on an Article published in No.23          of the
    Journal   qt'Science, and treating of the New Tables     of   Re—
   fraction.     By J. IvonY, Esq. MA. F.R.S.
    To  the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
       you can possibly <U+FB01>nd room, I trust you will insert, in
 IFyour     next publication, the following observations occa
sioned by an article on my Table of Refractions that appeared
in the last Journal of Science.                   .             .
    In my paper published in the PhilosophicalTransactions
1823, I was particularly guarded to leave nothing uncertain
or unexplained respecting the nature of the table constructed
to illustrate the theory.                the elementary quantltles
                                 I s owed that my table agreed ex
of the French philosophers, Adopting
actly with that in the Connaz'ssance des Tems as far as 81° or
82° from the zenith.      I likewise proved that my refractions, to
the zenith distance 86°, followed the same law with those of
M. Bessel; so that his table and mine are convertible, the
               '                                                one

262            Mr. Ivory’s Remarks    on a late    Article
  one into the other, by the addition or subtraction of a con
  stant logarithm, or by increasing or diminishing the numbers
 in a given proportion.      The remainder of my table is more
 uncertain, as    Iwas not in possession of a suf<U+FB01>cient number
 of exact observations for determining the measure of its accu
 racy; and of this circumstance I have sufficiently apprised
 the reader at the end of the table.      I  should' therefore have
 been highly grati<U+FB01>ed if any astronomer had undertaken to
 show its defects by comparing it with         00d observations at
 low altitudes.    But what has appeare          in the Journal of
 Science I can consider    in no  other light  than  as a mockery,
the more remarkable that, although quite uncalled for, to say
no more, it professes to be undertaken in the discharge of an
 of<U+FB01>cial duty.
    The article referred to, pretends to compare my table with
observations.     But it is plainly a comparison of it with the
table in the Nautical Almanack; if indeed that can be called
comparing two things, which takes one of them as it          is, and
the other as
              it
              is    not.   Both the tables are computed for the
same mean temperature and barometric pressure; and, in ap
plying them to practice, nothing more         is necessary than to
know the heights of the thermometer and barometer at the
several observations.     Astronomers are divided in opinion
about estimating   the  temperature.    Some reckon    b   the ther
mometer within the observatory; while others think that the
one without  is  more accurate.   There seems to be some ground
in experience for this difference of practice; for the errors of
some observers are found to be less with the interior, and
those of others with the exterior, thermometer.        Mr. Groom
bridge has always found an advanta       e   in usin    the exterior
thermometer; and his judgement in this respectias been con
<U+FB01>rmed by Delambre, who compared the results obtained from
both thermometers.       There can be no doubt therefore that,
with regard to the stars in my paper, p. 490, Phil. Trans. 1823,
the exterior thermometer   is to be preferred.    But in comparing
the two tables, the calculations should be made in the same
manner from both.     It   can produce no other effect than to
warp   the  judgement  to a  wrong decision,  if   one table be    al
tered by empirical corrections made expressly to lessen the
errors, while the other table remains unchanged.             And   if
both tables be so altered, the tendency to a false estimate of
their comparative merits will only be increased.            If there
must be a trial, the liti ants should come into court upon
        terms.   Why sho<U+FB01>d one appear tricked out in all sorts
egual
o disguises for the purpose of ensnaring unwaryjudges into
a favourable sentence, while the other stands at the bar with
                                                                 out

            respecting the new Tables  qf Refraction.           263
out any adventitious advantages P I have therefore computed,
by the table in the Nautical Almanack, the same refractions
which are given in my paper, p. 490, as calculated both by
the French table and by my own; and, reckoning the excess
of the calculated above the observed quantities for the error,
the results of all the three tables, when they are arranged in
the order of the stars, will be as below:
               N.A.           ET.           N.T.
                                 I              n
              +   s”-5        +553         +   5-1
              + 4-9           +2-2         + 1-1
              + 7'8           +4-2         + 3'8
              -10-0           +s-7         + 3-5
              + 7'6           +s-s         + 2-6
              +104            +7-0         + 1-2
              + s-1           +2-9         +   2-7
              +22-6
              +   2-9
                              +9-7
                              +2-9         --
                                           +14-2
                                               5-1
              +   7-9                          2-2
                                           _
                              +6'4~
              +   8-0         +6'6             0-4
              -
              +17'0
                  s-o.
                              +0'9
                              —6'9
                                            + 7-2
                                           —-10'8
               +96'7
              -1s-0          -
                             +54-9
                                6'9
                                            +41%
                                           —l8'6
    These calculations are easily veri<U+FB01>ed.    The same observa
tions are discussed in a former Number (No. 29) of the Journal
of Science. The point aimed is to make the tables approach
as near as possible to the observed quantities.    This is effected
partly b shifting the mean temperature from 50°, which is
the stan ard degree assumed in the construction of the table,
to 46?; and partly by altering the allowance made for
one degree of the thermometer in the corrections for heat.
 Thus, excepting what regards the barometer, the table'is en
tirely altered as far as the corrections are concerned.        It is
therefore highly ridiculous to say that the results in the Jour
 nal are calculated by the table in the Nautical Almanack.        In
 the case of Mr. Groombrid e’s observations, when the com
 putations are fairly made, t e errors of the table in N. A. are
 much greater than those of either of the other two tables.
        I
 And, apprehend, it will be found, on examination, that the
 table in N. A. is less accurate generally at low altitudes than
 the French table.
    Besides the observations just mentioned, the results of nine
 others are given in the Journal of Science; but of these
                                                               sha I}

 264           Mr. Ivory’s Remarks     on a late Article
 shall say nothing, as they are not contained in my paper; and
 I have not had time to examine the calculations.
    There next follows, in the same article, what is called a
 table of comparative results.       Whatever purpose this was         _
intended    to  serve, it is certain  that, as it now stands, it can
only   mislead.    The  column,   headed   52°, and of course that
of differences, should be both struck out. The mean tem
perature of my table is 50°; and I know no reason why it
should be compared with refractions at 52°, rather than any
other temperature.
   The column of M. Bessel’s refractions is liable to be mis
apprehended, from the omission of a very important remark.
The numbers in the column, when we refer to the table in
F. A., appear to be the refractions at 482°, 30 B; whereas
they should stand at 50°, 30 B, in order to make them com
parable with the other columns.       But M. Bessel has very lately
discovered that no error existed in Bradley’s thermometer, as
he formerly supposed; and that the temperature of the table
in F. A., which is marked at 458?, should really be 50°.            It
is indeed extremely improbable that Bradley, whose mind
was, for so long a time, intensely occupied with the deter
mination of minute quantities, should allow any inaccuracy in
one of his principal instruments to escape his notice.
   Very important conse uences follow from this change in
the temperature of M.         essel’s mean refractions.       Above
 10° of apparent altitude, his table is now very little different
from that of the French astronomers; and it approximates in
a still greater degree to my table as far as 88° from the zenith.
Thus at the altitude of 45°, the refraction (50°, 30 B) is
58”"36 according to the French table and mine; and, accord
ing to M. Bessel, the same refraction is 58”"27, the di<U+FB01>'erence
being no more than 0”"09.        And this leads me to observe that
the writer in the Journal is very careless of accuracy in his
strictures.    He remarks that, at the altitude of 45°, it appears
highly improbable that the refraction at the- temperature 50°,
or even 48°, can be so much as 58”'36.             Yet this quantity
has the authority of the French table, known for so many
years, and so much approved of by astronomers.              It is the
result of almost innumerable observations and experiments
by Delambre, Biot, Arago, Dr. Brinkley; and to these we
have now to add M. Bessel.
   The relation of m table to those of best authorit ; which
I take to be that of t e French astronomers, and .Bessel’s
when the temperature, accordin           to 'his late correction, is
taken at 50° instead of 418?; is t us exhibited:
                                                                 Alt.

               respecting   the new Tables         quq/i'action.        265
        Alt.             F. T.              Bessel. _           N. T.
                            U                 I,
        85               10-30              10-29              iii-30
        70               21'26              21'23              21'26
        60               83‘72              33‘67              33'72
        50               48-99              48'91            48-99
        4-5              58'36              58'27            58'36
        4-0         1'    9'52         1'    9'40         1'  9'52
        30          l    4-0'85        1    40'69         1  40'85
        20         2     39'22      2       38'85         2 39'16
        10         5     20'63      5       19'39         5    ‘20'19
         9         5     54-‘3     5        52-8          5    53'8
         8         6     35'4-     6        33‘6          6    54"?
         7         7‘    25'9      7        24'?          7    254
         6         8     31'?      8        28'5          8    29-8
         5         9     55‘8      9        52'5          9    53'8
         4-       11     50'1     ll        46'4-        ll    4-7'1
         3        142    30'4-    l4-       27’5     26‘0
                                                     _   l4-
         2        18 25'0      18           28-818   19'6
          l     24-  25'0      Q4-   58'2       24-  21's
                                                                   ‘
          0     33   51‘       36    36'1       3‘1- 17'5
   All the refractions here set down are reduced to the stand
ard quantities 50°, 30 B. It appears that m refractions arev
never more than 1%” different from those of I. Bessel as far
as 88" from the zenith: which is a surprising degree of coin
cidence, when we consider that the <U+FB01>rst were calculated in
the closet, and from a theory depending only upon a few ele
mentary quantities; while the latter were originally deter-‘
mined from Bradley’s observations, and have since been ex
perimentally con<U+FB01>rmed and corrected.         This is an argument
in favour of my theory which I could have learnt only very
lately; my paper havin r been sent to the Royal Society about
the middle of June, ans the correction of M. Bessel’s table
being published in the beginning of September following.
To this I hope soon to add ahother con<U+FB01>rmation with respect
to the constitution of the atmosphere adopted in my paper;
by showing that it agrees with the velocity of sound as de
duced from the satisfactory account of this phaenomenon which
-we owe to Laplace.                                              -
   In No. 31 of the same Journal, there is .an article, p. 139,
of some parts of which I have also ground to complain.
turning to p. 141, at the bottom the reader will <U+FB01>nd that the
article contains some insinuations and strictures on my ,pa er
by anticipation, before it was printed and published;                       but
what judge must injurious
    I                             at p. 148.
                                  is           In the Philosophi
cal Transactions, 1.823, p. 439,     we put 171:2, we shall get,~
                                       if
   Vol. 63. No. 3172. April 1824.                        Ll     =       a

266     Mr. W. Sturgeou’s        Electro-magnetz'cal    Eaperimenls.
                           e'fvm
                             a =  3 — A
                             ¢=z
            '         I                           'Zdztl—z<U+FB01>
      T=“(1+a)51n                                                    I
and in this case we have an exact value of the refraction in
<U+FB01>nite terms; the formula being integrable.                 Now the hori
zontal refraction at p. 148 of the Journal is included in the
expression we have just found.             Again, my general equation
                                                               m + I
between the pressure y and the density z, is y = z m ; and
when m=2, _y=z%L which is the particular case in the Journal;
and when m=4-, 9:25} which is the case I have chosen as
best representing the state of the atmosphere. Yet it seems
to be insinuated in the Journal that something is found out
different from my theory, and about as good.                 Now this is
nothing else than taking away from a person the result of his              ‘
own labour, and turning it against himself; which is no fair
      of dealing.
way have now, by such arguments as hastily occurred, endea-.
voured to vindicate my table from the burlesque comparison
in the Journal of Science.           I am far from thinking that the
table is the only part of my paper by which science may, in
some degree, be bene<U+FB01>ted.              But if it was necessary at this
time to discuss the particular results published for illustrating
the theory I had to propose, the objections ought, in the dis!
charge ofa gratuitous of<U+FB01>ce, to have been Well-founded; and,
they ought to have been urged in a candid, open, and manly
manner.        My purpose being merely to defend myself, I have
abstained as much as possible from all remarks on the table
in N. A. The construction of that table may hereafter be
come a fair subject of discussion.             But it is not impossible
that it may be withdrawn, and another of a less mysterious
construction substituted in its place; as it appears that a
new method for the refractions was read before the Royal
 Society at their meeting on the 5th February last.
                             I remain, gentlemen,
                                         '
                                                      Sac.
   April9,1824-           _                              JAMES Ivor-w.
  XLIV.       Electm-   and Thelma-magnetical Expa-iments.             By
                      Mr. WILLIAM STURGEON
    To  the  Editors  qftlze Philosophical Magazine and       Journal.
                                                ‘
      Gentlemen,
                        the experiments      I have detailed in my for
ALTHOUGH
      mer paper haye        suf<U+FB01>ciently satis<U+FB01>ed myself with respect
         '
              ~     .                                                   to

        . Mr..W. Sturgebn’s   Electr'O-mag'nelical Experiments.   267
  to’the. directive exertion of the forces of the differently excited
  wires or machines, yet it is n0t impossible that some may
   still doubt of the suf<U+FB01>ciency of those experiments to determine
  the apparently anomalous phsenomena: owing, perhaps they
  may say, to the difference of the construction of the apparatus
  emplo ed for exhibiting them. I am persuaded, however,
   that tie following mode of making the experiments will, in
  all probabilit , be suf<U+FB01>ciently decisive to convince the most
'
  sceptical on t is point.
       Suspend the semi-circular copper arc, with its zinc diame
  ter, as described in my former paper (the extremities of the
  metals need not be soldered but twisted together). VVrap one
  of those joinings of the metals loosely with a piece of tow or
             cotton. Dip this part of the machine into dilute nitric
  iinsptin
 .aci     (observe to counterpoise at the other end); present the
  north pole of a magnet to the same arm, and it will be pro.—
  jected to the right.                   7     .
       Take o<U+FB01>' the cotton, wash and dry the machine, and suspend
   it as before. Apply the lamp now instead of the acid, and the
  magnet as in the former experiment; that arm of the ap
  paratus will be now propelled to the left.
       I have merely pointed out this method of making the ex
  periments, as the most likely to be understood in cemparing
  the phaenomena; but that described with the galvanoscope, for
  makin       the chemico experiment, is by far the most ef<U+FB01>cient
  and eligible.
      The results obtained from the mode of comparing'chemico
 and thermo phzenomena, could hardly fail to suggest the idea,
  that chemico-excited wires would have their electrical tension
  increased by thermo application at the opposite extremity.
  And in order to try the suggestion by the test of experiment,
  I had recourse to the above-described simple apparatus.           I
  twisted the copper wire a good length round the extremities
  of the zinc, so that as great a metallic surface as possi
  ble might be exposed to the action of the acid. After dipping
  the extremity wrapped with tow into the acid, I suspended
  the machine in the galvanoscope.           On presenting the north
  pole of the magnet to the arm ascending from the chemico
  extremity, the latter was de<U+FB02>ected to the right about 80°.
  From that it returned to nearly 20°: thence propelled again
  to nearly the same distance as before; and so vibrating several
  times from about 15° to 60°, when I changed the pole of the
  magnet.       It was now de<U+FB02>ected in a contrary direction (left) to
  about 70°: from thence it returned as before by the silk en
  deavouring to untwist itself, and was again propelled by the
                                    l 2                     magnetic

968     Mr. W. Sturgeon       ’s   Elvctro-magnetical Experiments.
 magnetic in<U+FB02>uence; thus vibrating, still describing a smaller
 arc, and approximating nearer the magnet.
    When it had become so feeble that the greatest distance
 did not exceed 30°, I applied the lamp at the other extre
 mity.    It was soon propelled to above 400°: and by keeping
 the extremity of the wires warm             well known that zinc
                                          (it
                                           is
 would soon melt in a strong <U+FB02>ame)         Icould keep     vibrating
                                                                  it
 at about right angles to the ole of the magnet; for when                   it
 went further than 90°, the        ermo arm became acted on by
                                    t
 the magnetic in<U+FB02>uence, and conspirin          with the reaction of
 the convoluted silk, the'machine was         equently driven back
 again 40° or 50°; but by: keeping        moderately warm
                                           it                    was   it
 kept at between 80° and 90° from the magnet.
 I    now again changed the pole of the magnet, and took away
 the lamp. The chemico action had now become so feeble as
 to be just discernible.   However, by ap lying the lamp soon          it
 acquired   between  60°  and  70°, and cou    be kept up to nearly
                                                    d
 the lower point.
 I    have repeated the experiment, with the same success, in
 about 6&- minutes each time. The copper wire was about
 1-60th of an inch in diameter; and the zinc about twice that
 thickness.
    When the lamp      is applied before the chemico action gets
 too weak, this thermo-chemical magnetic experiment, in minia
~ture, is  most strikingly decisive.   Not having      in my power
                                                             it
 at present to carry on the experiment on         large scale,
                                                        a         am   I
 not pre red to say how         mi ht ansvver.
                               it
    Allt    ephenomena yet exhibited by the differently excited
 wires, seeming to be so perfectly analogous in every other re
-spec't-than in the direction of their forces,      have, by parity
                                                        I
 of reasonin found no dif<U+FB01>culty in producing a thermo rota
                ,
 tion by the 1n<U+FB02>uence of central magnet.
                              a
    As this experiment seems to have ba<U+FB02>led the exertions of
some of your scienti<U+FB01>c correspondents;             may perhaps be
                                                        it
 considered of some importance in promoting the advancement
of   the science.
                              I    am yours, 8w.
Artillery Place, Woolwich,
                          ~
                                                -
                                                         WM. STURGEON.
       Feb. 16, 1824.
                4
                                                                  XLV. De.

                                      [   269       ]
 XLV.       Desm'iption          of a Retalive   T/zemna-magnetz'cal        Eapcri
                 menl.          By llIr. \VILLIAM Srunonon.
 To   the   Editors of          the Philosophical       Magazine and Journal.
    Gentlemen,
I     AVING       promised in a former paper to communicate to
         your readers the method I have adopted for rotating a
 thermo-combination        by the influence of a central magnet,
 the following description of the apparatus I have constructed
 and employ for exhibiting the experiment, with an explana
 tion of its management, will, I humbly hope, he su<U+FB02>'iciently
 plain to be understood.
     NS, in the <U+FB01> ure,
 is the magnet;          {I30
                           P
 a piece of platinum
 wire bent into the
 form of a semicircle
or other convenient
 curve; Ps, Ps are
 two pieces of silver 1:
 wire twisted to the
                                  M
 former at the extre
 mities P    P.      The
 other ends of the
 silver wires “are bent
 downwards at ss;
 and » made         quite
 sharp and smooth at
the points.       These                     _‘
                                                        k
     'nts descend into
                                             s~\ ~
the metallic cell E,  F
which contains pure               _            .
quicksilver, with which the pomts communicate.         A descend
ing point    0  soldered to the platinum Wire, forms the pivot on
which the moveable part of the machine turns.           small con       A
cavity well polished at the bottom        made in the point of the
                                                  is
magnet, for the purpose ofcontaining a small globule of mer
cu  ,    and likewise for the rotating pivot to work in.
    ]The point      being amalgamated, when         placed in this
                  0                                          it-   is
globule of mercury, forms        communication with the magnet;
                                      a
and the other part of the magnet which passes through the
cell communicates with the mercury in that cell: and the
points of the silver wires being immersed in this mercury, the
metallic circuit       thus rendered complete; <U+FB01>rst, through the
                      is
platinum     wire   from     to c; thence through the pivot
                                 P
                                                                               l     .lto
                                                                                     16

     270   Mr. Sturgeon   on a relative thermo-magnetical        Erperihzenh'
      the to     of the magnet, and along that part of the magnet
      from     e top to the quicksilver in the cell F E: and lastly,
      along the silver wire from the point s to the extremity at P,
                                                                      ~
      where' it joins the platinum.
         The other part of the wire machine being on the same
      principle as that described, the platinum arms of this apparatus,
      when heated by a spirit lamp or otherwise at the extremities
    p PP, are in every respect assimilated to the arms of the rotating
      cylinder of Ampere; for the electric <U+FB02>uid is transmitted in
      the same direction through both arms of the apparatus; and
      hence the rotating tendency is constant round a central mag
     net; and not impulsive, asrin other rotations with an external
     magnet.
         The moveable part of this machine (which is the platinum
      and silver wires onl ) will rotate with a facility proportioned
      to the delicacy of      the
                              suspension, the difference of tempera
      ture of the parts
                      P    and of each arm, the power of the mag
                                    c
     net, and the dexterity of the experiments.      And must here
                                                              I
     warn the reader, that this last requisite     not the least to en
                                                     is
     ‘sure success in the experiment; for had       not been satis<U+FB01>ed
                                                     I
     that the apParatus was constructed upon principle,       probably
                                                               I
     might not have persevered suf<U+FB01>ciently to attain my object.
      However, a slight modi<U+FB01>cation of the apparatus considerably
     facilitates the experiment, and renders         more permanent
                                                      it
     and beautiful.
         A circle of lamps are placed on a stage of the same <U+FB01>gure,
     in such   a  manner that they may coincide with the periphery
     of the circle described           by
                                  the points    P
                                                P  of the wire part of
     the machine, so that the latter may constantly be kept at
'   nearly the same temperature in every part \of theirrevolution.
    And the shoulder of those arms, or that part of the platinum
    wire to which the pivot         soldered,
                                    c
                                    is          kept at as low a tem
                                                is
    perature as possible by means of ether or other cooling liquid.
         If instead of lamps circular <U+FB02>ame of ivnited hydrogen be
                                   a
    substituted, and revulated by a. stop-coo         this part of the
                                                          ,
    apparatus may perhaps be considered at its acme of_ per
    fection.                                                         v        ,
         Another improvement       by having a conducting wire from
                                       is
    the pivot  c   to the metallic cell    E, in the same manner as
                                            F
    the conducting wire of the copper part of l\/I. Ampere’s ro
    tating cylinders; through the upper part of this conducting
    wire passes a screw with a milled head, made into the form of
    is acup. The pivot    0runs in this cup, at the bottom of' which
    a     small globule of mercury, for the better ensuring the con
    tact.    The cup is  then <U+FB01>lled up' with ether, and may be sup
    plied during the experiment in prop0rti0n to the
                               \                              evaporatiolr‘il. 1e

              Mr. J. Walsh      on   Parallel Straight Lines.           271
   The lower end of this screw rests in the hole in the top of
the magnet; and by turninr the milled head to the right-or
left, the points ss of the silver wires may be heightened or
lowered at pleasure; and consequently their contact with the
mercury in the cell F E may be regulated to the greatest
nicety; the attainment of which was the only embarrassment
I had to encounter with the original apparatus. _ However, by
means of this improvement my anticipations were soon agree
ably realized by witnessing the <U+FB01>rst thermo rotation ever pro
duced by the in<U+FB02>uence of a central magnet.
     Imust here beg leave to observe, that the only attempt               I
ever heard of (and the only one perhaps on record) was with
the apparatus of Professor Cumming, and a similar attempt
by            Barlow with a combination upon the same prin
c|   1Professor
      es.
  pThe latter gentleman, however, has candidly confessed the
failure of the experiment, and suf<U+FB01>ciently accounted for the in
e<U+FB01>icacy of the apparatus upon the principle of its construction.
                     I am,     gentlemen, yours respectfully,
Artillery Place, \Voolwich.                           \VM, STURGEON.
     P.S.—April     13.    I have since succeeded in forming a sphere
of galvanized wires,       to rotate by the in<U+FB02>uence of both poles of
an internal magnet.                                    A
  This experiment was suggested on reading the late Dr.
Halley on the theory of the earth; and although it may not
be considered as a proof of that philosopher’s notion of ter
restrial magnetic variation, yet perhaps it may tend in some
measure to strengthen the hypothesis.    A description of the '
apparatus shall be the subject of another paper.
                                                     W. S.
 XLVI.        On Parallel Straight Lines.      By JOHN WALSH, Esq!
INbutthisto paper my object is not to terminate
            render service to science, to banish
                                                   a controversy,
                                                   from    as far it,
as this   in my power, all fallacious reasoning about an ele
         is
mentary principle which          the basis of all mathematical
                                     is
science.   I  must observe again, that the dif<U+FB01>culty encoun
tered in the theory of parallels, arises out of the nature of
things.   It arises from this, that space has no limit. Can the
geometer imagine space beyond which there               is   no space? Can
                      .*   Communicated   by the Author.‘
                                                                         he

 272          Mr. J. Walsh     on   Parallel   Slraz'glzt    Lines.
   he imagine space less than which there is no space?                 If he
   cannot, or more properly if there is not, then he cannot ob
   viate the dilliculty of Euclid’s postulate.         I know not how
   it happens that some illustrious geometers mistake the nature
   of number, and the manner it presents itself in mathematical
  investigations.     1 know not how it           is,
                                                  that the most glaring
  absurdities are received by geometers,             even as necessary
  truths; and that too in a science conversant only about TRUTH
  It acknowledged to he fact antecedent to all hypotheses,
    is                         a
  that the arc and tangent of            curve may become nearer to
                                         a
  each other than any given‘di<U+FB01>'erence; that              to say, there
                                                            is
                                                       It said to be            a is
a     given difference that    is  less than itself.             is
  fact, in the theory of maxima and minima, that space can exist
  and cannot exist at the same time.           And these two proposi
  tions are the basis of the modern mathematics. Does this
  arise from the nature of elementary education; from spending
  the important period of youth almost excl usivel in the study of
                                                             y
 the languages ofGreece and Rome?               This     a circumstance,
                                                            is
I    suppose, which the well-being and advancement of society
 render absolutely necessary.          But are the powers of reasoning
 by this means deranged, from having no <U+FB01>xed principles al
 wa  s    to refer to?     ()u the subject of this paper,          <U+FB01>nd the
                                                                      I
 {billowing  observations     in page 296, fourth edition of Leslie’s
 Geometry.       It appears they were advanced by M. Legendre
 in reply to the objections of Professor Leslie to his theory of
 parallels.    La [01' de l’lzonmgeni‘i/é est am 102' géne'rale guz' n’est
jamais en (Igfzut.      Every body        sensible of this. In the next
                                         is
 sentence he says   :    L’angle est une guantz'te' gue          je
                                                               mésure lou
jours par son rapport avce l’angle droz't.                  Aain he says:
 L’angle droit est l’unite' naturelle (les angles.       'lhat      to say,is
 particular sounds of the human voice and linear Space are
 homogeneous magnitudes. Locke falls into the same absurdity,
 when he says, “ Number measures all measurables.”                    Geo
 meters are led away by the erroneous manner in which num
 ber presents itself in language.        I  de<U+FB01>ne numbers to be arti
 culate sounds used as the signs of our ideas of certain relations
 between homogeneous things.             VV measure magnitude by
                                              e
magnitude homogeneous to it; and number                    the verbal ex
                                                            is
pression of the relation found to exist           by
                                                   actual measurement.
 And figures are the written characters which as                 were re-.
                                                                      it
present numbers, and excite in ,us the ideas of certain rela
tions. The term number              is generally transferred from the
verbal expression to the written character.           his not until the
binomial calculus shall become a general object of study
among matheniaticians, that reason, so long and,_so much
                                                                 distorted

                    Mr. Walsh          on       Parallel Straight Lines.                 273
     distorted by the false language of the in<U+FB01>nitesimal calculi,
     will have assumed its proper empire in mathematical and phy              .
      sical investigations.                           ~
         I cannot discover in the second note, tenth edition, of his
     Geometry, where he applies functional equations to the ther
     of parallel lines, that M. Le endre assumes, that if at the ends
     of an straight lines            0',
                                      8w. angles be formed equal each
                                           0'
    to each to the angles at the base       of any given plane triangle,
                                                     0
     triangles will be formed on each of those lines.           In fact, his
                   is similar to the following:        Having measured  4“
     reasoning
     two ang es of any plane triangle,               required from these
                                                          it       is
                                                                            '
    to determine the third.
         “ The vertical an       C    determined by the vangles A, B,
                                           is
    and the base 11.         ‘or when A=0, B=0, c=0, then will
     (1:0. But (3, number, being heterogeneous to ,the line c,
                        a
    then any particular magnitude of              cannot depend on any
                                                              ,C
    particular magnitude of          then the“ magnitude of ‘C can only
                                       c,
     depend on the magnitudes of A, B, and be derived from
     them. Therefore when any two plane triangles have two an
    gles of the one equal each toeachto two angles of ~,the other,
     the third angle of the one will be equal to the third angle of
     the other.     It follows from this, that the sum of ,the three
    angles of any plane vtriangle       equal to (two rightangles.
                                                is
        “ The base and its adjacent anglesbeing given, to conStruct
                                                   I                  '
   :the trian 1e?                                                       .
        “ Wit the base make .an angle equal to the given acute
   angle; then at any point in the base, or the second line, ac
   .cording as the other iven angle           acute or obtuse, make an
                                                         is
   angle equal     to   the  ot er acute angle; then a triangle willbe
    formed, having its angles equal each to each to the anglesfof
   the triangle to be constructed. Then at the other end .0? the
    base make an angle equal to theodaer given angle, and the
    thing required      is  done. For      the lines forming thean les
                                                     if
   at the base, do not meet when produced, then the vertical
   .angle will vary for particular vvalues of the base,‘ which .is
   .shown tobe impossible.”
        Now   ‘1shall object to the preceding reasoning, that the arc
   (land the base       p   may both be compared to the straight line
'
    radius, and may be expressed            equations of equal :tdimen
                                                     by
    sions, as I   havedemonstrated in my Essay on the Blnomlal
   Calculus. The reasoning of M.                - ndreL thereforefails                    _a_l
  .together, as must all attempts ate yiating the di<U+FB02>icultyof
  .tlieaxiom of thetillustrious Greekvgeometer.                           -
    Cork, April 15,1824.                                                     JOHN WALSH
 Vol.   63.    N0. 312.      April     1824.                  M    m          XLV_II..Z_o_o

                             [   274   ]
  XLVII.     Zoological Notices.   By Mr. JOHN EDWARD Giur.
                  On the Characters   of Zoophytes.
            the discovery by Ellis, that the corals and other
SINCE zoophytes   were the houses of animals, there appears to
have existed in the greater number of persons a' considerable
dif<U+FB01>culty to draw the line of demarcation between them and
the Marine Algae; but this dif<U+FB01>cult must have arisen from
the consideration of them as animal); themselves, and not as
the houses of animals, in the same manner as shells are to the
Mollusca. For in the consideration of them in the latter
point of view, it is impossible that they can contain the ani
mals without a space to hold them ; this space, or at least its
mouth, as the animals are always regularly radiated, is con
stantly regular and mostly symmetrical ; so that let the structure
be either a simple tube, or many tubes close together or sepa
rated by the intervention of cretaceous matter forming a plant
like structure, they always terminate in a regular mouth.
Whereas marine plants are formed entirel of cellular structure,
which is condensed on the surface to t e form of a cuticle
(which is sometimes, as in the Sponges, mucilaginous), and they
very seldom have any apertures on their surface, or, if they
have, these are always irregular.
    Now since Siles' is generally allowed to be found on the sur
face of many IvIonocotyledones, and Tabaslzccr iii the joints
 of the Bamboo, why should not chalky matter be found in
Algae?     Indeed it is to be seen on the surface and internal
structure of several Thalassioplzytcs which have never been con
sidered as Zoopllytes.
                I
    Therefore should consider none of the marine plant-like
bodies to be of animal formation, unless cells could bediscovered
opening on their surface with regular apertures; and consequent
ly there is no reason wh y the genera Corallina, Dz'c/z otomarz'a, Pc
nicilhcs, and .Flabellaria, of Lamarck, and perhaps even Nulli
para of Cuvier, should not be placed with the Algae. The
                I
 <U+FB01>rst of these have ventured to remove to their ancient habi
 tation, on account of their hearing tubercles very similar in
appearance to those of many of Ceramiada: or marine confervm;
and the <U+FB01>rst section of Flabellarz'a, especially Flabellaria
pavom'a of Lamarck, bears a very reat af<U+FB01>nity to, as the above
named author justly observes, i it does not actually belon
to the same genus as the Ulva pavonia of Linnaeus, whic
Draparnaud the elder has formed into a genus under, the
name of Zonaria.        This af<U+FB01>nity induced me to place the
Corallinct’ so close to the Zonarz'a’, in my father’s  ‘     Natural
Arrangement of British Plants.

                                                                 275
              On Gadinia, a new Genus    of Patelloz'd Shells.
                               Gamma.
 Tesla univalvis, non symmetrica, oblique conica; vertice obi
    tuso, subpostico. Aperture suborbiculata, irregularis; ca'vi
    tas simplex, sulco in latere dextro prope limbum anticum,
    impressionis muscularis; impressio muscularis elongata, ar
     cuata, submarginalis.
 Animal ignotum.
     This genus is instantly to be distinguished by the peculiar
groove, which is formed, there is little doubt, by the tube
that directs the air to the respiratory cavity of the animal,
 with which unfortunately we are unacquainted.
    I  have only observed one species, which, having been called
 Le Gadin by Adanson, I have consequently named
 l. Gadinia afra. Testa oblique conica, alba, radiatim striato
    costata subsquamosa; vertice sublaevi; marginibus crenu
     latis.
     Patella afra. Gmelin 3715 ! Dz'll'wyn. Rec. Shells, ii. 1046 !
     Patella n. l. Sc/u'oeter. Einl. ii. $411.
    Le Gadin. Adanson Senegal. 88. t. 2. 4 !
    Icon. Gaulter t. 9.     6.  Martini i. 93 t. 5. 34.
    Inhabits Coast of Africa.     Coast of Cape Manuel and the
 Island of Goree. Adanson.
    Shell white univalve not symmetrical, obliquely conical with
an obtuse vertex placed towards the hinder part, rayed with
many rather scaly rib-striaa diverging from the apex; the
aperture is nearly orbicular, crenulated, sometimes slightly
extended, on the right anterior lateral portion, just over the
groove; the cavity is simple, concave with a slight            oove
near the front part of the right limb of the horse-shoe s aped,
sub-mar inal muscular impression.
    Lengt and breadth about 1; inch.
    This shell is not uncommon in collections, and may be con
founded with Sip/lonarz'a; but in that genus the groove is
placed in the muscular impression, and divides it into two por‘
tions.      I had, in a paper which it was        intention to have
published the beginning of last year, cal    myed the latter genus
Liria, believing the Patella tristensis of Dr. Leach to be Le
Liri of Adanson and consequently the Patella perversa of
Gmelin; but as Mr. G. Sowerby has lately published this shell
with two or three others under the generic name of Szlphanaria,
it should be adopted.
    He has however in my opinion fallen into the common error
                                 M  m 2                          0

976            On      some new Species     q/ Ampullariada.
of modern conchologists, of making too many species;          for          I
have good reason to believe that all the specimens that he has
<U+FB01>gured, except S. tristensz's, (with several varieties in the Bri
tish Museum), belong to one species, for which I propose the
mime of 'S; radidta.   There         is,
                                   believe, another s'peCies found
                                      I
in the United States, which Mr. Say has described under the
name of Patella alternata, which, shduld my surmises be cor
rect, will be a curious circumstance, as the other two species
are con<U+FB01>ned to the African seas.
               On      s'ome 'new species   If Arizpullariada'.
Marisa     inter-media.
M.    testa subdiscoidea, laavi, pallide olivacea, lata fusco-unil
    fasciata; spira concaviusculo-plann, apice subprominente
                                                           '
    acuto; collumella (axi) concavo-conica e<U+FB01>'usa.
    Inhabits Brazils.    Mus. J. Sowerby, Nostr.                        t
    Shell nearly discoidal, smooth pale          reen with a broad
 brown central Spiral band, spire very slightly concave, nearly
<U+FB02>at, apex slightly prominent acute, columella (axis) conical
 concave EH'us'ed exhibiting mostof the v'vhorls; aperture nar
row, half as broad again as the last whorl but one, peristbme
 simple slightly re<U+FB02>exed in front, axis 11%, diameter        inch..1
    Marisa
             is the name   ‘wliich  I propose  for    genus
                                                         a     of shells
 which has been confused with Ampullarz'a. but which differs
 from it   in having a horny operculum and simple peristome.
 ‘_ This shell     very interesting as being intermediate between
                  is
 Ampullaria Cornu ari‘etz's and A. e<U+FB01>'ilsa of Lamarck and be       ;   I
lieve that- Mr. Swainson had confounded              with the former
                                                        it
species when he observed that Mr. G. B. ‘Sowerby had dis
covered the operculum of that species, for have reason to think
                                                    I
that my specimen         the fellow to the one in Mr. Sowerby’s
                          is
collection, as he presented me with          at the time he bought
                                               it
 them; so that the operculum of that species          still a desidera
                                                         is
tum, although     I have no doubtthat          furnished with one.
                                               it
                                               is
    This shell    isinstantly to be distin uished from the two
 former species by the <U+FB02>atness of the spire, and the size of its
 umbiliciis; and the two specimens that have seen have only
                                                  l
 one broad band, whereas the other species have <U+FB01>ve or six
narrow ones, but this may be subject to variations.                      .
    The controversy that has, arisen regarding the situation of
      M
__
the        Cornu arietis    an illustration of one of the numerous
                               is
errors between analogy and af<U+FB01>nity; for there             no more ref
                                                              is
son for placing     amongst the Planorbes on account of its sub
                    it
discoidal form, than there would be for arranging the Bats. With
the Birds on account of their <U+FB02>uttering through the air.- As to
                                                                    the

                 On  some new Species Qf Ampullariadw.           277
the assumed absence of the columella, it is no more wanting in
this than in any other species of, the genus.
    In fact, it only differs from themin the size of the space be
tween the whorls; and if it is to be placed in the latter genus
on that account, several other shells, such as the Staircase Tro
clzus, 81c. must be also added to it. I am the more astonished
at the controversy, as one of the parties has travelled throuwh
the Brazils, where this genus is found, and where he mig it
                                                                     '
have learnt that the Marine have gills and breathe air through
the medium of water ; and every English conchologist knows
that the Planorbes on the other hand breathe, by means of a
closed bag, free air, which they come to the surface to procure.
Consequently these two genera cannot have any a<U+FB01>inity with
each other, and their resemblance must be purely analogical,
and few persons would be inclined to place genera with such
different animals side by side.        Again, I do not know any of
the Planorbes to be banded», as is the case with most of the
 Ampullariadze, and colour is not an unimportant adjunct to
 the natural arrangement ‘of‘organized bodies, as most zoologists
 and botanists are well aware.
 Bitlzi1zz'a lutea.
 B. testa ovata, lzevi, pallide lutea, pellucida;   anf'ractibus qua
     tuor, convexis; apice obtusa; columella peri'orata.
     Ditches, East Indies.     M's. F. Gray.
     Shell oVate, smooth, pale yellow, pellucid ; the whorls Four,
 rather convex, the sutures distinct; the apex obtuse as if the
 first whorl was broken o<U+FB01>'; the axis with a narrow deep per
 foration, axis T56, diameter       of an inch.
     Bil/zinia is a generic name proposed by Mr. Prideaux for
 the small 'ovat'e species of Ampullariadw which have a shell
 opercnlum and slightly thickened peristomc, of which Helix
 tmtaculata may be considered the type.
 Bz't/zinz'a pusilla.
 B. testa ovata, laevi, alba, hyalina,    an<U+FB01>'actibus quatuor, con
     vexis ; apice subobtusis ; columella imperforata.
     Ditches, East Indies.     Mrs. 1". Gray.
     Shell ovate, smooth, white, hyaline, with four convex whorls
 divided by Very distinct sutures, and rather obtuse at the apex;
 the axis is imperfor'ated, axis 5%, diameter T26 of an inch.
     I ‘haVe transmitted both these latter species to the Baron
  Ferussac, who declares them to be as yet undescribed and
  new It) him.
                                                     XLVIII.     Ana

                                 [278]
   QXLVIII.      Analysis ngrqfessor HAUSMANN’S Essay‘” on              the,
                        Geology oft/10 Apennz'nesf.
             <U+FB01>rst section contains an account of the general ap
  THE    pearance of the Apennines.         The most elevated point of
  the range is 8934 feet above the level of the sea.          The second
  section, entitled Apenninorum constructio interna, embraces the
  geological description.       From this it appears that the struc
  ture of this mountain chain is peculiarly simple, containin no
  rock of any consequence, except a white limestone of uni orm
  aspect, rarely containing foreign substances or petrifactions.
  In the immediate neighbourhood of the Alps, however, and
  in the southern part of the chain in Calabria, there are rocks
  of older formation. In the lateral chains there is considerable
  variety, and transverse sections of these mountains often pre
  sent alternations of various rocks.
      The Apennines differ from many other mountains in this,
  that in many places where strata of different formations are
  observed, the more ancient are found neither in the centre of
  the transverse chains, nor in the more elevated parts, but on
  the sides and at inferior elevations.
      From analogy we should expect primitive rocks in these
  mountains; but from the observations of Professor Hausmann
  they appear to be wanting, except towards Calabria.                 The
  observations of Viviani, Spadoni, Santi, and others, are no
  ticed; but they doth appear to be con<U+FB01>rmed by those of our
  author, who however offers no decided opinion of his own, in
  regard to the formations of Giglio, Elba,- 8w, which these
  writers have considered granite and gneiss.
      The transition formations are the most extensive and im
  portant; comprising the Apennines of Genoa, Lucca, Mo
  dina, a part of Tuscany, and various other places, always re
  posing on primitive rocks.          The rock named macz'gno and
  pietra serena,    which  is extensively used in Florence for archi
.  tectural   and  ornamental    purposes, appears to be a variety of
  grey    wacke,  and  occurs  in all parts of Italy where the transi
  tion rocks are found.        The grey wacke in different parts of
   Italy, observes Prof. H., is not so varied in its grain, and in
  other respects is more simple than that of Germany.              Quartz
       the predominating ingredient, together with particles of
   '
     \‘ De Apenninorum constitutione geognostica commentatio, in consessu
   Soc. Reg. Scient. D. XVI. NOVembr. An. MDCCCXII. ad anniversarium
  solemne celebrandum habito, recitata a 10. Frid. Lud. Hausmann. Got
  tingre MDCCCXXIII.
       1- From the Boston Journal of Philosophy and the Arts, Nov. 1823.
                                                                     black

         Professor H‘ausmann on the Geology                      of the    Apennz'nes.        279
    black siliceous slate, and scales of silvery mica. The cement
    is present in small quantity, and is even sometimes wholly
    wanting, in which case the portions of quartz lose the granu
    lar form, and constitute a continuous mass, makin a transition
    from rey wacke to quartz rock.          At other times it passes into
    clay-s ate and into compact limestone.
       Clay-slate, <U+FB02>inty-slate and talc-slate are next noticed; the
    latter occurring more frequently and in larger masses, passing
    on the one hand into clay-slate, and on the other into chlorite
    slate.   When mixed with quartz it forms the “ saxum forna
    cum,” or Gestellstein (a kind of oven-stone).         This rock was
    noticed by Saussure* and St. Fond           between Genoa and Fi
                                                         1-,
    nale, alternatin     with compact limestone and clay-slate, and
    is hence inferre to be of secondary formation, as             likewise            is
    the gneiss observed by Saussurei near Voltri.                         .
        Compact limestone, which         so important in the geological
                                              is
    structure of the Alps,      not less so in that of the Apennines.
                                    is
    It alternates with grey wacke and clay-slate; in some places
    passing into those rocks.       Its colours are various, but grey                            is
    the most common.         It contains but few organic remains; a
    rare specimen of an ammonite was met with by Micheli§,
    which       preserved in the collection of Professor Targioni at
               is
    Florence.
        When the compact limestone              mixed with quartz and
                                                    is
    mica,     constitutes the pietra forte, much used at Florence
             it
    and other places for paving the streets.
        The transition rock of most interest in these mountains                                 is
    the brecciated limestone.      Some important observations upon
    this rock have been made by Brochant                 It apparently
                                                                     1|.         is
                of             oflimestone,   of various  shapes‘ and co
'
     composed      fragments
    lours, united by a calcareous cement, sometimes mixed with
    talc, clay-slate, and other matters. Its colours are strongly
     contrasted, and      has sometimes the character of the beautiful
                            it
    African breccia. In other instances approaches the antique
                                                          it
    Cipolline marble.      Where the nature of the fragments does
    not di<U+FB02>er greatly from the cement, there takes place a transi
    tion into compact limestone, or marble, which was noticed
    near Carrara, where the brecciated marble alternates with the
     compact.                                                             -
        Professor Hausmann describes the appearance of the brec
    ciated limestone of the Apennines, as rough, and traversed by
    numerous <U+FB01>ssures, which are particularly conspicuous where
     the cement       softer than the included fragments, and being
                       is
         \‘ Voy. dans les Alps. vol. iii. p. 167.          Annal. du Mus. vol. xi.          p. 222.
         I'Voy. dans les Alps. vol. iii. p. 159.     F+
                                                    35         erber’s Briefe,    p. 327.
      H     Jour. dc! Mines. N. 137.     p.32].
                                                                                            acted

 5280    Professor Hausmann on the Geology ofthe Apeuuines.
   acted upon by air and moisture, is broken down and washed
   away. This most ibeautiiul 'breeoia              {known by                of
   marble of Seravezza, and is much used for                             Put
   poses.    Our author supposes it 430
                                                                 "
   referred to by-Strabo“.
       The celebrated marble of Gurrara is considered Yhy 'Prof.
   H. as belonging to the transition formation, contrary                1ththe
  opinion hitherto maintained by                           it   is connected
   with and passes into the brecciat          geol<U+FB01>ists.
                                                       limestone and grey
  wacke, and these rocks alternate more or less with each other.
   This marble forms high mountains, with steep acclivities,
  and narrow valleys the rocks are destitute of vegetation, and
                            :
  distinguished at a great distance by their-snowy whiteness.
       The colour of the Carrara marble        is    injured by exposure,
  acquiring a brownish tinve probably from a small quantity of
  iron which   it   Contains.     liron pyrites are found in     it, together
  with calcareous spar and rock crystals.
       Professor Hausmann observes, that when the Carrara
  marble  is  cut into long and thin pieces      it   is  <U+FB02>exible like some
  varieties in North America.
      The next rock described         is     the Gabbro of Von Bach-f;
 'this 'is one ofthe most beautiful and remarkable rocks of
  the secondary formation.            Prof. H. observes, that, although
 ’from his examination of this rock in the Apennines, he                      is
satis<U+FB01>ed that ’it          not
                           is   a    primitive rock; yet he would not
  maintain    that   Gabbro   is  in  every case a member of the transi
 tion formation. Under-the term Gabbro he includes serpen
 Itine, the 613be of-the Italians, and a rock called in Flo
 rence granitone, composed of saussurite andrdiallage (Eupho
 rtide 0f Haiiy).     These rocks are sliownto be but varieties of
'the same, often containing asbestos, in which case the hard
 ness of the compound                 diminished, (and the quantity of
                                                                               '
                                is
magnesia      in  it   increased.
                      is                Four varieties of 'Gabbro are de
scribed, ~viz.           -
      l. Granular crystalline Gabbro, containing quartz, horn
‘blende, prehnite, and a substance which has not been ex
 amined.       This variety passes into jasper.
     2. Poqihy-riticiGabbro, including the Nero di Praia.                The
 principal part of this variety is serpentine, in which particles
of schillerstein are seen.
                                i                          I
     3. Spotted Gabbro,          principally serpentine with compact
globules     of saussurite.
     4:. Common Gabbro,          or serpentine.
  4* Geog. lib. v.                   >
  1- Ueber den Gabbro, von Leopold Von Buch.        iMagazin der Gesellsch.
naturf. 1810, H. 128.p.
                                                                       These

     Professor Hausmann on the Geology ofthe Apennines‘.        281
    These observations do not exhibit any uniform regularity
 in  the relative situation of the transition rocks of the Apen
 nines ; but they are most probably to be referred to one epoch.
 The direction and inclination of the strata are very various.
 Prof. H. thinks it not improbable that these rocks are a con
 tinuation of the secondary formations of the Alps.
    After remarking that the upper Apennines exhibit a more
varied structure than the other parts, Prof. Hausmann pro
ceeds to describe the rocks between Tuscany and southern
 Calabria.    The compact limestone already noticed, consti
 tutes the most prominent geological feature,         and is stated
to resemble the white Jura limestone. It does not contain
 beds of oolite, which are often met with in the latter, but
calcareous and argillaceous marl and hornstone.           Professor
 Hausmann observes that it is dif<U+FB01>cult to decide whether the
limestone of the Appennines is to be referred to the newest
secondary formations, to which the Jura limestone belongs,
as there are no super-incumbent formations, nor petrifactions
suf<U+FB01>cient to determine the question.       The transitions and al
ternations of the strata increase the dif<U+FB01>culty.     From various
considerations, however, he is inclined to refer the principal
part of this limestone to the same formation as the Jura
limestone.     If this opinion is currecg the lower part of the
plain  of the  P0  with the Adriatic sea, is to be considered as
a longitudinal valley extending from N.W. to S.E. in this
limestone formation.       The principal boundaries of the for
mations have the same direction, with some little interruption.
The continuation of the line of the white limestone of the
Apennines above Bologna, towards the N.W., is found near
Arona, in the same limestone. The line of the transition
mountains, which begins in Calabria, skirts cape Circeo,
and with increasing breadth stretches through the southern
part of Tuscany to the upper Apennines, and thence to
the Alps. The primitive rocksbegin in the southern extremity
of Calabria, and in Sicily, touching either the granite of Giglia
and Elba, or, if this rock belongs to the transition formation,
probably the primitive rocks of cape Corso in Corsica.
    The tertiary mountains are next described, and, for the
most part, are so completely separated from the Apennine
limestone, that no transition can be discovered.        There are,
however, some exceptions in the territory of Otranto, where
 a transition was <U+FB01>rst noticed by Brocchi.
    The tertiary formations are distinguished by Professor
 Hausmann into more general and more local.
    The more general consist of argillaceous marl, passing on
 one side into slate-clay, and on the other into sandstone;
    Vol. 63. No. 312. April 1824.             N n            plastic

7282   Professor Hausmann on the Geology qftlzc Apenm'nes.
 plastic and slaty clay; sandstone; conglomerate; and sand.
 The latter is always the newest. In these formations fossil
 organic remains occur, with bones. of colossal animals, and
 shells. Bitumen, sulphur, pyrites, barytes, and strontian
 are also met with.        The sulphur is often beautifully cry
 stallized.
     The more local tertiary formation consists of gypsum, cal
 careous with, and volcanic tuffa.           The alabaster which is
 wrought at Florence into various ornamental articles, be
 longs to the gypsum of this formation.           The greater part of
 the Apennines being composed of limestone, it is easy to ex
 plain the production of the calcareous tu<U+FB01>'a, at their base and
 in the valleys. The celebrated Travertina marble is a tu<U+FB01>'a of
 this kind.   The quantity of calcareous tu<U+FB02>‘a in Italy, and its
 varied appearance, are wonderfully              eat. .Prof. H. points
 out some of the most remarkable localities.            He remarks that
 di<U+FB01>'erent local formations of this substance can be distinguished ;
 some having been formed at the bottom of the sea, as is proved
 by the marine remains found in them; while others have re
 sulted from the sediment of fresh-water rivers and lakes. The
 fresh-water strata exhibit also proofs of difference in age.
 Those which alternate with the volcanic tuffa, as seen in some
 of the hills of Rome, the Aventiue for example, and in the
 vicinity of the city, are most ancient.           Those strata which
 cover the volcanic tu<U+FB01>'a, and the tu<U+FB02>‘a upon which Tivoli is
 built, are of more recent origin.       The newest formation is that
 daily forming,    as at the baths   of St. Philip, 8L6.
     The volcanic tzgjiz, although composed of volcanic matter,
 in the state in which it is now observed is to be referred to
 the aqueous depositions, as has been proved by Von Buch
 in his excellent remarks upon the country about Rome*.
 It appears to be con<U+FB01>ned to the south-western side of the
 Apennines, and is separated into two portions, one of which
 extends from the nei hbourhood of Rome to the Pontine
 marshes and vicinity o Bolsenna.           The other portion, which
is' less extensive, occurs about Naples.          In the <U+FB01>rst, leucites
occur, but are alto ether wanting in the second, into the com
position of which elspar enters.
    The volcanic tu<U+FB02>'a     is   of later formation than the marls,
sandstones,    and sand before noticed; as      is     well seen in the
nei hbourhood of the Vatican, where the sand          is   full of marine
she    sand rises from under the tuff'a.       This fact was <U+FB01>rst de
scribed by Von Buch.
    Professor Hausmann concludes his memoir by remarking,
l-st, that there are no true volcanic rocks, nor rocks of the
                       Geognost. Beob. II;
                   *I'
                                          p.  60, 202.
                                                                 trapp

         Chemical Examination        of American Green Feldspar.      283
  trapp formation (Trappgebirgsarten) in the central chain of
  the Apennines, although F erber‘ and some other writers have
‘
  advanced an opposite opinion.             2d, That the true volcanic
  formations are found only on the south-eastern side of Italy,
  with the exception of the extinct volcanic mountain Vulture.
  The greatest extent of the volcanic rocks is in the line of those
  of more remote origin, and but a part of them, as Vesuvius,
  the extinct volcanoes of Nemi and Albano, and the formation
  near Borghetto, approach the Apennine limestone.
  XLIX.       Chemical Examination        of Green Feldspar from Be
         verly, Massachusetts.       By  J. W.  WEBSTER,     M.D.-1
  THIS        mineral is peculiarly interesting, as another instance‘
         of the great similarity existing between the minerals of
  this country and those of the north of Europe.               The only
  specimen which         I  have seen from this locality is connected
  with quartz and mica, constitutng a perfectly characterized gra
  nite.     The colour of the feldspar is of a lively verdigris green,
  the fracture is foliated with a high degree of lustre, and the
  concretions, or imperfect crystals, are from a quarter to half
  an inch in diameter. The intermixture of the uartz, which
  is white, with the brown mica and the green eldspar pro
  duces a beautiful effect.
            <U+FB01>rst object in submitting the green feldspar to a che
  micaMy examination was to ascertain the proportion of alkali it
  might contain. For this purpose, one hundred grains reduced
  to an impalpable powder were mixed with twice their weight
  of boracic acid, as proposed by Sir H. Davy. The mixture,
  after fusion in a platina. crucible, was di ested in dilute nitric
  acid. After separating the siliceous eart , the bulk of the so
  lution was reduced by evaporation, supersaturated with car
   bonate of ammonia, and boiled; after <U+FB01>ltration, nitric acid
  was added to the liquor, which was again <U+FB01>ltered, and exposed
   to a temperature suf<U+FB01>cient to decompose the nitrate of am
   monia that had been formed.             The salt obtained was nitrate
   of potash, and weighed 28'6 grains, equivalent to 11-1 of
   alkali.
      Another portion of the specimen was treated in the usual
   manner.       The details of the processes it is unnecessary to re—
   peat, as- they presented nothing peculiar.          The composition
   of this feldspar was found to be as follows :
      ' Briefe aiis Wilschland, p. 430.
     1- From the Boston Journal of Philosophy and the Arts, Nov. 1823..
                                        Nn2                          Silex

284              Notices respecting New Books.
                Silex   .        .   .        .       .    .     .     72
                Lime.......1'2
                Alumina          .   .        .       .    .     .     10']
                                                                        8'2
                Magnesia         .   .        .       .    .     .
                Iron    .   .    .   .        .       .    .     .      2
                Chrome           .   .        .       .    .    atrace_
                Potash      .    .   .        .       .   .     .11'1
                                             99'6
                                                  I
                                                       I
In   some preliminary  experiments   detected <U+FB01>uoric acid ; but
on more minute examination of the specimen, small portions
of distinct <U+FB02>uate of lime were found connected with the feld
s ar; the source of the acid consequentl became evident. _                               I
a so noticed some metallic particles in       compound, whlch    the
are probably oxide of titanium.                          I
               L.   Notices respecting New Books.
The English Flora, Vols. and II. By Sir
                                I.                                   J.   E. SMITH, M.D.
     ER.S. President of the Linn. Soc. 4-0.                            6m. :30. 1824.
                            [Continued from               p.   233.]
WE        now proceed to notice the second volume of this ex
        cellent work; and we cannot forbear to express our ap
 probation that the author should so readily, and with such a
liberal spirit, have adopted the innovations of the youn er
 naturalists; andit    the best evidence of the soundness of
                      is                                                                is
 scienti<U+FB01>c principles, that he has made all his early predilec
tions, which, as possessor of the Linnaean Herbarium, cannot
have been few, accommodate themselves to the advancement
of science.    The new modelling the enera of which Linnaeus
was the author, had become abso utely necessary from the
vast accession of species.  It was a convenience in man cases
to break them down into smaller divisions, and in at ers                                it
was quite irreconcileable with our present knowledge to suffer
so many arti<U+FB01>cial assemblages of plants to remain combined.
This Was more particularly the case in all his natural orders,
which, from the circumstance of their being natural, were
with the greater di<U+FB01>iculty subdivided into distinct and ob
vious genera. The more closely the groups of nature are re
lated, the more difficult       in all cases to break them down
                                it
                                is
into subordinate divisions.   Thus in the Umbelliferous group,
which   is  completely natural,        not easy to distribute the
                                         it   is
genera, and most of them in consequence             are arti<U+FB01>cial.
“ Umbellatarum genera characteribus distinguere est res di<U+FB01>i
cillima,” says Linnaeus; and Jussieu makes         more pertinent       a
                                                           remark

                      Notices respecting  New Books.                285
   remark still, “ Umbelliferarum character generalis sim lex ac
   facilis, di<U+FB02>icilis generum distinctio ac distributio.”        n the
   other hand, when the genus is tolerably natural, it usually
   happens that the species are proportionably obscure, as ' for        ’
   example in Saxg'fraga, Ranuneulus, Rosa.                    sf.
      The arti<U+FB01>cial state in which Linnaeus had left the
   ferous genera rendered it very desirable that a revision should
  take place; and the learned author of the present work, with
  the assistance of Sprengel and Cusson, who are great authorities
  among these plants, has done well to undertake it. He has laid
  aside the in<U+FB02>orescence, to which Linnaeus, contrary to his own
  rules, had resorted for characters in this dif<U+FB01>cult tribe, and
  has introduced new characters from the parts of fructi<U+FB01>cation
  alone. In addition, he is much disposed to rely on a part
  which he calls the “<U+FB02>oral receptacle,” or disk, and which is
  “ a glandular ring, under the tumid bases of the styles, and
  mostly united therewith, but differing in substance, and often
  in duration, sometimes dilated into a thin undulated margin
  or ru<U+FB02>le, in general somewhat enlarged as the fruit ripens,
  sometimes withering, sometimes entirely wanting, <U+FB01>nally sepa
  rated into two parts, one of which accompanies each seed.”              _
  This attempt to characterize the genera is new, and, as far as
  a cursory study will justify an opinion, it appears likely to as
  sociate the species more naturally.         The application of the
 principle to living plants can alone establish its validity.         It
 has created the necessity of a fresh arrangement of the genera
 as to the series, and the removal of many species from their
 present station in the system.        Thus Caucalz's Anthrz'seus, in
festa,    and  nodosa   are  now   removed   to Torilz's, a enus of
’Adanson’s;        the daucoz'des and latg'folia only, whic     are of
 distinct habit, remaining behind. The old Scandix Ant/iriscus
 is now Antbriscus vulgaris ,- the Scandices having the “<U+FB02>oral
 receptacle <U+FB01>ve-lobed and coloured,” while Anthriseus has the
 same part “slightly bordered.”          The genus Myrr/u's is new,
 embracing the Linnaean Scandzlr odorata, Chreropllyllum te
 mulum, aureum, and a new one from Mr. G. Don, aromatz'cum.
 By the by, why does the present author continue the trivial
 name temulentum, without referring to the original name of te
 mulum? Linnaeus does not appear to have applied the epi
 thet, as Sir James notices, from any intoxicatin       quality which
 the lant possesses, but it is probably barbarous iatin referring
 to t e swollen joints.       So Sprengel calls it Myrrhz's temula.
 The Pig-nut, which has been changed and rechanged be
 tween Bum'um Bulbocastnnum and <U+FB01>eruosum, is settled down
 here to be the latter plant, though Ray could scarcely mean
 to designate the rarer plant by his common name.                Sz'san
                                                           immdutum

236                Notices respecting New Books.
inundatum (Hydrocotyle         inundata of   Fl. Br.) and verticilla
tum are removed to Sium, and Phellandrium         aquaticum to
@nantlze. The genus Meum, it appears, has no <U+FB02>oral receptacle,
and furnishes a reason why the Common Fennel (Anethum
Farniculum), and the Spignel, which has been an Athamanta of
some authors and an Etlzusa of others, and which is allied to
the Fennel in habit, should be united. Peucedanum Silaus, di
stinguishable by its <U+FB02>oral receptacle and its fruit, is now a
Cnidz'um.   Most of these changes, inconvenientv as they are to
present science, are warranted by the opinion of some of the
best forei n botanists; and Sprengel, who did not adopt the
  part of éucti<U+FB01>cation here introduced, but relied chie<U+FB02>y on
  the seeds, was led to similar conclusions.
      The Linnaean genus Juncus is entirely remodelled, and the
  author, following some other botanists, has separated 'the
  “grass-leaved” species of the old herbalists, which have but
  three seeds, and are quite distinct in habit, from the true Junci.
  Juncus arcticus and polycepkalus are new Scotch species from
  Professor Hooker’s “ Flora Scotica.” The name of J. bulbosus,
  inappropriately applied by Linnaeus, under a mistake, to the
  species bearing that name, is divided into compressus and cae
  nosus. J. gracilz's of former English botanists is here called Ges
  neri, the trivial name of gracilz's having been appropriated be
  fore by Mr. Brown to another species.           J. subverticillatus, a
  species quite distinct from ulz'gz'nosus, and long taken up by the
  continental botanists, is added. J. supinus of Don           is,  in the
  opinion    of the author,  only a starved  variety of his  ulz'gz'nosus
                                                                       ;
  but the plant noticed by some others, found by Hudson in
'
   Jersey, and <U+FB01>rst published by Mr. Symons in his useful Syn
   opsis, he discovers to be the true capitatus of foreign authors,
   a change in which we entirely concur.         The alteration of the
  name of the new genus from Luzula, which had been already
                                                                             '
   adopted, to Luciola, was hardly warranted upon any classical
   scruples, especially as ussieu has genus of Grasses which he
                        J               a
   calls Luzz'ola. The crest of the seed furnishes a sure criterion for
   distinguishing some of the most dif<U+FB01>cult species. The L. cam
  pestris<U+FB02>   is,  perhaps, rightly raised to a species under the name
   of congesta, which had been adopted in Forster’s “Flora Ton
   bridgensis.”     L. arcuata is  entirely new to our Flora, having
   been found by the indefatigable Glasgow Professor on the
    Grampian Mountains, and recently published in the continua
   tion of the “ Flora Londinensis.”
      The Rumex digynus affords the type of a new genus, which
    Mr. Brown has established under the title of Oxyria, a name,
    curious to relate, coined by the redoubtable knight Sir John
    Hill; but, as the Swedish proverb here quoted remarks,
                                                           “ Sometimes

                      Notices respecting New Books.                       287
   “ Sometimes     a blind hen meets with a grain of corn.”
                                                                     Rumex
  pulclzer   and maritimus, in spite of thescruples of some,
                                                                           are
   established as distinct species beyond doubt.             We are, how
   ever, still in want of the plant which Hudson called
                                                                    R. pala
  dosus.    The Alz'sma Plantago [3 and 7, which Withering and
   Symons had denominated lanceolata, appear to us to
                                                                         have
  been worth preserving as a good                         The main object,
                                            species.
  however, is to notice .these distinct states, and whether
                                                                         they
  are made varieties or species is of little
                                                 consequenCe to science.
  A. repens is added as new from a lamented
                                                        accurate observer,
  the Rev. H. Davies, author of the “ Welsh
                                                        Botanology.”
     Menziesz'a ceerulea, for which we are indebted to the
                                                                     Messrs.
  Brown, gardeners at Perth, is here united to
                                                                M  polg'folz'a
  (Erica Dabeoci F1. Br.), although the stamina are only eight,
  thus bringing it in the arti<U+FB01>cial
                                      system nearer to its natural allies
  the true Ericee.      Mr. Salisbury’s genus Calluna is sanctioned
  for the Common Ling.
     Daphne Mezereum, which rested upon a
                                                           single habitat of
  Millar, is found to grow in divers places, and
                                                              may be consi—
  dered as undoubtedly English. The
                                                 uncertainty concerning
  our species of Elatz'ne still continues. Mr. T.
                                                                 F. Forster
  thinks with Vaillant, that it is distinct from the
                                                               true Hydro
 pz'per of Linn., but it is still a doubt whether his
                                                              plant and the
  Shropshire plant are the same.            He <U+FB01>nds it plentifully, not
  we believe “near Bin<U+FB01>eld,” but
                                        on_the Dam Head, at the Cas
 cade, Virginia Water, Berks.
     The learned and candid author has
                                                     pro<U+FB01>ted by Mr. D.
 Don’s Monograph of the
                                  Saxifrages.      Saxg'<U+FB01>aga muscoz'des,
 the czespz'tosa of Hudson ; S. pygmcea, a
                                                discovery of Mr. James
 Donn, curator of the Cambridge garden,—a
                                                          name most pro
li<U+FB01>c in botanists; S. q<U+FB01>m's and incurvg'fblia,
                                                        discoveries of an
ardent naturalist, Mr. Mackay; S.
                                          leptoplzylla, aWelsh species;
and lcetevz'rens, are all new: but so much
                                                       doubt hangs over
some of them, that they require further
                                               observations to establish
their titles. The S. palmaz‘a E. B. is made
                                                       21 var. of S.
                                                                      crespi
tosa E. B.       British botanists will be pleased to see a
                                                                   new ha
bitat in Yorkshire added for the beautiful
                                                         S. IIz'rculus, for
which we are indebted to Mr. John
                                              Binks, a working miner
in Teesdale, who possessed no
                                       ordinary taste for the produc
tions of nature.       Hudson’s Diantkus arenarz'us still remains
unresolved.       Cucubalus baccg'fer is rejected.         It was one of
Dillenius’ additions, admitted on an
                                               authority which could
not afterwards be con<U+FB01>rmed, as
                                          appears from the “ Corre
spondence of Linnaeus and other Naturalists,”
                                                         lately published.
Sz'lene paradoma,—-the       vexata guestz'o of English botanists,—
                                                                      turns

   288                Notices respecting New Boo/cs.
  turns out to be nothing more than a variety of nutans, as Spar--v
  gula pentandra E. B. does of amensis.
      The genus Euphorbia is removed from the class Dodecan
  dria t0 Monmcia Monandria.             That which Linnaeus and
  others took for stamens appears to be distinct barren <U+FB02>owers,
  destitute of calyx and corol; and each consisting of a stamen,
  distin uished from its stalk by a separating joint only, occa
  sional y marked with some discoloration.
      We may be permitted, perhaps, to differ from our author
  in considering the Mespz'lus saliva of the old authors as our
  Wild Medlar, which is called the Nottingham Medlar. The
  Pyrus hybrida of his former works seems to have included two
  distinct plants ;—the Scotch species from the Isle of Arran,
  being the P. pinnati<U+FB01>'da of Ehr/z. Beitr. ,- and Hudson’s
  plant, which appears to be a variety of P. Aria.          Spireea sali
  cg'folia, hitherto   considered  so  doubtful  a  native,  now stands
  on the authority of several habitats, though none of those
  which are pointed out appear to set the question completely
  at rest.
      Our supreme favourites, the Roses, have under one a tho
  rough revision; and the published labours of lVfr. Woods
  and Mr. Lindley, as well as the important remarks of Mr.
  Sabine and Mr. E. Forster, have greatly contributed to the
  illustration of this most dif<U+FB01>cult family.     I‘ he author takes the
  middle path between Mr. Woods, who, as he apprehends,
  has created too many species, and Mr. Lindley, who has been
‘
  led to combine too many. In the stud of a genus hitherto
  imperfectly understood, he considers t e former as the least
  injurious error.
                        “ Corrected judgement may hereafter,” he
  observes,     “ combine   what precise observation, in the <U+FB01>rst
  instance,    has separated ;” and it is a fortunate occurrence for
  science,    that the minute analysis to which the genus has
  been subjected by Mr. Woods, has been conducted by a
  naturalist at once acute and correct.              Rosa cinnamomea
  seems to have scarcely any claim to a place in the British
  Flora, as it is not now to be found in the wood near Ponte
  fract, and was probably at <U+FB01>rst only an escape from a garden.
  R. Doniana, Sabim', which is the <U+FB01>nest Rose we possess,
  sarmentacea, bractescens, and dumetorum are new species added
  by Mr. Woods.         R. subglobosa and Forsteri are additions of
  the present author. R. villosa E. B. is R. gracilz's of Woods,
  and of the present work; R. mollz's is R. villosa ,- R. scabrz'us
  cula is made a variety of tomentosa ,- R. dumetorum is R. Bor
   reri ,- and R. collina is R. systyla.
      It has been found necessary to revise the Rubi in a similar
                                                                 manner,

                 Notices respecting   New Baal-s.               289
  manner, and for the same reasons.           Thus we <U+FB01>nd Rub'us
 plicatus, rlzamng'fblius, leucostackfys, glandulosus, nitidus, and
           all new; part admitted on the authority of VVeihe and
  (ginis,
     ees, authors of a very elaborate work, with plates, on the
  German Rubi; and part on the authority of some En lish
  botanists, who found their own views corroborated by gose
  authors.     The alterations are considerable, but they are made
 with peculiar sagacity; and if some of the youn er naturalists
 suffer inconvenience from the multiplication ot species, they
  will be compensated by the correctness of future combinations
 to which this minute analysis necessarily leads.          In these
 dif<U+FB01>cult genera it is become doubly important to bring the
 assimilated species together under some leading characters by
 way of divisions, as the author has done, so that if the student
 is 'not successful in determining the species, he may at least
 discover its af<U+FB01>nities.
                                        J
     Since the former publications of Sir . E. Smith the Potentillae
have been elucidated by more than one Monograph appro
priated to the subject. Like the Roses and the Brambles, they
are of dif<U+FB01>cult discrimination.      P. aurea of E. B. is alpestrz's
of this work, a correction which has been suggested by M.
 Haller jun. We are a little disappointed not to <U+FB01>nd the
P. werna of St. Vincent’s Rocks, and other places, noticed as
a variety, at least, of the Su<U+FB01>'olk plant.      Fragaria sterilis is
removed to this enus, to which it more properly belongs than
to its former station. It would have comported with the views
also of many botanists, if the two states or varieties of P. fru
ticosa had been pointed out to the attention of investigators.
The Teesdale plant seems to have been <U+FB01>rst discovered by
Thomas Willisel, as Ray informs us in his Letters, and bore
the name of “ Eboracensis” among the old botanists.          It was
at that time considered so greata rarity, or was so little underd
stood, that Ray published a plate of it in the second edition
of his Catalogue. A second <U+FB01>gure was published in an early
volume of the Philosophical Transactions. Another state of the
plant is found at the Devil’s Sledgegate, Wastedale Screes,
Cumberland, with broader, less revolute and less hairy leaves,
and with a different rami<U+FB01>cation; and this appears to be the
plant known to foreigners, and to- be the origin of our garden
variety.     The plate in English Botany seems to be drawn
from a garden specimen, as we feel persuaded that all '1 ees
dale would not furnish an example like      it.  The laborious and
critical Dr. Stokes records another habitat in his “ Botanical
 Materia Medica,” amon Limestone, on the Banks of Loch
Crib in the county of Ga loway. Wade mentions other places
     VOL 63. N0. 812. April 1824-.              O 0               in

290                 Notices respecting        Books.
in Ireland in which it is found.       What these may be we have
no means of judging.
    We omitted to notice in the roper lace that Cuscuta
europlea is found in two states, t e one           eing intermediate
between that and Epithymum.            The scales of the corolla,
which the author and Dr. Hooker deny to exist in europtea,
in contradiction to the high authority of Mr. Brown, have been
noticed by the writer of these remarks, not in the fauces, as
in C. Epithymum, but lower down the corolla, and of a differ
 ent shape, and thus furnishin a decisive speci<U+FB01>c character.
    We ought also to have added, that, since the English Florahas
been in the press, Gentiana germanica has been discovered to
 be a native, growing between Henham and Chickney in Essex,
 as far as an authentication by specimens gathered in Hanover,
 received by Mr. E. Forster from Mr. H. Mertens,                   can
 establish the fact.
    The Indexes to the work are more copious than usual, and
comprehend references to the Natural Orders, and the Syn
onyms of other writers.
     We regret that our limits will not allow us to go more at
 large into the excellences of this work.         To those who are
            in the study which it embraces, it will afford abund
engaiged
ant     elight; and we feel assured that the English language
can boast of a Flora, as far as it has proceeded, not inferior
to any in its general scope, and in some particulars superior
 to all which have preceded it. As a work peculiarly English,
we wish that the provincial names had been more liberally
 introduced.     They serve to illustrate the history of the sub
ject, and oftentimes point at relations which the more philo
 sophic inquirer might overlook.        The <U+FB01>rst step of knowledge
is a rude combination of particulars, which is often to be
discovered in vulgar names; the next is a minute analysis
and searching into the individuals, and upon this step the
 science of Natural History is halting in this country at the
present moment; the third and most important is the gene
 ralization of particular truths, and this is the end to which all
our efforts should ultimately be directed, and from which re
                               —_
sults. the most important to science may con<U+FB01>dently
anticipated.                                           .     v
                                                                    be
 A Translation     of the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of
    Physicians of London. 1824.        VVitlz Notes and Illustratimzs.
    By RICHARD PHILLIPS, ER.S. L. 6" E. #0. 8vo. pp. 826.
    The appearance of a new Pharmacopoeia from the Royal
College of Physicians after so short a lapse of time as four
                                                                  teen

                    Notices respecting New Books.                291
  teen years, would seem to imply some decided improvement in
  one or more of the departments of Pharmaceutical Science:
  and if we take a retrospective view of the several branches of
  science which the Materia Medica involves, we <U+FB01>nd abundant
  reasons for a revision at least of the former PharmacopOeia, if
  not for the production of a new one altogether.      The Royal
  College was unquestionably warranted in publishing a new
 Pharmacopoeia in 1809, and in revising the same in 1815; but
 we see no grounds for regarding the present one as new, it
 being in fact no more than a second revision and correction
 of the edition of 1809, with some additions.
     The practitioner in medicine having to abide by the direc
 tion of a certain body of men, in his compounding and making
 use of such medicines as constitute a sort of national Phar
 macopoeia, must naturally feel anxious that these should not
 only be fully adequate to the purposes for which he may wish
 to administer them; but also that they should allow of being
 prepared without       dif<U+FB01>culty  or uncertainty ; whilst the
 physician who can claim no direct interference with the
 concerns of the College, must necessarily exercise his un
 doubted right of criticising its measures; authorized as it is
to propound what medicines may be employed, and thus in a
manner to con<U+FB01>ne the means of cure within certain limits.
 We are aware that the physician is quali<U+FB01>ed to prescribe
 whatever he may think proper: but inasmuch as the dispenser
 of medicines need not have more or other remedies in his pos
 session than are ordered by the College, this privilege is ren
dered of no avail, as must be felt, more especially, by such as
are not resident in the Metropolis. Under these circumstances,
therefore, we cannot be surprised at individuals undertakin
 to review and to translate the Pharmacopoeia of the College ;
 and to recommend new remedies, accordingly as science and
experience discover and con<U+FB01>rm their utility.       This will also
account for the appearance of new Pharmacopoeias from time
to time, or for new and improved editions ; and both the
College and private individuals are highly justi<U+FB01>ed in their
respective exertions for attaining greater perfection in this most
important branch of the ars medendi.
    The present Pharmacopoeia owes its improvement and com
parative perfection, we may say, to accumulated experience in
           and to several individuals in particular: among the
general,
  atter Mr. Phillips stands very conspicuous. This gentleman,
in his “ Experimental Examination of the last Edition of the
Pharmacopoeia Londz'nensis,” was unquestionably too severe in
his remarks, both on the ori inal, and on Dr. Powell’s transla
tion and annotations: but t ere was nevertheless so much of
                             O0 2                             truth

292                Notices respect-ing New Books.
truth in many ol'his observations, that the professionis certainly
indebted to them in some measure for the present improved edi
tion. The translation of this edition has been undertaken by Mr.
Phillips, who has added to it copious notes and illustrations, so
as to make a volume highly useful, and we would say indispen
sable, to every medical practitioner and student : the object of it
being to explain the various processes, and the rationale of
them, in a way that will admit neither of ambiguity nor of doubt;
so that the student will <U+FB01>nd no di<U+FB02>iculty in making himself
acquainted with the intentions of the College in their directing
certain processes in preference to others for the preparation
of medicines. Accordingl , to each article he annexes the
history and rationale oft e process for preparing the same;
and, wherever he thinks it requisite, points out how the pro
 cess may be facilitated or improved : and it is evident that his
 suggestions do not proceed from an arbitrary desire to pro
pose the adoption of any processes of his own before others;
 but from a wish to remove those obstacles which he himself
has met with whilst subjecting the directions of the College to
 examination.
     Every one must allow that Mr. Phillips is well quali<U+FB01>ed
for such an undertakin ;' more especially as, with regard to
 subjects to the knowlet ge of which his own pursuits have not
 led him, he seeks for information from the most respectable
 sources; and takes advanta e of their useful observations
 and illustrations.    Althoughais condescending to mark the
 pronunciation of the names of the articles in the Pharma
 copoeia has been spoken of with some degree of ridicule, yet
 for ourselves, as we daily experience sad proofs of ignorance
 in this respect, with men of considerable reputation, as well as
 with those for whom this condescension was intended as an as
 sistance, we think the translation is thereby rendered more
 useful.   The external characters and more apparent qualities
 of the various substances are given with reat accuracy, the
 forms even of the crystals being delineate , and the measure
 ment of their angles as ascertained by the re<U+FB02>ective gonio
 meter detailed. The composition of most of the chemical
 substances is stated centesimally, and also according to the
 atomic doctrine.      The adulteration to which the different
 articles are liable is pointed out, together with its causes,
 whether arising from accident or from fraudulent design; and
 at the same time the modes by which such adulteration- may
 be discovered, counteracted, or removed.             Next, the sub
  stances
           which  would    prove  incompatible   with  each other on
 mixture,        carefully  stated;  and lastly, the  medicinal  uses
            are
 0f the, various simples and compounds, and the extent to which
                                          ‘                     thev

                    Notices respecting New Books.                 295
they may be administered under all circumstances, or their
doses.      Much of this information has been obtained from other
authors; but we nevertheless cannot but think that the profes
sion in general is greatly indebted to Mr. Phillips for bringing
it within so small a compass.        It is exactly what we wished to
see; and we feel much pleasure in laying before our readers one
example of Mr. Phillips’s translation, and of the illustrations
which he has appended to it.
                     “ Antimonium Tartarizitum.
                          Tartarized Antimony.
Take of Glass of antimony reduced to a very <U+FB01>ne powder,
           Supertartrate of potash powdered, of each one pound,
           Boiling distilled water a gallon;
    Mix the glass of antimony perfectly with the supertartrate
of potash, and add them gradually to the boiling distilled
water, stirring it continually with a spatula; boil for a quarter
of an hour, and set the solution by; <U+FB01>lter it when cold, and
evaporate it that crystals may form.
    “ Process.—-The method of preparing this very
                                                       important me
dicine is materially altered, and exceedingly improved, in the
present Pharmacopoeia: but          I  think it is better to emplo
about one-tenth more of glass of antimony, and to boil the
mixture for a longer time than is directed.
     Glass of antimony is prepared by exposin the sulphuret to
heat and air, by which the greater part of t e sulphur is dis
sipated; and the antimony, by combining with the oxygen of
the air, is converted into protoxide, conSIsting of
        Antimony           84-62 or of 1 atom of metal... :44
        Oxygen             15'38        1 atom ofoxygen. = 8
                          10000         Weight of its atom=52
     It is afterwards strongly heated in an earthen crucible, by
combining with some of the silica of which it forms a species
of glass, which is transparent, and of a red colour. It consists
of protoxide of antimony combined with variable proportions
 of silica, and a little sulphur.                        I
                                        A specimen that examined
 contained only <U+FB01>ve per cent. of silica, which is less than is
nerally mentioned.         The state of combination in which the
 sulphur exists, has not been,     I  think, clearly made out; that
 is to say, it is uncertain whether it is in combination with
 oxide of antimony, or whether its presence is owing to a per.
 tion of undecomposed sulphuret.           I suspect, however, as ge
 nerally supposed, that the former is the case, for the residuum
 insoluble in the supertar-trate of potash has a red colour, re
sembling that of kermes mineral.
                                                                   As

    294                         Notices respecting New Boo/rs.
         As         lass   of antimony
                               is much cheaper than it was some
    years s1nce, there is only one material objection to its use, and
    that    that glass of lead
              is,                 sometimes mixed with, and occa
                                          is
     sionally altogether substituted for it; and their appearance                                    is
    so similar,   that the most experienced eye may be deceived:
    it    however easy to distinguish these substances by their che
         is
     mical characters.      have observed that the insoluble portion
                                 I
    of glass of antimony      of a red colour; but when glass of lead
                                    is
    is boiled in a solution of supertartrate of potash,        very soon     it   is
    rendered black, and scarcely any of           dissolved.
                                                           it   It also
                                                                is                          is
    easily detected by heating       in dilute nitric acid:
                                          it                   the solu           if
    tion contain lead, sulphuric acid will occasion a white preci
    pitate in it.
        The present process for making tartarized antimony          sim                    is
    ple: supertartrate of potash, as already mentioned, contains
    excess of acid, and when a solution of            boiled with glass
                                                                it    is
    of antimony, the protoxide of antimony          dissolved, while the
                                                                 is
    sulphuretted oxide and silica remain unacted upon.          The so
    lution thus obtained consists of tartrate of potash and tartrate
‘
    of antimony, and these combining form a double salt, called
    tartrate of potash and antimony, or tartarized antimony.
                              Tartarized Antimony, or
                    Tartrate of Potash and Tartrate of Antimony.
                                                    A_
                            I                                                1
                             2   atoms Acid.        Protoxide of           An—
    Supertartrate            1   atom Potash             timony
     .     or
                                                                                                    of
                                                                                  I
         .                                                                             Glass
       Bltartrate                                                                          .
              0f                                                                   Antlmony
                                        Sulphuretted Ox-
        Potash.                             ide of Anti
                                            mony,       Silica       8c
       “ Qualities.—-Tartarized antimony crystallizes with great
    facility, and the general character of the crystals of this com
    pound      that of an octahedron with a rhombic base
               is                                                                  *2
       The crystals of this salt are colourless and inodorous, but
    have a styptic metallic taste: on exposure to the air, they ef
    <U+FB02>oresce slightly, and become opaque. When heated with
    carbonaceous matter this salt        decomposed, and metallic an
                                               is
    timony      obtained.
                is             It   soluble in about <U+FB01>fteen times its
                                         is
    weight of water at 60°, and twice its weight at 212°.                The
    aqueous solution decomposes spontaneously after                has been      it
    some time prepared.         It insoluble in alkohol.
                                         is
      * In the original    diagram of the crystal as usually occurring
                                a                                         here                 is
    given; with its cleavage and measurements.    For the crystallogl'aphical
    illustrations in this work, Mr. Phillips             acknowledges       his obligationto
    Mr. Brooke.
                                                                                   '   “   Compo

                  Notices respecting   New Books.                  295
   “ Composition.—This       is a double salt, or a compound of tar
                                                    I
 trate of potash and tartrate of antimony; but am not satis<U+FB01>ed
 with the results of any analysis hitherto given—that which is
 generally quoted, is obviously incorrect.
    “ Adulteration.—This salt should never be purchased in
 powder, but always in crystals: in the former state it frequently
 contains a portion of supertartrate of potash uncombined with
 any oxide, and which in preparing the liquor antimonii tar
 tarizati is precipitated. To judge if the crystals have been pro
 perly prepared, drop one or two into a solution of sulphuretted
 hydrogen gas, and an orange- coloured deposite will be formed
 on them.
    “ Incmnpatibles.—The solution of this salt is
                                                      decomposed by
 acids, by alkalies and their carbonates, by some of the earths
 and metals, and their'roxides, by lime-water, muriate of lime,
 and the acetates of lead. Many vegetable infusions, and espe
 cially those which are bitter and astringent, decompose     it, such
 as cinchona, rhubarb, catechu, 8w.
    “ Medicinal uses.—Tartarized antimony either sweats,
 vomits, or purges,                  to the quantity exhibited.     A
 quarter of a grain, according
                      if   thes    in be kept warm, will promote    a
 diaphoresis; ha‘lfa grain will <U+FB01>rst prove purgative, and then
 diaphoretic; and one grain will generally vomit, then purge,
 and lastly sweat the patient.      It may be given in solution.”
    We confess we were somewhat surprised at Mr. Phillips’s
 observations on the Pulvis Antimonialis, which tend to impress
the reader with the idea of its inutility and inertness; when
thousands of practitioners are daily administering      it as an ef<U+FB01>
cient febrifuge, either by itself or in combination with calomel;
without experiencing that universal disappointment which the
observations in question would lead us to expect: indeed, we
 know from our own experience that         it   will produce nausea
 and sometimes vomiting, though iven in no greater quantity
than three or four grains; this    e      is
                                         ect   not at all uncommon
in children.      Inferences drawn a priori from the results of
chemical analysis, must not be allowed to supersede the tes
timony of general experience.
    The results of the analysis of three di<U+FB01>'erent specimens
of this medicine, being peroxide of antimony and phosphate of
lime in different proportions, and those obtained by Dr. Pear
son in his examination of James’s Powder,       a   reeing so closely
with those obtained by Mr. Phillips himsel      ,    not only as to
the ingredients, but also to their proportions, ought, we think,
to have induced Mr. Phillips to have refrained, from asserting
this preparation to be altogether useless; nor should he have
founded his distrust respecting the Pulvis Anfimonialis,
                                                                uppn
                                                                  tie
              ‘

296                Notices respecting New Books.
 the authority of .Drs. Latham and Duncan, who do not speak
of its inef<U+FB01>cacy or     inel'tness, but of that of the peroxide of an
timony alone, uncombined or not prepared with phosphate of
lime.     The latter, indeed, expressly states, that, “ howsoever
prepared,” this medicine “is one of the best antimonials we
possess.”      Mr. Phillips, we are sure, need not be told of
the many instances in which the combination of two or more
               of different qualities, produces on the system effects
ingredients
w ich are wholly irreconcileable with their known qualities
when separate.        The testimony of Mr. Brande avails little
          the ef<U+FB01>cacy of this powder, seeing that it is founded
against
c   ie<U+FB02>y on the uncertainty of its genuine preparation;             for
it is very certain that many important formulae might be
removed from the Pharmacopoeia on similar grounds: and
it is not less possible, that Dr. Elliotson might happen to
administer one hundred grains of a sophisticated article with
as little effect as must the Veterinary surgeon have done, had
he administered to a horse one hundred ounces of a spurious
substance, which a druggist, not unknown                to us, palmed
upon him for so much pure opium.
    We cannot but agree with Dr. Paris, (Pharmacologia,
vol.   ii.p. 357.) that
                             “ until the subject be elucidated by
further experiments,    it     will be dif<U+FB01>cult for the chemist to per
suade the physician, that he can never have derived any
bene<U+FB01>t from the exhibition of Antimonia'l Powder.”
    Peroxide of antimony and phosphate of lime being respec
tively inert, or nearly so, but the Pulvis Antimonz'alis, we
con<U+FB01>dently affirm, an ef<U+FB01>cacious medicine, may not the vir
tues of the latter reside in some peculiar combination existing
init   of the two substances or their elements? In the pro
cess of analysis, such a combination would be resolved into
the peroxide and phosphate, thus                            whole, ap
parently,    a mere   mixture    of  those   renderingvthe
                                           bodies.   e    would  there
fore suggest to Mr. Phillips the expediency of instituting
further researches on this subject.
    Considering the subject just discussed to be one of much
importance, we deemed        it     right to express our sentiments
concerning it; but     it   is    the only one, in the work before
us, on which we feel disposed to animadvert: and we have
no doubt that this volume will be generally sought after, and
receive     large share of approbation.
             a
   The Rev.W. Pearson, LL.D. F.R.S. Treasurer of the Astro
nomical Society, hasjust publishedlthe <U+FB01>rst volume of An Intro
duction to Practical Astronomy; containing Tables recently
computed for facilitating the reduction of Celestial Observa
tions, andapopular explanation of their Construction and Use.

                                    [    297      ]
    ANALYSIS OF PERIODICAL              WORKS       0N NATURAL HISTORY.
                         Curtis’s British Entomology.
                      No. 4. contains the following subjects :            as
     P1. 15. Omasezw aterrimus of Fab., not of Marsham's Entomologia Bri
 tannica: this <U+FB01>ne insect, which a few years back only existed in the cabi
 net of Mr. Jos. Hooker, has been met with in Norfolk by Mr. Sparshall in
 su<U+FB02>icient    abundance to supply all our cabinets.-Pl. 16. Peronea rujicos
tana, an elegant little species of the “ Button Moths,” only existing in the
 cabinet of Mr. Stone, unknown to Hubner. This newgenus of Mr. Curtis’s
is composed of 42 British species, being a group of the extensive family Tor
 tricidae Leach—Pl. l7. Croesus septentrionalir, a singular and beautiful
species of Tenthredinida: from Norfolk and the neighbourhood                of London.
 —Pl. 18. Empis burealis. Dr. Turton <U+FB01>rst gave this as a British 5 ecies,
but we only know of its having been taken in Ireland; Linnaeus as Sir
James E. Smith informs us in the Lachesis Lapponica met with it twice in
 Lapland; and as it is found much further south than               ngland, there is lit
tle doubt that it will make its appearance here alive.~ The singular <U+FB01>n-like
wings give a heavy appearance to this insect; and the proboscis of many of
the species, so much resembling the long bill of some of our birds, bears a.
still stronger resemblance in living specimens, when the labrum being
separated from the lip discovers the tongue between them.
            The Botanical Magazine.              Nos. 445, 446, 447.
     PI. 2461. Rkipsalis salicornoider, Haworth Suppl. Pl. Succ.—Malpighia
lucida. —Cn'num submersum,        an interesting plant from Rio Janeiro, de
                                      “ in
scribed by Mr. Herbert as being            every point of bulb, leaf, and in<U+FB02>ore
scence,intermediate      between scabrum and erubeseens.” The writer adds,
“ Have we in this instance discovered a native mule in the wilderness?
 Have we lit upon the <U+FB01>rst origin of a new species? or, have we in this
bulb an original link in the creation between two plants which have been
placed by some writers in different genera ?”—Hnbrantlm.s gracilifolius, an
                                                        “ with no
elegant plant from Maldonado, S. A., agreeing                         genus heretofore
described," and approaches in general appearance to Zephyrantkes:                    from
Aumryllis it differs “ by a hollow scape, peduncles erect, germ declined,
and <U+FB01>laments of four lengths equally inserted."—Eriea bucvinifolia, “ <U+FB02>ori
bus subquaternis, bracteis a calyce remotis, foliis quaternis linearibus
ciliatis ;" the drawing and description furnished by E. Rudge, Esq. F .R.S.
&c.—-Crinum Careyanum.
                              “ This species,” says Mr. Herbert, “ forms a
                                                                                     point
of union between the <U+FB01>rst subdivision of the section Patenles, or Linnman
Crinum, and the <U+FB01>rst subdivision of the second section which has been de~
tached from the genus Amaryllis, with which it does not conform."
    P1. 2467. Eulopbia guiueenszls.-Antennaria
                                                                    “ herbacea erecta,
                                                     triplinervis,
foliis oblongo-ovatis triplinerviis subtus tomentoso-incanis,           ccrymbis com
positis laxis foliosis, squamis calycinis interioribus tenuissimis radiantibus;"'
from Nepal. The genus was separated by Mr. Brown from Gunplzalium.—
Lonicera punicea, “ foliis cordato-ovatis concoloribus, baccis distinctis, pe
dunculis axillaribus subterminalibus       bi<U+FB02>oris folio brevioribus.”-—Coriarin
                                                                        “ foliis
:armentosa, a rare New Zealand plant.—Cyrtnntkus pallidus,                        lineari
lanceolatis carinatis hysterantheis, corollis nutantibus infundibuliformibus,
limbo tubum subaequante."-Artemisia biennis, from seeds gathered by Dr,
Richardson on his journey to the Copperrnine River with Capt. Franklin.
—thites nutam.—-Sedum sempervivoide: introducedfrom the south OfCau
casus by Dr. Fischer.
      P1. 2475. Hippeaztrum      subbarbalum.       It is suggested that it may
Vol. 63. No. 312. April 1824.                                Pp ~                Perhaps

  998        Analysis    of Periodical Works         on  Natural History.
   perhaps be found expedient to unite, as varieties of one species, the abova,
   with fulgidum, rulilum, crocatum, and pulverulenlum.                Mules of this
  genus are abundant, there being now 35 hybrid crosses in the Spo<U+FB01>‘orth
   collection, the pollen of all of which appears to be f8rtile.—Dor.ttenia ari
 folia.—Vemania <U+FB02>ezuosa,“caule stricto superne dichotomo: ramis <U+FB02>ex
  nosis, <U+FB02>oribus ad dichotomias et <U+FB02>exuras ramulorum               sessilibus;”     raised
  from seed sent from Brazil.—Angelonia salicariwfolia, Nat. Ord. Scrip/zu
  laria’, from the Caracas—Coir Laclxryma.—Enteléa arborescem, disco
  vered in New Zealand b Sir J. Banks and Dr. Solander, and <U+FB02>owered for
  the<U+FB01>rst time robably in urope, in 1823, in the stove of Messrs. Whitley,
  Brame, and         ilne.   It is placed by Mr. Brown in his natural order of
   Tiliacow next to Sparmannia.
               The Botanical Register.            Nos.   108, 109, 110.
      P1. 771. Canna limbata,
                                   “ corolla: limbi interioris labio superiore tri
  partito; laciniis emarginatis crenatis_; unguibus longis: labio inferiore bi
  <U+FB01>do declinato.” The character intended for his own work is acknowledged
  as having been liberally communicated           by Mr. Roscoe,
                                                                    “ a writer deeply
  versed in the study of this natural family,        and  whose  pen has been more
  than once and still is employed in its illustration.”—Canna occideiitalis,
  “ corollie limbi interioris labio superiore bapartito, laciniis integris ovatis
  iuaaqualibus: labio inferiore declinato (vel rectius revoluto ?”)- Cmma lulea.
  “ We have been prompted,” say the editors, “ to insert                in the present
  fasciculus <U+FB01>ve <U+FB01>gures from the samples of as many species of Came, in the
  hope that they might serve for exempli<U+FB01>cations of their textuury counter
          in the forthcoming work on a portion of the Monandrous class by
      r. Roscoe.
  R2115            \Ve ought to have awaited the appearance of that perform
 ance, if we had intended their com lete and most authentic history.”-
  Hedychium gardnerianum, a new species from Nepal: for a fuller account
 than has been given of this increasing genus, we also look to Mr. Roscoe’s
  anxiously expected work on the Scitaminese.—Canna               c'dulis, from Peru;
  the indica of Ruiz and Pavon.—Canna indica. “ We have not,” say the
  editors, “ ventured to supply any of the new names and remodelled cha
  racters of the Enumeratio of Willdenow, and acknowledge that to us at
  least these riddles are insoluble.”—Alpinia tubulata, “ foliis alterne bifariis
  remotissimis;     scapo vaginato laterali; bracteis communibus              divaricatis
 aridis acuminatis persistentibus;       corolla tubulosa; labello incluso ; anther-a
  sessili.”-This number, which concludes the ninth volume, contains de
 scriptions of Ipomren tuberosa and Galega grandi<U+FB02>ora, which had been
 omitted; a Review of the genus Jasminum, together with a general Index,
 and references to enumerations ofLiliaceous genera in the several volumes
 of the work.
     Pl- 778._C/zr_ysipbiala<U+FB02>ava, a Pancraiiimz of Ruiz and Pavon, from which
 genus this is                  and the four species which constitute its basis have
 furnished Mr.sepiarated;
                       erbert with four of his new genera of Amaryllidea; but
 the editor says,“ Mr. Herbert’s distinctions are too <U+FB01>ne for our sight."
  Cluylia ericoides.—Plumeria        rubra.— Grindelia an urtifolia, from Mexico.
 —1.z'ora cracala, given upon the judgement of Mr. gweet as a species distinct
 from coccinea.—Epidendrum           cuspidatum and ciliare, two plants which have
 been often confounded.v
     Pl. 785. LOME acantkifolia, raised by the Horticultural Society from
 seeds from Chili.—Maranta          bicolor, from the Brazils.-—Ban]csia (lush-alia—
 Cypripedium venustum, the <U+FB01>rst accession from theEast Indies to this genus.—
.Indtgo era endccaphylla.- Calceolrn'ia crenala.—Tribulu: cisloider; the genus
is of t e natural order Zygopliylleze proposed by Mr. Brown, and adopted
by M. Decandolle, who describes it as c0ming_between Ruiavozt’ and Oxa
lidezz.     \Ve are happy to quote the following paragraph relative to this
                              '
                                                                          distinguished

                       Royal Society—Linnwan          Society.                299
   distinguished    botanist, which we may consider to be intended as some
   atonement for the illiberal insult offered to him in a former Number, and
   which we have had occasion to reprehend                Mag. vol. lxii. p. 303).
  “ It is with pleasure we <U+FB01>nd the consummate(Phil.   talents, sagacity, and in
   dustry, with which M. Decandolle is indisputably endowed, directed to any
  object that they may accomplish t0 the great advantage of science, instead
  of struggling with impossibilities; and we congratulate our readers on the
  a pearance of the <U+FB01>rst volume of the Prodromus of a general system, in
  w ich the known species will <U+FB01>nd a place in their respectire divisions, with
  only a short notice of the distinctions, and one or two select synonyms.”
  -Portulaca pilosa.
                    LI.   Proceedings   of Learned      Societies.
                                 ROYAL SOCIETY.
 Apr.                      reading  was commenced       of “ An Inquiry re
 .
           1.—THE     specting the   Nature of the luminous Power of
 some of the Lampyrides: L. splendilula, or Glow-worm; L.
 halica, or Fire-<U+FB02>y; and L. noctiluca ;” by Tweedie John
                                                                                 '
 Todd, M.D. Communicated by Sir E. Home, V.P.R..S.
      April 8.—The reading of Dr. Todd’s paper was resumed
 and concluded; and a paper by Capt. Sabine, F.R.S., was
 read, containing a Comparison of the Geometrical and Baro
 metrical Methods of determining Heights, as applied to a Hill
 at Spitzbergen.
      The Society then adjourned to April 29th.
                               LINNIEAN    SOCIETY.
      April 6.—A letter from the Rev. William Whitear, M.A.
 F.L.S. of Starston, Norfolk, communicated the information
that a Little Bustard had been shot by Mr. Skipper, of Little
 Clacton,       Essex, in December last; remarking it as an extra
ordinary       fact, that this bird, an    inhabth        of a Southern cli
mate, should have been found in this country in a hard winter.
     The reading was commenced of a Description and Account
of a Collection of Arctic Plants formed by Captain Sabine
during a voyage in the Polar Seas in the year 1823; by
 W. J. Hooker, LL.D. F.R.S. Professor of Botany in the
University of Glasgow; communicated by the Council of the
Horticultural Society.                                                  .
     April 20.—-Some sections of <U+FB01>r timber were exhibited by
Sir Thomas Gery Cullum, Bart. RR. 8; LS:                                    to a
greatdepth by the Sirexjuvencus, together W1tperforated         specnnens of
this insect, from the woods of the Earl of Stradbroke at Hen
ham Hall in the county of Suffolk, where two hundred Scotch
<U+FB01>rs have been already destroyed, being bored through and
through by it.                                      .
 .       .   .                        Pp   2                               The

300           Limuean Society—Horticultural Society.
    The reading of Professor Hooker’s Description of the
Plants collected by Capt. Sabine in his late Voyage in the
Polar Seas was continued : much interest is given to this Com
munication by the information afforded relative to the geogra
phical range of these specimens of the Arctic Flora derived
from the accounts of Parry, Wahlenberg, Scoresby, Ross,
Richardson, Jameson, Swartz, Pursh, 8w. &c.                The lovers
of natural history will feel grateful to Capt. Sabine, who was
fully occupied, while 'on this voyage, with pursuits of a dif
ferent kind, for having been so attentive to Botany and Zoo
10    '.
   gA part was read     of a Catalo e of the Norfolk and Suffolk
 Birds, with remarks, by the            av. Revett Sheppard, M.A.
 F. L.S., and the Rev. William Whitear, M.A. F.L.S.,—-a paper
 which seems to possess much interest, from the particulars
 which it furnishes of the habits and histo        of the many migra
tory birds that visit this district from          e northern part of
the Continent.
                      HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY.
    Feb. 17.—The Society’s large Silver Medal was presented to
 Signor Antonio Piccioli, a Correspondin           Member of the S0
ciety,   for his present of a large collection of Models   ofthe Fruits
of Tuscany, made to the Society.
    March 2.—-T he following communications were read :
    Observations on the Effects of Age on Fruit Trees of
 different kinds, with an Account of some new Varieties of
 Nectarines.      By the President.
    A Note on the Pears called Sylvanges. By Mons. Charles
 Francois Pierard, of Manjouy, near Vendun-sur-Meuse, a
 Corresponding Member of the Society.
    Accounts and Descriptions of some new Pears.               By Mr.
 John Turner, the Assistant Secretary.
     March 16.—-The large Silver Medal was presented to Mr.
 Charles Harrison, F.H.S., for his newly published Work on
  Fruit Trees.
     The following communications were read:
     ()n Fig Trees, with a Description and Account of their Cul
 tivation in a F ig-House in the Garden of the late Earl of
 Bu'dgewater, at Ashrid e in Hertfordshire. By Joseph Sa
bine, Esq. F.R.S. &c., Secretary.
    On the Cultivation of Early Crops of Peas. By Mr. Da
 niel Judd, F.H.S.
     On the Preparation of Strawberry Plants for early Forcing.
 By the President.
    April 6.-The large Silver Medal was presented to Mr.
                                                               William

            Horticultural Suciefy.—Astronomical  Society.      801
William Buck, F.H.S., for the Production and Dissemination
of the very superior Variety of Rhubarb, called “ Buck’s Rhu
barb.”
    The following communications were read:
    Directions for the Man ement of the Hot-house Fire
places that are constructed With double Doors and ash-pit Re
gisters.      By William Atkinson, Esq. F .H.S.
    Descri tion of an Apparatus for ventilating Hot-houses.
By Mr. George Mugliston of Repton, near Derby.
    ()n a Construction Strawberry Beds. By Thomas Bond,
 E s< .
    Description of a self-acting Ventilator for Hot-houses.      By
John Williams, Esq., a Corresponding Member of the So
ciet    .
     Aypril  20.—The following communications were read:
    Description of a new-invented Lime-duster, with Observa
tions on the Ef<U+FB01>cacy of Lime in Powder applied to Fruit
 Trees. By Mr. Samuel Curtis.
     Account and Description of <U+FB01>ve new Chinese Chrysanthe
 mums, with some Observations relative to the Treatment of
 all the kinds at present cultivated in England; and on other
 Circumstances connected with the Varieties generally.           By
 Joseph Sabine, Esq. F.R.S. 8m, Secretary.
                       ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.
     April 9.-'—At this Meeting   the following papers were read;
 VIZ.
     1st.   On the Elements of the Orbit of the Comet of 1823,
 computed from Observations made at the Royal Observatory
 at Greenwich.       By llrIr. W. Richardson, Assistant to the As
 tronomer Royal.
     These elements were computed by Dr. Olbers’s method.
 The paper likewise contained a comparison of his elements
 with. the Greenwich Observations from January 1st to Fe
 bruary 2nd; and in more than half the Observations, the re
  sults of the elements did not differ from them so much as 2’
  in longitude, or so much as l' in latitude.
   . 2d. On the Corrections     requisite for the Trian les which
  occur in Geodesic Operations.       By Capt. George verest, of
  Bengal, Conductor of the Trigonometrical Survey in India.
      This paper contained the solution of two problems by for
  mulaz employed in India since 1819, and which the author
  thinks preferable to those given by M. Delambre for the same
  purpose.      They require the use merely of pocket Logarithmic
  Tables, with four places of decimals, of which copious examples
  were given; and the paper concluded by the                      of
                                                     applicatiop
                                                               t ese

  302           Illedico-Botanical   and Medical Societies.
  these   formulae    to the corrections of angles actually observed
  in the o    rations in India.
     3d.     n the Method of determining the Difference of Me
  ridians by the Culmination of the Moon.          By Francis Baily,
  Es . F .R.S. V.P. Ast. Soc.
       his paper was too long to permit its reading to be com
 pleted at the present sitting: we shall therefore reserve our
  remarks upon it till it is concluded.
     Several very valuable books were presented to the Society.
                       MEDICO-BOTANICAL SOCIETY
     Feb.   13.—Some observations were made on the Acacia
 Cateclm.     A paper was read on a Bark termed the Malambo
 Bark lately imported from America.
     Feb. 27.—Some observations were read on the alterations
 in the Pharmacopteia.
     March 12.—A paper was read, entitled “ Observations on
 the Antlzoxantlzum       0doratum;”    by Thomas Rowcroft, Esq.
 His Majesty’s Consul General for Peru, communicated by Dr.
 Bree, President.
     March 26.—-S0me remarks were made on the Croton
 Tiglium by Mr. Pope of Oxford-street.
     April 9.—A paper on the Resina Acaroides, by Mr. W.
 Bollaert, was read.
                     MEDICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
    The <U+FB01>fty-<U+FB01>rst Anniversary Meetin            of this Societ was
 holden at the London Coffee House,            udgate Hill,   illiam
 Shearman, M.D. President, in the chair.
    The Of<U+FB01>cers and Council for the ensuing year are as follow:
President.- William Shearman, M.D.—Vice-Presidents: Henry
 Clutterbuck, M.D.; Henry James Chohnly, M.D.; Sir Astley
Paston Cooper, Bart. F.R.S., and Thomas Callaway, Esq.—
 Treasurer: John Andree, Esq. -—Librarian: David mes,
M.D.—Secretaries.- T. J. Pettigrew, Esq., and Thomas Calla
way, Esq. ——Secretary for Foreign Correspondence:            Robley
Dungleson, M.D.—The other members of the Council: Drs.
Walshman, Hancock, J. G. Smith, Blicke, Blegborough,
Hopkinson, Stewart, Le , Darling, Haslam, Pierce, Cox, and
Burne; Messrs. Sutcli<U+FB02>ie', Dr sdale, Wender, K. Johnson,
Dunlap, Kin don, Ward, T omas Clarke, Burton Brown,
Lake, Ashwefl, Edwards, Hande , E. Leese, Skair, Cordell,
Bell, Ellerby, Amesbury, T.              r ant, and Burrows.-Re
gistrar .- James Field, Esq.-—The Flellow elected to deliver the
annual oration, in March 1825, Eusebius Arthur Lloyd, Esq.
                                                                The

       Asiatic Society:-—Question relative to   the Charter.     803
      The President informed the Meeting that the time al
  lotted for the perusal of the dissertations offered for the Fother~
           medal, during the last year, having been unexpectedly
 sgilllian
     ortened, the Society had not yet adjudicated the prize: this
                                                                        '
 however would be done forthwith, and the Medal would be
 presented to the successful candidate at a Special General
 Meeting of the Society to be holden on the 3rd of May, at
                                                                    '
 8 o’clock in the evening.
     The annual oration was then delivered by Dr. John Gordon
 Smith, the Ex-Vice-President; the subject was, “ The Duties
 and Perplexities of Medical Men as professional Witnesses
              J
 in Courts of ustice.”
     A numerous body of Fellows and their friends, amounting
in all to 86, afterwards dined together in the great room of
the Tavern, the President being in the chair; and the re
mainder of the day was marked by harmony and conviviality.
   , Conditions of the Fothergillian Medal.—In conformity with
the‘will of the late Anthony Fothergill, M.D. F.R.S., the
Society resolved to give, annually, to the author of the best
 Essay on a subject proposed by them, a gold medal, value
20 guineas, called the F othergillian Medal; for which the
learned of all countries are invited as candidates.
     1. Each dissertation must be delivered to the Registrar, in
the Latin or English language, on or before the <U+FB01>rst day of
December.
     2. With each dissertation must be delivered a sealed
packet, with a motto or device on the outside, and within the
author’s name and designation, that the Society may know
how to address the successful candidate.
    8. No paper in the hand-writing of the author will here
ceived; and if the author of an paper shall either directly
or indirectly discover himself to t e Committee of papers, or
to any member thereof, such paper will be excluded from all
competition for the medal.
    4. All the dissertations, the successful one excepted, will, if
desired, be returned with the sealed packets unopened.
    5. The prize medal will be presented to the successful can;
didate, or his representative, at the Anniversary Meeting of
the Society in March 1825.
   The subject of the Dissertation to be o<U+FB01>'ered for the Prize
Medal for March 1825,        “ The Pathology and Treatment
                            is,
of Periodical Asthma.”
 ASIATIC SOCIETY :--gUEs'r10N RELATIVE TO THE CHARTER.
   His Majesty having referred to the Attorney-general, as
his adviser, the petition of the Royal Asiatic Society
                                                       oil'ngreat
                                                            rltam

304-      Asiatic Society:—Questi0n relative    to the Charter.
 Britain and Ireland,                His Majesty to grant them a
Charter     of                  “
                           praying‘
               Incorporation,       or the investigation of subjects
connected with, and for the encouragement of Science, Lite
rature, and the Arts, in relation to Asia,” he appointed the
27th April to take it into consideration.        The Council of the
 Linnaaan Society, which was incorporated in the year 1802, “for
the cultivation of Natural History in all its branches,” and had
existed for 1+ years previously, was of opinion that the esta
blishment of a new Society, possessing the same privileges
with the Linnaean Society, would materially interfere with
their usefulness,    and thought it their duty to protect the
interests con<U+FB01>ded to their care; and in consequence they
entered a caveat in the Attorney-general’s o<U+FB02>‘ice against the
granting of the Charter in the unlimited way in which it had
been sought. Each Society was represented by Counsel on the
occasion; and it was urged by Mr. Grant, on the part of the
petitioners, that charters were not regarded in the present
day as giving any privileges of monopoly, but on the ground
of their giving facilities to their proceedings.      Chartered So
cieties were not, like others, <U+FB02>uctuating and ambulatory, but
existed by succession and not by descent, and could transmit
their property with greater ease. A Charter was supposed to
  ive a little more dignity to their proceedings, and it was more
   ratifying to those who sought distinctions from them.        It was
acknowledged that the legal description of the Asiatic Society
 would enable them to prosecute the science of Natural His
 tory; but that it was not their immediate object, and it would
be injurious to the higher ends they aimed at, to shut them out
from even incidentally treating of the subject, while so many
of the productions of the East, both animal and vegetable,
might require illustration with other views than those which
 the Linnaean Society aimed to promote.             It was a border
country upon which each                make its incursions, and it
would be impracticable to       might
                                    raw a strict line about them,
 without at the same time interfering with their main object.
    On the part of the Linnaean Society, it was submitted by
 Mr. Bicheno, that it had not been the practice of the Crown
to grant a Charter of Incarporatiou, which must be considered
a privilege, to a second Society, while one already existed for
the same object; and that if any privileges were to be obtained
by the possession of a Charter, the Society already ex
isting was entitled to enjoy them. It was not a question
between monopoly and a more liberal principle, but between
two Societies runnin a race for privilege, and that the one
already instituted an found ef<U+FB01>cient, ought not to be injured
by the establishment of another.        The Linnaean Society did
                                                                   not

           Asiatic  Society .-——Que~st~ion relative to Me Charter.    805
   not oppose the Charter to the Asiatic Society altogether, but
   merely required some security in their legal description, that
   should prevent them from publishing on Natural History.
   The Asiatic Society had, by its published addresses, declared
   its intention to pursue Natural History, not only as connected
   with the possessions ofthe East India Company, but in Austral
    Asia in general.     The Linnaean Society has devoted itself to
   the same object, and its later volumes have been occupied in
  the proportion of one-half by the Natural History of the East.
  It has gone to a great expense in printing and engraving, and
  the plates illustrative of one plant only, the Rrg<U+FB01>esia Amola'i,
  cost about 24-OZ.      The collection of the natural productions
  of New Holland, in the possession of the Society, it was said,
  was the <U+FB01>nest in Europe.        The demand for publications of this
  kind is very limited, and it would be impossible to publish,
  unless great losses were sustained by somebody.          These losses
 are made up by the Linneean Society, and the funds to supply
  them are obtained from the admissions and contributions of
 the Fellows.       If another Society is permitted to exist with
 similar privileges, the inducements for scienti<U+FB01>c men to join the
 Linnaean Society will be diminished, and the contributors of
 valuable papers will in-some cases transfer their favours to the
 rival Society; and thus the literary interest of the Transactions
 will decrease.       It was said that no country, with the excep
 tion of En land, either did or could support the science of
 Natural        istory without some          Government     assistance ;
 that in France the “ Ouvrages des Luxes” constitutes an
annual item of the Budget, and large sums are granted for
the encoura ement of this object; and that in Russia, Den
mark and           olland, the science receives similar assistance.
 In our own country Professorships are endowed by Royal
favour; and what the Government does not do, is in a great
measure supplied by the Society whose privileges are now
attacked.      It is not an object that can be left to the ordinary
interests of mankind, as it does not bearimmediately upon their
wants or pleasures; and if it is cultivated at all, it must be
by the extraneous assistance to be obtained by the means this
Society is enabled to furnish.                                      _
     The Attorney-general having heard the parties, took time
to consider his opinion.
               ROYAL ACADEMY       or  SCIENCES OF PARIS.
     Jan. 5.-—Some Observations        were received from M. Guillon
supplementary to _his Memoir on the nutritive Animalcule of
Oysters—M. Chaptal was elected Vice-Presxdent for the year ;
and M. Arag'o commenced the exercise of his               functions
                                                                      as
     Vol.  63. N0. 312.    April  1824.           Q  q       President.

306             Royal  Academy  of Sciences qf Paris.
President—M.       Ampere continued the readin of a Memoir
containing some new deductions of the Formu a by which he
 has represented the mutual action of the two elements of
 electric currents.—M. Roche read a Memoir on Rotary
 Motion.
    Jan. 12.—-M.     de Jussieu, in the name of a Commission,
 made a favourable Report on M. A. Richard’s Memoir on
 the Famil of Elaeagneaeze.--A Memoir of M. Libri, on the
 Theory 0 Numbers, was referred to a Commission.-—M. Ma
 gendie ave a verbal Account of a Memoir by M. Desmoulins
 on the %omp05ition of the Spinal Marrow—M. A. St. Hilaire
 <U+FB01>nished the reading of his Memoir on the genera Sauv esia
 and Lavradia.—M. Bailli read a Memoir on the use 0 the
  Horns of certain Animals, particularly of the Buffalo.—M.
  Civiale presented a Memoir on a Lithontriptor, or new means
 of destroying a stone in the bladder without the operation
  of cutting.
     Jan. 19.—-A Memoir was received, On a Gazometer for
 condensed Gas, by M. PicqueL—Also a Memoir from Las—
  saigne, On the Possibility of detecting, by chemical Means, the
  Presence of the Acetate of Morphia in the Viscera of Animals
  poisoned by it.— M. le Galloias presented a Memoir on animal
  Heat, written b his father.—-A Memoir by M. F. Runge was
  read, On the Mleans of discovering the slightest traces of nar
  cotic substance in animals poisoned by the Atropa Belladona
  and Datura—M. Segalas presented a Kidney converted into
  a vast membranous sac, by the increase of a great number of      .
  calculi.—M. Desmoulins commenced the reading of a Me"
  moir on the use of the colours of the Choroid Coat in the
  Eyes of vertebrated Animals.
     Jan. 26.—-M. Dublanc jun., apothecary at Paris, stated
  that he had found the Tincture of Galls to be a very sensible
  test of the presence of Morphia in liquids, whether alone, or
  combined with the acetic and sulphuric acids.—M. Navier,
  En ineer, was elected a member of the Academy—M. Gi
  rau made_a favourable Report on the Memoir of MM. Se
          relative to Suspension Brid es.—M. Babinet read a
  <U+FB01>unote on a new Construction of the      orse-hair Hygrometem—
  M. Strauss continued the reading of his Memoir on the Ana
  tomy of the Cock-chafer.—M. A. de St. Hilaire read some new
  observations on the Family of the Rutaceae.
      Feb. 2.-—A Memoir was received from M. Remain on Ve
  getable_Physiolog .—Also a Memoir by M. Lamé on the Im—
  possrbility of the quation xii-35:2d 25 in whole numbers.
          P01sson presented his Memoir on the Theory of Mag
  netism.-—M. Chevallier stated that he had detected ammonia.
                                                                in

            M. Bessel’s Correction ofthe    Thermometer.       307
in many native oxides of iron.—A Report was received from
the Commission relative to Gas Illumination and Gasometers.
 Its consideration was postponed to
    Feb. 9, when it took place accordingly.
    Feb. l6.—Arnaud Reynaud announced the discOVery of a
method of protecting the Magnetic Needle from the influence
of iron.-—M. Tilerier requested that a Report might be made
on his mode of makin         elliptic parabolic Mirrors.—M. Da
moiseau presented a lV<U+FB01>emoir on the Perturbations of the Mo
tion of the Comet of 1819 in the two periods which preceded
its perihelion passage in 1825.—M. Arago deposited in the
Archives the astronomical observations made at Paramatta in
June 1823, received from Sir Thomas Brisbane—M. Geoffroy
presented a Table of corresponding Nomenclature of the sec
tions of the Skull of various vertebratedani1nals.--The Commis
sion on Gas Illumination presented some new propositions re
lative to Gasometers placed at a distance from the Gas-works.
           LII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
BESSEL’S    METHOD OF ASCI'IRTAINING THE CORRECTIONS            OF
               THE READINGS OF THERMOMETERS.
    CORRECT           thermometer bein a necessary instrument
       in every observatory, we consiger it useful to draw the
attention of the astronomers of this country to the imperfec~
tion of many of them, arising from the defective form of the
tubes.     With this view, we lay before our readers the detail
ed account of M. Bessel’s method of correcting his thermo
meter, contained in the seventh section of his “ Astronomical
Observations,” a book of which there are very few copies in
this country, and written in a language not generally under
stood by our scienti<U+FB01>c men.
   “ There are, perhaps, no thermometer tubes, the insides of
                                                                     ‘
which are perfectly cylindrical; all those, at least, which were
given me as such, proved on examination to be sensibl defec
tive.    Either a scale of unequal divisions, or a table 0 correc
tions, therefore necessary to derive accurate results from ther
        is
mometers constructed of such tubes. The latter deserves the
preference, as it is always easier to ascertain the errors of in
struments than to make them perfectly correct.            Let the
correction for any point z of the scale =¢ .1; this quantity
must be so determined, that for every column of mercury con
tained between the points z and         of the scale, the uantity
                                      .r'
(1’+¢ x')—(.r+q:      x)shall be aconstant quantity, to w atever
  art of the tube   it may be moved. This being obtained, we
have the following proposition:
                                 Qq-2                        5+4“,

308                 M. Bessel’s Correction qftke                 Thermometer.
          5+¢5—(e+¢ e): 180=(w+¢z)—(e+¢                                       e): F—82
where 5 and e are the points of boiling and freezing water on
the scale, and F the true degree of Fahrenheit’s thermometer,
answerin to the point .z' of the scale.
    In ONE-31‘ to ascertain the correction e x,  have used the              I
following method. At <U+FB01>rst, a part of the mercury in the tube,
equal to about 50° or 60° Fahrenheit, was separated from the
rest, either by shaking, or over the <U+FB02>ame of a candle; the lower
extremity of this mercury was then movedv to every tenth de
gree of the scale, and the corresponding place of the upper
extremity noted down.       The mercury was then united again,
and the process repeated with <U+FB01>ve or six other columns, always
differing. from 10° to 20° in length.
   The thermometer of Scha<U+FB01>'insky showed the following de
grees :
                                                          I
                                                                       ‘            ’
              .z-         .z"           a"    -     x’          a"           .2"        .z"
      I                                                                                        _
                    O       O          O           O             O              O
             —20          0..                      61'55       71'4-        79-‘7
       _-1o                           59-75        71-5        91-4         89'63
                                      69'75                    91-4
      ‘
                o                                  81-5                     99-7.
               10,                     798         91-5       101-9        109-5    ,
               20        68'0          89'85101'25111'3                    119'6
      ‘
               so
      '
                         78'0          99-85111-5             121-3        129-6
               40        87'9         109-75121-9       131-25199-55
               50        97-7         119-7       191-05141-15149-45
               60       107'6         129-5       141-1       151-1        159-9
               70       117-55139-45151-1                     161'0        169-25
               so       127-6     149-5           161-2       171-0        179-5
              90        197-7     159-55171-2                 180'95189'3'
             100        14-7'8.   1696   1811                 191-0        199-9
             110        157-9     179-7           191-1       201-0        209-3P
         -
             120        167'7 1896                201-1       211-0
             190        177-75199-5               210-95
      '
      -‘
             1-40       187'7  209-5
             150
                                  '
                        197-6
             160        207-5
     In order to deduce from this table the correction denotedi
by   .r, the lengthsof the different columns of mercury may be
     e
so assumed as they appear in that part of the. tube nearest cor—
responding to the scale (which, although not necessary, leads
toa more speed approximation in the calculation); this   the                                  is
upper part, an accordingly the length of every‘column was
assumed equal to the mean of all readings between 90° and.
                             '                         210“;

          M. Bessel’s Correction g' the             Thermometer.           809
210°. By this assumption the lower parts of the scale were
determined by the upper ones, the latter being supposed cor
rect for the <U+FB01>rst approximation; the lower ones, thus approxi
matively determined, were again compared to the upper ones,
and these latter thus likewise approximatively determined.
These approximate values were again employed to determine
the lengths of the columns of mercury, and the former calcu
lation was repeated, by which means a second approximation
was obtained, which was already so near, that a third one gave
no sensible differences.        In this manner, the following values
of o x were deduced, which agree with the single readings to
such small quantities as are within the limits of the uncertainty
of the readings themselves.
              .z'
                    ‘
                       45a:
                                 .1
                                       i
                                           or        .z'
                                                            ‘
                                                                oz
            1     O      O                   O             O      0
                                     0‘
             ~20                   60l +0‘02I
                                                     14<O     —0'02
                      +0412l
             —10                   70                150      -O'O7
                      +0'37l             —-0'03‘|
                  O   +0'85        80                160_—0'09
                                         —0'02i
                10                 90                170 —O'04
                                         -0'01i
                20 +0'28‘                +o-osv      180      -o-02\
                      +0311      100i
                so +0351         110| +0-05‘
                                                     190         0-00‘
                40                                   200 +0-os
                50 +0-11         130 +0-02‘ v210 +0-07
                      +0-26‘y    1201+0-04
    I determined; the freezing point by imbedding thethermoe
meter. in pound'ed ice, and         foundit, by the mean of very nu
 merous experiments instituted in various manners, but almost
perfectly agreeing in their results, = 32°63: for ascertaining?
 the point of boiling water, the height of the barometer (the
                                                                       meter
 temperature of which is that of melting ice) being =0'76, the
 apparatus proposed by Cavendish'was employed, and I found
 itby the mean of different experiments =212°'7 1'. These
 results, and the above table for e .r, give,»v therefore, e+qa e=
 32°'86.and 5+¢ 5=2l2°'79, and hence ,
                                              .2'_ 32° 86)
              F_32_. o        180
                                                         .    .
                  -
                          +1—7993(.r+¢
                                          186
                       —0°
                             873+m(.z‘+¢ w)
    Theoorrections to be applied to the readings of the ther
 mometer resulting; from this formula: are as follows:

310    Correction qft/ze Thermometer.--Comet                                      of 1823-24,.
                       .1:          F—w                      x          F—x
                      -   20
                              O
                                    -0'4-6
                                           O
                                                     l
                                                               50
                                                                           O
                                                                        —0'74
                      --10
                              O     ---
                                    —(_)'51
                                     0'52
                                                               60
                                                               70
                                                                        —O'83
                                                                        —0'88
                          10         0'59                      80       —- 0'86
                          20        —0'56                      90       —O'85
                          3O        —-    0'51             1   00       —0'80
                          40        -—O'6O                   110        —0'79
                          50                                 120        —0’79
                                    —()'74‘|
   It is evident that the following formula will nearly represent
the numbers of this table,
                      F=.Z‘. 0'997039—O°’538
at least, that  the differences are within the limits of the uncer
tainty  of  the observations.   I have therefore not hesitated to
                calculations of refractions by making use of this
                                               -——
simplify   the
formula.”
   ELEMENTS or THE COMET or 1823—24~.              BY VARIOUS
                         COMPUTERS.
  1.   The <U+FB01>rst are by Mr.                     J.
                             Taylor of the Royal Observatory,
Greenwich.     2. The second are by Professor Nicolai Schu
macher, Astr. N. N. 48. B. 3 ; givin     the greatest error in
A.R.+18", in decl.+ l l". 3. The thir by Mr. Hansen, A. N.
4-8. B. 3. 4. The fourth by Carlini. 5. The filth by Dr. Brink
ley. 6. The sixth by Mr. Richardson, of Greenwich.
                                           l.       1823 Dec. 9'3697d Greenwich.
                                           2.                            94-380 Manheim.
                  .       .                3.                            9'47193 Altona.
passage 0f perihellum                      4.                            9'4-792 Greenwich.
                                           5.                            9'2168 Greenwich.
                                           6.                            9'4-521 Greenwich.
                               1.     302° 56'                   341"         4. 303° 4"    4"
Longitude Of 8                        303                1       18            5.     303               O   40’
          ’
                              {2.
                               3.     303                3       22            6.     303          l'
                                                                                                            43
                               1.      28            4-3         54:           4‘.     28          26       8
  —                                    28            43          46            5.         29       18       50
        Perihelium{2.3.                28            29          55            6.         28       20       6
                                          l.        9‘3598242                        4.    93545000
Log. nearest distance                               913579600                        5.    98689400
                                      {2. 8.  9'3553934                              6.    9'3536855
                               1.          75° 55' 45"                         4'.        76° 12' 50"
Inclination                                76        4-0 9                     5.         76            1   4-0
                               3.          76      ‘ 22                        6.                           28
                                                     1
                                                     l                                    76            8
Motion retrograde.                                                                             ‘
                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                   ANOMALY

        Figure of the Earth—Harvey on Chronometers.                               311
           ANOMALY IN THE FIGURE or THE EARTH.
   So many ships touch at Madeira, and take a new departure
from  it, that the longitude of the island     a matter of consi
                                                    is
derable importance.      Dr. Tiarks was therefore sent out by the
Board of Longitude to aSCertain       it,
                                        with sixteen watches, in
the summer of 1822     ;and a remarkable circumstance occurred,
which was not within the object of his original mission.     For,
in going from Greenwich to Falmouth, a difference of lon
         was found equal to 20’ 11”'49    and in returning from
                                            ;
gitude
  almouth to Greenwich, a difference of 20' 11”'13.         Now,
the difference, as determined from the Trigonometrical Survey
(given in the third edition of the requisite tables),        only          is
20’ 6”'9;   and this variation made   itexpedient to en       Dr.           e e
Tiarks to verify his observations in the Channel.            was
furnished with twenty-nine chronometers, and was employed
from the latter end of last July till the middle of September
in sailing between Dover and Falmouth.        His results are as
follows:
   Longitude of Dover Station,         .    .   .        0h     4 5’   17”'54   E.
                 Portsmouth Observatory,           24' '77 W.
                 Pendennis Castle,     .  .
                                                         0 0
                                                20 10 '85 W.
                 Madeira,     . .. .      . .      39 ‘08 W.
                                                         1      7
   From hence    it  clear that the <U+FB01>gure of the earth must be
                      is
somewhat different from that assumed for determining the
longitudes from the Trigonometrical Survey, and that about
5" must be added, in the latitude of the Channel, for every
20’ of longitude which     deduced from it.
                           is
THE RATE    or   A CHRONOMETER VARIES WITH THE DENSITY or
              THE MEDIUM IN WHICH IT Is PLACED.
   Mr. Harvey, F.R.S. E., has lately discovered that the den
sity of the medium in which a chronometer                placed has a
                                                               is
sensible  in<U+FB02>uence    on   its rate, in most  cases, producing  an ac
celeration when the density     is     diminished, or a retardation
when the density      isincreased.    In few time-keepers he has
                                       a
found the reverse to take place, viz. a decrease (3)" rate from
diminished density, and an increase from increased density,
but the former appears to be the most general e<U+FB01>‘ect.             Mr.
Harvey has proved this to be the case by an extensive course
of experiments, and in which he has subjected many chrono-~
meters to.pressures, from half an inch of mercury to 75 inches; I
and in all cases has found, that     if    a time-keeper gained byv
increasing  the   density, it  lost by diminishing           it,
                                                        and vice versd.
A difference of density denoted by an inch of quicksilver,                           is
 suf<U+FB01>cient to produce, in many chronometers, a visible altera
               '
tion of rate.
                                                                                  The

  312            M. Fm'aday   on Cheltenham   Water.
     The following   are a few of Mr. Harvey’s results:
     A pocket   chronometer   which possessed a steady rate of
   +1”'6, under the ordinary circumstances of the atmosphere,
  had its rate increased to +6”'2, when the density of the air
  was diminished to a quantity represented by 20 inches of
 quicksilver; and on afterwards placing it in air of a density
 denoted by lO-inches of mercury, a further increase of its rate
 to +ll"'0 took place.       On restoring the time-keeper to the
  ordinary circumstances of the atmosphere, its rate returned
  to +2"--1.
     In another set of experiments, with the same chronometer,
  Mr. H. placed it in a condenser, under an atmospheric pres
  sure of 45 inches, when its rate changed to -—4~” “4:; and
  on increasing the densit of the air to a quantity denoted
  60 inches of mercury, t e daily variation further declined to
  —8"'2.
     In another remarkable experiment, Mr. H. found that
 when the rate of a chronometer was +23"'5, under a receiver
 having its air exhausted to-a quantity denoted by half an inch
 of mercury, the rate was altered to —17”'2, when the air was
 increased to a density corresponding to 75 inches of quick
 silver; the rate of the time-keeper, under the ordinary cir
 cumstances of atmospheric pressure, being +4~"-'7.
    Mr. H. has, we understand, drawn from it several im
 portant conclusions; for instance, that a chronometer con
 structed in London, nearly on the level of the sea, would un
 dergo an alteration of rate, from difference of atmospheric       '
 pressure alone, if transported to Geneva, to Madrid, to
 Mexico, or any other place, situated much above the level of
 the lace where it was constructed.                           _
       he whole of the results are about to be laid before the
 Royal Society.
 NOTE ON      THE EXISTENCE OF A NITRATE AND A SALT OF
      POTASH   IN CHELTENHAM WATER, BY M. FARADAY, 8C6.
    Having undertaken at the request of Dr. Creaser an ex
amination of some water from Cheltenham,         I had occason to
remark in it the existence of two substances not before ob
served in waters from that place; and though of no import
ance in a medicinal point of view, yet as relates to the sources
from whence          waters obtain their impregnations, and to
the illustration they afford of the use of two tests sug   ted‘ by
Dr.Wollaston, but not very frequently, I‘believe, in t e hands
                           I
of chemists, they may think possess interest; one of these;
substances is nitric acid, and the other potash.
    The source from which the water was obtained is called, -I
           '
                                                          believe,

                 Over-throw ofthe Logan   Stone in Cornwall.       313
    believe, theOrchard \Vell.      It had been some time in diSuse,
   but has more lately been cleaned, out and deepened, and is
   now about <U+FB01>fty-six feet to the bottom. The solid contents of
   a pint of this water examined in London were:
                    Carbonate of lime . . .     16 gr.
                    Sulphate of lime . . . . 14v5
                    Sulphate of magnesia . 12'4
                    Sulphate of soda . . . . 3'7
                    Muriate of soda . . . . 97'0
                                             129'2
'
   Besides which, the water contained a portion of carbonic acid;
   and a small quantity of peroxide of iron had settled to the
                                                            '
   bottom of the bottle.
       On adding sulphuric acid to a portion of this water in quan
   tity abundantly su<U+FB02>icient to decompose all the salts subject to
  its action, and boiling such acidulated water in a Florence'<U+FB01>ask,
   with aleaf of gold for half an hour or an hour, the gold either
  in part or entirely disappeared, and a solution was obtained,        _
  which when tested by proto-muriate of tin gave a deep pur
  ple tint.     Hence the presence of (nitric acid, originally, in the
  water was inferred; and, that no mistake might occur, a solu~
  tion was made in pure water of all the salts except the nitrate
  found in the water, boiled with some of the same sulphuric
  acid, and tested by the same muriate of tin; but in this case
  no colour was afforded, nor any gold dissolved.
    . The potash was ascertained to be present by evaporating a
  quantity of the water until reduced to a small portion, <U+FB01>ltering
  it and then adding muriate of platina in solution. Three pints
  of water, evaporated until about one ounce of <U+FB02>uid remained,          -
  gave an abundant precipitate of the triple salt of potash and
  platina.     In cases where small quantities of the water were
  tried, it was necessary to let the liquid stand an hour or two
  after applying the muriate of platina, but the triple salt always
  ultimately appeared.
      Two pints of the water, evaporated to dryness in a silver
  crucible, gave, on re-solution of the residuum, a decided though
  very minute trace of silica.
            THE LOGAN STONE IN CORNWALL        OVERTURNED.
      To  the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
      Your geological readers will hear with in<U+FB01>nite regret that
  the celebrated Logan Stone in Cornwall, which has for so long
  a period been regarded as an object of great national interest
  and curiosity, and which has been visited by persons from the
      Vol. 68. No. 312. April 1824.            Rr             remotest

314                   Mr. John   Forbes.
remotest extremity of Europe, has within the last few days
been overturned by one of the Lieutenants ofIIis Majesty's
Na-qy, now commanding a revenue cutter stationed between
the Lizard and Land’s End, assisted by a party of' his men.
The barbarous and wanton folly which could induce an officer
bearing His Majesty’s commission to commit so unwarrantable
an act, as to remove a great national curiosity from a position
in which it had stood for ages, defying the hand of time, and
affording to the enlightened traveller an object of such singular
interest, will, it is hoped, be visited with the severest displea
sure of the Admiralty.         In a tour through Cornwall in the
summer of 1821, I was informed by a cottager who lived near
the spot, that an attempt was made by a party of seamen some
years befbre to remove   it,    but without success. Cornwall, by
 this wanton outrage, has lost one of its most interesting mo
 numents.                          Yours, Sac.
                                                GEORGE Hmwnv,
  '
      Plymouth, April 18, 1824.
                 OBITUARY.-—MR. JOHN Forums.
    Botanical science has sustained a severe loss in the death
of this intelli ent and enterprising young man. He was sent
out by the      orticultural Society of London, under the sauc
tion of the Lords of the Admiralty, with the squadron com
manded by Captain William Owen; the object of which was
to make    a   complete survey of the whole eastern coast of
Africa.    Such   an expedition afforded too favourable an op
portunity   to be  omitted by the Horticultural Society to send
out an intelli ent collector, and Mr. Forbes, whose zeal as a
botanist wasinown t0 the Society, was <U+FB01>xed on as propera
person to accompany it.                                         I
    The squadron sailed in February 1822, and touched at
Lisbon, Teneri<U+FB01>'e, Madeira, and Rio Janeiro, at each of which
places Mr. Forbes made collections in almost every branch
     natural history; the whole of which were received by the
 gfociet
       .
    Hisyextensive collections subse uently made at the Cape of
 Good Hope, Delagoa Bay, and            adagascar, were also re
 ceived by the Society in hio-h preservation, and by their mag
 nitude and variety evinced the unremitting attention which
 he had paid to the objects of his mission.     With the appro
 bation of Captain Owen, and with a zeal highly creditable to
 his own character, although not instructed by the Society, he
 engaged himself to form part of an expedition   wth    was pro
 ceeding from the squadron, up the Zambezi River, on the
 eastern coast of Africa. It was intended to go about eight
 hundred miles up the river in canoes, and the party was then
                                                               to

                   Calendar  of Flora, Fauna and Pomona.                815
   to strike off southwards to the Cape.           It was in this progress
   up the Zambezi that          Mr.  Forbes    died,   in the twenty-<U+FB01>fth
   '
     ear of . his age.     He received his botanical education under
   Mr. Shepherd of the' Botanic Garden at Liverpool, and had,
   by close application, acquired so much information in many
  other branches of natural science, as to justify the expectation
  that, had his life been spared, he would have stood high in
  the list of scienti<U+FB01>c travellers, and have been eminently useful
  to the Society whose patronage he enjoyed.
   Calendar       of Flora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Hary‘ield in
                  Sussex.   From Jan. 1. to Mar. 20, 1824-.
       Jan. l.—-Tussilag0 fragrans, or Shepherd of Edonia ",
  which flowered early in December, is still in full blow.
      Jan. 25.—St. Paul’s Day.           Fair. Mezereon, Snowdrop,
  and Hepatica.
       Feb. 2.——Candlemas Day has ever been regarded as cri
  tical with respect to the coming year. This year it is fair and
  mild, and we have a large share of the early spring plants in
  blow, viz. Anemone Hepatica, abundantly, in 8 varieties;
   Tussilago alba, the White Butterbur; Primula vera, the Prim
  rose; Primula poiyanllza, the Polyanthus ; Daphne Meze
  reon ,~ Galant/za nivalis, Snowdrop, here and there; Lamium
  garganicum ,- Lamium purpureum, the Dead Nettle; Viburnum
  VTz'nus, the Laurel tree; PIelleborus hyemalis, Winter Helle
  bore. To these we might add a solitary Crocus, a few Stocks
~
  and Wall-<U+FB02>oWers, 1.11 in blow ever since last year.
       Feb. 14.—Crocus‘ vermis, the Earl               Spring Crocus, in
  blow.      This plant is in this county :1 ways in full <U+FB02>ower by
  St. Valentine.        Vinca minor is very abundant. Leontodon
   Tarazacum, the Dandelion, here and there.
       Feb. 1 7. —-A paraselene about 35° S. W. of the moon to-night.
       Feb. 18.—A brilliant meteor in the N.W., descending in
  direction to the N.E. at midnight.
       Feb. 24.—T he number of Snowdrops and Crocuses increase,
  and together with the Hepatica and Polyanthuses render the
  gardens gay.          Doronicum Pardalianrlzes came into <U+FB02>ower
  to-day, which is very unusually early.             Inever remember it
  before the middle of March.
       The blackbird san         on the 25th of January, and the
  thrush, woodlark, ant? redbreast, Feb. 2d.                                I
       On the 18th of February, though the sky was very clear,
  and the stars apparently bright, there was some Peculiarity in
  the atmosphere which prevented good astronomical obser
  vations.       In observing Mars, in order to, disp¢rse his light
      "
         [shall generally give the provincial names of Sussex for plants, as
  this may interest some readers, as well as Latin names.
                                     R r   2                              in

  316           Calendar    qulora,  Fauna and Puma/m,
  in the manner I have before described, I foiind the spectrum
  vary so much from time to time in the glass that I thought it
   useless to record the colours.       This must have been owing
   to  some   state   of the air.  The  change of colour in the <U+FB02>ue
   tuation or twinkling of the <U+FB01>xed stars was less than usual,
  and was totally invisible in Arcturus, and even in Betalgeus,
  where it is usually very strong.          It was also faint in Spica
   Virginis and in Sirius, and was indiscernible in Proqy'on. This
   shows that that quality of the air which produces the salient and
  irregular spectrum, is not the same quality which seems to
   cause the greatest alternation in the colour of the <U+FB02>uctuation
                                                                         '
   of starlight.
      hIarch 5.—Anem0ne hortensz's and NarcissusPseudonarcz'ssas
   in <U+FB02>ower.
      March 7 .— Primula veran (the Primrose) begins to thWer
                                                                      '
   on the banks most exposed to the sun.
      March 8.—1’rz'mula elatior (the Oxlip) in blow, also Blue
   Spring Crocus.
      March 11.—Vi0la odor-ata, both the white and blue variety
\ in <U+FB02>ower abundantly.         The Dap/me Mezereon, which was to—
  lerably full in <U+FB02>ower in'the beginning of last month, has not
   continued to expand its <U+FB02>owers, but seems thrown back, as if
  by some unfriendly state of the atmosphere: and in general
   the plants have made very little progress, and vegetation seems
   at a stand.   Frogs croak, and the Smallest VVillow Wren ap
  pears. The titmice Paras creruleus and P. major very noisy.
      March 12.—-Narcissus leetus in <U+FB02>ower.
      March 13.—Hyacintlzizs m'ientalz's.                             >
      hilarch 14~.——Dapkne Mezereon resumes the opening of its
   <U+FB02>owers.
      Ficaria verna and Tussilago meara blow.
      March 19.— The Butterbnr, Tussz'lago Petasites, appears
   above ground.                                                      _
      March 20.—Some extraordinar change of the atmosphere
  took place to night, about' 11 P.lVI7.       A lamp burning in my
   roomput forth a <U+FB02>ame of a very unusual form, otherwhere to
   be described ; there was a sudden depression of the barome-      '
                                                                         ~
  ter, and a prodigious increase of moisture indicated.                .
  _   The general appearance of nature is much more backward
   than in 1822, but less so than in 1823.           What I call the
   equinoctial    or    primaveral   Flora,   considerably advanced.
   Daffodils are already numerous; the Pilewort begins to be
   common, and to bespangle the <U+FB01>elds and banks with its golden
   star. Daisies abundant.         Dandelion yet somewhat scarce.
   The Hepatica and Polyanthuses, abundant. Primroses begin
   to cover every bank with their pale <U+FB02>owers in the greatest
                                         '                     '
                                                                 I beg
                                   ‘
                    -
   profusion,

                Calendar    of Flora, Fauna and Pomona.                      317
     I beg to append the following additional prismatic observa ‘
 tions on the stars in March :
     March 11.—I had an opportunity, during a clear interval
 between 11 P.M. and midnight, to resume my prismatic ob
 servation on the stars. A thin and almost imperceptible cir
 rostratus or wanecloud was spread over the sky, through which
 the light of the stars was distinctly seen, down to those of
 the fourth magnitude.            On applying the prismatic telescope
 to the planet Mars,        I found in the oblongated spectrum the
 following colours. The red was very abundant and strong; the
 yellow considerable, the orange small; and very little violet.
 Spica Virginis showed considerably less of the red colour,
 scarcely any yellow; an inconsiderable quantity of green, and
 a great deal of blue light.            Vega or a Lyrre showed rather
 more red than the last mentioned star, though considerably
less than Arcturus.         The yellow and orange were very small,
indeed almost wanting; the green very little discernible; and
 the blue violet very plentiful: indeed this is the bluest star                  I
 have yet examined—March 13.-I observed most of the stars
 of the <U+FB01>rst magnitude visible this evening with a higher power.
.The Moon showed all- the colours in very nearly equal pm
 portions.      Sirius showed rather more red than on former oc—
 casions, and some green, and also presented a large but faint
 brush of violet". Arcturus, a large quantity of red, of oranoe,
 some green, very little of the violet.               Aldebaran reseinb es
 Arcturus, but has a still larger proportion of red. Betalgeus
 like the former, but liable to assume in alternate <U+FB02>uctuations
 an augmented quantity of intense red light.                    Jupiter all the
 colours, but the more refrangible colours are in larger propor
 tions than in either the Moon or in Saturn.                    The large and
 expanded violet brush has so little intensity of light, that it is
 soon lost by the slightest cloudiness that may intervene. Mars.
 Much red light as usual, and a considerable proportion              ‘
                                                                               of
 orange.
     I cannot account for the different results of different nights’
 observations, slight as they are, on any other principle than
 that which         have otherwhere noticed, viz. a variation in the
 chromatopoietic powers of the atmosphere; and it is to record
 other varieties, and to call the attention of others to this vari-.
    1' The
            greater quantity of red light, it should be recollected, took place'
 in an evening in which the wanecloud prevailed, and accords with what            I
 have often before noticed.     I have found on the gradual thickening of the
 aqueous atmosphere by the wanecloud, that the colours of the' spectrum
 successively disappear in the inverse order of their refrangibility,    the red
 being seenlongest. Hence the intensity' of light varies inversely as the re,
 frangibility of the rays.                                    '
                                                                          ation,"

    318           Addiliuns to Pro/I flare’s Communications.
   ation, that I am induced to insert these haisty and imperfect
    observations.        In time I hope to be able to contrive instru
    ments to give the exact proportions or breadth and intensity
    of each colour, in the spectrum, and also so tqadapt the prism
    to the object glass of the telescope, as more completely to
    separate the (li<U+FB02>Erent sorts of rays*.                Meanwhile any hints or
   collateral observations, communicated _through the Philoso
   phical Magazine, will oblige, 8L0.
       HartWell, E. Grinstead, March 13, 1824-                        T. FORSTE It.
                    Additions to Professor Hnne’s Paper.
       A duplicate copy of' Professor I'lare’s communication(Art. XXXIX.),
   at the beginning ol'thc present Number, containing some additions, having
   reached us after it was printed, we give them separately:
                                               “ There is a
       P. Q44, line 3!, a<U+FB02>cr screw—add,                        scale, with a vcrnier, at
   tached to one since made.”
      P. 244 Note-r, read, “1 have seen it strike at the distance nearly of a
   quarter of an inch.”             I
      P. 245, add as a note to the account of the Electrometer the following:
   “ if one of the condensing disks be of copper. the
                                                                other of zinc, they may
   serve for the purpose of condensing, when not made to touch.               ll'bronght
   into contact, and then separated, the phenomenon will he the same as that
  in the instance of the Electrometer above described.
                               LIST OF NEW PATENTS.
      To Jean Henry                      ol'  Clralton-street,   Somers Town, in the
   parish   of St. l’ancras,
                          PetK/llpierre.
                              i iddlesex,    engineer, for his engine or machine for
   making the following articles from one piece of leather without any seam
   'or sewing whatever; that is to say, all kinds of shoes and slippers, gloves,
  caps and hats, cartonch boxes, scabbards and sheaths for swords, bayonets
  and lumen—Dated 20th March 1824.—2 months allowed to enrol speci.
   <U+FB01>cation.
      To James Rogers, of Marlborough, \Vilts, surveyor, for his method, or
  an improved instrument or instruments for determining or ascertaining the
  ‘cubic contents of standing timber.— 320th March—6 months.
      To John Lingford, of Nottingham, lace machine manufacturer, for cer
  tain improvements upon machines or machinery now in use for the purpose
  of making that kind of lace commonly known or distinguished by the name
_
  or names of bobbin-net or Buckinghamshire                 lace net.-20th March.»
                                                                                      '
  6 months.
      To John Heathcoat of Tiverton, Devonshire, lace manufacturer, for his
  improvements in certain parts of the machinery used in spinning cotton,
  wool or silk.--20th Murcha—(i months.
  _ 'l‘o Henry Berry of Abchnrch-lune,           London, merchant, for certain im
  provements on a machine or apparatus for more readily producing light.
  20th March—6 months.
    _
      To Jean Jacques Stainmare, of Belmont distillery, Wandsworth-rond,
  Vauxhall, in the parish of St. Mary, Lambeth, Sun-y, distiller, wl:o,in conse
  quence of communications            made to him by certain foreigners residing
         l have, since writing the above, contrivedia method of measuring the
  proportionate deViatlon in each instance; see the i continuation from my
                                                                                     V
  paper.
                                                                                  abroad,

                                        of New, Patents.                           319
                                  List_
abroad,      and discoveries by himself. is in possession of an invention of im
                  in the process of and apparatus for distilling—20th March.-- 6
provelments
mont is.                                                            .
    To Charles Demen , of Paris, but' now residing inv Fenchurch-strcet,
London, merchant, w o, in consequence of a communication made to him
by a certain foreigner residing abroad, with whom he is connected,                   is in
the possession of an invention of an apparatus containing within itself the
means of producing gas from oil and other oleaginous substances, of burn
ing such gas for the purpose of a<U+FB01>'ording light, and of replacing the gas con
sumed.—22d March—~52               months.
    To Namen Goodsell, late of New York in the United States of America,
but now of No. 13, Leigh-street, Burton Crescent, Middlesex, engineer, for
a certain machine or piece of machinery for breaking, scutching and pre
paring <U+FB02>ax and hemp for use, upon an improved method, and threshing ‘
out the seed thereof, and which is applicable to the threshing of any other
kind of grain, and also for shelling clover and other seeds—25th March.—
                           -
6 months.
    To Edward Jordan, of Norwich, engineer, for a certain improvement or
improvements in the form or construction               of water-closets, or of the ap
paratus connected therewith—27th March—6 m0nths.
    'l‘o  J nseph Spencer, of Belper, Derbyshire, nail~manufhcturer, for certain
improvements in the construction of furnaces or forges for the preparation
of iron or steel, and for the process of manufacturing of nails and other
articles from the said materials.—7th April.-~6 months.
    To Jonathan Scho<U+FB01>eld, of Rastrick, in the parish of Halifax, Yorkshire,
manufacturer,         for certain improvements in the manufacture of cloth or
fabric which he denominates British cashmere—7th April.—6 months.
    To Thomas Ryalls, of Shef<U+FB01>eld, Yorkshire, warehousemnn, for his ap
paratus for shaving, which he denominates “the useful and elegant facilita
tor."—8th A ril.—2 months.
    To Samue Hall, of Basfnrd, Nottinghamshire, cotton manufacturer, for
 his improved steam-ungiue.—~8th April.--6 months.
     To James Tulloch, of Savage Gardens, London, gentlcman, for his im
provement or improvements in the machinery to be employed for sawing
and groovingmarble and other stone, or in producing grooves or mouldings
thereon—12th April.~6 months.
     To Henry Potter Bevet, of Devizes, VViltshire, ironmonger, for his im
 provement in the construction of cranks, such as are used for bells and other     '
 pnr oses.—l4th April.—6 months.
       o   \Villiam    By,   of Joy Cottage, Ivory-place, Brighton,   Sussex, stationer
 and bookseller, for his method or apparatus for the preservation of books
                                                                                           -
 and covers—Nth April.—6 months.
     To John Gunby, of New Kent Road, Surry, sword and gun manufac
 turer,'for his improvement in the process of manufacturing of cases for
 knives, scissars, and other articles—1 4th April.—6 months.
     To David Gordon, of Basinghall-street, London, esq., for certain im
 provements in the construction of portable gas lamps—14th April.-—6 mon.
     To John Beven, of Manchester, Lancashire, dealer in cotton twist and
 weft, and general commission agent for manufactured goods, for his ap
             for dressing various kinds of cotton, <U+FB02>axen, woollen or silk manu
    ctures.—l4th April.- 6 months.
 ‘p‘aratus
     To Thomas Gettien, of Henry-street, Pentonville, Middlesex, gentleman,
  for his improvements in the machinery and process of making metallic
  rollers, ipes, cylinders, and certain other articles.-—-l5th April.-6 months.
     To aniel 'Ionge, of Liverpool, Lancashire, ship-owner, for apparatus
  by means of which an improved method of reeling sails is e<U+FB01>'ected.—15th
 Aprih—<U+FB01> months.
                                                                          M £11le) R0—

       A    METEOROLOGICAL                                   TABLE:                          the Observaiion:              of    Dr.      BURNEY         at                       Mr.        Cimr    in    London,     and Air.    VEALL          at B5410”.
                                                                            comprising                                                                           Gosport,
                   Gosroa'r,             at half-past                             41.111.                      Cmmm                                        of       Thermometer.                        R5111.
                                                         ExghtoClock,                                                                          Height        .
                                     G      '         ‘44 -       ,
                                                                                                                                                    ’          '
                                                E                 1;,                                                                                                             .555                                             ‘7"
            M5501.                   5;.-                                          95155251455452
                                                ~           g;    s       ‘5’ a                                                                                                                     =
             18‘“-                    5~                                                 5552515551....
                                                                                                “                                                                                                                      L°"d°"-
                                                                                                                                                                                                             g 5 ‘3
                                                        “         m                                                       5                                                i         “g          5                                           Bo-wn
                                     “‘5                    2%                     =1                                     5         21......                        g;
                                                                                                    591%                                            a???                      ‘                                        ——
                                                                                                                                                                                    ——                                                   .
           Mud-26                    29'98      42                         N.      *7    ...... 'T.”———-                                       .           .          .
                                                            485   53
                     27
                     28
                                     2984
                                                i
                                                40
                                                ’39
                                                                  62       N.
                                                                           N.      018
                                                                                            0-010
                                                                                              '020                 1
                                                                                                                                                                    $534338             41;;                           8°“?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.0“
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               y   10‘?“
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F-OUdy
                                     29'84                        64                                                                     [29-95     29-3            3644932
                    29               2993       34                56       N.                ......
                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                      l            1"       1 1   1        29-99    29-73           33““
                                                                                                                                                                            31                                         Flfm        Cine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     loUdy
                                                                                                                                                                                      g- 00-4
           .        30               29‘74      42                60      NW.                  (NO    1...         1"                      09-66    29-5;          4 £4541
                                                                                                                                                                                    33'      5                         Salr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C.oudy, ra11111.m.
                                                                           N.                                              l  1 1                   2      ‘           ‘473                                            Cilww
                    3]               29.7.2     35          48%   53                 00      llllll                l...                  159.75                                      3°                          ‘3                175"“ S“P‘”“'&."'""
                                                                           w.
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      1                                1                            373713"                                            F9“?
            A951                     29-93      35                55                           570                 1'"                     2987     29.55                            34                                                  '8‘“ “mm
                                     29-22      44                57      Nw.                  015                 1"                               23.73           334?,36          4°                          54    5“"             n
                                                                                                                                         129228
                                     30-00      37                50       N.        -15     ______   1‘   1       1"      l               30.10
                                                                                                                                                    29,2           4314     33                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                    01"0               F“le        F.
                                     30-20      42                53      NW.                ______                1"                      30.35     30.19          3814440                                            F“?         F!“
                                     30.44      42                54      NE.                IIIIII                                        30-45                    .29‘424                                            Fair        F1ne
                                                                                                                                                     30-33                          2%.1 32
           11                        30-42      4-2               55      NE.        -10     ......                1..'      '             30-47                    J8‘4    3%                                         ciura       Cined     y
                                                                                                                                                     30-33
                                     3°20       42          48    54       N-                 '001    1 1          1..             11'     20-15                   338‘453           415                               Cloudy      1150-"
                                                                                                                                                     30-05                                                                          1‘“
                                                                                                      1 1                   1                                          14139                                           01°“dy
                                     30-24      42                55      NE.                ......                1,,                     5105‘s    ~01                                46.5                                       COUdy
                     1 2 3455 78 9
                                     30-06      44                58       N.        28      ......   1....            i      1".i'Ii30-04                          3i49‘4l         324                                Cloudy  y
                                                                                                                                                                                                    fi'o                           Cl‘ludy
                     1°              29‘40      41                68       N-                 080......         '1                     129-45                      442i47l43         40                 5         [5   sou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rim     andsmm'y
                     11                                           58       N.
                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                      1            '             1 1                2      25          '40'34                                          stormy
                                     29-40      39                                            050                         "'1'         129-44                                        32                          '18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fine,hyfullsn.a.m.
                     12              29-45      40                50      Nw_        .22      .00,    luflfx                               2947         2220  0     33,4039                                            Fnyw
                                                                                                                                                    29~                                              U"                            Fine'snowp'm'
           O         13              2970       42                55       w.                 070     1...         1...    l1              29-75                    31472335        3                            -09   Fair                 do. am.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fine,
                     14              29-91      43                58      SW.                ......                        l11                                      3.2480                .5                           Fair
                                                                                                                                           29.91        23:3                         4‘                                 a."        Fine
                     15              29-85      45          4s    50      SE.        -40      400      1...        1...
                                                                                                                           l111     "1'                             315139                                                         FM
                                                                                                                                           29.90        29,8                                                           Fm-r
                     16              29‘19      4‘                78       E.                                                            129-30               7     331553-‘1’43    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                  Rain        Storm,
                                                                                                                l                      1                     .                            .5        0
                                                                                                                                                    29-; 2
                     17              2943       44                74      NE.                 '015.....-                     1'"   '       29.57                   4401404
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ra!"        C!°“d1'
                     18              30-00      44                64      NE.        -15     ......    1...        1...     1              30.17        29.37          4.4314";
                                                                                                                                                                                    ‘17                                “3'         F!“
                     19              30-24      48                55      SE.                ......    1...-1                              30.2,        33,33       4215“
                                                                                                        1                                                                                                              “2’         Fine
                     20              30-30      53                55      SE.                ......           1‘1__                      1130.35        30.13       412933              50.5
                                                                                                      1 1                                                                                                              F3?         F3“
           q         21              30-08      51          48    58       SE.       -54      -150                                         .009         ,9.   0     47155               54                             Fa"
                                                                                                                   1                                                                                                               Flne
                     22              r1994      55                54      sw.                 250      1...                        _       $9.97        29.23       2316153             55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Shower-y    F1118
                     23              29-48      51                83      5w,                  .ngmm                               .     129%           29.35       50i5047             48
                                                                                                                            1'                                                                                ~24      Rim         R-a'“          -
.-                   24              30-00      52                70      NW.                ...... 1...           1...                    30-25        29-55       47'60'50                        011'5        36
                     25                         50          48            sw.        25      ......                1...                                                                              "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       g“?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         a"
2».                                  30-10                     72                                                                           30.15    29.90          50|60i52                                     "'                  o“
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ene-dwnr-m)5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rainy-m
                                                                                                                                           -—-      1-—             _'-l_..          ..e_
           Avera   ges:              2
                                     9                 _-_ 12 522
                                         '880 .43 .1 94s              -            2.        .
                                                                                            225218            82                                                            1
                                                                                                                           171618                    29-71            |              41-5           1-50      1~99
      an                                 __           ____‘.__~_

             '
      k               .      f         'PHE
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                     AND JOURNAL.
                 '
                            31""    MA Y        1824.
    LIII.    Descriptions      qf several new Species of Ascidia.      By
                               C. A. LESUEUR.‘
                                                    \
                         quus ASCIDIA,             Lin.
1.        SCIDIA atra.         Body subcylindric, elongated, arquated,
           'sessile; the superior part more slender, terminated
by two unequal tubes, slightly separate and parallel; these
tubes have each a terminal opening, which in the shorter tube
is closed by <U+FB01>ve, and in the longer one by six, triangular
valves; the substance of the exterior sac is very <U+FB01>rm, almost
smooth, opaque, and very deep violaceous or blackish—It
occurs attached to rocks, amongst Opuntz're, many species of
Sertular'ia’, and broken shells.           Its position is inclined, being
adherent by the side of the base, which is a little more in
<U+FB02>ated than the other parts of the body.——We observed this
species at the isles of St. Vincent and Guadaloupe, where,
however, it is rather rare.             Whilst dredging in the bay of
Calicoua, we draw this species from the bottom of the water,
with many other objects, amongst which was a beautiful H0
Zotlzuri'a, marbled with brown, red, white and blackish, which,
had the property of dissolving so rapidly as to be observed
with dif<U+FB01>culty.
    2. A.‘ cavernosa.          Body oblong, irregular, terminated b
two unequal tubes; that of the branchia and mouth muc I
longer than the other, and directed it wards; that of the ovi
duct and excretions situated at the base of the <U+FB01>rst and la
teral; their apertures are entire, without marginal elevation,
or apparent hair, and of a deep colour within; the exterior en
velope is coriaceous, thick, very <U+FB01>rm, opaque, rugous and
folded, particularly towards the base, where the Folds, united
in fasciculi, form three points of attachment, by means of
which the animal secures itself' <U+FB01>rmly to the interior of cavities
in rocks and old madreporrs; the colour is that of burnt 'terra
   "‘ From the
                Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia,
vol. iii. No. l. for April 1823.              e
                                                                     I
 - Vol. 63. N0. 313. May 1824-.                       S s           sienna.

322            Mr. C. A. Lesueur’s Descriptions
sienna.—This     species is found only within the cavities of rocks,
which are generally covered with ulva: and other marine plants,
 at the island of St. Bartholomew.        Length 2 inches 5 lines,
 breadth 1 inch and a half.
     8. A. albeola.    Body subp riform, more in<U+FB02>ated above,
 terminating in two apertures, t mat of the branchia rather more
 elevated; base destitute of a peduncle, but spreading a little
 outwards to increase the surface of attachment; colour white,
 diaphanous, exhibiting an interior globular, red, point.       This
 species being small, measuring but a single line in height,
 presented less obvious characters than the preceding species;
 it is gregarious, attached to the surface of rocks, upright,
 and presents a peculiar aspect, which at once distinguishes it
 from any of the other species described in this paper; it may
           be the young of a larger species.--Inhabits Guada—
 possibly
   oupe.
     4. A. multg<U+FB01>rmz's.     Body variable in form, sometimes de
          or orbicular;_sometimes elongated and projecting two
 pressed
   ong unequal tubes, which, as in the other species, are di
 stant when collapsed, and divergent when projected; the open
 ing of one of these is furnished with four, and of the other
 with <U+FB01>ve, triangular lips; base sessile, discoidal, forming an
 attaching surface wider than the body; substance soft, dia
 phanous and tinted with red; length about 5 lines, breadth
 2 lines.—Many specimens are much smaller than the size here
 indicated; but whether or not these are young, or varieties,
 can only be determined by a series of regular and constant
 observations.     Like the preceding they are gregarious, at
 taching  themselves    to rocks on the shore of the island of Gua
  daloupe.
     Var. a. Differs in being much larger, more solid and more
 opaque; the apertures are entire; the interior of the opening
 is black, and the general exterior colour, gray; the almost
  smooth surface is interrupted by a few Wrinkles; it was found
 covered with uva, and resembled a beautiful green Lycopo
  dium; the foot was less dilated than that of the species; the
  apertures are terminal, conic, divergent, sometimes rectilinear
  and sometimes recurred—It is a native of the coast of Gua~
  daloupe.
     5. A. variabilis.    Body variable in form, oblong, sessile;
  base in<U+FB02>ated and adherent to extraneous bodies; apertures
  large, distant, deep red, with <U+FB01>ve brighter spots within, and
  each placed upon a conic protuberance, with their margins
  haidly divided as in the other species by four or <U+FB01>ve valves;
 the conic protuberances are unequal, the surface in common
 with that of the whole body is rugous, of a grayish colour‘in
                                                               some,

                    qf several   new Species   of Ascidia.        323
    some, and brownish in other individuals, somewhat in appear
    ance like a tru<U+FB02>le (Tuber). -—This species lives in society,
    attached to madrepores, rocks,       shells, and each other;
    grouped  with them are smaller ones,  of nearly the same form,
    and of a beautiful red colour; but not having particularly
    examined these smaller specimens,          I
                                          am not certain of their
    being the same species with their larger associates.—Len    h,
    about one inch and a half, by one inch in breadth.—Inha its
     the bay of the Island of St. Thomas.
        6. A. claviformis.    Body small, sub-~cylindric, elongated,
     larger towards. the extremity, or sub-clavate, terminated by
     two small unequal approximate tubercles open at their sum
     mit; substance elatinous, diaphanous, glabrous.       It lives in
     society, attach   b the base to <U+FB01>ici and other marine bodies,
     and is also found t us attached <U+FB02>oating on the surface of the
     water.—Inhabits the bay of St. Vincent in the West Indies.
     —Length about one inch, breadth 2 lines.
        7. A. plicata.   Body ovate, sessile; surface sub-glabrous,
     but with many large in<U+FB02>ated folds on the side of the inferior
     aperture, crossed by smaller folds, presenting on that side the
     appearance of small imbricated dilatations ; the remaining
-
     part of the body is covered with much smaller folds; aper
     tures approximate, unequal, terminal; but being much com
     pressed by their position in the preserving liquor, I am unable
     to determine their natural form; substance opaque, readily
     yielding to pressure; colour white; when air is forcibly intro
     duced into the body, the latter becomes in<U+FB02>ated like a small
     vesicle.-—Length about two inches—Cabinet of the Academy.
     —This species was found attached to the bottom of a vessel
     in this port. See Plate V. <U+FB01>g. B.
        8. A. ovalis.      Body sessile, resembling the preceding
     species, but smaller, less rugged, being destitute of large in
     <U+FB02>ated folds, with some slight, irregular wrinkles on the sur
     face; apertures large, distant, plaCed at the extremity of two
     short, plaited tubes; the skin which margins the apertures is
     very thin, and apparently divided into many small obsolete
     an les; one of these apertures is placed lower than the other
     and lateral; colour, in the alcohol, white; nearly the size of
    plicata.—-Cabinet of the Academy.            _
                                                     -
                                                                    _
        The base of this specimen is surrounded by numerous In
     dividuals of a species of Lepas, which covered the bottom of
     the vessel on which it was found.    See Plate V. <U+FB01>g. A.
        9. A. proboscidea.    An elongated proboscis containing the
     two tubes; extremity obliquely truncated on each side; aper
     tures subequal, ilaced on the summit of the proboscis, and
    separated only     lay a membrane, which extends the whole
                                   S   s   2                    length

    824      Mr. C. A. Lesueur     on several new Species   of Ascidia.
    length of the tubes, and projects a short distance beyond the
    apertures; colour white; surface glabrous.—I have seen the
    proboscis only of this animal.       It was drawn up from the bot
    tom of an estuary 0n the coast of Georgia, by the <U+FB02>uke of an
    anchor, imbedded in mud and fragments of shells. It was
    communicated to me by Mr. Say, as one of the interesting
    objects collected b Messrs. Maclure, 0rd, Say and Peale,
    on their voyage to ‘lorida, and now forms part of the collec
    tion of the Academy.
         10. A. lobgfera.     Body sessile, subglobular, with approxi
    mate, unequal apertures, concealed in the midst of many ir-'
    regular <U+FB02>eshy lobes—This species, which          I have seen only in
    the preservative liquor, was contracted, and appeared to me
     to have been somewhat proportionably longer‘ in the living
     state.   It seems to have been attached to a sand-stone.—The
     distinguishing peculiarity of this species, is the thick, <U+FB02>eshy
     and irregular lobes which defend the apertures.             I  think it
    probable that the apertures were capable of being elevated at
    the will of the animal, above the lobes which protect them
     when at rest. The colour in its present state is a dull black,
    and the surface is wrinkled—Transverse diameter, one inch
     and a half, height also one inch and a half.
    List,   of additional new Species observed chie<U+FB02>y in the Paci<U+FB01>c
         Ocean, during a Voyage of Discovery to Terra Australis;
        from the Manuscripts and Drawings of Peron and. Lesueur.
       1  Ascidia marginella, Decrés’, King’s and Josephine’s islands,
                       in New Holland.
       2            vermiculata, King’s and Decrés’ islands.
'
       3            anatijbidea, Isle of France.
       4"           corgfederata, King’s island.
       5            trinema, bottom of Géographe bay, Leuwin’s land.
    .  6           ji-agum, Elephant bay, King’s and Decrés’ islands.
       7            truncata, Bass’ strait.                            .
       8            rapuli/brmis, Endracht’s land.
       9            gigantea, Bougainville’s bay, Decrés’ island.
      10             lithopoda, Decrés’ island.
  '
      ll          ‘
                    r<U+FB01>iimplzora,  Endracht’s land.
      12            rosea, Bougainville’s bay, Decrés’ island.
      13            alba,'Bougainville’s bay.
      M              barbata, coast of Nice, Europe.
      15            pilosa, Isle of France.
    ‘
      16           <U+FB01>zsciata,      do.
      17             radiata, coast of Havre, Europe.
      18             diaphana, King’s island.                      [islands
      19            phyllostoma, King’s,      Decrés’ and      Jose' hine’s
                                                          ‘
                                            ,                  20      scidia
                                                                              ll

         Dissection    qf a Balrackian Animal in a living State.           325
  20   Ascidia telraodon, Josephine’s island, Napoleon’s land.
  21              peng'formz's, Port of King George, Nuyt’s land.
            '
  22-             australz's, Oyster bay, in Maria’s island.
  23              lit/widea, Leuwin’s land.
  24               nigrz'ta, Edel’s land.
  25              rizopkora, Napoleon’s land.                                    ‘
  26              anthropoceplzala, St. Francis’ and St.Peter’s islandsv
y                     and port of King George.
  27               nasuta, north-west coast of New Holland.
  28              democratica, St. Francis’ and St. Peter’s islands.
  29               vermcosa, King’s island.
  30              polystoma,       do.
  LIV.      Dissection of a Batraclzz'an Animal in a living State. By
      RICHARD HARLAN, M.D. Prqfessm~ q/‘ComparativeAnatomy
      to the Philadelphia Museum)“               -
        HE     specimen was sent from Georgia to Dr. Mease of this
         city.    An account of a similar animal has lately been
                                       “
  published under the name of C/nysodonta larijbrmis-f.”
      Having of      late  bBen familiar  in the dissection of Proteiform
  animals, “ les reptiles douteux” of Humboldt, and having
  had the opportunity of observing and dissecting this specimen
  in a living state,      I  experience less hesitation in makin            the
   following    observations,    more  especially   as  the  account   alluded
   to above is by no means free from imperfection and error.
       The animal       I dissected was eighteen inches in length (see
   Plate V. <U+FB01>g. C); the branchial cartilages are four in number,
  united to each other at their inferior end, but unconnected
   with the other parts of the skeleton; the branchial ori<U+FB01>ce is
   Situate between the two inferior; the other cartilaginous slips
   are covered by the internal lining membrane: these ori<U+FB01>ces
   cannot be considered as connected with the process of respiq
   ration, are by no means breathing-holes, not being furnished
   with membranous fringes, and would appear to subserve no
   other purpose than to evacuate the water taken into the mouth
   with the food of the animal.                    -
       The nostrils are small and situated near the point of the
   snout, they communicate with the fences, opening immediately
   behind the palatine row of teeth.
       The lower jaw (<U+FB01>g. D. (3.) contains a single row of teeth of
    about thirty in number; the upper jaw contains a row on the
   5  i  From the Journal of the  Academy  of Natural  Sciences of Philadelphia,
   vol.iii. N0. 2. for May 1823.
      1- Vide Medical Recorder, July 1822, No.  19.
                                                                  maxillaries,

   326      Dr. Harlan’s Dissection q/ a Batracbian Animal
  maxillaries, and another on the palatine surface, consisting of
  about forty in number; they point backwards, are very mi
  nute, the tips re<U+FB02>ect the golden rays, provided they be viewed
  through the medium of a microscope, they are not processes
  of the jaws, but are attached to the bones at their bases by a
  slightly moveable articulation, somewhat similar to the teeth
  of the shark: that is to say, neither by gomphosis or anchy
  losis.
      On the top of the head are the ori<U+FB01>ces of two rows of
  glands (<U+FB01>g. D. on), extending from the eyes to the tip of the
  nose: the eyes are covered with cuticle as in the Siren and
  Proteus (<U+FB01>g. D. y.)
      The tail is short, round at its base, and <U+FB02>attened vertically
  towards the extremity.
      There are no ribs, except the motionless rudiments, resem
  bling in this respect the Proteus anguinus, and differing <U+FB01>'om
  the Siren and the Tritans, which have moveable rudiments of
  ribs.
      The tongue is cartilaginous, possessed of very little free
  dom of motion.          In the appearance of the circulating system,
  the alimentary canal, the cellular lungs, and the urinary organs,
  this animal presents no material difference from the Siren.
      The testicles are <U+FB02>at in this animal and cylindrical in the
  Siren.     The parts about the region of the cloaca being some
  what mutilated, I was unable to determine exactly where the
  ureters entered the bladder.
      This animal cannot be considered, strictly speaking, as
, am hibious (breathing in air or water), not being furnished
  wit branchiaa, and is not calculated for progression upon land.
  Indeed the most remarkable peculiarity in its organization is
  its four boneless legs terminated by two toes, the external toe
  bein the longest (<U+FB01>g. E and F).
         hatever may have been the case during the early settle
  ments of North and South Carolina, at present this animal is
  certainly rare, as none of our museums contain a single speci
  men, 11or was     I   aware that a specimen had ever been sent to
  Europe,     until  I  was informed by Dr. De Kay of New York
  (after having    <U+FB01>nished     this description) that a similar animal
  had been noticed by Dr. Garden in Smith’s “ Correspondence
  of Linnaeus,” under the name of Amphiuma means, 011 referring
  to which work       I  found that this animal had indeed been no
  ticed under that name“.
                                                                          It
     1" Extract from a letter of Dr. Alexander Garden to Mr. Ellis, dated
  Charlestown, May 15, 1773.
     “ i have not as yet been able to procure another of the Amp/tiuma means,
  which he (Linnaeus) calls Sireni simile.  This appeared to me to be a still
                                                                        more

                                                      '
                              in a living Slate.                                  327
   It will be observed that the description of Dr.Garden agrees
with mine, with the exception of a few minor differences as
respects the tongue, the pulmonary system, 8tc. Dr. Garden
did not seem to be aware that the Amp/ziuma respired with
two cellular lungs; by his own account, the specimen he de
scribed had been preserved in spirits, which circumstance will
                                                        ‘
sometimes give rise to inaccuracies.
    From the above description, the Amplziuma must be ac
knowledged as enerically distinct from the Batrachian animals
hitherto descriied; the similarity of internal organization
would place it between the Proteus and Siren.
    This ver curious animal lived for several weeks in the os—
session of     r. Mease, by whose re uest a drawing 0 the
living  animal  was taken by Mr. C. A.    esueur. To the former
more singular animal than the Siren, as you might observe by my remarks,"
&c. &c.—Vol. i. p.599.
   In a letter to Linnaeus, with which he sends a specimen, Dr. Garden
gives the following descriptions of the Ampliiuma:
    “I  must now say something of an unknown animal, which you will <U+FB01>nd ‘
in a glass bottle, and which I have no doubt will a<U+FB02>'ord you much satisfac
tion ,- the specimen here sent is the only one I ever saw, and I shall think
myself fortunate if it reaches you in safety.
   “ \Vhen I <U+FB01>rst received   it,  the length was 37 inches, though the animal
was then become somewhat contracted.          At <U+FB01>rst sight I suspected   to be
                                                                             it
another species of Siren; but upon nearer examination         I found so many
differences, that there proves to be no relationship whatever between them.
 Can this animal form   a  link between the Lacertw and Serpentes?           is   it   al
lied to Angui: quadrupes?
   “ It  differs in many particulars from the Siren, most evidently in the fol
lowing. This animal has four feet, with two toes to each, without claws. The
Siren has only two feet.      It wants the gills and their wing-like coverings.
It has no scales, nor, which seems to me very singular, any tongue! all
which are found in the Siren.      I  have opened the throat, and satis<U+FB01>ed my.
 self respecting the presence or absence of the gills. The following are the
 characters
          I     have drawn up of this ugly animal.
   “ Head, rather long, depressed, tapering, serpent-like.
   “ JWoul/z, extending half the length of the head.
    “ Lower jaw. furnished with a single row of sharp distinct teeth.
   “ Upper, with four rows with similar curved teeth.
   “ Upper lip, covering the under one.
    “                    Nostrils, two openings at the very extremity of the
       Tongue, none.
upper lip.                 _                                    _
  “  E e:, dull, at the upper part     of   the head, on each Side, covered with
a thic tunic.
   “ A  thin retractile membrane covers each cartilaginous lateral spiracle or
ori<U+FB01>ce, by which the animal breathes.
   “
                                                                            _
     Body, thick, nearly cylindrical, tapering and keeled' at each Slde, be
yond the vent. Tail recurved.        There      no lateral line.
                                                is                 Vent,     large
                                                                             a
opening immediately behind the hinder legs.
   “ Feet, four, two of them before, close to the spiracles, each with two toes
destitute of claws, two behind, at the bottom of the           with similar toes.
   “ Inhabits deep ditches and lakes of fresh water."— bel‘ly,
                                                            01.   p. 333.
                                                                    i.
                                                                         gentleman,

 828             Dr. Forster      on the dispersive      Power
gentleman, who has shown himself on man occasions active
 in the cause of science,       I  am indebted for t e opportunity of
 dissection.                                                           _
    This specimen is deposited in the Philadelphia Museum
 under the name of Ampbiuma means (Garden).
   [Nora-For Descriptions and Figures of two Species of Siren, see Phi
1050phieal Magazine,   vol. ix. p. llS.—-En1'r.]
                                                   '
LV.      On the Dispersive Power ofthe Atmosphere, and on the
               Peculiaritz'es of Stars.     By T. Foas'raa.
                            [Concluded from p. 210.]
           late Number of the Philosophical Magazine, you did
INmea the       honour to insert some hasty observations on the
varieties observed in the refracting and dispersiVe properties
of the atmosphere, and on the nature of the light of several
stars.     The opinions therein stated are deduced from a num
ber  of  observations    made and continually repeated by me, on
the effects of refraction and dispersion. On different occasions,
when     I  made the experiments and drew the natural conclu
sions from them,      I  was unaware that similar researches had
been going forward on the continent, and also in Scotland,
which I now learn to be the case; and Iam also informed,
that very similar facts to those which               I have observed have
been discovered by other persons, although, as it appears
to me, by the employment of different means.                    At the time
that I was in the southern parts of the continent in 1822,                  I
was totally unaware that at that very time philosophers were
investigating the nature and varieties of light and its refrac
tions in the clear atmosphere of the south of Europe. And
being at that time enga ed in the pursuit of objects more im
mediatel connected wi<U+FB01>i meteorology,                 I neglected to inquire
after an( to collect information as to what was going on in
astroscopical science in the several observatories abroad.
       I
But <U+FB01>nd that considerable advancement has been made in
the knowledge of the peculiarities of the light of stars; and
though     I have not at present obtained any published details
of the particular observations made, nevertheless have learnt        I
with pleasure from private individuals, that the results of such
observations, made on a most extensive scale, have in a reat
measure coincided With my own imperfect attempts to i lus
trate the singularities of different stars.             I am at present un
acquainted with the different methods adopted by philoso-'
phers on the continent for separatin and examining the sea
veral coloured rays. But the methoc that
                                                 '
                                                          I have chie<U+FB02>y em
                                                                      ployed

             qfthe    Atmosphere,      and on the Peculiarities    qutars.       329
                 is by the adaptation of the prism to the telescope and
        y the use of a chromatopoietic lens. I have tried several
     ployed
     experiments with the prism adapted to different parts of the
     telescope,       and    I  have tried various methods with the lens,
     which it is unnecessary to detail, as they are well known.
     After all,      I  believe the best way is for each observer to pur
     sue his own method, and to give only the result at <U+FB01>rst; for
     if it should turn out by a future comparison of results, that
     any facts be ascertained by the employment of different means,
     then would the said facts be established on the <U+FB01>rmest basis.
     I have myself employed several modes of observation, and
     they have certainly all agreed in this, that they have shown
     the same relative degree of oblongation of the spectrum, or
    the same apparent proportion of the coloured rays of each
     star respectively; none of the different methods employed have
    contradicted each other*, and the variety in the results on dif
    ferent nights of observation has been distinctly referable to
    the varieties in the dispersive qualities of our atmosphere,
    which      I  have already discussed in a former part of this me
    moir.        Making allowance for these slight varieties, which
    my constant attention to atmospheric phaenomena has enabled
    the in many cases to foresee and prepare for, the same star
    in the following Table has always shown' the same phreno
    mena.         Those stars which seem to vary in consequence as it
    would seem of some changes goin                   on in their own proper
    light, or which are anomalous an                   incapable of being in
    cluded in the same general view of the subject, have been put
    apart by themselves and will be mentioned hereafter.
          In the Table, column 2, I have put down the apparent
    colour of the stars, not only as observed in general with the
    naked eyes, but by the employment of another and very sim
    ple method.            I   pushed the eyeglass of a four feet refractor
    gradually       in,  so  as  to let the rays fall on the glass before they
    came to a focus ;—this method if applied to terrestrial objects
    in the da          time would only produce confused images, and
    utterly    defeat    the intentions of the beholder.         From this cir
    cumstance its use at night has been probably overlooked : for
    as applied to brilliant luminous points it is of considerable
    use.       I usually pushed in the adjusting tube of the tele
    scope, till I obtained a large round spectrum of the star, so
    expanded that it occupied a large space in the <U+FB01>eld of view.
    This method will answer very well for all very bright stars,
    because what we lose in the dazzling intensity of theilightv
         " It was by an error of calculation thatl laced Sirius <U+FB01>rst in the scale of
    refrangibility in my former paper in Phil.     ag. N0. 311, page 208.   <
       I Vol.   63. No. 813.       May   1824-.           T t                when
'/
 H”

            ‘
330             Dr. Forster   von   the dispersive Power
when brought to its proper focus, we gain in the duller and
more easily observable expanded spectrum.               This me
thod, in achromatic telescopes, does not separate the different
rays so as to produce an oblong and coloured spectrum;
but on the contrary, the large spectral disk which I have de
scribed, corresponds in its general colour with the colour of
the star viewed with the naked eye; differing only in this, that
the light not being intense or dazzling, we are enabled to ob
serve niinuter di<U+FB02>'erences in the colour of different stars viewed
in this manner, than we could do if we let the rays arrive to
the focus.   This method is likewise useful for observinrr more
accurately the permutations of colour noticed in the fluctua
tions of some stars, which    Ihave before described.    Since my
last paper I have noticed more minutely the particular colours
of the alternate changes in several stars, and have also ob
served some strange and unaccountable coruscations and ap
parent motions in the luminous stria: of brilliant white light,
which sometimes seems to intersect this pale and expanded
spectrum described above, either in the form of lines, of radii,
or of reticular intersections, leaving frequently dark spaces
and unilluminated interposing lines.     These coruscations have
very much the appearance of some effects produced in arti
<U+FB01>cial electricity, or of certain coruscations of the Aurora
Polaris.
   I hope on a future occasion to be able to communicate some
further experiments on this phaenomenon, as well as on an
other mode of observing stars with prisms, so as to get the
black lines of non-illuminating     rays at the regular intervals.
 But at present I am desirous to con<U+FB01>ne myself to the precise
object of this paper, which       is,
                                 to show the comparative refran-     _
gibility of different star-light, and the necessity of tables of
correction for each particular star of any considerable magni
        ‘
tude.  I   have noticed that the red colour, which alternates in
the <U+FB02>uctuation, generally, but not in every case, alternates with
the ordinary or general colour of the star, stated in the fourth
column.     This alternation      not distinctly observed in stars
                                  is
near to the zenith, but begins to be perceived very clearly at
about 46° of altitude, and     isgreatest at between 10° and 15°
above the horizon.     When stars which are much subject to
this alternation of colour are viewed at the above altitudes in
the method above described, that is, by observing them before
the rays come together in the focus, we .not only observe more
accurately and in an enlarged and less intensely luminous disk,
the same phaanomena that we can view with the naked eyes,
namely, the sudden change of the whole star to deep red; but
we may also distinguish that this red colour         not instanta
                                                     is
                        '                                '
                                                           neously

      lgflhe Atmosphere,    and on the Peculiar-flies rg/‘Slars.                 $31
neously produced all over the star at once: it seems sometimes
to ascend from the lower limb upwards, like the drawing up
of a curtain, or like the progressive ascent of light thrown
on to a disk by the gradual inclination of a re<U+FB02>ecting plane
mirror, occupying (though the time is perhaps a deception of
our organs) on different occasions               _~l_-_
                                                     of time in passing
                                                          3}”
from the lower to the upper edge of the spectrum: but                 does
                                                                       it
not recede again in the same direction;               suddenly seems to
                                                           it
vanish, either leaving the disk of the star of its usual colour
and brilliancy, or giving place to a blueish colour.             in Sirius
I   have noticed that indigo, violet, and greenish white change
with red.   I      have been enabled to determine the average
number of the <U+FB01>ts of redness in Antares as being three in 5" of
time; and generally lasting from           g.”to 1", though sometimes
longer.      In Sirius the red paler, there
                                is                    more variety, and
                                                            is
the <U+FB02>uctuations are much more rapid.                 Another thing ob
 served in the expanded spectrum                that the intensity of the
                                               is,
 alternating    red  light,  like that of the  general  light of the star,
varies inversely as the size of the spectrum; so that instead
 of a deep and intense red, such as we see with the naked eye,
 or when we adjust the telescope to the proper focus; we see a
 more diluted red or pink light, alternating with other di
 luted colours according to the prevailing colour of the parti
 cular star that we are viewing.
 I     have not devoted a separate column for the colours and
 relative prevalence of the <U+FB02>uctuations of the stars, correspond
 ing to the fourth and <U+FB01>fth columns of my last table, Philoso—
 phical Magazine, p. 208, as         it  seemed unnecessary.           It
                                                                       ma
 suf<U+FB01>ce to observe generally, that        it    only certain stars which
                                               is
 show this phzenomenon in any considerable degree, and most
 of those have been before pointed out. This coloured <U+FB02>uctu
 ation, when observed in the prism, presents a very curious and
 beautiful phzenomenon; and what                very remarkable
                                               is                          is,
                                                                        that
 whatever colours any particular star may afford in the disper
  sive lens, the same colours will be produced by viewing the
  star in an ordinary telescope, and simply vibrating                at the
                                                                      it
  time of observation: and this led me to discover            new method
                                                                 a
  of measuring the proportions of the colours, hereafter to be
  described. A great degree of<U+FB02>uctuation interferes considerably
  with our endeavours to estimate the refrangibility of different
  stars, founded on the dispersion of their colours; because                       it
  makes the spectrum, as viewed in the glass, vary so perpe
  tually, that we cannot easily measure the deviation of the ex
  treme rays with the micrometer; and therefore                stars which
                                                                 in
  are  liable  to an   inordinate  degree   of  this <U+FB02>uctuation    we must
   always  make    greater   allowance  for probable   error.    The   third
                                     Tt
                                      2                            column,

   832              Dr. Forster    on the dispersive  Power
   column, which is the most im ortant, exhibits what             I  con
   ceive to be the proportional re raction of the different stars
   severally, whose names are put down in the <U+FB01>rst column; and
   this scale of comparative refraction is founded on the position
   laid down, and which I believe repeated experiment will con
  <U+FB01>rm,—that stars are more or less refracted according to the
  peculiar composition of their li ht: that is to say, in other
  words, the relative quantity of refraction of each star se
   verally varies as the relative proportion of the more to the
  less refrangible rays of which their mixed light is composed.
  According to this position, it would seem that stars which
  appear to possess the red or less refractive rays would require a
  less, while those with a great proportion of violet would re.
  quire a greater correction than the mean refraction as stated
  in ordinary tables.
      I  offer the following table with great deference to the re~
  sults of other observations, and likewise with great caution, it
  being founded on an attempted measurement of the proper,
                                                                      co,
  tionate deviation and relative quantity of the differently
  loured rays in the several stars stated in the table. And
  I request that allowance be made for the great dif<U+FB01>culty
 of such observations ; and that the novelty of the experi.!
 ments, the few opportunities that I have had of repeating
 them on an extensive scale, together with the great nicety re,
            where small quantities are concerned,--may apologize
 guisite
   or the rude and imperfect manner in which the observations
 have been conducted.
      If the future observations of more able persons should con...
 <U+FB01>rm my own,         I   shall be glad to see them in detail: if they
 should be confuted, the very detection of the cause of the
 error may lead on to the knowledge of some other fact of use
 in the very curious investigations now going forward as to the
 nature of light.         At all events they have a<U+FB01>’orded me, and
 may a<U+FB01>’ord to others, agreeable amusement during the long
 and dreary winter ni hts of this miserable country.
     In the following ta le I assume the apparent altitude of the
 stars above the horizon at the time of observation to be 10°,
 and the barometer 0“'760:—the centigr. thermometer +10.
 Under which circumstances we may estimate the mean re
fraction as 5' 19"-10, according to the formulae determined by
Laplace, and published in the Connaissance des Temps.             Now
presuming       this  to  be  the real mean  refraction, and believing
also that it equals the refraction of Capella, the <U+FB01>gures put down
in column 3 of the following table, indicate the quantities of
refraction to be added to or subtracted from the above-men
tioned mean, in order to get the true refraction of each of the.
                       '
                                                                  stars

     of the Atmospilere, and      0n the Peculiarities        (3)“ Stars.   333
stars named in column 1.        Thus the stars which I have put
above Capella in the column require a greater, and those be
low him a less correction for 10° of altitude than 5' 19"'10,
and probabl ' in nearly the proportions indicated in the scale.
The particular methods I have used, both for obtaining the
spectra and for measuring the deviation of the extreme rays,
being one I believe of my own discovery, and which I am not
yet suf<U+FB01>ciently con<U+FB01>dent in,—I do not at present think it ne
cessary to disclose, because I intend to make it the subject of
a future communication.      It has been overlooked, I am per
suaded, from its simplicity, in consequence of that fatal though
common error of the human understanding, whereby we so
frequently dig deep for the discovery of objects that lie near
the surface and are overlooked.     All I desire         is,
                                                   to learn from
those who have better means than          possess
                                            I     of making the
experiments, whether astronomical observations on those stars
which are conveniently situated for determining the refrac
tion, shall be found to con<U+FB01>rm or to refute what appears to
have been ascertained as probable from the employment of a
very different mode of investigation.
                                 TABLE.
                                                  Propor. Beth
                                                    at 10° alt.
         Names   of Star.        Apparent         estimating the
                             prevailing Colour.   mean Re<U+FB01>._ as
                                                   5' 19”‘l().
         Lyra        .....     Blue                   6"‘50
         Spica                 Blue                   6'0
         Sirius.........       White                  5'50
         Arided               Whitish                 4"O
         Atair                Whitish                2'50
         Procyon...... Yellowish white               2'20
         Rigel           Yellowish white '           2'
         Capella              Yellow                 0‘
         Regulus...       Reddish white                  1‘
         Arcturus    .     Oranrre red               4'
         Alpliard......       Re dish                4'50
         Betalgeus              Red                  4'50
         Aldebaran                Reddish             7'
  Observe: In the above table the quantities put down are
not asserted with any degree of positiveness, but are merely
submitted, as being what the measurements of the various
spectra seem to indicate.
                                                                            The

  $34-             Br. Forster  an the dispersive Power
      The colour in the second column is merely the genera.
  appearance of the star as to colour when viewed in the man
  ner already described, before the rays meet in a focus in the
  telescope; and is of no particular utility, otherwise than by re
  mindng the reader of the general varieties of colour of stars.
      I have not detailed the peculiarities of the coloured spectra,
  from want of time, and because the detail would take up too
  much space in your valuable Magazine.             But   I  have given
                              I
  the results, as nearly as could estimate them, in column 3.
      The following seems to be the order of the refrangibility of
  the planets: but I have not been enabled to state ahy propor
  tions, as the principal method employed to disperse the light
  of the stars will not disperse that of planets.
                                                    Whether the
           Planet.                Colour.           Propor. Refr. is
                                                   + or — the mean.
        Moon                  Bright white.         +
        Venus.........        Bright white.          +
                                                           P
        Jupiter          Greenish-yellow white.      +       29pm
        Saturn..               Dull white.          =
                                                                no“ ' n“
                                                           un Long
        Mercury......          Reddish.             -—
        Mars                   Very red.            -—_)
      Thus the Moon requires the most, and Mars the least cor
  rection for refraction.
      I  shall conclude this paper with some miscellaneous ob
  servations on a mode of producing colours by vibration of
  the telescope; merely to show that by almost any means that
  we employ to separate the rays of starlight, the results show
  that stars differ from each other essentially in the composi
  tion of their light, and that there is a correspondence in the
  results, of experiments of very different sorts; so that what
  we perceive is a real and not an imaginary difference.
                           I
      In a future paper hope to present you with some curious
   observations on extraordinary or special refractions, which
   have happened occasionally in consequence of remarkable at
   mospheric changes.        I shall also send for a future Number,
  a Catalogue of Stars, on which no accurate observation can
   be made on their proportional refraction, and the causes why
   we cannot make them; as for example, Algal, Castor, Antares,
   and others.      I write my observations hastily, and from my
   <U+FB01>rst impression of the subject, in order that         I  may induce
   others to observe and obtain information either in corrobora
'
   tion or refutation of my notions.
                                                                Vibral ion

     of the   Atmosphere,   and on tile Peculiarities    of Stars.   835
              Vibration producing the primitive Colours.
   I have noticed    a most remarkable method           of separating the
li ht of certain stars by means of rapidly altering the position
ofthe glass. In order the more easily to explain this method,
I must be a little prolix. The experiment of producing a.
ring of light like a circular band or wheel, by means of tw1rl
ing round a piece of lighted wood tied to a string, is well
known, and is commonly practised by children.         Now by
  causing the telescope to gyrate in such a manner, on the
  swivel on which it is mounted capable of being moved in all
  directions, as to cause the star viewed at the time to describe
  a circle; we obtain a luminous ring in the <U+FB01>eld of view of the
  telescope, instead of a luminous point.   Now there is nothing
  Very remarkable in this optical experiment, as far as it goes;
  for we can produce various <U+FB01>gures very easily, according to.
  the direction in which we move the telescope at the time we
  are observing a star.    Thus, if we move it rapidly from one
  side to the other horizontally, instead of seeing a luminous
  point, the star will appear like a horizontal line of li ht. If
  we gyrate it round and round, we shall view a circle 0 light;
  and so on. This is easily understood, and the effect is com
  monly referred to deceptio visas.    But     I
                                              have now to intro
  duce to notiCe a very extraordinary phaanomenon connected
  with this simple experiment. Observing Lyra one evening,
  whileI   gave the telescope the gyrating motion described,            I
  noticed that the ring of light produced was not uniform in
  COlour, as is the case when we twirl round a blue candle or a
  piece of lighted wood on a string.       The ring of light pro
 duced by the rapid apparent gyration of Lyra in the glass
  was separated into the prismatic colours, each colour seeming
 to oceupy a certain portion of the circular ring of light.
  Now by observing which colour was most intense and occu
 pied the largest portion of the ring,     I
                                         endeavoured to ascertain
 the relative proportions of the primitive rays, as these co
 loured portions of the ring seemed to correspond to the
 primitive colour of which the star is composed, and which
‘we see when the light is separated by the prism adapted to
 the telescope.    Thus the blue was the most conspicuous in
 Igra: for though the successive portions of the ring were
 red, yellow, green and indigo; yet all these colours were
 weak compared with the blue.          I
                                       should have thought the
 whole of this phwnoinenon of nwmonieiit, had not the co
 lours thus produced varied in the case of different stars.             I
 tried the experiment immediately on the planet Illars, then
 favourably situated for observation; and      I
                                               found that the
                                                             cu ar   clir

    336              Dr. Forster   0n the dispersiue Power
    cular band of light which he produced, instead of being di—
   Versi<U+FB01>ed by the various colours, was always quite uniform, and
   resembled the light of his disk when viewed steadily in the
   ordinary manner.        This discovery of the di<U+FB02>érent results from
   viewing the planet Mars and the star Lyra in the same man
   ner, gave additional interest to the experiment, for it showed
   that the colours were not the mere effect of the varying in
   clination of the glass of the telescope.         I then repeated the
   experiment     on other  stars,  and  on  the planet Jiipitcr; the re
   sults of which are as follows:
       Lyra produced the blue very strong, and the red, the
  indigo, the green and the yellow in successively less propor
  tions. Spica Virginis showed nearly the same phenomena as
  Lyra, only the blue was still more preponderating.             a Cygni
  showed a preponderance of indigo, less yellow and blue.
   Betalgcus produced yellow, and intense red and green. Sirius
  showed much indigo, violet, and portions of bri ht white
  light. 'Capella much orange, red, green, and less 0 the more
  refrangible colour.       Aldebaran principally red, with some
  green   and   very faint orange.     Arctums produced a much less
  coloured ring than the others ; indeed its portions seemed to be
  o'ran e and red running into each other. The planets Jupiter
  and      ars showed no colours at all ; the rings produced by
  viewi      them with a gyrating telescope, bein only circles of
  light 0 the ordinary and uniform colour 0 those planets
  respectively. When any identical star was observed, the same
  colours were always produced in whatever direction                I  vi
  brated the telescope :—thus a horizontal motion produced a
  horizontal rod or line, one end of which was red, the other
  blue, the middle green, and so on.
               I
      I trust have made myself understood, in this short and
  hasty account of a phenomenon which,—whatever may be its
  precise cause, or whatever may be the particular hypothesis in
, chromatics on which we may attempt to explain it,—certainly
  deservesfuture attention.         For it must strike every body im
  mediately, that however easy the explanation of the produc
  tion of colours might be on optical principles, were the e<U+FB01>‘ects
  uniform, yet the following considerations must add/great im
  portance and interest to the experiments.
      1. That the planets do not produce any colour when viewed
  by this method.
      2. That the light of some <U+FB01>xed stars cannot be very di
  stinctly separated by this method into the several colours,
  particularly Arcturus.
      3. That the colours produced on the above method, seem
  generally to agree with those obtained by the adaptation
                                                                       if
                                                                      t e

     of the   Atmosphere,    and
                                   on the Peculia'rz‘ties  ofthe Stars.     337
the prism to the telescope in the case of <U+FB01>xed stars, while in
the case of the planets this method will not enable us to see
parate the light at all.
 - 4. That in rapid gyrations of the telescope,               dark lines are
produced, which intervene between the several colours: so
that the circle appears broken, the several colours seem like
separate portions of a circle of the same size, closely ar
ranged in the same orbit, and being separated                      from each
other by narrow dark spaces.
     5. That when this effect of the dark intervals between the
colours takes place, we always observe other narrow spaces of
intense white light, also interposed between the colours, and
bordering on the dark spaces.
     6. These dark spaces cannot be obtained distinctly from the
li' ht of Arcturus, and only in a very slight degree from that of
    Zdebaran and Betalgeus.
     The motion of the glass of the telescope throuorh which
the light of the star passes, certainl produces the co our; and
this inclined me to think that t e alternate colours before
noticed are produced by some motion in the atmosphere, as                       I
have hinted at in your Number for March, p. 198.
     Does the fact that Arcturus resembles the planets, in not
affording the colours in any great degree, afford grounds for
 considerino him as the nearest of the <U+FB01>xed stars, and that di-v
stance of the stars is one cause of the disposition of the light
to be easily separated P
      I intend to offer some observations on the effects of re<U+FB01>'acd
tion and re<U+FB02>ection combined, in a future Number.
      I have been at the trouble, lately, of comparing the declina
tions of the thirteen stars of the above table, as given by seven
 different observers; and           I <U+FB01>nd that, generally speaking, the
 greatest     differences   of  results    have occurred in those stars
 whose proportionate re<U+FB01>'angibility is the greatest and the least;
 and that the differences of results have been the least in Capella
 and those stars whose refrangibility is nearest to the mean*.
                                                                          P. S.
   ' '
        I noticed with great interest the observation of Prof. Bessel respecting
 the habits of observing, as agreeing with what Maskelyne recorded of his very
 accurate assistant, who from August 1795 began to set down the transits Q”
 of time later than hitherto, and continued to increase till he at length put
 them down ’86” too late.      This sudden alteration in the time of recording
 observations has occurred before. The causes of it lie deep in the nature of
 the mind itself; and, I believe, do not depend on the instruments, or on an
 derangement of the apparatus. When, however, we speak, as we must do in
 ordinary language, of such errors being in the mind,we say very little as to the
  particular cause of them. Astronomers in general may not admit, butI am
               those who are physiologists will be repared to understand what
 persuaded
     am going to say on this subject, which has 'ong been in my mind.        The
       Vol.  63.  No.  813.   May     1824-.         U   u  -               "PM

338    Dr. Forster     on the dispersive     Power     qf the   Atmosphere.
           I
   P. S. should like much to know the truth of an opinion                         I
have heard broached, that Dr. Bradley deduced his tables                        of
error is owing to an actual change in the brain, either from nervous dis
order and from increasing age, or, as I think may happen in some instances,
from a change of activity from one to the other hemisphere of the brain
All   the cerebral organs are double, and the organ of time among the rest.
Now,      if the action of the hemispheres respectively does not exactly cor
  respond, we may conceive an error to be invariably produced, by the left
  hemisphere, for example, taking the duty long performed, by the right
  hemisphere.        For physiologists have shown strong reasons for thinking
  that the double organs do not both act at once; but alternate at long
   eriods of time and thus relieve one another.       Of course this explanation
 is conjectnral, and only founded on analogies that none but phrenologists
 can readily enter into. Nevertheless, the discussion of these subjects is the
 best way to arrive at truth. And astronomers will excuse me for intro~
 ducing a subject not properly belonging to that science; since it tends to
 show the cause of the error complained of, and since the healthy condi
 tion of our or 1tans of sense and the brain is quite as necessary as is the per
 fection of optical instruments to correct observation.
    I may mention here another curioas fact,-that if certain                accus
                                   i
 tomed to observe with the right eye, begin to use the left, tpersons
liable to put down an access            of altitude.
                                                                     ey at <U+FB01>rst are
                                                       This has been explained,
 though unsatisfactorily, as follows :—- The two eyes are seldom so exactly
alike as that they shall both give the object viewed the same elevation;
although from habit when both eyes are open we see but one object.            Now
it mayappear at <U+FB01>rst view, that this circumstance would not produce an
error, inasmuch as all objects being elevated or depressed alike by each eye,
the altitude ofa star viewed with the left eye would ap ear at the same
relative distance from the horizun, a's whcnviewcd with t , right eye, with
which we had been accustomed to view it. This seems good reasoning at
tirst, but the fallacy of it consists in this: that though when we change the
use of the more to that of the less elevating eye, the distances of all the
objects bear the same relative proportion to each other, yet no particular
object appears at the same relative distance. as it before did, from the
place where we conceive the horizon or any other terrestrial objects to be,
 by the sense of touch. And this circumstance, unperceived              ourselves,
creates a sort of confusion in the mind, that perplexes one in by   t e record of
small quantities, so as to reduce error. The surplus of elevation given by
one eye over and above t at of the other, whatever inequality exists, may
be measured, in cases where we can induce temporary double vision, or by'
looking alternately with each eye, or by looking through a telescope with'
one eye, and at the same object with the other eye naked.            But the dis
cordance varies with the particular inclination of the eyes.      Now 1 am dis
satis<U+FB01>ed with the above explanation, because the use of the micrometer
\vould prevent any such error from such a cause: and lam inclined to
refer it to the parts of the brain in connexion with the eyes, called by the
              '
pit   iol       ts organs of space and size. For if   those organs in one hemi»
     ere     'd not correspond in action to those in the other,    a   change to
      use of the other side might cause the observer actually to perceive
tv
SE
e
dllferently the quantities of space. The organs of the left side, for exam
ple, might not perceive such small quantities of space as those on the
right.     All this
                  is    Very obscure and hypothetical at resent, and we must
be very careful not to perplex our observations of henomeua, by obtru—
ding too hastily any theoretical explanations of their physical causes.
                                                                    refraction,

          Remarks on the Theory oftlle Figure oft/1e Earth.          389
  refraction, chie<U+FB02>y by observation of Capella .9 If this turn out
  to be the case, it would become exceedingly curious, as by
  numerous experiments the refractions of Capella appear to me
  to equal the mean refraction, and that of Lyra and Aldebarau
  the two extremes.
     Hartwell, April   16, 1824.
     LVI.     Rmnarlcs     on the Theory oft/1e Figure qf l/w Earth.
                     By J. IvonY, Esq. ALA. ER.S.
  ITofisphilosophers
           not my intention to trace minutely      the  various labours
                            on the Figure of the Earth, but to     state
 concisely the present mathematical theory on that subject, and
 to add some observations upon it. .
     1. To whatever branch of the philosophical           system of the
 universe we turn our attention, we are immediately led to the
 immortal author of the true theory founded on the law of uni
 versal gravitation.         Newton not only laid down the principles:
 he, in a great measure, reared the superstructure; or, at
 least, he sketched out so accurately the proper view to be
taken of every part of the subject, that his followers have done
little else but <U+FB01>ll up his original outlines. The modern theory
 of the <U+FB01>gure of the planets, still imperfect in some respects,
 coincides in the main with the physical ideas of Newton,
 which the progress of the mathematical sciences has enabled
the philosophers of the present day to develop and extend. _
     It is supposed in the Principia, that the earth is a mass of
 homogeneous <U+FB02>uid, the particles of which attract one another
 in- the inverse proportion of the_square of the distance.            Ilf
there were no rotatory motion, the only <U+FB01>gure consistent with
 the equilibrium of the attractive forces, would be a perfect
 sphere.      But as the earth revolves upon an axis, a centrifugal
force is communicated to the particles of the <U+FB02>uid, causing
them to recede from the axis, and changing the sphere into
a <U+FB01>oure oblate at the poles and protuberant at the equator.
    'fhe proportion of the centrifugal force to gravity is easily
found.      Every point of the equator describes, 'in a second of
time, a circular are having its versed-sine equal to 0'67 of an
inch; which is ver nearly 72%}- of 1.671E feet, the space through
which a heavy bo y falls ‘in t 1e same time.           Hence the cen
trifugal force is 5%,; of theobserved gravitation; or <U+FB01>lm of the
attractive force that would prevail if the earth preserved its
<U+FB01>gure and were at rest.
    In the question of the <U+FB01>gure of the earth we may therefore
suppose a sphere                      of a homogeneous <U+FB02>uid, at rest
                      '
                          consistipg u 2                           and

  34-0           Mr. lvory’s Remarks      on the Themy
  and consequently in equilibrio; and we may inquire what
  change of form will ensue in consequence of a rotatory motion
   causing a centrifugal force very small in proportion to the
  gravity.   The problem is considered in this view in the Prin
  cipz'a; but no investigation is given of the nature of the oblate
  <U+FB01>o'ures that will have their particles in eguilz'brz'o by the action
  of the attractive and centrifugal forces. Newton tacitly as
  sumes that the <U+FB02>uid sphere, in the nascent change of its form,
  will become a spheroid such as is generated by the revolution
  of an ellipse about the less axis. The meridians of the qui
  escent sphere are thus, in the revolving <U+FB01>gures, changed into
  ellipses having the greater axis in the equator.       But whether
  this assumption was made merely because the ellipse is the
-
  most simple of oval <U+FB01>gures, or for some other reasons, it
  would be in vain to inquire.
      Supposing therefore that the oblate <U+FB01>gures caused by the
  centrifugal force are elliptical spheroids, we have still to de
  termine the relation between the protuberance at the equator,
  and the observed velocity of rotation.        Now this research is
  greatly assisted by the consideration that the spheroids are
  very little different from spheres.         For, according to the
  general law that regulates the small variations of mathema
  tical quantities, the centrifugal force at the equator and the dif
  ference between the equatorial and the polar diameters, will al
  ways have the same proportions to the gravity and the polar
  axis, so long as we can neglect the squares and other powers
  of the <U+FB01>rst two quantities. It is suf<U+FB01>cient therefore to deter
  mine what these proportions are in some given <U+FB01>gure.           New
  ton takes the case of the spheroid that has the polar axis
  equal to 100 parts, and that of the equator to 101 of the same
  parts; and he computes that the gravity of a particle placed
  at the pole, is to its gravity at the equator as 501 to 500.
   He next supposes two columns of the <U+FB02>uid reaching from the
  centre of the spheroid, one to the pole, and the other to the
  equator; and as any two particles similarly placed in these
  columns will have their        ravities in the constant proportion
  of 501 to 500, it follows mat the total weights will be to one
  another as 501 x 100 to 500 x 101, or as 501 to 505.        Where
  fore, if we suppose the spheroid at rest, the equatorial will
  preponderate the polar column; but, if we suppose a rotatory
  velocity suf<U+FB01>cient to diminish the gravity of the particles in
  the equatorial column by its ;%6 part, the weights of the two
  columns will just balance one another, and the revolving
  spheroid will be in equilibrin.      Thus, when the protuberance
  at the equator is Tgu of                 semi-axis; the centrifugal
                              the polar
  force requlsrte to the equlhbrium is 336 of the gravity at the
                                                              equator,

                     ofthe Figure of the Earth.                ‘8“
e uator, the <U+FB01>rst fraction bein     of the other. But, in the case
                                     15;
of the earth, the centrifugal force      an of the gravity at the
                                           is
equator; and hence, by applying what has just been proved,
the Equatorial protuberance will be      X <U+FB01>lm, or gm of the semi
axis of revolution.     It follows therefore that the polar axis
of the earth to the equatorial diameter, nearl as 229 to 230.
             is                                         Y
   Newton’s determination of the <U+FB01>gure of               the
                                                    earth    justly  is
liable to objection in assuming, without proof, that the <U+FB02>uid
sphere changes into an oblate elliptical spheroid by the action
of the centrifugal force.    It   also defective in considering
                                  is
only the extreme case of a <U+FB02>uid mass perfectly homogeneous.
It even appears that the illustrious author had not re<U+FB02>ected
with his usual accuracy on the consequence of an increase of
density towards the centre; for he sup oses that      would be  it
attended with a greater oblateness of       spheroid; which
                                                t   e                     is
contrary to what actually happens, as was <U+FB01>rst proved by
Clairaut.
  2. Huyghens considered the <U+FB01>gure of the earth in      (life        a
rent point of view, which deserves to be mentioned on account
of its connection with      the true theory.     His attention Was
 <U+FB01>rst drawn to this subject by the variation in the length of the
 seconds’ pendulum in different latitudes, which was discovered
 by Richer in 1672.        Huyghens immediately perceived that
 this phaenomenon was caused by the centrifugal force at the
 earth’s surface; which increases in approaching the equator,
 lessens the power of ravity, and retards the time of the pen
                  i
 dulum’s vibrations.        also occurred to him that
awas a perfect sphere, a plumb-line would not be at right an
                                                            the earth
                                                                if
 gles to the sea, or to the surface of standing water, but would
 be drawn a little aside from the perpendicular by the centri
 fugal force.      Hence a light body in still water would not
 press   perpendicularly    upon the surface, and consequently
 could not be at rest; which    is   contrary to experience.    Huy
 ghens therefore argued that the earth was not spherical, but
 protuberant at the equator, in order that the terrestrial meri
  dians might be every where perpendicular to the plumb-line.
  He seems not to have carried his speculations on this subject
  further, till after the publication of the Principia; when, by
  adopting Newton’s method of equalizing the weights of all
  the columns reaching from the centre to the surface, he was
  enabled to determine the <U+FB01>gure of the terrestrial meridians.
  His solution of the problem was first published in an Ap
  pendix to a posthumous tract on the cause of gravity.           Ree
          the Newtonian principle of an attraction between the
 jecting
  partic es, he places, in the centre of the mass,      force attract
                                                            a
  ing the particles with the same intensity at all distances:
                                                                          e
                                                                          alllld

 84-94                    Mr. 'Ivory’s Remarks              on the 17:0on
  he proves that a homogeneous body of <U+FB02>uid revolving upon
  an axis will be in equilibrio when it has the <U+FB02>ame of an oblate
   spheroid very little different from a sphere, the ellipticity be-
  ing of the proportion of the
         “.1;                                      force to the gravity
  at the equator.       In the hypothesis  of uyghens the ellipticity
                                       centrifugal              I
  of the earth would therefore be Xmle or xhi, instead of   %
  <U+FB01>lm which           in the theory of Newton.
                     it   is
     The centrifugal force remaining very small in proportion
  to gravity,        we suppose that the attractive force placed in
                     if
  the centre varies as some power, or even as some function, of
  the distance, we shall still <U+FB01>nd the same ellipticity as when
  the central attraction acts with the same intensity at all di
  stances.      For, on account of the near approach of the         ure           <U+FB01>
  of equilibrium to sphere, the variations of the central lorce
                                   a
  at the surface will introduce into the equation of the spheroid
 no quantities but such as are of the second order, which are
  to be neglected.
     In the Newtonian law of attraction,            we suppose      re
                                                                    if            a
 volving <U+FB02>uid mass, which increases in density towards the
 centre, to be in equilibrio,          proved that the ellipticity will
                                                  it   is
 be less than in the case of a homogeneous <U+FB02>uid; and the
 dense we suppose the matter near the centre, the more will
 the ell' ticity decrease.       If the matter at the centre be in<U+FB01>
 nitel       ense,   we fall upon the hypothesis of Huyghens;
 whic         therefore one extreme case, the other extreme being
                is
 the supposition of a homogeneous <U+FB02>uid.             The ellipticity of
 Huyghens, or            the proportion the centrifugal force to the
                               g
 gravity at the equator,           therefore the least possible; and
                                             is
 that of Newton, or          of the same proportion,
                                       5:-                the greatest.  is
 It  is    extremely improbable that Nature will coincide with
either of the extreme cases; and accordingly all the observa
          agree in giving the earth a mean <U+FB01>gure '
                                                     between the two
 iions
   Units.
          About 48 years after the publication of the Principia,‘
 Mr. Stirling communicated to the Royal Society of London
two elegant propositions, in which he proved the legitimacy
of Newton’s investigation of the equilibrium of homogeneous              a
<U+FB02>uid revolving about an axis.         T wo years afterwards Clairaut,
in  two papers sent to the same learned body, treated .the same
subject more fully, demonstrating the accuracy of the conclu
sions obtained in the Principz’a, and extending his researches
to spheroids composed of strata of different densities. In 174-0,
or 53 years after the publication of Newton’s work, Mac
laurin’s Dissertation on the Tides appeared, forming a re
markable epoch in the history ol'this department of science.
He proved,            by
                     the vmost elegant and accurate geometry, that
                                                                homo          a

                      oft/1e Figure oft/1e Earl/1,               348
a homo eneous <U+FB02>uid mass, having the form of an oblate ellip
tical splgieroid, will be in equilibrio, when it revolves upon its
axis in a proper time.       The attractive forces acting at every
point of the spheroid; the rate of the diminution of gravity
from the pole to the equator; and the relation between the
ellipticity and the centrifugal force; are all determined with
great simplicity and elegance.        It follows from the researches
of Maclaurin that, for every degree of ellipticity, there is
only time of revolution; but D’Alembert, considering the
equation between the ellipticity and the velocity of rotation,
afterwards found that, when the latter quantity is given and
the former is sought, the problem admits of two different
solutions.
    In 1743, Clairaut published his lee’m'ie de la Figure de la
 Terre.    This is a work of the greatest merit and elegance,
containing many new results, and treating every part of the
subject in a full and satisfactory manner; In the case of hu
mogeneous spheroids Clairaut abandons the method followed
in his <U+FB01>rst researches, and adopts that of Maclaurin. But,
                                                                     '
with respect to spheroids composed of strata of different den-
sities, he admits the hypothesis of a small ellipticity, which
simpli<U+FB01>es the investigation, and is suf<U+FB01>ciently exact for deter
mining the <U+FB01>gure of the planets.
    In all these researches the oblate elliptical spheroid is alone
considered; and the uestion is to prove that it will be in
equilibrio when it revo ves upon its axis.         Maclaurin solved
the problem       enerally and accurately in the case of the ho
mogeneous sp eroid.         In all the other solutions the supposi
tion of a very small ellipticity is admitted; and therefore the
results are approximately, and not rigorously, proved.           But
the theory was imperfect unless the investigation could be ex
tended so as to take in all, the possible <U+FB01>gures of equilibrium,
or until it was shown that the elliptical spheroid alone ful<U+FB01>lled
the conditions.     This brinvs us to the researches of Legendre
and Laplace; but as the discoveries of these eminent geomeq
ters were deduced from the hydrostatical theory of equili-
brium, it is necessary to notice brie<U+FB02>y the progress made in
this part of the subject.
    4-. When the effect of the centrifugal force to shorten the
seconds’ pendulum in approaching the equator, was <U+FB01>rst dis
covered, Huyghens immediately inferred that the terrestrial
meridians were not circular; and, in order to determine
the true <U+FB01> ure, he assumed the principle that they must be
perpendicu ar to the direction of gravity.          Newton investi
gated the <U+FB01>gure of a homogeneous <U+FB02>uid turning upon an axis,
                                                                  by

                   '
34-4-                  Mr. I'vory’s Remarks   on the   Theon
by equalizing the weight of all the columns of <U+FB02>uid drawn
from the centre to the surface.       There is no doubt that both
these conditions are indispensable to the equilibrium         of a
<U+FB02>uid mass.      But Bouguer remarked that they were not al
ways reconcileable in the same <U+FB01>gure; and hence he con
cluded that those <U+FB01>gures only were in equilibrio in which both
the conditions were ful<U+FB01>lled.        Clairaut afterwards showed
that the equilibrium of a <U+FB02>uid was not always ensured even in
those cases when both the principles of Huyghens and New
ton led to the same <U+FB01>gure.          Maclaurin adopted the more
general and undoubted principle, that every particle is in
equilibrio when it is pressed equally in all directions.       But
we are indebted to Clairaut for the discovery of the general
equations of the equilibrium of a <U+FB02>uid mass, whether homo
   eneous, or composed of parts of different densities. Finally,
    uler brought this theory to the more simple form in which
it is now taught, by deducing the equations of Clairaut from
the principle of an equal pressure in all directions.
     The conditions required by the hydrostatical theory for
the equilibrium of a <U+FB02>uid mass are these: 1°. All the par
ticles of the same density must be arranged in distinct strata.
 2°. The resultant of all the forces acting upon a particle must
 be perpendicular to the level stratum, or 00110le de ni'veau, in
which the particle is placed.        These conditions will be ful
 <U+FB01>lled if all the level strata be de<U+FB01>ned by the same equation,
 the arbitrary quantity introduced in the integration alone
 varying from one stratum to another; and the same quantity
 representing always a certain function of the density.
     In the case of a homoneneous <U+FB02>uid, the distinction of the
 level strata arising from the di<U+FB01>'erence of density is lost; and
 then the only conditions requisite to the equilibrium are con
 tained in this proposition:       The resultant of all the forces
 acting upon    a particle in the  outer surface must be perpendi
 cular to it; and the di<U+FB02>'erential equation of the same surface
 must be an exact <U+FB02>uxion.
   >
     Now      with Newton, we suppose a sphere of a homoge
             if,
 neous <U+FB02>uid, originally at rest; and inquire what will be the
  nature of the ob ate <U+FB01>gures produced by the rotation upon an
 axis;  it    manifest that we shall only have to ful<U+FB01>ll the single
             is
  condition, that the gravity be every where perpendicular to
  the meridians.    This problem was <U+FB01>rst solved by Legendre
  in 1784‘, but only upon the supposition of very small oblate
                                                       a
  ness. _ After the lapse of      century, the conditions of equili
                                    a
  brium assumed by Newton were thus not only veri<U+FB01>ed, but
  completely demonstrated; since         was shown that the equili
                                              it
                                                             brium

                        of the Figure 9f the Earth.                84-5
  brium is not possible but when the <U+FB02>uid has the <U+FB01>gure of an
  elliptical spheroid.    Laplace generalized and perfected the
  analysis of Legendre, which is founded on the properties of a
               kind of functions. The same illustrious        eometer
  particular
   ikewise discovered an equation in partial <U+FB02>uxions rgating to
  the attractions of spheroids little different from spheres, which
  takes place at their surfaces.      Availing himself of all these
  resources, Laplace was enabled to ive a complete theory of
  the <U+FB01>gure of the planets, and of t e variation of gravity at
7 their surfaces, which the reader will <U+FB01>nd explained at length
  in the third book of the Me’cam'que Céleste.
      5. On reviewing all the researches relative to the <U+FB01>gure of
  the earth, it is remarkable that the discoveries of Maclaurin
  stand apart by themselves, without much connection with the
  rest.    His method applies only to homogeneous spheroids;
  but of this case it furnishes an accurate and a general solu
  tion.    All the other attempts to solve the problem are merely
  approximations founded on the supposition that the spheroids
  are not much different from spheres. As was observed by
  Mr. Stirling, they do not accurately determine the <U+FB01>gures of
  equilibrium; they only show that these <U+FB01>gures will coincide
  with elliptical spheroids when we neglect the squares and
  hi her powers of the ellipticities.
        f the conditions of equilibrium assigned by the hydro“
  statical theory were accurate and suf<U+FB01>cient, we should expect
  that the discoveries of Maclaurin would be deducible from
  them. Yet this has been accomplished by no geometer.
  Nay, when we push the approximation to the <U+FB01>gure of equi
  librium beyond the quantities of the <U+FB01>rst order, the ellip
  tical spheroid seems to be excluded.          It also appears unac
  countable that the solution of Legendre, supposing that it is
  deduced from a suf<U+FB01>cient theory, should bring out only b
  approximation a <U+FB01>gure which we know will accurately ful<U+FB01>l
  all the conditions.
      These re<U+FB02>ections, and others which it is not important to
  mention, induced me to examine very narrowly the hydro
  statical theory of e uilibrium.     I  distinguished two separate
   cases; one, when t iere is no attraction between particle and
  particle; and the other, when the particles are endowed with
   mutual attractive powers.
      As an example of the <U+FB01>rst case, we may take Huyghens’s
   hypothesis respecting the <U+FB01>gure of the, earth ;. in which every
  particle of the <U+FB02>uid is acted upon by a centrifugal force, and
   a constant attraction directed to the centre.      The equilibrium
   of the revolving mass requires     that  the   resultant of the two
    > Vol. 63. No. 313. May 1824.               Xx               forces

 34-6    -        Mr. Ivory’s Remarks    on the Dewy
  forces acting upon every particle in the outer surface, shall be
  perpendicular to that surface; and we may suppose that this
  condition is expressed by the equation
                                  _    ’
 where q: is a function of the three rectangular co-ordinates of
 a point in the surface, and C an arbitrary quantity introduced
 in the integration.     All the level surfaces will be determined
  by the same equation. the function 45 remaining the same,
 while C decreases by insensible degrees: whence it follows
 that the resultant of the accelerating forces will be perpendi
'cular to every level surface; and that every level stratum will
 press equally upon the <U+FB02>uid below it.      In this <U+FB01>rst case there
 fore, in which the level strata act upon one another only by
 pressure, there is no doubt that all the conditions of equili
 brium are contained in the equation of the outer surface; which
 is a reeable to the received theory.
       e may next suppose, as in Newton’s theory of the earth,
 a homogeneous <U+FB02>uid mass subjected to a centrifugal force, and
 to an attraction between the particles in the inverse propor
 tion of the square of the distance. The condition that the re
 sultant of the accelerating forces is perpendicular to the outer
 surface, will, as before, he expressed by an equation, viz.
 and the several level surfaces will be determined b makin
 C decrease by insensible degrees. In the interior 0 the <U+FB02>uid
 body, the gravitation, or the resultant of the accelerating forces,
 at any leVel surface, will be perpendicular to it; and hence
 the thin level stratum immediately above, will press equally
 upon the <U+FB02>uid below.      But it is to be observed that the pres
 sure is caused by the gravitation at the level surface acting
 upon the matter of the thin stratum above, and that it is inde
 pendent of any active forces inherent in the matter of the
 stratum. Wherefore, since every particle attracts every other
            the level stratum will act upon the <U+FB02>uid below it
 particle,
   0th by pressure and by attraction; and, in this respect, there
 is an essential difference between the present case and the for
 mer one.     There are here two distinct forces independent of
 another; and the adjustment of the equilibrium requires that
 both be taken into account.        The equality of pressure is a.
 consequence of the equation of the outer surface; but the
 equilibrium with respect to the attractive forces of the stratum
 can be obtained only by supposing that the stratum has such
 a <U+FB01>gure as to attract all particles in the inside with equal
 forces in opposite directions.    The received theory is there
 fore defective and insufficient in the case of a homogeneous
                                                               <U+FB02>uid

       —_l
                                        qfthe Figure qftlle Earth.                               3497
                 <U+FB02>uid consisting of attracting particles. The full conditions
 \1'
                 requisite to the equilibrium of such a <U+FB02>uid mass are these:
                 1°. The resultant of the accelerating forces must be perpen
                 dicular t0 the outer surface, and the differential equation of
                 the same surface must be an exact <U+FB02>uxion; 2°. Every level
                 stratum must be possessed of such a <U+FB01>gure as to attract all
                  particles in the inside with equal forces in opposite directions.
                     Let us now consider the equilibrium of <U+FB02>uid mass di<U+FB02>'e
                                                                   a
                 rently in the method of Euler, and as
                       ;                                      it    treated in most of
                                                                   is
                  the elementary works.        For this purpose we must <U+FB01>nd the
aw
                  conditions requisite to the equilibrium of    a  rectangular paral
                  lelopiped of the <U+FB02>uid placed any where in the mass.               The
                 forces in action are: 1°. the pressures upon the six faces
                 tending to compress the <U+FB02>uid into a less space; 2°. the acce
'—
                 lerating forces acting upon the particles of the parallelopiped.
                 If the latter forces be resolved into three sums perpendicular
(—w              to every two faces of the parallelopiped;          it    obvious that
                                                                         is
                 each sum must, in the case of an equilibrium, be equal and
             ‘   opposite to the difference of the pressures upon the same two
                 faces.    Three separate equations are thus formed; and by
                  combining them, we deduce the value of the di<U+FB02>'erential of
                 the pressure; and again,        we suppose the pressure constant,
                                                  if
                 we obtain the equation of the level surfaces.         Nothing can be
                 clearer or more simple than this procedure,         when   there     no    is
                 attraction between the particles.      In this case    it unquestion
                                                                             is
                 able that all the forces in action are taken into account, and
                 no objection can be made to the accuracy of the result.            But
                 when the particles attract one another, some re<U+FB02>ection will
                 show that there   is an omission.    In estimating the accelerating
                 forces, the attraction of the exterior matter upon the paral
                 lelopiped   isalone considered, while the attraction of the par
                 ticles of the parallelepiped upon the exterior matter             neg is
                            Although       supposed that the arallelopipcd            in
                 lected.                                                                is is
                                        it   is
                 de<U+FB01>nitely   small,  yet, as  the  attraction  of its  particles     ex
                 tended to all the <U+FB02>uid mass, an accumulated force            produced
                                                                                  is
                 comparable to the pressure, and which must not be omitted
                 in adjusting the equilibrium.        \Vhen all the forces acting
                 upon the parallelopiped; both those extrinsic to its own mat
                 ter, and those inherent in its particles; are taken into account,
                 the same conditions of equilibrium will be obtained that have
                 already been found by the former investigation.
                     The proofs of the new theory of the equilibrium of <U+FB02>uid           a
                 consistin of attracting particles, are fully detailed in a paper
                 sent to t   e Royal Society in November last, and which will
                 appear in their Transactions for the present year.             Havin
                                                  Xx   2                       obtaine
h..—

  348            M. Bessel’s Eiamination ofthe Divisions
  obtained the true conditions necessary to the equilibrium of a
  homogeneous <U+FB02>uid, there is no longer any dif<U+FB01>cult in de
  ducinv from them what was ‘proved synthetically by                   aclau
  rin. {The peculiar analysis of Legendre and Laplace is no
  more than a modi<U+FB01>cation of the exact equations of the e nili
  brium, when we neglect the square and higher powers 0 the
  oblateness of the spheroid.
      In those remarkable propositions, which never can be too
  much admired, where Newton treats of the attractions of
  spheres and spheroids, he proves that a particle placed any
  where within a hollow spherical shell uniformly dense, will
  be in equilibrio, or will be attracted equally in opposite direc
  tions.    The same conclusion has been extended to a hollow
  shell of homogeneous matter bounded by any two elliptical
  surfaces similar to one another.            This curious property is
  noticed by all the writers on attraction; but it seems to be
  viewed as belonging accidentally to elliptical spheroids.              The
  new theory shows its connection with the equilibrium; for the
  hollow shell is no other than a level stratum of a homoge
  neous <U+FB02>uid in equilibrio.                              I
      The paper above alluded to treats only of homogeneous
  <U+FB02>uids.     But the same principles likewise apply when the mass
  is composed of strata of variable densities, as I shall be able
  to show on another occasion.            A reat advanta e arises from
  knowing     the  true equations     of equ<U+FB01>ibrium, in siortening the
  demonstrations, and in clearness and precision.                 When the
  equations     can  be solved,   the   exact  <U+FB01>gures    of  equilibrium are
  obtained, as in the case of a homogeneous <U+FB02>uid; otherwise,
  the analytical method of approximate solution must be em
a   loved.                                                  JAMES IVORY.
     May 5, 1824.
  LVII.     Examination of the Divisions quEICHENBACI-I’s Circle
         at the Observatmy qub'nigsberg.            By   M    BESSEL.*
        HAVE applied to this instrument the same method by
        which I have formerly determined the errors of the divi
  sions of Cary’s circle, with such changes only as the nature of
  its construction required. [Cary’s circle is read off by micro
  scopes, and one of them,                   with another expresslv con
  structed for the purpose tOgether0 examination, is su<U+FB02>icient for in
  vestigating the errors of division.           Reichenbach’s circle has
     'f Translated from the viith section of  M. Bessel’s Astronomical Obser
  vatlons.
                                                                           no

   queichenbach’s Circle at      the Observatory at Kb'm'gsberg. 349
  no microscopes, but verniers; and instead of one additional
  microscope, two must be applied. But these microscopes can
  not be <U+FB01>xed any where but on the alhidade circle; and
  from this circumstance a change of the angle between them
  may arise, for the'alhidade circle is attached to the principal
  axis of the instrument; and as there must always be a little play
  between this axis and its collar, their centres will not always
  coincide; and this accidental eccentricity will be mingled with
  the errors of division which are the objects of investigation,
  and destroy the accuracy of their determination.       In order to
  avoid the effect of this eccentricity, it is necessar    to deter
, mine the means of the errors of points diametrical y opposite,
  which may be done by means of four microscopes so placed
  that two diameters determined by them inclose the angle
  which is to be examined.        An apparatus of this description,
  made by M. Pistor, has been used on this occasion; the mi
  croscopes are so constructed that by proper solid clamps they
  may be fastened to any point of the alhidade.       I  have in the
  <U+FB01>rst place determined the angles from 15° to 15°; next have I
  bisected these angles; and lastly, again bisected the angles of
  22°'30, and thereby determined all the errors of the divisions
  of those diameters which belong to multiples of 3?; for every
  diameter I have taken the mean of the two divisions which be
  long to it and likewise the preceding and following ones, so
  that each diameter is determined b the mean of six divisions.
  In order to obtain the angles 0 the form 12. 15° with the
             accuracy, and free from all accumulation of error, I
  greatest
    ave changed the position of the microsopes four times, mak
  ing the angle between them successively 60°, 45°, 30° and 15°.
  In all these positions the <U+FB01>rst microscope was placed on the
  points 0°, 15°, 30°,...330°, 345°, and the other three micro~
  scopes read o<U+FB01>'; each of these four sets of observations was
  repeated on three different days in such a manner, that the
  angles were brought under the microscope, not in any regular
  succession, but entirel      without any order, by which means.
  I  intended to destro t e effect of a change of temperature of
  the instrument.     I   enote the error of division of the point u
  of the circle  with  the sign with Which it is to be added to the
  readin of the circle by ¢u and 12>E¢u+¢(180°+u)]           by \Lu;
       eea ly to this notation the single sets of observations have
  given the following results.
                                                                 The

The microscopes are on the points The microscopes are on the points
_u   , u+60°, u+180°,           u+240°. u , “+452 u+180°, “+220.
               ¢(u+ 60)    -1,l¢u                           110(u+45°)-'¢u
  H   J 111y97.1.luly28. July29. Means.           July22JJuly23. July24.] Means.
       -0-02    —046 —0'15 _0"'21                  +039 +076 +092 +069
       +105     +1-00 +095 +1-00                   _017 -018 +027 +003
       +122     +033 +069 +075                     +089 +077 —001 + 055
       +048     +042 +052 047                      +044 —0'19 +055 +027
       +1-50 +101 +1-52+           +1'34           +088 +036 +082 +069
       —036 ~0-71         —0'11    _039            +1-35 +098 +1-21 +1-1s
       +002 +058 +032 +051                         —006 +026 _1-14 _0-31
       —004 -1-03 —0'79 _0'82                      —0'65 +036 +020 _003
 120   —089 —o-55 —0'61 _0'68                      —059 _1-61 _1-36 _1-19
 135 —0-70      —0-04     —-097    -0'57           —040 _1-28 +004 _0-21
 150    —1-4    —0-93     _1'19 _1'18              —0'93 _1'10 _1-48 _1-17
 165   +010 +048 +0 47 +037                        —009 -0'22 +027 +001
 180   -0-44 —1-19 ~0~34 _0 66                     +059 +076 +093 +076
 195   +1-40 +088 +1-03 +110                       +083 +028 +05] +054
 210   +093 +033 4-1-20 +082                       +031 +073 +037 +047
 225   +030 +030            036       0'32         —0'50 _1'44 —0-95 —096
 240   +1-36 +055 1119 11 70
 255      000 _0-52 +027 _0 08
                                                ' +086 +004 +033 +108
                                                   +1-14 +033 +088 +078
 270   +020 +064 _0'07 +026                        +033 +051 +014 +033
 285   -0-55 _1-07 _0 97 .086                      +043 _0'15 +042 +023
 300   _1-51 _1-37 _1'62 _1'50                     _1'75 -053 -056 -095
 315   _1-39 -063 _1'18 _1‘07                      -0-80 -0-36 —0-49 _0-55
 330   _1-55 _0-94 —0 96 _1'15                     -1'24 _1'61 _1-08 _1-31
 345   + 025 + 090 +041 +052                       _1'25 -046 —081 -084
The microscopes are on the points          The microscopes are on the points
 u      u+30, n+180, n+2“).                  u ,    u+l5°, u+180°, u+l95°.
                          —
                ¢1¢+ 30 11111:.                            ¢14+15°—-1,l/u.
     July25. July26. July-'30. Means.        u   July-'31. Aug. l.+Aug. 2. M eans.
      -037 _1-13         —044 —065
                                       It      0
                                               0  -            II     II
                                                      107 -098 l —0'24 -—0'76
      +122 +084          +087 +098            15  +081 +034 + 0'65 +060
      -038 +007          —017 — 016          30 +064 +052 +0 25 +047
      +012 +029          +054 +032           45 --0-57 —051 —0'48 —-052
      +084 +1 40         +094 +1'06          60 +1'53 +106 +102 + 120
      +007 +01]          +005 +008           75 —0-15 +026 +021 + 011              _
      +009 +062             053      041     90 + 017 -001 +023 +013
      _0-19 +007         T020 i011          105 +079 +010 + 050 +049
      +031 _0'31         _001        000    120 -0-17 -0'16 —074 —0'36
      _.051 _013         _0-69 _0-44        135 -0-11 +010 +009 +003
      _064 _052 _0'35 _0-50                 150 _0-96 _093 ~1'08 —-099
      _0-22 _0'35 +020 _012                 165 +049 +039 --0'03 +028
      +008 _007 _0-40 _0'13                 180 -0-33 _058 -—0'99 -—-070
      +133 +120 +1-24 +126                  195 +024 + 006 +009 + 013
     _031 _023 + 036 _0'06                 210 +067 +093 +095 +085
     _054 +026 _005 _0-11                  225 —-048 _070 ~1‘01 -0'73
     +092      +054 +067 +071              240 + 075 +089 +l'19 +094
     +029      +013 +025 +022              255 —008 +008 +015 +005
     +032      +029 +042 +034              270 +019 + 044 +047 +037
     _0-74     _0-72 -007 _0-51            285 +024 + 020 +018 +021
     -0~38 _004 -063 _0-35                 300 _1 ~10 --094 -— 069 --0'91
     -077 _1'10 _1-37 -1-08                315       000 +036 +033 + 023
     -046     ~0-62 —0-91 —0'66            330 _1-15 --1'05 —l'31 _1-17
     —005     -062-, --078        -— 0'48        _0-20 + 015 + 0‘ l 7 +004
                                           345|

               I
              vM. Bessel 0n the Divisions Qf Reichenbach’s Circle.                       351
             From these observations the most probable values of the
          errors of division are to be deduced; their number      24-, but      is
          4!“ being equal   to ¢(u+ 180)  they are reduced to 12,  one of
          which may be assumed arbitrarily;     supposed ¢0=¢180=0,
                                                       I
          and obtained, by a solution adapted to the present case of the
          11 equations resulting from the method of least squares, the
          following values   :
~r                  0    180°          0-000            96   270       +O'334
                   15    195      _0-725               105   285       + 0'476
                   30    210      -0-~is5              120   200       +   0876
                   45    225      +0318                135   315   +0-171
                   60    240      -0-503               150   330   +0'596
 \r-P_—
                   75    255      +03%                 165   345   —O'416
   ~¢         In order to appreciate the accuracy of these determinations,
          I  remark that every error of division            as accurately deter
                                                             is
          mined as if had been derived from 30'42 observations of an
                        it
          angle between two diameters (referred to six divisions) or
          91'26 single positions of the microscopes;          I<U+FB01>nd by all obser
4“"
          vations the probable uncertainty of a single reading of the
          microscopes to be =
\1
                                       O”'1825; and therefore the probable
                             i j;
          error of 41(1» 15°) =     0"'0191.*     This great accuracy       a con is
          sequence of the clearness      and    neatness   of the  divisions,  the
          excellence of the microscopes,       the  regularity  of their  screws,
          and the solidity of their fastening; but at the same time the
          frequent repetition of the determination of the angles and their
          numerous crossings was necessary, in order to can the ac
<U+FB01>—m       curacy so far he 0nd the limits of the accuracy of a single
          observation.     Al errors in these observations bein contin
                                                          an unlimite
          gent, the accuracy may be carried to
 u.
                                                                           extent,
          certainly much further than      the artist has  carried     in making
                                                                           it
 way      the divisions: the astronomer who examines his instrument
          according to my method, has the great advantage over the
          artist who divided       that he can repeat the~ operation as often
                                 it,
          as he pleases;    whereas   the artist has to depend on the single
          operation   of setting the apparatus   for cutting the divisions,which
          may    be done   according  to the  quality   of that apparatus with
              eater or less accuracy, but never with absolute correctness.
              In order to determine the angles of the form n l5°+ 7° 30’,
          I  have placed the microscopes at angles of 7° 30’ to each other,
          and have derived the errors from a comparison with the pre
          ceding and the following numbers of the foregoing table: in                '    '
                             »(
                                  o"-1825
                                            =- 0!
                                                 I,
                                                      own-Tutu.
                                                             v
                                                                                         this
                                  Il—(“W                           )

352                   M.       Bessel’s Emamz'nalion                        oft/1e Divisions
this operation the circle made two entire revolutions, and every
angle was determined eight times as follows:
       it.               August 5 and 6.           August 7 and 8.         Means.
                ,4
               '+r
        I         i‘  II       [I                        II     II              ll
                           -042 -062
                                                        I
   7’ so 187036                   --Oi60l—0310 -0~40 ~03? -—0'39 +0450 -0’-'456
  22 30 202 :0           74-0
                            -o-82 -059'-0-60 _0-24 -051 -o-6o —o'34 "0‘555
  37 30 21730 +041 -0-27 -0-26 -c-4o -o~39 +002                0-14 -o-23 -o-230                    +
  52 30 232 30 -0-05 -0-09               _0.30 -0-45 —0'3l ~0‘39 —0-5 -0-308
  67 30 247 30                    +0114 +095 +004 -0-05 +027 +036           0-180                                      +
                   —0~O3‘+O-16
  s2 30 262                       +061 +070      0-17 +049 +062 +0'3 +0480 +
              30++0~52‘+0-43
  97 30 277 30l+0'35 +045 +0153 '1-0‘43 +060 +062 +063 +062 +0529
 112 30 292 30
                   +l‘52‘+1-08 +1-25 +1-60 +129 +1-09 +092 +1-12 +1234
 127  30! 307 30 +011 +025 +025 +012                  -0-03 +046      0-37 -012
                                                                            0176                             +         +
 142 30 322 30 +1-12 +109 +0~98'+l-21 +1-35                     '26 +141 +1202
                                                      +1-20‘+1
 157 30037 30 +046 +012 -0-02 _ 0-32 “+037 -0-14 -0-13
                           -                                1:-             0-169                            +         +
                                                                      0-37
 172 30 352 30       0-32 -o-64. — 0'5 \—0'28i — 0'44 —0'59 ~0'34 —9-18 -o-423
   Probable error of each mean         + O"‘O396.
   For determining the angles of the form 11 15°         342°, the                                      i
microscopes were placed at angles of 11° 15' to each other;
the observations were not continued beyond one revolution or
the fourfold repetition of the angles.     obtained the following              I
errors of division:
                                                                                                             Means.                 '3
                           14.                           August        9   to    August           12.
                                                                                                                           ,   1"!
             3
                  0   I
                      45        183°45
                                          I        II
                                                -016        _0-39
                                                                  I!       l
                                                                                .035
                                                                                     I!
                                                                                                  -i1’-12     -6-26            "    I
             11       15       191 15           -1-06       -1‘05               _1-10             -1‘11       -1-08                .v,_»
             18       45       193 45           —1‘65       —l'47               —l'33             —l'5l       —-1'49                  '
                                                                                                                                   5" 4
             26       15       206 15           -0-52       -0-40               -0-16             -0-27       —0-34            -
             33       45       213 45           +019        +026                +018              +011       +019                  I?)
             41       15       221 15           -012         —0-06                000             -0-05      -0-06
             48       45       2'23 45          —0'44        —0'45              —0‘45             —0'43      —0‘44                       '
             56       15       236 15           —0'45        -—°'47             —0'42             —-0'41      -—0‘44
             63       45       243 45           —0-07        +003               -0-18             -0-28       -0-12                     --i
             71       15       251 15           +026         +040               +053              +040        +040         ,       55
                                                                                                                                    ' _
             73 45             258 45           +049         +059               +0'86             +0'77       +068
                               266 15                                                                                               ‘
             86 15                              +082         +074               +072
                                                                                                                                        ’
                                                                                                  +081        +077
                                                                                                                                        “i
                           u.                           August    9    to       August        12.           } Means.
           o                          o           I)              I!                                             ll
                                                -011
                      l                   I                                               ‘
         93 45                  273       45                 +007               +0503             -0'-'15     _0-04
        101 15                  281             +053         +0-60              +085
                                          15                                              l       +078        +069
        108 45                  288       45    +090         +1-16              +097              +091        +099
        116 15                 296        15    +149         +1-03              +076              +1-21       +112
        123 45                 303        45    +049         +046               +0'53             +056        +051
        131 15                 311        15    +047         +053               +061              +056        +054
        138 45                 318        45    +101         +076               +062              +087        +082
        146 15                 3‘26       15    +0'37        +032               +050              +0‘55      +0'43
        153 45                 333        45    —0'72        —0'79              —0'42          -0'34         ~0‘57
        161 15                                               -0-40                             +031           -0-36
        168 45
                               341        15   '70-15                           -0~57
                               348        45    —0-07        —0'30              -0-13          +010           _0-10
        176 15                 356        15    -0-19        -041               -0-10          +012          -0-14
   Probable error of each mean = + 0"'0698.                                                             -
                                           '                                         '        -
                                                                                                                           The

                 Qf Reichenbach’s Circle at K611igsberg.                                                        353
  _The following table contains all the errors of division                                                      sue—
cessively found:
            u.                 411:.               14.              4'14.            u.                  441.
            1                   l                           ;                        I           I        II
      0°   0186’»    0'        6-00         60°    0'1240o 0 -05'50          120°    0300°  0 +0'88
      3 45183 45 ~0'26                      63    45,243 45 —o'12            1‘23   45 303 45 +0'51
      7 30187 30 -o-46                      67    30247 30 +018          127        30307 30 +018
     11 15191 15 -1~08                      71    15251   15 +040        131        15311 15 +054
     15  0195  0 —0'72                      75     0‘255   0+0'37        135         0315   0 +0'17
     18 45198 45 -1'49                      78    45258 45 +068          138        45318 45 +082
     22 30202 30 -o-55                      82    30262 30 +048          142 30 322 30 +120
     26 15206 15 _0~34                      86    15266 15 +077          146 15326 15, +043
     30  0210  0 _0-44                      90  0270            0+0-33 150 0330 ‘0 +060
     33 45 213 45 +019                      93 45273          45 —0'04 153 45333 45 —0'57‘
     37 30217 30 -0'23                      97 30277          30 +053 157 30 337 30 +017
     41 15221 15 _0-06                     101 15281          15 +069 161 15,341 15 -0'36
     45  0225   0 +032                     105  0285            oil-1048 165 0345    o -o~42
     48 45 228 45 _-0-44                   108 45288          451+o-99 168 45348 45 -0'10
     52 30 232 30 -0-31                    112 30292                 12; 172 30 352 30 -..-0-42
                                                              301+                              ‘
     56 15236 15 -0-44                     116 15296
                                                               15l+1-12 176 15356 15 _0-14
     60 0240     0 _0~50                   120     0300         0+0-88 180 o 0 0           0-00
  These      errors,        small, present some regularity:
                                however
the greatest part               of
                      them might be represented by the form
a sin (A+2u), and be accounted for by an elliptic form which
the circle may have assumed by carriage and by being screwed
to the axis. There         however, no perfect regularity, nor
                                           is,
could it  be expected, as in each diameter the mean of the
contingent errors of six divisions must considerably disturb
any regularity which might exist. The value of the contind
gent errors of the divisions     have endeavoured to detetmine,
                                                  I
by comparing    the mean    of the  three divisions employed for
way point with each individual division; by this means                                                            I
have found the probable deviation of every division from any
law =
    i       6"8251.       fOllOWS from this number, which dei
                                       It
pends on the examination of 288 divisions, that according to
the laws of probability there are among the 7200 divisions of
                                                                 '
the circle,                                      I,       U
      2852 the errors of which are between 0'00 and 025
     2192',                                                                 .'       0'25..0'5O
     588...,,...,_.
     1295........-.0'50._.0‘75
                     .          .      .     .      .    .      .      .
     205-.,....'.'.‘:1'00..l'25
                        0'75..'I'O(O
           59-_r--'-..‘2.i
           ll    .        i“    u      -     6      3     I    n      '-    'l
                                                                                     I‘Q5..1'50
                                                                                     1'50    -       o
                                                                                     1-75..2-00
  There is,- therefore,‘ only division out of nearly 26, where
                                                   I
the deviation from regularity amounts to       second and up-                       I
wards.   This extraordinary accuracy in' a circle of 18 inches
radius appears hardly credible, and    avail myself of this op       I
  Vol. 63. No. 313. May 1824.           Y      ‘
                                                      portunity                  y

354           M.   Bessel’s   Examination         qfthé Division
portunity to express the admiration which this                    perfec—
tion has forced from me.            If the probable irreguhigharity of a
diameter determined by six divisions resulting from this con~
tingent error, =~i 0”“133 *, which may be somewhat in
creased by the errors of my own operations, be compared with
the above determined errors of division, there                  is,
                                                             on the one
hand, no doubt that there              issome regularity in them; on
 the other hand, the irregularities which occur in them are no
longer surprising.        But any advanta 'e to be derived from
                              if                         is
their investigation for the reduction              of
                                                 the observations, the
 irregular errors of division must be separated from the re—
gular ones; for the latter only can be taken into account as
the circle    is   read off by verniers, which in almost every ob
 servation    coincide   with diflerent divisions of the circle.
     In this respect there    is  an essential difference between the
 circles with microscopes, and those with verniers: by ap
plyin      my method one may entirely do away in the for,
mer-  t   e effects of the errors of division; the latter are always
affected by the irregular part of the errors of division (as                it
is  not well practicable to examine every single division), and
allow only the attainment of certain degree of precision, the
                                     a
more accurate determination of which               of consequence for
                                                      is
the valuation of the <U+FB01>nalresult.           On the other hand, the ver
niers have the advantage over the microscopes by their perfect
invariability, and their givin more accurate results when the
observations depend on divisions which have not been ex_
amined: with the microscopes the same contingent errors                    al
ways occur; with the verniers they change almost every day.
 I     have endeavoured to separate the irregular errors of divi—
sion from the regular ones, and to determine the latter in such
a   manner as to allow them to be taken into account.               have
                                                                      I
best succeeded in this by considering the parts of the circle as
abscissae, and the errors as above found as ordinates; and
by drawing freely with'the hand, a curve agreeing with them
as nearly as Was‘consistent        with continuity, having before in
creased the 48 errors         of  division above given, by means of
some more bisections,which, however, deserve less con<U+FB01>dence.
I   am far from believing that the ordinates of the curve will
correctly represent the law of the errors of division; but            Ibe
lieve myself to be warranted in assuming that the application
of the curve will lead nearer to the truth, than               if
                                                              were neg
                                                                 it
lected.     Supposing the curve to be correct, the errors of
those divisions should be taken from               it,
                                                 which coincide with
the   divisions   of the  vernier;   but    on
                                            if account  of the possible
                   i   [we
                        4/    6
                                   m 0"'1327.—'l‘n,\.\‘si..]
                                                                      Gl'l‘Ol'S

                                      of Reiclienbach’s Circle dt.Kiinigsbe1g.                          .           855‘
 errors of the verniers, and for the sake of convenience, we
 sup ose that the coincidence always takes place in the middle
 of e vernier, or 2° 15' from their zero oint, the errors
 arising from this supposition will be less than the errors of
 the curve itself. On this supposition the curve ives for com
 plete observations read 011‘ by four verniers, the allowing cor
 rections:
                                                                 Errors                                           Errors
                                                        '
      Readings                  of the Circle.                     of             Readings   of the Circle.          of
                                                                 Division.                                       Division.
                  I         0     I       O     I   6       _I      II         0   I,  0  I  O   I  6   Il    11
35 Q0 45           87 45177 45 267 40   0'00                                 46 30136 30226 30 316
                                                                                                      305-1-0'33
      30           91 30181  30271 30 —0'08                                  50 1514015230     15326
                                                                                                      15,-1-0'27
                15 95              15 —0'15                                  54 0144     0234 0324 0 +019
                      15:185 15275
                 0 99
                       01189  0279 0—0'16                                    57 45147 45237 45327 45 +001                    _
                45102 45i192 45282 45 —0'_l7                                 61 30‘151 30241   30331 30 -0'03
  5i§gg§iwew~
                30106 30196 30286 30 —0'08                                   65
                                                                                 15‘155 15245 15335 15 +002
     15110 155200 15290 15 +010                                              69   0159 0,249 0339 0 +008
      0114         0294'  0 +025                                             72 45i162 45252 45342
            0204                                                                                      45,-1-0'12
     45117 45207 45 297 45 '+0'33                                            76 30166 30 256 30346 30 +015
 o:1 30121               30 +033                                             80 15170 15 260 15350 15 +016
35 15125 30'211 30|301
                  15305 15 +031                                              84 0174     0264 0354
           15'215
,39   0129 0219 0309        +032                            0                87 45177 45267 45357      0    0'00
 42 45132         45 312 45 +030
                                45;:222                                                                       4(ll-{~0'11
 LVIII.                      BABBAGE’s new Machine for calculating and
                                On    1111'.
           printing Mathematical       and Astronomical Tables.   E'om
                FRANCIS BAI‘LY, Esq. F.R.S.  L.S.*                           é-
                 HIS
            invention of Mr. Babbage’s      one of the most curious                 is
       and important in modern times; whether we regard the
 ingenuity and skill dis layed in the arrangement of the parts,
 or the great utility an importance of the results. Its
 ble e<U+FB01>’ect on those particular branches of science whic proba                                                    it   is
 most adapted to promote, can only be compared with those
 rapid improvements in the arts which have followed the intro
 duction of the steam-engine; and which are too notorious to
 be here mentioned.
    The object which Mr. Babbage has in view, in constructin
 his machine,        the formation and printing of mathematics
                                        is
 tables of all kinds, totally free from error in each individual
 copy: and, from what           have seen of the mechanism of the
                                                            I
 instrument,      have not the least doubt that his efforts will be
                                 I
 crowned with success.       It would be impossible to give you a
 correct  idea  of the  form  and arrangement of this machine, or
                      '1'
                            From              Schumacher’s          Astronomische Nach<U+FB01>cbten,         No. 46.
                                                                         Yy   2                        .               of

3.56    Mr. F. Baily   on Mr. Babbage’s  new Machine<U+FB01>ar   calculating
of ' its mode of operation, without‘the help of various          plates,
and a more minute description than is consistent with the na
ture of your journal. But, it will be su<U+FB02>icient to say that it
is extremely simple in its construction, and performs all its
operations with the assistance of a very tri<U+FB02>ing mechanical
power.        Its plan may be divided into two parts, the mechani—
cal and the mathematical.                                   :+_,
      The mechanical part has already been attained by the actual
construction of a machine of this kind: a machine for com
puting numbers with two orders of differences only, but which
I have seen perform all that it was intended to do, not only
with perfect accuracy, but also with much greater expedition
than     I  could myself      rform thev same 0 erations with the
pen.       From    the sim  icity of the mechanism employed, the
same principles may , 6 applied in forming a much larger ma
chine for computing tables dependin           on any order of dif
ferences, without any probabilit of fai ure from the multitude
of wheels employed. The libera ity of our Government (always
disposed to encoura e works of true science and real merit)
has induced and ena led Mr. Babbage to construct a machine
 of this kind, capable of computing numbers with four orders
 of differences; and which will shortly be completed. To this
 machine will be attached an apparatus that shall receive, on
 a soil substance,      the impression of the <U+FB01>gures computed by
 the machine: which may be afterwards stereotyped or sub
            to some other process, in order- to ensure their per
                  By this means, each individual impression will be
 mqrfiency.
  p e ect.
       The mathematical part depends on the method of dg<U+FB01>'érences
 'to which I have above alluded: a principle well known to be,
  at once, simple and correct in its nature, and of very exten
  sive use in the formation of tables, from the almost unlimited
  variety of its applications.      It has been already successfully
 ‘a plied in the computation of the large tables of logarithms in
  '
       ance ; and is equally applicable in the construction not only
   of astronomical tables of every kind, but likewise of most of
                                                                 '
   the mathematical tables now in use.
       But, the fqu and complete application of this, and indeed
   of every other principle in the formation of tables, has been
   hitherto very much impeded by the impossibilitysof con<U+FB01>ning            _
  'the attention of the computers to the dull and tedious repeti
  tion of man thousand, consecutive additions and snbtraétions,
    or other       equate numerical operations.    The. substitution,
  however, of theunvarying action of machinery for this laborious
    yet uncertain operation of the mind, confers an extent of prac
    tical power and utility on the method of differences, unrivalled
                                                                       by

        and printing Mathematical    and Astronomical Tables.      357
   by any thing which it has hitherto produced: and which will
   in various ways tend to the promotion of science.
       The great object of all tables is to save time and labour, and
   to prevent the occurrence of error in various computations.
   The best proof of their utility and convenience is the immense
   variety that has been produced since the ori ‘in of printing;
   and the diversity of those which are annually issuing from the
   press.
       The general tables, formed for the purpose of assisting us in
   our computations, may be divided into two classes: 1°. those
   consisting of natural numbers: 2°. those consisting of loga
   rithms.     Of the former kind are the tables of the products and
   powers of numbers, of the reciprocals of numbers, of the na
   tural sines, cosines, 8:0. 810. Of the latter kind are not only the
   usual logarithmic tables, whose utility and importance are so
   well known and duly appreciated, but also various other tables
   for facilitating the several calculations which are constantly
   required in mathematical and physical investigations.        I shall
   allude to each of these in their order.
        1°. Tables of the products of numbers.        The numerdus
   tables of this species which have been published at various
   times and in different countries, suf<U+FB01>cientl attest their utility
   and importance: and there can be no doubt that, if their ac
   curacy were undeniable, their employment would be much
   more frequent. One of the <U+FB01>rst tables of this class was ub
   lished in “ Dodson’s Calculator ;” and contains a table of the
   <U+FB01>rst nine multiples of all numbers from 1 to 1000.         In 1775
   this table was much extended, and printed in an octavo size:
   it comprehended the <U+FB01>rst nine multiples of all numbers from
    1 to 10,000.     Notwithstanding these and other tables of the
   same kind, the Board of Lon itude considered that still more
   extended tables might be use 1 to science, and employed the
   late Dr. Hutton to form a multiplication table of all numbers
   from 1 to 1000, multiplied by all numbers less than 100.
    These were printed by their directions; and it is to be pre
   sumed that no expense was spared to render them accurate :
    yet in one page only of those tables (page            no less than
    forty errors occur, not one of which is noticed in the printed
    list of the errata.  The French Government, likewise,sensible
    of the utility of such tables, ordered the construction of a still
‘1  more extensive set for the use of several of its departments.
    These are comprised in one volume quarto, and extendfrom
    the multiplication of 1 by 1 to 500 by 500 :' and in the year
     1812, they caused a second edition ofthose tables to be printed.
     But, the most convenient tables of thisv kind which have yet
    appeared were recently published at Berlin, by M. Crelle
                                                                   an

358   Mr. F. Baily 011 Mr. Babbage's    new DIac/Iz'ne<U+FB01>r calculating
 and comprise, in one octavo volume, double the quantity of
 the French tables.         Another volume, of the same size, which
 is announced by the same author, will render these by far the
 most valuable of their kind, provided their accuracy can be
 relied on.      The quantity of mental labour saved, in the con
  struction   of such tables, by the help of the machine, is literally
 in<U+FB01>nite: for, in fact, no previous calculation is at all requisite;
 and it will be necessary merely to put into the machine, at the
 end of every two pages, the number whose multiples are re
 quired. This number will be successively 1, 2, 3, Ste. . . . to 500.
     2". Tables of Square Numbers.           The squares of all num
 bers, as far as 1000, were a long time ago published on the
 continent by M. Lambert.           These have been since extended
 as far  as  the  square   of  10,000  by Mr. Barlow of the Royal
 Military Academy         at Woolwich.      The Board of Longitude
 employed      the  late Dr.  Hutton   to calculate   a similar table as
 far as the s uare of 25,400. In computing a table of this kind
 by the madhine, even if extended to the most remote point
 that could be desired, the whole of the mental labour would
 be saved: and when the numbers 1, 1, 2 are once placed in
        will continue to produce all the square numbers in suc
it,
it
 cession without interruption.          This
                                           is is, in fact, one of those
 tables  which     the engine already  made     capable of computing,
 as far as its limited number of wheels will admit.
     3°. Tables of Cube Numbers.            Tables of this kind have
 likewise been already computed by Mr. Lambert and Mr.
 Barlow  ;    and also by the late Dr. Hutton, by order of the
 Board of Longitude.          ln computing such table by the ma
                                                    a
chine, the whole of the mental labour would be in this case
also saved: since   it    would be merely necessary to place in the
 machine the numbers       1,
                                7,
                                6,   6; and would then produce in
                                          it
succession all the cube numbers.
    4°. Tables of the hi her Powers of Numbers.             The Board
of Lon 'tude employet Dr. Hutton also to construct          a   limited
table oglthis kind; which should contain the <U+FB01>rst ten powers
of all numbers from to 100. And Mr. Barlow has published,
                       1
in his collection, table of the fourth and <U+FB01>fth powers of num
                   a
bers between 100 and 1000.            Should
                                           it    be thought desirable
to re-compute or extend these tables, the whole labour may
be performed by the help of the machine, except the few
<U+FB01>gures required to be <U+FB01>rst placed in it; and which might per
haps occupy the computer about ten minutes for each power.
In fact, the computation of these few fundamental <U+FB01>gures would
not occupy so much time, nor be so liable to error, as the cal
culation of one of the tabular numbers, according to the usual
method.
     is                                                     5°. Tables

      l
        and printing Mathematical and Aslrono-mz'cal    Tables.   959
     5°.  Tables of the Square Roots and Cube Roots of Num
  bers.    A table of the <U+FB01>rst kind has been iven by Mr. Lam
  bert: and a more extended one by Mr. <U+FB01>arlow, in his Col
  lection.    The latter writer constructed his table by means of
  differences;   an advanta     which may be applied with greater.
  effect to the table of Cu 8 Roots, on account of the greater
  convel enc of this order of differences.
     6°. gl‘ab es of the Reciprocals of Numbers.          These are
 amongst the most simple but most useful of arithmetical tables;
 and are peculiarly valuable in converting various series into
 numbers,—-thus facilitating the calculation of differences for the
 more ready construction of other tables.        In order, however,
 to be employed in such operations, it is absolutely necessary,
 that they should be infallible.    Several tables of this kind have
 been printed : the most recent and extensive of which are those
 of Mr. Barlow and Mr. Goodwin.
     7°. Tables of Natural Sines, Cosines, Tangents, 810.. The
 utility of tables- of this kind is evident from the variety of
 forms in which they have been, from time to time, printedr
 and it is needless to insist 011 their importance .at the present
 day, since no seaman dare venture out of sight of land with
out a knowledge of their use.       In order to be of any real ser
 vice,   however,  they should be accurate;  and diligently revised
from time to time: otherwise they may be worse than useless.
 The labour of computing tables of this kind will vary accdrd
 ing to the number of <U+FB01>gures contained in the result.          It ap
pears desirable that the larger tables of _this sort should be
printed with their several orders of differences to a much
greater extent than formerly, for the purpose of making other
tables, and for executing several mathematical operations be-.
ne<U+FB01>cial to science.      It would be di<U+FB02>icult to state precisely the
quantity of mental labour saved by the machine, in construct
ing tables of the kind; but, I believe, it may be fairly reduced
to the two thousandth part of the whole.
    8°. Tables of the Logarithms        of Numbers.       Tables of
this kind are in the hands of every person engaged in nume
rical investigations:      and it is needless to dwell on their
utility and im ortance. The logarithms of number from 1 to
108,000 have can already computed, with a greater or'less
number of <U+FB01>gures; but this has been the work‘of various
authors, and of several successive years: the labour is so im
mense‘that no human being has ventured to undertake the
whole. Theitables which now exist are chiefly copies from
those original and partial computations.        By the help of the
machine, however, this immense labour vanishes, and new
tables may be readily computed and re~computed as 'often‘a's
                                                                may

360   Mr. F. Baily  on Mr. Babbage’s    new  illac/tinejbr calculating
may be required by the public.         It is probable that the pre
sent tables, if extended from 108,000 to 1,000,000 would be of,
greater utility than an extension of the present tables to a
larger number of <U+FB01>gures.          The quantity of mental labour
saved by    the machine  may   be  estimated in the following mau
ncr.     Suppose  a machine   constructed,     capable of computing
with <U+FB01>ve orders of differences; it would be necessary to cal
culate those differences for every thousandth logarithm only:
consequently, if the table extended from 10,000 to 10,0000, _
there would be but ninety sets of differences to compute.
Any one of these sets being placed in the machine, with its
<U+FB01>rst <U+FB01>ve differences, it will deliver the 500 preceding loga
rithms and also the 500 succeeding ones; thus producing a
thousand logarithms: at the end of which term, another set
of differences must be substituted. With <U+FB01>ve orders of diffe
rences, a table of logarithms may be computed to eight places.
of figures, which shall be true to the last <U+FB01>gures, and it would
not require more than half an hour to compute each set of
di<U+FB01>'erences; particularly as the hirrher numbers require very,
little labour, two or three terms ol the series being quite suf<U+FB01>
eient.
    9°.   Tables of Logarithmic Sines, Cosines, Tangents and
 Cotangents.     The remarks which have been made in the pre-
ceding article, will apply with nearly equal propriety to the
tables here alluded to.     The mental labour required for their
construction by the machine is reduced to a very insigni<U+FB01>cant
quantity, when compared with the prodigious labour employed
in the usual way.
     10°. Tables of Hyperbolic Logarithms.          Some small tables—
of this kind have been printed in several works, and are useful
 in various integrations; but the most comprehensive 'set waa
 computed by Mr. Barlow, which contains the hyperbolic lo~
garithms of all numbers from 1 to 10,000. The labour of
 computing them is very great, which is the cause of their not
 being} more extended.     I‘rom a slight examination of thesub
ject, it would appear that the mental labour may, in this case,
 be reduced by the machine to about a two hundredth part of
                                                        '
 what was formerly necessary.
     11°. Tables for <U+FB01>nding the Logarithms of the sum or dif
 ference of two quantities, each of whose logarithms is given.
  This table, which was <U+FB01>rst suggested by Mr. Gauss, has been
 printed in at least three di<U+FB02>‘ercnt forms.       It is extremely con
 venient when many similar operations are required: the whole
 of it was computed by the method of di<U+FB01>'erences; and con—
  sequently nearly the whole of the labour may be saved by
  the help of the machine.
                       .                                    12°. Other

_
    '.   and printing Mathematical and Astronomical Tables.         361
        Other general tables might also be here mentioned,
     12°.
‘which have been of great service in various mathematical in
vestigations, and have been computed and printed by different
authors: such as tables of the powers of '01, '02, '03, &c.:
tables of the squares of the natural sines, cosines, tangents,
&c.: tables of <U+FB01>gurate numbers,'and of polygonal numbers:
tables of the length of circular arcs: tables for determining
the irreducible case of cubic equations: tables of hyperbolic
functions, viz. hyperbolic sines, cosines, &c., and logarithmic
hyperbolic sines, cosines, &c.   These and various other tables
which it is needless here to mention, may be computed by
the machine, with very little mental labour, and with the
 greatest accuracy.
      Besides the general tables above alluded to, there are many
 others which are applicable to particular subjects only: the
 most important of which are those connected with astronomy
 and navigation.--When we contemplate the ease and 'ex'pedi
 tion with which the, seamen determines the position of his
 vessel, and with what con<U+FB01>dence he directs it to the most di
 stant quarter of the globe, we are not perhaps aware 'of the
 immense variety of tables which have been formed almost
 solely for his use: and without the aid of which he dare 'not
 venture on the boundless ocean.         Not only must the general
 tables of the sun and moon be <U+FB01>rst computed, together with
 the various equations for determining their apparent places;
 but those places also for every day in the year are prepared
 solely for his use; and even for different hours in the same
 day. The places of certain stars must likewise be given and, '2“
 as these depend on precession, aberration and mutation, tables
 of this'kind also must be formed for each star. Then come the
 lunar distances, which are computed for every third hour in
 the day; and which depend likewise on a variety of other com
 plicated tables.    After these come the Requisite Tables, pub
 lished by order of the Board of Longitude, and the usual Loga
 rithmic Tables for facilitating the computations, both of which
 are dependent on other tables from which they have been de
  duced or copied.     Now, when     it
                                     is   considered that an error,
  in any one of these multifarious tables, will affect the last-re
  sult, and thereby render the navigator liable to be led into
  di<U+FB01>iculties,  ifnot danger,    must be acknowleged 'that
                                it                            it   of
                                                                    is
'very essential, importance    that all such  tables  should be com
  puted and printed in so perfect a manner that they may in all
  cases he depended upon.       This however, in the present mode
  of constructing them,    isscarcely possible.I     have myself dis
  covered above <U+FB01>ve hundred errors      in  the work containing the
   Tables ollthe Sun and Moon, from which (till.lately)‘,the an
  .. , Vol. 63. No. 313. May 1824.              Z z              nual

 862    Mr. F. Baily  on   Mr. Babbage’s new Mawhinefor calculating
 nual volumes of the Nautical Almanac have been computed:
 and a respectable author has asserted that, in the <U+FB01>rsteditibu
 of the Requisite Tables, published by order of the Board of
 Longitude, there were above a thousand errors.           Many of the
 subsidiary tables, above alluded to, have not been computed
 since the were <U+FB01>rst printed: for, the mental and even manual
 labour "of calculating them has been so great that the world
 has been obliged to remain contented with those original com
 putations: and they are consequently subject to all the errors
 arising from subsequent editions and copies.
     In the calculation of astronomical tables, the machine will
 beof very material assistance: not only because an immense
 variety of subsidiary tables are re uired to determine the place
 of the sun, moon and planets, and even of the <U+FB01>xed stars, but
 likewise on account of the frequent change which it is found
 necessary to introduce in the elements from which those tables
 are deduced: and which vary from time to time accordingto
 the improvements in physical astronomy and the progress of
 discovery.         .                                         _   “3;.
     Within the last twenty years it has been found necessary to
 revise almost all the tables connected with the solar system:
 and already many of these have been found inef<U+FB01>cient for the
 re<U+FB01>ned purposes of modern astronomy.             But the great ex
 pense of tirne and labour and money has been the principal
 obstacle to the advancement of this part of the science: since
 each revision has been attended with the introduction of new
 equations, Which consequently require new tables.            And, to
 this da , we have not been furnished with any tables what»
 ever 0 three (out of the four) new planets that have been dis
 covered since the conunenoeinent of the present'century: nor
 can the places of many thousands ofthe <U+FB01>xed stars be readily
 determined for want of the subsidiary tables necessary for
 that purpose.           ‘                         _    .
                                                        '
                                                           ,.
     It perhaps may be proper to state that all                 dmieal
 tables with very few tri<U+FB02>ing exceptions) are deduced by the
 two to owing methods: 1°. by the addition of certain con-.
 stant quantities, whereby the mean motions of the body are
 determined;      2°. by certain corrections (of those motions)
 which de end on the sine or cosine of a given are; and which
‘are calle equations of the mean motions.        The mean motions
 of any of the celestial bodies may be computed by means of the
 machine, without any previous calculation: and those quane
 tlties depending on the sine and cosine may in all cases be
 computed by the machine with the help of tWo previOus cab
 culations of no great length or labour, and in most cases with
 the help of one only.                    ,
                                              saint“  . ‘
                                              '
   .  a                                                             In
                                                     K»\

         '
           and printing 'Matlzematical an'dAslronomicql Tables.   863
       In the year 1804 Baron de Zach published- his Tables of
  the Sun: and within two years of that date, Mr. Delambre
  published similar tables.       In 1810 Mr. Carlini published his
  Tables of the Sun, on a new construction: so that within the
  space of six years it was considered necessary by these distin
                astronomers to publish these three interesting and
  guished
     ighly useful works.
                            '
      'In the year 1806 Mr. Biirg ublished his very valuable"
  tables of the moon; a work which superseded the use of
  Mason’s tables, and was rewarded with a double prize by the         .
  French Government. It was received with gratitude by the
  scienti<U+FB01>c in every nation, and opened a new are. in the his
  tory of astronomy and navigation.          These were followed by
  the tables of Burckhardt in 1812; which are still more accu
  rate than those of Biirg: and at the present moment, the ele—
  ments of some new tables have been deduced by Mr. Da
  moiseau. But it is the elements only which have yet been
  deduced: since it is these alone which can be expected to en
     age the attention of the profound mathematician.         Never
  <U+FB01>ieioss the laborious, yet useful, operation of computation
  cannot safely be left to inferior hands. The merit of each is
  however very unequally estimated by the world.           Euler had
  three bun‘dre'd pounds granted him by the English Govern
  ment          r <U+FB01>rnishing the elements, and Mayer three thou
  sand or the actual computation of the tables of the moon,
  which were published by the Board of' Longitude in the year
   1770.
      vThe elements of Mr. Damoiseau have been already two
  years-before the public: but the time and labour necessary
  tocompute the tables therefrom are so great that they have
  not yet appeared.        In order to deduce the place of the moon
  from these elements, no less than 116 di<U+FB01>'erent equations are
  requisite, all depending on the sine or cosine of different arcs.
  The labour of computing each equation,gwith the pen, would
  be imrnense; and liable to innumerableerrors: but, with the
  assistance of the machine, they are all deduced with vequal
  ciulity and safety, and without much previous computation.
        In the year 1808 Mr. Bouvard published his tables of lupi
  tar and Saturn: but in 1821, owing to the progress Of dis,
~
  We and the advancement of physical astronomy, it was
       '
            necessary to revise the elements; and an entire new set
  of tables was then published by this distinguished astronomer.
   In order to deduce the geocentric places of 'these planets, it
  is               to compute no less than 116 tables depetulingfon
   the lame or cosine of certain arcs.       -       /
                                                                 1
    '
        I  shall not intrude further .on the time of your readers by
                                   Z 2 2                     alluding

 364-   Mr. F. Baily on M1'.Babbage’s new   Mackinefor' calculating   -
  alluding  to the tables of the other planets, which are all' liable
  to similar observations: but I shall take the liberty of calling
  their attention to those very useful tables which have from
  time to time appeared for determinin r the apparent places
  of the <U+FB01>xed stars; and which generalfy assume the title of
  “ Tables of Aberration and Nutation.”        Tables of this kind
  are of vast importance to the practical astronomer, since they
  save a great deal of time and labour in the reduction of obser
  vations: and it is believed that many valuable observations re-'
  main unreduced, for want of convenient tables of this sort.
     The <U+FB01>rst general tables of this kind were published by
  1\Ir. Mezger at Mannheim in 1778, and contained the cor
  rections of 852 stars.      In 1807 Mr. Cagnoli extended these
  tables to the corrections of 501 stars: and in the same year
  Baron de Zach published at Gotha his Tabula’ speciales Aber
 rationz's et Nutatz'onis, which contained the corrections for 4-94
 zodiacal stars.    But, already these tables have nearly outlived
 their utilit . Independent of their very limited extent, the
 elements filom which they were deduced, have been super
 seded by others more agreeable to actual observation; which
 together with their exclusion of the solar nutation, and other
 minute quantities which canth safely be neglected in the pre-i
 sent state of astronomy, renders these tables of doubtful utility
 to the practical astronomer.                       ~.
     The number of zodiacal stars (without including the very mi
 nutefones) is considerably above a thousand: each ofwhich may,
 in the course of a revolution of the nodes, suffer an occultation
 by the moon. These occultations are ascertained to be visible at
 sea, even from the unsteady deck of a vessel under sail: and
 afford the surest meansof determining the longitude, provided
 the position of the star could be well ascertained.      In order
 to furnish the corrections for each star, ten equations are re
   uisite, depending on the sine and cosine of given arcs; so
 t at it would require the computation of upwards of ten thou:
 sand subsidiary tables in order to produce the necessary cor
 rections ; a labour so gigantic as to preclude all hope of seeing
 it accomplished by the pen. By the help of the machine,
 however, the ‘ manual labour vanishes, and the mental labour
 is reduced to a very insigni<U+FB01>cant quantity.        For, as I have
 already stated, astronomical tables of every kind are reducible
 to the same general mode of computation; viz. by the con;
 tinual addition of certain constant quantities, whereby the
 mean motions of the body may be determined ad in<U+FB01>nitum ,
and by the numerical computation of certain circular functions
for the correction of the same.      The quantities depending on
these circular functions, let them arise from whatever source
                                                               they

       and printi<U+FB02>g' Mathematical and Hstro<U+FB01>omz'cal Tables.           5365
they may,‘ or let them be dependent On. any given 'law what—V
ever, are deducible with equal ease, expedition and accuracy
by the help of the machine. So that, in .fact, there is no limit
to the application of vit, in_the computation of astronomical
tables of every kind.
     I might new direct your attention to those other subjects of
a particular nature, to which the machine is applicable; such
as tables of Interest, Annuities, 81c. &c.: all of which are re
ducible to the same general principles, and will be Found to
be capable of beinv computed b the machine with equal fa
cilityand safety.      but,  I   trust t lat enough has been said to
show the utility and importance of the invention; an invention
inferior to none of the present day; and which, when fol
lowed up by the construction of a machine of larger dimen
sions now in progress (by which alone its powers and merit
can be duly appreciated), will tend considerably to the ad
vancement of science, and add to the reputation of its distin ’
guished    inventor.                                       _
                                                                                ‘
   '
     I have'omitted to state that this machine computes, in all
 cas'es, to the nearest <U+FB01>gure, whatever it may be.                That is,
 after the required number of <U+FB01>gures are computed, if the next
 followin     <U+FB01>gure sh0uld be a 5 or upwards, the last <U+FB01>gure is
 increas _ by unity, without any attention on the part of the
                                                                         '
 operator.
 _   But, it is not in these mechanical contrivances alone, that
 the beauty and utility of the machine consist.           Mr. Babbage,
 who stands deservedly high in the mathematical werld, con
 siders these but of a secondary kind, and has met with man 4
 curious and interesting results, which may ultimately lead to
 the advancement of the science.          The machine which he is' at
 present constructing will tabulate the equation A4u2=cz con.
 sequently there must be a means of                             the given
 constant c,    and  also the  four  arbitrary  representigg
                                                 ones intr     uced in the
 integration.     There   are   <U+FB01>ve  axes   in the  machine,    in each    of
 which one of these may be placed. ,It is evident that the ar
 bitrary constant must be given numerically, although the num-'
 bers may be any whatever. The multiplication is not like
 that of all other machines with which I am acquainted, viz.
 a repeated addition—but is an actual multiplication: and the
 multiplier as well as the multiplicand may be decimal.                    A
 machine possessing <U+FB01>ve axes (similar to the one now con
  structing) would tabul'ate, according to the peculiar arrange
 ment, any of the following equations:
        Asuz     auz+l     '  -        Aiuz = auz+2          _
                                                                       ‘
        A‘uz<U+FB02> =     auz +   A‘u,      Asu.+1= “A’unl           + A%;-.:
                                            '          i   '
        i                                                                  l't‘

866          Mr. F. Baily  on Mr. Babbage’s new Machine.
If the  machine possessed only three axes, the following series,
amongst others, might be tabulated,                              J
            Azul'l‘l = aAua + A’u:        AL“: = aus'
If there  were but two axes,    we might tabulate
                           A’u, a: au,+,.         ,
  I
    These equations appear to be restricted; and so they cer
tainly are.   But, since they can be computed and printed by
machinery, of no very great complication, and since it is not
necessary (after setting the machine at the beginning) to do
any thing more than turn the handle of the instrument, it be
comes a matter of some consequence to reduce the mode of
calculating our tables‘to such forms as those above alluded to.
    A table of logarithms may be computed by the equation
A‘ua = 0: but in this case the intervals must not be greater
than a few hundred terms.        Now, it may be possible to <U+FB01>nd
some equation, similar to those above mentioned, which shall
represent a much more extensive portion of such tables,-—-:
possibl many thousand terms: and the importance that would
result rom such an equation renders it worthy the attention
of mathematicians in general.
    A table of sines may, for a small portion of its course, be
 represented by the equation A‘u, = 0: but it may be repre
sented in its whole extent by the equation A'u, == au,+ 1.
 Now, this is precisely one of the equations above quoted: and
 if a proper machine were made (and it need not be a large
 one) it would tabulate the expression A sin 0 from one end of
 the quadrant to the other, at any interval (whether minutes or
 seconds) by only once setting it.    It would not be very com
 plicated to place three such machines by the side of each other,
 and cause them to transfer their results to a common axis,
 with which the printing apparatus might be connected. Such
 a machine would, amongst other tables, compute one from the
 expression
                    AsinB + Bsin20+Csin30
 the utility of which, in astronomy, is well known.       In fact,
  Mr. Babbage is of opinion that it would not be impossible to
 form a machine which should tabulate almost any individual
 equation‘of differences.
    Amon st the singular and curious powers produced by
 small ad itions to the machinery, may be reckoned the possi
 bility oftabulating series expressed by the following equations:
     A‘u, = the units <U+FB01>gure of 14,,
     A‘u, = 2 x the <U+FB01>gures found in the tens place of 11,“,
     A‘u, = 4: x the <U+FB01>gures found in the units'and tens place of
                  u: + l i
                            ‘
  and many others similar thereto.                         Again:

           Prof. Here’s Ekvtrmm'agnetic     'Exp‘erz'mmts.        367
    Again: Let     the machine be in the act of tabulating any
series,  a part may be attached by means of which, whenever
any particular <U+FB01>gure (a 6 for example) occurs in the units
place, any other number (23 for instance) shall be added to
that and all the succeeding terms: and when, in consequence
of this, another <U+FB01>gure 6 occurs in the units place, then 23
more will be added to that and all the succeeding terms. Or,
if it be preferred, the number added shall be added to the
term ending in 6 only, and not to all succeeding ones.
    These views may appear to some persons more curious than
useful. They lead however to speculations of a very singular
and dif<U+FB01>cult nature in determining the laws which such series
follow: and they are not altogether so remote from utility as
may be ima ined.         I avoid alluding to man other curious
properties w ich this machine is capable of ex ibiting, as they
will scarcely be intelli ible till the machine itself is more known
in the world.      Indeed I fear I have already tired your pa
tience with this long letter.
LIX. A      brigf Account qf some Electra-magnetic and Galvanic
    Experiments. >By ROBERT Hana, MD. Professor of Che
    mistry in the University q/'Pennsylvania.*                     1
              hundred feet of copper wire, nearly as thick as a
 SEVEN
     knitting-needle,    were made to encircle the columns of the
lecture room.       One end of the wire was connected with one
end of a large calorimotor; the other terminated in a cup of
mercury--into this, a wire proceedin from the other pole of
the calorimotor was introduced.         Un er these circumstances,
a magnetic needle              near the middle of the circuit, 'was
powerfully aff'ecte (placed
                        ; and when the circuit was         <U+FB01>rst inter
rupted, and then re-established by rem0viug the wire from the
 cup, and introducing it again, the in<U+FB02>uence appeared to reach
the needle as quick} as if the circuit had not exceeded seven
 inches in extent.        ‘he needle being allowed to become sta;
 tionary  in the  meridian,  while the circuit was interrupted, and
 the end of the wire being then returned into the mercury, the
 deviation of the needle, and the contact of the wire with the
 metal, appeared perfectly simultaneous.                      I
    A wire was made to circulate with cat rapidity, by means
 of two wheels, about which it passed li a band. The wheels
 being metallic, and severally connected with the different
Poles of a calorimotor, it was found that the motion neither
                      " Communicated by the Author.
                                                           accelerated

  868                   Mr. J. Walsh       on the Circle.
 accelerated nor retarded the galvanic in<U+FB02>uence—and it _made
  no difference whether the needle was placed near the portion
 _of the wire which moved from the' positive pole to the nega
  tive, or the portion which moved in the opposite direction.
      If a. jet of mercury, in communication with one pole of a
  very large calorimotor, is made to fall on the poles of a horse
  shoe magnet communicating with -the other, the metallic
  stream will be curved outwards or inwards, accordingly -as
  one or the other side of the magnet may be exposed to the
 jet—or as the pole communicating with the mercury ma be
  positive or negative.     When the jet of mercury is m' e to
  fall just within the interstice, formed by a'series of horse-shoe
  magnets mounted together in the usual way, the stream will
  be bent in the direction of the interstice, and inwards or out
  wards, accordingly as the sides of the magnet, or the com
 munication with the galvanic poles, may be                        This
  result is analogous to those obtained by Messrs. exchanged.
                                                            arlow and
  Marsh" with wires or Wheels.
     It is well known that a galvanic pair, which will, on immer
  sion in an acid, intensely ignite a wire connecting the zinc and
  copper surfaces, will cease to do so after the acid has acted
 'on the pair for some moments—and that ignition canuOt be
  reproduced by the same apparatus, without a temperary‘re       '  '
  moval from the exciting fluid.
     I have ascertained that this recovery of igniting power does
 not take place—if, during the removal from they acid, the
 galvanic surfaces be surrounded either by hydrogen gas,_nitric
-oxide gas, or carbonic acid gas.        When surrounded by chlo
rine, or by oxy en gas, the surfaces regain their igniting
  power in nearly t e same time as when exposed to the air. 5,
     The magnetic needle           is,
                                nevertheless, much more powerfully
 a<U+FB01>'ected by the galvanic circuit, when the plates have been
 allowed repose, whether            take place in the air or in any of
                                     it
                                  ’                            '
        ases above                               v          45-
.éthe               mentioned.               p
  I      ave not as yet had time, agreeably to my intention, to
                                                           ~ ,
            the effect of other gases, or of a vacuum.
‘examine
             LX.    On the Circle.        By JOHN WALSH, Esq.           -
    my last paper in    'our Journal
 INdemonstrated                          alluded to a proposition
                                               13
                                               I
                by         tbinomial calculus.
                               e                   shall state, in
                                                            I
 this paper, the nature of that demonstration. By the principles
 of the binomial} calculus, the part of the tangent between                    y
 and    y   the dinomial of u, whatever may be (1.21, u being
             is
        it   See Philosophical Magazine,   vol. lxii. p. 321.   1‘   p. 271.
                                                                               the

                     'Bangma’s Method              of solving Equations.            869
the arc of any curve.         Binomiating from, this term,1 taking
cla'  negative, and, in the binomiation, for dz substituting .z',
the sinomial or are is equal to the sum of the remaining terms
of the series.    If, then, for .r we substitute any constantin
volved in the equation of the curve, the sinomial will be de
termined in terms of this constant. Applying this to the cir—
cle, we get for the length of the fourth '       part of the circum
ference the well known series                               '  '
                     |        |.-s         1.3.5
       u=i1+ i'.2.3 +1.2.T.E+1.2.4.6.1 + 8‘9?“
From which it follows, that the circumferences ' of circles are
to one another as their diameters.
    The preceding propositiOn does not ap ar to have been
demonstrated before the invention of the Iheinornial calculus.
Euclid does not demonstrate it. His reasoning is founded on
a lemma (the base of the method of exhaustions, of <U+FB02>u-xions,
of the differential calculus, &c.), which asserts the absurdity
that a magnitude maybe less than itself._ And his attempt
to prove this absurdity involves the assertion of the opposite
absurdity, that a m nitude may be greater than itself. - The
second proposition of .his twelfth book was deduced by analogy
from the property' of similar polygons; and he Was obliged to
heap absurdity on absurdity, to give his postulate the colour
of demonstration. This is the only blemish in the most im
          work on science that was ever composed, or that can
lportant
   ereafter be composed.       Every other work on science, either
physical or mathematical, fallsvinto insigni<U+FB01>cance when com
Pared with the stupendous work of this immortal geometer.
  - With respect to Mr. Ivor ’5 paper.                      I
                                                 require of Mr. Ivory
to construct the trian le, 0 which the base is not aiiy thing.
He is not to prove                       his                        to
                               construction by a simple
 “ every body.”        Such a mode of reasoning does not appeal
                                                              be ongto
geometry.      Neither     he to introduce the “ ghosts of departed
                For              is is
                            demonstrated that, such things are                       ab
quantities.”                it
surd._ He        to prove his construction by reasoning referred
                     is
to our intuitive knowledge.          His paper       a very awkward is
surrender of the point he would maintain.                  a
                                                                                      3
    '                                          '       H
                                                                         J.
                                               '
                                               '
        Cork,'May    15, 1824.                                                WALSII-la
LXI.         On a Method of: <U+FB01>nding the Limits of the Roots of the higher
        Powers  qf Numerical Equations. By Mr. ROWBOTHAM.           J.
        To   the   Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
                                      ' '
                                                   '       Walworth, May 17, 1824.
         HOULD      you think the following method of solving, or
.        rather of <U+FB01>ndi      the limits of the roots of the higher
    '
        Vol. 63. No. 313.    ay 1824.                       powers
                                                                3   A

370             Bangma’s Method          of solving Equations.
powers of numerical equations" (translated from O. S. Bang
ma’s Dutch Algebra) would be interesting to your readers, and
worthy of insertion in your valuable publication, I shall feel
happy in having communicated it to you.                                    -
                         I am, gentlemen, respectfully yours,
                                                            J. ROWBOTHAM.
    To <U+FB01>nd the roots of the higher powers of equations, we
shall begin with the following cubic equation:
                         .Z's—l‘l'Zg—ng: —546.
Bring     all the  terms    of the equation to one side and arrange
them according to the power of w, as follows:
                         .2'3-141'9—29z + 546:0.
    For x substitute three successive terms of a. series of na
tural numbers; as, —-1, O, and 1, by which the following re
sults will be obtained :
                                  560,   546,    504%
    By subtractin the <U+FB01>rst of these numbers from the second,
and the second from the third, we have
                               —14 and —42.
    Again: by subtracting the <U+FB01>rst number from the second,
we have                              ~28.                                _
    The preceding numbers may be arranged                    as follows :‘
                            -1
                               0
                                    560_1 @
                                    54:6         - 28
                                l   504'—42
    The lower numbers 1, 504, —42, -28, and the constant
number 6, serve to <U+FB01>nd the positive roots of cubic equations.
    The upper numbers —1, 560, -—14<, -—28, and the con
stant number 6, serve to <U+FB01>nd the negative roots +.
    To <U+FB01>nd the positive roots, write in a line,.
                             1, 504, -42, —28.
   1* This method of
                       solving equations will be further illustrated (should We
not be too limited for space) in A Practical System of Algebra, by Mr.
Peter Nicholson and myself, which work is now in the press, and will be
published in a short time.
       The precedin method is applicable to all the higher powers, with this
di erence only,—t at we must take for .1- so many successive terms of the
series pf natuual numbers, as the highest exponent of x contains units;
thus,             For cubic equations 0, 1,2 ; or —1, 0, l.
     s   A;-_         biquadratic        0,1, 2, 3; or —1, 0, l, 2.
                \gor
                   or 5th power         0,], 2, 3, 4; or —2, —-l, 0,1, 2, &c.
   The constant number, mentioned above, will be formed;
                  For tlie 3d power, by l x 2X 3=6.
                  For the 4th power,       I >( 2x 3 x 4:24.
                  Fpr the 5th power,       1X 2 X 3X   4 X 5:120,  6:0.
                                                                          Now,

             Bangma’s Melhod'qf solving Equations.                  37].
     Now, by adding the “constant number 6 to —28, we have
—-22; by adding —22 to —4-2, we have                     -6t; by adding
 —64- to 504-, we have 440 which is the value of the function
.r’-14-.r‘-29x+546, when 1:2; we then write in a line
                                                                      '
                         2, Mo, —64-,' -22.
     Now, by adding    6, and proceeding as above, we shall have
360 which is the value of the function, when-.Z‘=3, 8L0.
     The calculation may be arranged in the following manner:
                        I, 504',         —4‘2_,1 —-28
                            —64          -22           6
                       2,    440         —64~    -22
                            --so         —16           6  .
                        3,    360        -—80    —16
                            ——90         —-10          6
                                                 -10
                      .4,     270
                            -94          --90 4        s
                        5,    17s        -94       -4
                            -92               2        s
                       6,      84      - -92           2
                            ~84               s        s
                        7,       o       484           8
     Here 0   is the value     of   the equation, when .2:=7; conse
quently. 7 is one of the roots.
     Now, in order to <U+FB01>nd the other positive roots, we must
continue the calculation 'as follows, by which means we shall           ‘
<U+FB01>nd that .z= 18 is also a root.
                     7,         0,       —84‘,         8
                            -70              14.       6
                                                            ‘
                    s,      -70          -70          14
                            -50              20   _    6
                     9,   -120           -50        20
                            -24.             26        6
                    10,   -144.          -24        26
                                 s   '
                                             32
                    11,    -l36               s     32
                               4-6           as        6
                    12,      -90             46       as
                               90            44     .  6
                                                        ‘          _.
                                                                   "
                    13,          0           90
   ‘                               3   A   2                      Nola.

            On the Application        the Term    “ In<U+FB01>nite.”
872                               of
    Note.    Whenever all the numbers that stand on a line with
a value ofw become positive, we may conclude that the equa
tion has no greater positive roots; therefore 13 is the greatest
positive root' in this equation.                        _           . _ ~
    To <U+FB01>nd the negative roots, write the upper numbers in a
line, and subtract the constant number 6.
                     -1, 560, -14, —28
                            20       -34           6
                     -2,   540          20    -s4
                            60      -40            6
                     -s,   480          60    —4~0
                           106      —4-6           6
                     -4,   274         106    —46
                           158      -52            6
                     -5,   216‘        158    -52
                           216      -58         ,  6
                   -6,        o       216     -58
  . Note. Whenever all the numbers that stand on a line with
a value of 1 become — + ; + —, we may conclude that the
equation has no greater negative roots; therefore .1 = —6 is
the greatest negative root of the proposed equation.
        LXII.                                         “
                On the Application      ofthe Term In<U+FB01>nite.”.
    To  the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
     BEG     to offer the following observations in repl to your
     note, appended to a proposition contained in t 9 paper
“ On the Ori in of Matter, and on its alleged In<U+FB01>nite Divi
sibility,” which you were so obliging as to insert in the Philo
sophical Magazine for November last.
                             I  am, gentlemen,
                                        Yours respectfully,
London, January  19, 1824.                                    J, O, F,
    If  space be considered as a property of a subject e
                                                                  ' '
necessarily, and which therefore, as proved by Dr. S. Clarke,
must be necessary to the existence of all other things; such
property thus existing necessarily, and not being a property
                                                          '
       ._                                                             of

               On theipplication ofthe 1erm “ In<U+FB01>nite.”                  87 8
of any created subject, must in this case be re 'arded. as an at-.
tribute of the Deity, of which in<U+FB01>nity may          ots
                                                 course be pre
dicated.
    If, however, space he considered—what           believe.
                                                    I           to be
                                                                    it
—a property of matter; as in this case also             cannot exist
                                                          it
independent of its Subject, there can be no such thin in na
ture as absolute space or absolute vacuum.      I Under this view,
then, if    we take away matter, we take away space.           Space
may indeed be nevertheless abstractedly conceived of, or ima
gined, as existing independently of matter as its subject: but
in reality it   can have no such existence, and can only be con~
sidered as a property co-existent with matter, as its subject.
    Now, universality cannot,  I     apprehend, be predicated of
the material part of creation, without affirming that there are
no other modes of substantial existence except what are pro
per to material being and substance;    I  therefore conclude, that
matter    is  not universal, and consequently not in<U+FB01>nite ,--—thus;
that neither its qualities nor physical properties are infinite :—
and that the material universe forms, as       itwere, but the out
work or- lowest basis of created existence, between which and
the Creator there are intermediate modes of existence; -al
though no direct physical proof, perhaps, can be given of
 modes of existence different in their nature from those of mat
 ter and space.      The reality of such superior modes of ex
 istence may however be presumed from the nature of the
 human mind, which as were can look into the things of space,
                         it
although in itself           not subject to or limited by space;
                      it
                      is
but has a mental perception or consciousness of an existence
according‘to a superior mode and,  ,-     ifI   may be allowed the
expression, within the sphere of outward space and nature.
     If be true that space proper to material nature alone,
     it                       is
and  if   there be other modes of existence which are not sub
ject   to  the laws that govern matter, then space cannot be
 universal,-—thus cannot be in<U+FB01>nite; and the same will apply
 to all physical properties whatever.
     With respect to in<U+FB01>nite duration: that which              is
                                                           necessarily
 existing must be considered as antecedent to that which                   is
 created:—thus all created things must be considered, as to
 duration of existence, to have begun to be in this rewect,
                                                    ,-'
 therefore, their duration must be limited, and          limited, not
                                                          if
 in<U+FB01>nite ,--although they may nevertheless continue to exist to
 eternity.     In<U+FB01>nite duration therefore can only be applied to
 the    self-essent,  self-existent, and underived being of 'the
  Creator.‘ Considering therefore that all created subjects, by
 the necessity of their constitution, are limited and <U+FB01>nite, their
 qualities or properties in like manner must be                   and
 _                                                      limitedi nite;

  374-                   On the Nautical Alumnae.
 <U+FB01>nite; in which case the term in<U+FB01>nite is strictly inapplicable
 to physical properties ,- as well as to moral and intellectual
                                                              '
                                                                 pro
 perties,  except   as these latter exist in the Creator.
     With respect to in<U+FB01>nite series in mathematics: they may
 be made the measure of any thing real or unreal ,- they may
 be applied to aid our conceptions of the in<U+FB01>nite attributes of
 God, or of the inde<U+FB01>nite attributes of his works; but the appli
 cation, to be renuine, must evidently be with due regard to
 the nature or t ie thing to which it is made, as observed in my
                                                                ‘
 former remarks upon this subject.
    It appears to me that that which is Infinite must be Universal,
 extending through all modes of being from the<U+FB01>rst to the last.
  LXIII.    Two Lines from the Nautical Almanac, addressed to
                  ‘
                                Mr. IVORY
 “
     IFwhich
          we employed the height of the thermometer without,
                would be more consistent with the theory, it
 would probably be necessary to suppose the standard tempera
 ture of the table 48° only, instead of 50°.”-—N.A. p. H8.
     For Mr. Groombridge’s observations, it is remarked, in the
 13th Number 'of the Astronomical           and Nautical Collection,
 that it will be necessary to alter the supposed standard of the
 tables to 46°, instead of 48°.
     Mr. Ivory, in the Philosophical M azine for April, insists
 on em loying the table of the Nauticlhl Almanac at 50°; and
 on <U+FB02>u, in the sum of its errors +96”'7 and -l3”-0.
     Now i he has computed rightly for 50°, these errors, sup
 posing the temperature 48°, become 56"‘9 and 26"‘0; for 47°,
  + 56’“?! and -85”'8 ; the sum of which is 72"‘1. This is indeed
 a tri<U+FB02>e more than the sum of the errors of the new table,
 which amounts to 60" only; but is still far short of 109"'7, or
 rather 119”'7 the sum of the errors assigned to the N. A. by
 Mr. Ivory. _So inconsiderable a (li<U+FB02>'erence, in the neighbour
 hood of the horizon, can scarcely be considered as decisive of
 the question, even allowing the accuracy of the computation:
 and it has not been asserted that the New Tables are inferior
  to those of the N. A.
    But the comparison which Mr. Ivory considers as tricked
 out in all sorts of disguises jbr the purpose qfensnaring unwary
judges, does in fact prove that both of these tables give the
 correction for accidental chan es of temperature somewhat
 too great; they are both foun ed nearly upon the same hy
 pothesis respecting the effect of a change of temperature, and
 that hypothesis is not fully justi<U+FB01>ed by Mr. Groombrid ’s
 observations.                                              S. BE:
                                                          LXIV.   No

                                  '[   375        ]
                ‘
                    LXIVN      Notices respecting New Books.
                            Recently published.
         RINCIPLES           of Warminand Ventilating Public Build
           ings, Dwelling-houses,  <U+FB01>anufactories,   Hospitals,  Hot
     houses, Conservatories, &c.; and of constructing Fire-places,
     Boilers, Steam-apparatus, Grates, and Drying-rooms: with
     Illustrations experimental, scienti<U+FB01>c, and practical.  To which
     are added, Observations on the Nature of Heat; and various
    ‘Tables useful in the Application of Heat.      With nine Plates
     and several Wood Cuts.       By Thomas Tredgold, Civil En
     gineer; Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers; Author
     of“ Elementary Principles of Carpentry,” an “ Essay on Cast
    Iron,”   8w. 8“).   15s.
      The Character of the Russians, and a detailed Histo of
    'Moscow.  Illustrated with numerous Engravings.   Wit, 3
    'Dissertation on the Russian Language; and an Appendix,
    containing Tables, political, statistical, and historical; an Ac
    count iof the Imperial A icultural Societ of Moscow; a
     Catalogue of Plants foun     in and near Mlhscow; an Essay
    on the Origin and ProgreSs of Architecture in Russia, 810. Ste.
    By Robert Lyall, M.D. F.L.S., Member of the Imperial
    cieties of Agriculture and Natural History, and' of the Physico
    Medical Society at Moscow.
       An Essay on the Laws of Gravity, and the Distances of the
     Planets; with Observations on the Tides, the Fi re of the
    Earth, and the Precession of the Equinoxes.           §y Captain
-    Forman, Royal Navy.      4s.
       Evils of Quarantine Laws, and Non-existence of Pestilen
    tial Contagion; deduced from the Phaenomena of the 1’]         no
    of the Levant, the Yellow Fever of Spain, and the Clio era
    Morbus of Asia.      By Charles Maclean, M.D.
       The Metropolitan Literar Journal, No. I.
       An'Elementary System of )hysiology: by J. Bostock, M.D.,
    F.R.S. L.S. M.R.I.A'.        8w. SLC.                                     _
      ANALYSIS OF PERIODICAL           WORKS          0N NATURAL HISTORY.
        The Zoological Journal, No.     conducted by Messrs. T. Bell,
                                            I.,
    J.  G; Children,     D. C. Sowerby, and G. B. Sowerby.
                        J.                                            _
        The hope we expressed on announcing the intended publi
    cation of this work, of its materially promoting the advance
    ment of vzoology, has not been disappointed by the perusal of
    it.    \Ve think that, with the improvements always received
    by   a  periodical publication during its progress, will become
                                                              it
                                                                   a   standard

376                Notices respecting New Boo/rs.
  a standard medium of communication between the various
  cultivators of that delightful science.    This <U+FB01>rst number con
  tains <U+FB01>fteen articles, principally original; besides the usual de
 partments of literary and scienti<U+FB01>c intelligence found in a Phi
 losophical Journal. Among them we may particularize the fol
 lowing:—'-Art. I. An Inquiry into the true Nature of Instinct,
 and of the Mental Distinction between Brute Animals and Man,
 dc..- by J. 0. French, Esq.       In this inquiry the author pro
 poses to account for the various actions of brutes which ap
 pear to be of a moral or of a scienti<U+FB01>c nature, by the hypo
 thesis that moral and scienti<U+FB01>c qualities do not become ob
jective in the minds of brutes, thus that they possess no moral
or scienti<U+FB01>c consciousness; and therefore that the appearances
 of morality and science in their actions, are the effects of
moral and scienti<U+FB01>c energies, acting upon them in a region of
their minds above the sphere of their proper consciousness.
—-Art. II. Monograph on the Cebrionidee, a Family of Insects.
 By W. E. Leach, M.D. F .R.           L.S.—Art. VI. Some Obser
                                     81.
vations on the Lamarclcian Naiades, and thePropriety of uniting
them all under one generic Name.         By G. B. Sowerby, F.L.S.
 Mr. Sowerby proposes to unite the genera Alasmodonta of
 Say, Dipsas of Leach, Anodon, Hyria, and Castalia of La
marck, with some other shells, under the genus Unio             repre
                                                                    ,-
 senting that they have been separated from             merely upon
                                                          it
 such characters as would warrant the raising of almost every
 strongly marked species into a genus.—Art. XI. Monograph
 on the Cypreeidre, a Family    (f  Testaceous Mollusca.     By Mr.
J. E. Gray.—Art. XIV. Abstract ofa Memoir on the Physio
logy of the Helix pomatia.       By M. B. Gaspard, D.M.: with
 Notes by T. Bell, Esq. F.L.S.        This     a curious memoir on
                                               is
the growth, habits, and physiolo          of the H. pomatia.
                                           y                      Mr.
 Bell’s notes correct M. Gaspartf’s statements on several im
portant points.--Art. XV. Memoir on the chemical Composi
tion of the corneous Parts of Insects.      By M. Augustus Odier.
 With some Remarks and Experiments by             G. Children, Esq.
                                                    J.
 RR.   8L  L.S. M. Odier af<U+FB01>rms in his memoir, that the sub
stance resembling horn, obtained by treatin the elytra of in
sects with a hot solution of potash, and whic        he calls chitine,
contains no nitrogen; and he compares               to lignin.
                                                     it           Mr.
 Children, however, has determined, by analysing          with prot
                                                               it
oxide of copper, that chitine does contain a considerable pro
portion of that element; thus invalidating M. Odier’s in
ference respectin     the analogy of the substance to the basis
of vegetables.— he Number contains <U+FB01>ve plates, four of which,
 principally of Shells, are well coloured—The Second Number
is  to be published on the 15th of June.
  -
                                                               Curtis’s

          Analysis   of Periodical Works         on  Natural History.              377
                        Curtis’s British Entomology.
                     No. 5. contains the following subjects      :
    Pl.19. Rhipiphorus parado-rus. Figures of both sexes of this insect are
given, which from their dissimilarity have been considered by some authors
as distinct.    Mr. W. S. MacLeay, we believe, <U+FB01>rst discovered its singular
economy, which has enabled entomologists to enrich their cabinets with
                                                         20. Pentntoma ewrulea, a
examples of this rare and curious genus.—Pl.
beautiful little species found in the woods about London, and in Devonshire;
the author has taken the opportunity of giving a complete arrangement
of the British species which the genus embraces—Pl. 21. Eyprepia rus
sula (Clouded bu<U+FB02>‘ Moth).        A genus detached from the extensive group of
Bombycidw; E. russula is a beautiful species, and the dissections illustrat
ing the Lepidoptera must be a great acquisition to the lovers of that beau
tiful order, as nothing of this kind has hitherto a peared exce ting the
few that were given in the early numbers of Mr.              wainson’s        oological
Illustrations—Pl. 22. Ibalia Cultellator. An unique specimen of this insect,
which adds a new genus to the British Fauna, was taken by Mr. Edwards at
Bungay, and is now in the cabinet of the author. It is allied to the Gall
                                                                             -
insects (Diplolepidw), and its structure is very interesting.
                   The Botanical Magazine.               No.  4:4-8.
                                      “ caule ramoso hirsuto, foliis oppositis ro
    P1. 2481. Urtica involucrata,
tundato-ovatis crenatis    trinerviis  lucidis ad apices ramorum congestis, pani
culis SGSSilibllS:” brought from the island of St. Vincent, and <U+FB02>owered in
the stove of the Horticultural Society.—Serratula simplex, the Carduus
mollis of older authors—Oxytropispilosa, Astragalus Linn.              This plant and
the former were introduced at the Chelsea garden by Dr. Fischer of
Petersburg.—Nicotiana reprmda from the Havannah, said to be the plant
of which the famous cigars are made.- Habrrmthm 'versicolor, a se
cond species of this genus of Amaryllideze proposed by Mr. Herbert (see
p. 297).—Dalea mutabilis.—Justicia geniculata,             “paniculis terminalibus
laxis cernuis, bracteis subulatis, foliis ovato-lanceolatis      glabris subtus       al
                                of the   West   Indies.  —Cissus     antarctica,   lgew
lidis   distantibus:” .native
 South Wales.
                    The Botanical Register.             No. 1 11.“
              Portulaca foliosa.
                                    “ P. guinemis, foliis subulatis,     calycibus     i
    Pl.  793.
losis,   involucro polyphyllo, <U+FB02>oribus subterms, petahs retusls.”.             Lind ey
MSS.-Neottia bicolor, “foliis plurimis lanceolatls nervosls petiolatls gla
                                                                          racemo nu
bris, scapo villoso infra foliolis spathaceis obsito brev10r1bus ;
                                                lamina summa brevi oblata obso—
 meroso <U+FB01>oribus cernuis, labello oblongo,
                                                                    from Trinidad,—
lete tri<U+FB01>da undulata crenata, intus minute papillosé?’
                               : originally<U+FB01>gured     in Andrews’s     Repository; as
 Eriospermum folioliferum
well as its congener E. paradoxicum, it ranks among
                                                             the
                                                                   most curious ano.
 malies with respect to foliage in theMonocotyledones.-Justzcza pectoral“.
 now <U+FB01>rst <U+FB01>gured, though long known here. -—Justicza carthagtnenszs,                  in
                                                                         “ folus ovatis
 troduced in 1792 from the Caribbee islands—Lantanofucata,
                                                                   decurrentibus,    ca
 rugosis crenatis obtusis pubescentibns petiolum brevem
                                                                from seeds brought
   ituli parvi depressi pedunculo foliis breV1or1:” raised
  or the Horticultural Society from Brazil by Mr. G. Dom—Glycine vmcen
 <U+FB02>aw—Prams: paniculata. ,
     V01. 65.    No.313. May         1824.
                                               -l
                                                          a  B         LXV.       Pro-~

                                  [378]
               LXV.      Proceedings       of Learned      Societies.
                               ROYAL SOCIETY.
April             LETTER         was read, from          Dr. T. L. Tiarks to
        29.A        Dr. Young, For.                R.S.,
                                             as Secretary to the
                                            Sec.
Board of Longitude; relating     to observations   made on the
longitude of various places in' England  in 1822  and  1823 *.
   May 6.—The reading was commenced of a paper “ On
Univalves;” by C. Collier, Esq. Staff Surgeon. Communi
cated by Sir James MacGregor, F.R.S.
   Ma 13.-—The reading of Mr. Collier’s paper was con
cluded; and Davies Gilbert, Esq. V.P. R.S., communicated
a paper “ On the Variation of the Rates of Chronometers
with the Density of the Atmosphere;” by George Harvey,
F.R.S.E.1-                    .
   Ma 20.—A letter was read from Professor Berzelius, of
Stock 01m, to the President; givng an account of various
chemical researches in which he has recently been engaged.
He has succeeded in obtaining Silicon, or the combustible
base of silica, in an insulated state; and has ascertained its
principal properties, which are very curious.
   The reading was also commenced of a paper “ On some new
                                              ”
Phaenomena effected by Magnetic In<U+FB02>uence;       by Mr. J. H.
Abrahams, of Shef<U+FB01>eld. Communicated by Mr. Tooke, F.R.S.
                                                                                '
                             LINNA-ZAN SOCIETY.
  May 4.—A. B. Lambert, Esq. V. P. in the Chair. M.
Geo<U+FB01>'roy St. Hilaire was elected a Foreign Member.
  A notice from Mr. Wood was read respecting the Golden
Oriole, 077.01le Galbula, shot on the 26th of April, <U+FB02>ying in
company with some blackbird s, at Aldershot in Hampshire.
  The reading was continued of Mr. Vigors’s paper on the
Natural A<U+FB01>inities of Birds; and of the Catalogue of Norfolk
and Suffolk Birds, by the Rev. Messrs. Sheppard and Whit
tear.
   May 24.-—On this day, being the birth—day of Linnmus,
the Anniversary of the Society was held at one o’clock, in
conformity with the Charter, the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop
of Carlisle, Vice President, in the Chair.
  The folloWing gentlemen were re-elected O<U+FB01>icers :
           Sir James Edward Smith, President,‘
           Edward Forster, Esq. Treasurer;
           Alexander MacLeay, Esq. Secretary ,
           Mr. Richard Taylor, Assistant Secretaly.
                                                                             31,11?
  4' See   Phil. Mag. vol. lxiii. p. 66.      1‘ See   our last Number, p.
                                                              ‘
                                                                                    he

             Livnna’an  Society—Horticultural     Society.         379
   The followin      were elected to be of the Council for the en
suing year   :—E‘dward    Barnard, Esq.; H.'l‘. Colebrooke, Esq.;
 Major-General T. Hardwicke; Daniel        '
                                                Moore, Esq.; and
 Philip B. Webb, Esq.
   An extensive and interesting series of the various species
of Rhubarb from Chelsea. Garden was exhibited by Mr. An
derson.
   The Anniversary dinner of the Society took place at Free
masons’ Tavern, and a considerable number of the Fellows,
including many from distant parts of the kingdom, partici
pated in the pleasure of this meeting, which was alloyed only
by the absence, owing to indisposition, of their highly esteemed
President, whose excellent qualities, great attainments, and
invaluable labours for the promotion of science, have long
endeared him to those who know him, and especially to the
lovers of Natural History.         The chair was <U+FB01>lled on this
occasion by the venerable Prelate, who from the <U+FB01>rst foun
dation of the Society has been one of its most zealous sup
porters.                    ———-—
                     HORTICULTURAL socm'rv.
   May l.—At the Anniversary Meeting for the election of
the Council and O<U+FB02>icers for the ensuing year, the following
Gentlemen were chosen :—C0uncz'l .- Thomas Andrew Knight,
Esq.; the Earl of Aberdeen; Edward Barnard, Esq.; Mr.
Samuel Brookes; Henry Moreton Dyer, Esq.; John Elliot,
Es . ; Alexander Henderson, M.D.; Charles ‘Holford, Es .;
R0 rt Henry Jenkinson, Esq.; Mr. Joseph Kirke; <U+FB01>r.
George Loddiges; Alexander MacLeay, Esq.; Joseph Sa
bine, Esq.; Richard Anthony Salisbury, Es .; John Wal
ker, Esq.—O cers: Thomas Andrew Knight,                sq. President;
John   Elliot,   sq. Treasurer;   Joseph   Sabine,  Esq. Secretary;
Mr. John Turner, Assistant Secretary.
   The President appointed the following Members of the
Council Vice Presidents for the ensuing year :—the Earl of
Aberdeen; John Elliot, Esq.; ‘ Robert Henry Jenkinson,
Esq.; John Walker, Esq.
   May 4.—-The following communications were read:
   Note on the Culture of the Canna indica.              By Dr. Van
 Mons, a Foreign Member of the Society.
    Note on Graftin     the Rose.    By the same.
   On the best M e of packing        Grafts  for Carriage.     By the
 same.
    On the Cultivation     of Asparagus.      By Mr. Peter Linde
 gaar,  a  Corresponding    Member    of the  Society, Gardener to
 the King of Denmark.
    Several new plants in <U+FB02>ower, raised in the Society’s Garden
                                  8 B 2                          from

380                     Geological Society.
from seeds received from Chili, were exhibited; also a re
markably          and <U+FB01>ne plant, in <U+FB02>ower, of Cactus speciosus
from the garlarge
                en of the Comte de Vandes.
    May 18. The following communication was read :
   Note on the Advan        es of using Bunting as a Protection
to Apricot Trees.     By harles Henry Rich, Esq. F.H.S.
        -             GEOLOGICAL     socm'rv.
    March 19.—A paper entitled “ Sketch of the Geolo           of
New South Wales and Van Dieman’s Lam,” by thegllev.
T. H.  Scott, was read in part.
    April 2.—The paper entitled “ Sketch of the Geology of
 New South Wales and Van‘ Dieman’s Land,” by the Rev.
T. H. Scott, was concluded.
    The coast of New Holland from Cape Howe to Port
 Stephens, including Botany Bay, Port Jackson, &c., as ex
amined by Mr. Scott, consists of an uninterrupted series of
the coal measures.    At Illasvarro, or the Five Islands, a seam
of coal is found at the surface. Between Broken Bay and
Port Hunter, a horizontal seam of coal is bared by the action
of the sea on the cliffs. Very good coal is worked at New
castle on Hunter’s river, thirty-seven yards from the surface,
3 feet 1 inch thick; it is intersected by trap d kes in some
places; and vegetable remains of a large-leaved ern, thought
by the people to be an Eucalyptus, are picked up at the base
of the clif<U+FB01> Limestone alternates. with the sandstone, and
iron ore occurs. The wells at Sidney being not more than
30 feet deep, the water is not good; one well, sunk 82 feet
to a great mass of sandstone, gives excellent water. From
 Paramatta the coal measures continue, and are broken by
trap d kes at-the Nepean to Enuford, where the ascent of the
Blue      ountains commences, near the summit of which the.
coal measures rest on the old red sandstone. The escarpment
of this rock on the east side presents the aspect of a perpen
dicular wall, at the top of which the old red sandstone is
found in contact with primitive rocks: these occur in the vale
of Cleuyd and Clareneer’s hilly range, where the Macquarrie
rises, and after a north-east course of 300 miles terminates
in a vast swamp. Returning westward, porphyritic rocks
and clay slate accompany the primitive rocks near Bathurst
and the Sidmouth range, to Lake George and the Cookbun
doon river, which continue to the Cow pastures, where the
coal measures of the colony again appear.
    The geolog of the island of Van Dieman’s Land is con
formable to that of the continent of New Holland.           Both
Hobart Town and George Town are upon .thecoalformation.
                                    ,                   Between

                         Geological Society.                     381
  Between the former and Elizabeth Town, 9. limestone full of
  shells is found, probably of the oolite series, and the same
  rock occurs near Geor e Town on an island in the Tamar.
  In the middle of the isfand, at Bagdad, a rock which answers
  to the description of the millstone grit, and salt, is found on
  the river Macquarrie.      To the east and the west of the in
  habited tract between the two towns, high mountains and ele
  vated primitive rid es are alone discoverable ; so that the island
  probably contains iittle other fertile soil to tempt future emi
  gration when this space shall have been peopled, ' which is not
                                         ’
  the case in New South Wales.
     A letter was read On a Section obtained in sinking :1 Well
  at Streatham ; by Mr. I. S. Yeats.       Communicated by G. H.
  Brown, Esq.
     A well having been sunk at Streatham to the depth of 285
  feet, the greatest depth which has been pierced in that part of
  the country, the following section was exhibited.       From the
  depth of 2 feet to 29 feet, sti<U+FB01>' reddish brown clay; from
  thence to 35 feet, clays with septaria; from thence to the
  depth of 180 feet, blue clay, in which, in from 70 to 100 feet,
  were found various shells and fragments of bituminous wood
  with iron pyrites; from 200 feet to the depth of 230 feet, blue
  clay, sometimes sandy, in which numerous shells and bitu
  minous wood occurred; at 230 feet, round black pebbles of
  <U+FB02>int like those of Blackheath were found, this appearing to
  be the point of junction between the London and plastic clays;
  next a bed of sand, and afterwards various coloured clays
  were pierced, at the depth of 270 feet; and continuing to
  285 feet, sand and sandy clays occur, the greater part of
  which is full of green earth exactly resembling that of the
  oyster bed at Reading.     The paper was accumpanied by spe
  cimens of each of these strata.
     A letter waszread from Alexander Gordon, Esq., to D. Gor
  don, Esq. of Abergeldie, describing three successive forests
  of <U+FB01>r imbedded in a peat moss, accompanied by specimens.
     The moss of Auldguissack in Aberdeenshire, Scotland,
  presents an inclined plane of rather uneven surface, and va
  ries in depth from 18 inches to 10 feet from the lower part of
  the hill to the river.
     Upon digging up the ground in two different parts of the
  moss, large roots of Scotch fir-trees were found about one
  foot below the ordinary average level of the moss.         Below
  the bottoms of these roots there is a stratum of about a foot
  and a half of moss, below which other roots or trunks ap
  peared; and on dingin       still further down (about 6 or 7 feet
  below the ordinary evefof the moss) a third set of roots and
, truncated stems of trees were discovered.
           r                                                      It

382                     Astronomical Society.
    It appeared to Mr. Gordon impossible that these roots
could have supported di<U+FB01>'erent trees all growing at the same
time ;' for the distinct rami<U+FB01>cations of these (horizontally like
Scotch <U+FB01>rs at the present day) are bedded in moss perpendi
cular above each other.
    April 23.—-A paper was read entitled “ Some Observations
on the Lakes of Canada, their Shores, Communications,” 8L0.
                                                             '
by Lieut. Portlock, R.E.
    In this memoir the author describes the various nature of
the shores of Lakes Huron, Michigan, Erie, and the other
lakes of Canada, and annexes a plan, in which a tabular view
is presented of the comparative level of these lakes and their
communications with each other. At the Falls of Niagara, he
observes that the upper stratum isa<U+FB01>rm compact limestone rest
ing on strata of a very schistose nature. It is not by erosion of
 the surface that the falls are made to recede ; but the waters,
after falling 150 feet, strike the bottom, and are reduced to
foam; they are then driven up into the air far above the rock
 whence they had descended : this penetrating foam acts on
 the lower argillaceous strata, till the overhanging rock is un
 dermined.       Lieut. Portlock remarks, that there has been a
gradual fall in the leVel of the Lakes at Canada.‘ He also
 offers some considerations on the proximity of the sources of
 several rivers which <U+FB02>ow in opposite directions.
     May 7.—A paper “ On the Geology of the Pouza Islands,
 in the Mediterranean,” by G. P. Scrope, Esq. M.G.S., was
 read in part.
     A letter was read from Thomas Bot<U+FB01>eld, Esq., M.G.S.,
 accompanied by a collection of bones and horns of the deer,
 and bones of man and other animals, found in a cleft of the
 rock at a quarry at Hincks’ bay, (near the Old Park iron
 works,) in the parish of Dawley and county of Salop.       Their
 adhesion when applied to the tongue showed that the animal
 gelatine was nearly gone, which does not take place till after a
 long period of inhumation.
                                                     -             -
                        ASTRONOMICAL   SOCIETY.
     May   14.———The    whole of this sittin  of the Societ was
 occupied by the reading of the conclusion of Mr. Bail ’s
 paper On the Method of determinin the Difference of            e
 ridians, by the Culmination of the lioon, this paper having
 been commenced at the last meeting in April.
     The author, after brie<U+FB02>y alluding to the nautical methods of
 determining the longitude, including those by means of chro
 nometers, adverted to <U+FB01>ve distinct astronomical methods
 which have been pursued, viz. 1st, By the eclipses of Jupi
 ter’s satellites.   2dly, 'By eclipses of the moon. <U+FB02>dly, By
                                                          eclipses

                      Meteorological Society.                  38$
eclipses of the sun. 4thly, By occultations of the <U+FB01>xed stars.
And 5thly, By meridionial transits of the moon. The <U+FB01>rst
three of these, by reason of their infrequency and obvious
sources of inaccuracy, are Of very limited utility; while the
fourth method is rendered uncertain from its involving a
doubtful datum, the compression of the'earth, as well as other
dif<U+FB01>culties which the author pointed out.      He then proceeded
to point out that the <U+FB01>fth method was greatly superior to any
of the others, in which opinion he was supported by the tes
timony of Dr. Maskelyne, Bernoulli, and many eminent
astronomers who were quoted. Notwithstanding its hi h re
commendations, this method has not been successfiilly adopted
in practice, and has even led to some awkward anomalies, on
account of its having been customary to take the moon’s
centre reduced to the meridian, and to compare it with the
apparent places of stars passing the meridian about the same
time in any parallel of declination.
   The newly proposed method consists in merely observing
with a transit instrument, the differences of right ascension
between the border of the moon, and certain <U+FB01>xed stars pre
viously agreed upon, restricting the observations to such stars
as dg<U+FB01>‘er very little in declination from the moon, and denomi
nated moon culminating stars.       The attention of astronomers
has been called to this method by M. Nicolai, of hlanheim,
in several numbers of Schumacher’s Nachrichten.         It is quite
independent of the errors of the Lunar Tables (except so far
as the moon’s horary motion in     R   is concerned).  It does not
involve the quantity of the earth’s compression.      It does not
require a correct knowledge of the position of the star Ob
served, nor does an error of a few seconds in the clock sen
sibly affect the result. Hence much trouble is avoided, many
causes of error precluded; besides all which, the method is
 universal.                ——-——
                     METEOROLOGICAL SOCIETY.
    March 10.—The reading of Dr. T. Forster’s “ Memoir on
the Variations of the Re<U+FB02>ective, Refractive, and Dispersive
 Powers of the Atmosphere” was resumed and concluded.
   This memoir relates to certain branches Of the subject of
atmospheric refraction, belonging to the province of Meteoro
logy, which Dr. Forster states to have been particularly neg
lected: these are, the variations in the refractive, dispersive,
and re<U+FB02>ective powers of the atmosphere, resulting from the
diffusion therein of different modi<U+FB01>cations of cloud, which
 are themselves affected by loCal circumstances, and which
vary‘ greatly at different times; and the effects of that varia
tion on the colour of the light transmitted by the
                                                      planets<U+FB01>anii1
                                                               xe

 384                      Meteorological Society.
 <U+FB01>xed stars, and on the declination of the latter.             After some
 general remarks on re<U+FB02>ection, refraction, and prismatic di
 spersion, the author proceeds to consider the subjects just
 mentioned, in three sections.         In the <U+FB01>rst, “ On the variation
 in the refractive power of the atmosphere at different times of
 the night and day, and on different occasions and seasons,”
 he ascribes that variation, principally, to the quantity and
nature of the aqueous vapour diffused in the air: and he sup
ports this opinion by various observations on the planets and
 stars, made at different times and seasons.            In observin the
planets and brightest stars through prismatic glasses, he found
that the spectrum was less oblongated, whilst the red colour
was more distinctly apparent, at the period of the vapour
point, than at almost any other time of the same nights.                On
other occasions, at the same period of evening, the violet and
in general the colours of the most refrangible rays were most
conspicuous, and the spectrum was more oblongated than or
dinarily.     Dr. Forster at length ascertained, that the greater
prevalence of the red in the spectrum uniformly accompanied
that state of the atmosphere when the cirrostratus diffused
itself after sunset; whilst the more oblongated spectrum, with
the violet and most refrangible colours, attended an atmo
sphere in which the condensing vapours assumed the form of
stratus.    He infers from these and other observations, that the
changes in the qualities of the diffused vapour in the air must
produce great variation in the atmospherical refraction.                 In
the second section of his memoir, he suggests that local cir
cumstances may produce great variation in the mean refrac
tive power of the atmosphere at different places; and that
the discordances in the places assigned to the <U+FB01>xed stars in
different catalogues of them, may have resulted from such
variation.     In the third section entitled “ Of varieties in the
composition and nature of the light of different stars,
considered as still further varying the e<U+FB02>'ects of atmospheric
refraction,     re<U+FB02>ection, and dispersion,” Dr. Forster details
a number of minute observations upon those varieties; pro
ceeds to inquire into their causes; and concludes with an ac
count of some experiments on the decomposition of the light
of the moon, the planets, and certain <U+FB01>xed stars.*
    A Memoir b Dr. Forster was also read, “ On the great
Depression of emperature which occurred in Janu                    Y 1820.”
    The remarkable depression of temperature relatzeld) in this
   "  Part of Dr. Forster’s paper was inserted in the Phil. Mag. for March ;
and the remainder will be found in the present number: both with consi
derable additions by the author.
                                                                     paper

                  ' '                            ' '    ‘
                      ‘Meteoirological Society.                385,
         took placeat Hart<U+FB01>eld in Sussex, to the neighbour"
 paper
   ood of which place it appeared to be con<U+FB01>ned, durin the
 period between sun-set on January ltth and midnig t on
 January 15th, 1820.       At 10 P. M. on the 14th, an out-door
  Fahrenheit’s thermometer exposed to the N. E. was at zero,
 and at 11 o’clock it indicated -5°.        Some time between the
 hours of l and 8 A.M. on the 15th, it sunk to —10°, as shown
 by a Six’s thermometer.        It thence gradually rose, until at
 midnight    on the   15th  it attained the elevation of +23.    A
 thermometer exposed to the N. W. indicated 1° higher in
 each observation.     During this period of excessive cold, the
                                                                    ’
 air was calm and clear, a few ill-de<U+FB01>ned cumuli only were
 seen on the 15th ; the snow which had fallen on the 13th lay
 on the ground.     Dr. Forster received only one notice of a
 distant observation, made at Canterbury, where a thermo
 meter in-doors indicated 0°; which was also the temperature
 in-doors at Hart<U+FB01>eld on the morning of the 15th.                 >
    Dr. W. Burney communicated, throu<U+FB02>h the Secretary, the
 Results of a Meteorological Journal for ‘ebruary 1824, kept
 at his Observatory at Gosport, Hants.
    April 14.-A note was read on certain Phaznomena of the
 late Cold Weather, and on Zodiacal Li ht, &c. ; by Luke How
ard, Esq. .F.R.S. and Member of the JS/leteorological Society.
    Dr. Burney communicated the Results of his hieteorological
 Journal for March ; and similar communications were received
 from other lVIeteorologists.
    May 12.—Dr. Burney communicated the Results of his
 Journal for April ; and the following paper was read:
    “ An Account of the principal Phaénomena of Igneous Me
 teors which were observed in the year 1823; forming part of a
 Review of theProgress of Meteorological Science during that
period: with Remarks on the Characters of certain Meteorites."
  By E. VV. Brayle jun. A.L.S. and M. Met. Soc. In this
   aper the author rst describes, from various authorities, the
,g‘ire-balls which were observed respectively. on the 26th of
 January 1823, at Gosport; on the 23d of May, at Kiel in
 Denmark; and on the 20th of August, at'Ragusa.           The lat
 ter, being contemporaneous with an earthquake at the same
,place, gives occasion for an inquiry how far the appearance
 of Igneous Meteors may be considered as an attendant phae
.nomenon of earthquakes: several meteors of this kind, it is
observed, were seen in the province of Catch at the time of the
 extensive earthquake'in India in 1819, the most violent motion
of which was experienced in that province and its vicinity; and
;two Fire-balls appeared, one at Zante, and the other at Ce
 phalonia, on the day after the earthquake that desolated the
    Vol. 63. N0. 313. lVIay 1824».              3 C        former

          '
$86             Imperial Society    of Nattiralists of Moscow.
former iSland'in 1820: other instances of this connexion are
likewise adduced. Mr. Brayley then proceeds to an exami
 nation of the phaanomena attending the fall of several me
 teorites at Nobleborough, in the State of lVIaine, in North
 America, on the 7th of August last.               He next points out a
 remarkable af<U+FB01>nity in mineralogical characters subsisting be
 tween these meteorites, and those which fell, respectively, at
 Loutolox in Finland in 1822, at Jonzac in France in 1819,
             J
 and at uvenas in the same country in 1821 ; several specimens
 of the latter being laid before the Society for the purpose of il
 lustration.        This affinity partly consists in the strong resem
 blance which they all bear to certain products of volcanoes;
 whilst the meteorites of several other descents connect them,
  by a gradual transition, with those whose characters are more
 peculiar: from these and other circumstances, in conjunction
 with that of the frequent presence of Olivine in meteorites,
  the author infers that the agencies which give rise to volcanic
  phaenomena, whatever these may be, and however exerted in
  this case, are probably concerned in the production of Igneous
  Meteors and the bodies which descend from them.                   He con
cludes by recommending the investigation of this curious sub
ject to the members of the Society; promising to lay before
  them, after the recess, the results of some further researches
  upon it.                                                Mi 19:10 mo:
      The Society then adjourned, over the Summer recess, to
            again on'Wednesday the 18th of October next.
  nieet
                                             ,
            IMPERIAL     SOCIETY  OF NATURALISTS 0F MOSCOW".
      “ The plan for forming         a dep6t for the discoveries in natu-‘
_
‘ral histor       in the vast empire of Russia; of uniting the friends
  of this sclence together, who wished to give their assistance for
  this purpose; and of                      the history of the discoveries
  made, was conceived publishingy professor    Fischer on his arrival at
   St. Petersbnrg in 1804. It was not till the summer of the
"the year 1805, however, that a few of the professors and li~
                       -
'terati of Moscow <U+FB01>rst assembled, and adopted the regulations
‘proposed by professor Fischer, and established the Imperial
  Society of Naturalists.          The object of the society is to en»
  courage      the  study  of  natural  history and the relative sciences,
‘
  as human and comparative anatomy, chemistry, natural philo
                                      "
“s'ophy, rural economy, 81c.            The society consists of members
    '3"
         The accounts of this Society; and of the Agricultural Society of Mos
'
   cow, are derived from the interesting History of Moscow lately published
  by Dr. Lyall.
       -               a;                                            ordinary
                                                                              -4

              Imperial Socieiymf Naturalists     of Moscow.             887
ordinary and honorary; and the ordinary members are di~.
 vided into resident and men-resident.
     “ Shortly after'the
                            -a's_$ociation just mentioned took place,
 Mr. Muravief, curator of the university of Moscow, and col-                  -
league of the minister of public-instruction, informed that the
society had begun to meet at the house 'of the director, pro
fessor Fischer, presented its regulations to his imperial ma
jesty, the Emperor Alexander, who approved of the design,
and therefore ordered Mr. Muravief to testify his high satis
faction to the professor.          His excellency Count Alexei Ra
zumofskii, lately minister of public instruction, senator, che
 valier, 8cc., was <U+FB01>rst chosen president. The present president is
                                                                             ‘
prince Obolenskii.        The perpetual director, Gotthelf Fischer,
Aulic- counsellor of H. I. M., chevalier, doctor and professor,
and member of many learned societies; and vice-president of
 the med ico-chiru-rgical academy.
     “ Soon after the institution of the society, the literati, and
 particularly the cultivators of natural history, whose works
 are too little known in England, including many of the no
 bility of lVIoscow, I’etersburg, and the other towns as well
 as universities in Russia; and also many of the most distin-                 -
guished philosophers and naturalists on the continent, chie<U+FB02>y
 through the extensive acquaintance of the founder and direc-.
 tor, professor Fischer, were enrolled among its members.
  Presents were received from all quarters, of books, objects of
 natural history, and of money. The society was very <U+FB02>ou
 rishing, and by the year 1812 had published four volumes of
 its Transactions.       All the collections of the society were de
 posited in the museum of the university, and, along with that
 extensive establishment, became acommon prey to the <U+FB02>ames
 in the year 1812.       Among other things were lost some manu-
 scripts, and almost the whole of the impression of their Trans
 actions, which, however, will be soon reprinted.                        .
     “ Far from being dispirited by this irreparable misfortune,
 the members of the society re-assemblcd in the year 1813,
  and commenced their proceedings anew; and since have
 continued all their efforts with unremitting vigour to re
  cover- from their losses, and have now published the <U+FB01>fth
  volume of their Transactions.            The society has renovated
  a small museum and library.             Among the foreigners, pro
  fessor Fischer and Dr. Fischer, director of the botanic gar
  dens at. Gorengi“, are distinguished for their zealous ser
  vices in this society.      From the change in the state of Eu-_
  rope,    a more   free  interchange of scienti<U+FB01>c publications is
     * The Philo-Graphic Secictyof Gorengi was instituted by Dr. Fischer/
 and afterwards was united with the Imperial
   I
                                              Natural .History
                                                        i
                                                               Society.
         -
                                   3 C 2                                   N

      888         [Imperial Agricultural Society qf‘ Moscow.
     to be wished, and may be expected, between Russia and the
      Continent, as well as Great Britain.      The director, professor
     'Fischer, is a most indefatigable naturalist, and although not
     more than fifty years of age, the catalogue of his works and
'
     translatiOns on different subjects occupies nearly three quarto
     pa es; and they better proclaim his character and the extent
     of is erudition than any encomium 1 can add. A few distin
     guished characters of Great Britain are honorazy ,- but a greater
     number non-resident ordinary members ofthis society. The so
     ciety of natural history of Moscow is well known on the Conti~
     nent, and wishes to be better known in Great Britain by an ex-g
     change of its Transactions for the Transactions of the literary
     societies of our island; as well as to receive, donations in na
    tural history, or of the works of its members, or of other in
    dividuals disposed to assist its views.”
            ‘
              IMPERIAL AGRICULTURAL socm'rv or MOSCOW.
        “ The regulations of this  society were published in the Rus
    sian language in the year 1820. They commence with a short
    historical account of its formation, which is followed by some
    general remarks on the pleasures and advantages of agricul
    ture, and on its in<U+FB02>uence .on a nation, in a moral, a political,
    and a commercial point of view. After a sketch of the opinions
    of the ancients regardin agriculture, its present state in Ger
    many, France, and Eng and, as also in America, is noticed.
    It is then stated that in Russia this science as yet is almost
   in its infancy. As contributing to the advancement of agri
   culture in this empire, the effects of the works of the Free Eco—
   nomical‘Societyat Petersburg;—the utility of the universities
   in Russia (each of which has a chair for agriculture); and
   the observations of the Economical Society of Livonia, are al
   luded to.
       ‘F The dif<U+FB01>culty of leaving off old, and of adopting new plans,
   is remarked ;—and especially among the peasantry.                '
       “ To the tiers état,-—the middling ranks of society, which
  exist in most countries of Europe,—arts and sciences, agri—
  culture and commerce, chie<U+FB02>y owe their improvement and
  perfection. But in Russia there are no properly corresponding.
  classes of society.     The advancement of the arts and sciences,
  and of agriculture, principally depends upon the government,
  the nobility, the literati, and societies.     Commerce in a great
  measure is in the hands of the merchants; but a few ofthe
                                                               1       >
  nobility are great speculators.
       “ As things are at present, by far the greatest partofzthe
stewards upon noblemen’s estates are their own slaves, and
are generally very corrupt in their morals.              Some  of  the
                                                                richer

                    Imperial Agricultural       Society   of Moscow.              889
’
    richer nobles have free stewards, and most of them are great
     villains : a few, however, are reputed for their honesty and
     good conduct *.
          “ The Steward-Slaves, as they may be called, derive their
    knowledge of agriculture from the peasants; so that the dia
    rector and the servant are often equally wise: indeed it does
    not rarely occur that the latter is more learned in his pro
   fession than the former.              T O procure a good and honest and
    clever      steward     in   Russia,   is a matter Of in<U+FB01>nite di<U+FB01>iculty:
                               ‘
   hencev an adarre,             Buy not a village, but buy a steward for
   yourself.’         T e present society seems to have it in view, as a
   principal object, to form stewards at the practical school, for
   their estates.
   ,
         “ An assembly of a number of highly respectable noblemen
  agreed to form an Agricultural Society at Moscow in the year
    1818. A correspondence took place with the Government on
   this subject; and His Imperial Majesty Alexander granted
  leave to institute a society under the name of The Imperial Agri
   cultural Socz'ety of Moscow. It was permitted that this society
   should have its own seal with the Imperial arms, and a suit
  able device, and free postage of all letters and parcels.
         “ The Emperor made a donation of 10,000 roubles to' the
   society; and gave the promise of an annual sum when its
   utility was evident:—he also presented the estate Of Yolmat
  chevoi-Gorbo'vo, containing 70 desiatins of land, to the society.1
        “ The design of the society is the improvement of agricul
   ture; and of the management of cattle, as well as of the con
                                                                                   '
  struction Offarm-houses, 8L0.
  a
        “   Its members are divided into active members—who reside in
  or near town, and are supposed to be actively employed in some
  manner or other for the good Of the society: to this class also
  belong correspondents, residing in the more distant provinces,
                                                                                '
  ‘    "'  “Vide   p. xxii. of the History.
      1-   “This  estate is situated about 1‘3 versts (12 miles) from Moscow. His
  Imperial Majesty, it appears, was badly advised when he granted it to the
  A ricultural Societ . In the <U+FB01>rst place, it was too small for the purposes
  pg the Society; an in the second place, it was the most arid and unpro
  ductive estate in the neighbourhood         of the metropolis.     The Society ac
  cepted it ;—bccause it could not decline an imperial present: but imme
  diately afterwards,it took a lease of another estate, called Butirka, situated
  about a mile from one of the Barriers (the Dmitrovskaya), which contains
  about 207 desiatins.         Butirka is church property, but the Society intends
  to purchase it when rich enough.           Part of this estate is now drained and
  cultivated, and a number of buildings are erected.          Mr. Rogers, whose fa
  ther has long been famous in this neighbourhood as a practical farmer, is
  appointed its director, and always resides on the spot. 'lhc practical school
  spoken of in the text, is intended to be erected here.

‘
    890        Imperial Agricultural   Society   of Moscow.
    and _in foreign kingdoms :—and lzonormy members, whose
    conduct has merited general approbation, and who forward
    the objects of the society, as by presents of land or money; or
    of individuals distinguished in the sciences, and especially in
       oriculture.                                                    .
         “ The society is governed by a President, a Vice-President,
    a Director, a Secretary, and a Treasurer; all of whose duties
    are particularlyindicated.   The meetings of the society are held
    once a month, from the 1st of November to the lst of May.
         “The active members are formed into four divisions: l. The
    ‘Theoretical.—2. The Practical.—3. The Mechanical.—And,
    '4~. The Pedagogical.      The lst division is to occupy itself
    with classical works necessary for the schools, and the transla~
    tion of agricultural papers and works frOm foreign languages.
     It consists of Professors and learned individuals. The 2d divi
     sion contains landed proprietors in the‘ government of Mos—
     cow, who ought to present to the society annual reports of the
    results of their practice in farming, and of improvements, ob
    servations, &c.     The 3d division is to engage itself with the
    most improved implements of husbandry used in Europe—
     Agricultural architecture, as of farms, of mills, of stoves for
    drying corn, 81.0. This division is to consist of engineers and‘
     mechanics. The 4th division will direct the operations of the
    theoretical and practical schools. A council consists of the head
     of each of these four divisions, the President, the Vice-Prea
     sident, the Director, the Secretary, and the Treasurer.
         “Agricultural Sellool.——A proper site for the erection of a'
     school, and for the formation of a garden, is to be <U+FB01>xed upon;
     Here there must be six <U+FB01>elds, each containing four desiatins
    of land, for the purposes of the school. The school is to be
     supported by the sums annually received for the pupils, and
     also by their entry-money. There will'be attached to it an overe
     seer and assistant; a surgeon, and two apprentices; an under
     officer for every eighty pupils; aclergyman; and teachers,
     1st, for arithmetic,     eometry, making of plans, mechanics,
     and agricultural architecture; 2dly, for botany and the theory
     of agriculture; 3dly, for chemistry and technology ; ably, for
     veterinary surgery.
         “ Pupils.--T he pupils are not to be under 15 years of age :
     they must know the Russian language previous to admission.
     "If their conduct be bad, they may be sent from the school; if
     they have passed six months in     it,neither master nor friend
     can withdraw them until the conclusion of their education :-
    i.   e. at the end of <U+FB01>ve years.    They are to be divided into
     tens. During the <U+FB01>rst year, they will be taught Russian grami
      "" '
                                                                  mar

                     Imperial Agi-imltural Satier          qf Moscow.         891
    mar and writing, arithmetic and painting. I In the second year,
    theology, agricultural book-keeping,                eography and statistiCs,
     and    the   principles   of geometry.      In  t 112 third y'ear3mechanics,
     agricultural architecture, and taking of plans.                In the fourth
              chemistry, botany, physiology of vegetables, and know
     year,
       edge of woods or forests, and technology.                In the <U+FB01>fth year,
      the sciences of agriculture and veterinary surgery.               Those de
      siring it may remain longer than <U+FB01>ve years, on continuing a
     proper payment, and then they will be taught physics and law *.
'         “ The annual sum to be paid for each pupil is: for food,
      100 roubles; clothes, shoes, and linen, 150r.: education and
      Wood and candles, 150r.: total 400 roubles.                  And for <U+FB01>tting
      out, entry, IOOr. The money to be paid in advance.
          “The Agricultural Society is not rich. The crown has
      not yet been liberal, but it is expected that other donations
      'will be made, both in land and money.                 A few of the opulent
      members have generously contributed. General Apraksin has
                a small estate near Moscow, for the use of the Society,
      given
        or twelve years.        The members ought to pay an annual sum
       of 50 roubles, but this is not enforced. Each member, ex
       cept those specially exempted, pays 25 roubles for his diploma.
  '
       Some of the members make an annual voluntary contribution.
          “ The Society has already published seven numbers of its
      journal in the Russian language. Hitherto it has been ac
       tively employed, and has made a rapid advancement; and I
       have no doubt. that if Prince Galitsin continue its president,
                                        '
       and to reside at Moscow, even though he should resign the
       situation of Militar Governor, it will 0 on in the same'pro
       sperous career. T ie Prince has contri uted his share both in
      money and books. He o<U+FB01>'ers an annual sum of30 ducats; Count
       Rumiantsof one of 35 ducats, and the Society a third of 35
       ducats, for prize essays on subjects proposed by the Society.
           “ The number of members in Russia is considerable. Many
       of the most respectable names of scienti<U+FB01>c individuals on the
       continent, and a number of those in Great Britain, are also
       enrolled in its lists.
           “ The plan of the Society has something in it grand and
        imposing :--May it lead to results extensive and useful to hu
        manity!”
    .     " “ This is of great consequence in Russia, should the nobles make stew
       .ards of their pupils; for the half of their duty may be to manage law pro
        cesses.                                                     ,           .
                                                                       LXVI. In

                                 [292]
            LXVI.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      NEW TABLES     OF   PRECESSION,    ABERRATION     AND   NUTA~
                                  TION.
        HE   Astronomical Society of London have undertaken the,
         formation of an extensive work, which will prove hi hly
   useful and convenient to every ractical astronomer.              t is
   the computation of Tables for getermining the Precession,
   Aberration and Nutation of nearly 3000 of the principal <U+FB01>xed
   stars, for every day in the year; with their mean places for
   the beginning. of the year 1830.     This list will contain all, the
   stars, not less than the 5th magnitude, which are inserted in
   Piazzi’s catalo ue ; and also all the stars above, the 7th mag
   nitude, situate   within 30° of the equator. The tables will be
   constructed on the principles detailed in our Number for
   October 1822; and which has been partly acted upon on the               ‘
   continent by M. Schumacher.         This mode of arranging tables       _
   of this kind is by far the most convenient of any that has been
   hitherto adopted; as by the helpof 4 logarithms added to                >
   4- other logarithms (all of which will be found in the book)
   the correct quantities are determined without reference to any
   other work than a small table of logarithms to 5 plapes of
   <U+FB01>gures.    The whole willbe‘ calculated by two computers, in
                                                                         '
   order to guard as much as possible against errors.
                    NAUTICAL MAGNETIC PREMIUM.                         .
      The Board of Lon itude have conferred the Parliamentary
  premium of 5001. on        r. Peter Barlow, of the Royal Military
   Academy, for his method of correcting the local magnetic at
  traction of ships, The great quantities of iron employed at
  this time in the construction and equipment of ships of war,
  produce so much deviation in the compass (varying according
  to the direction of the ship’s head) as to render it almost an
  useless instrument in certain situations, particularly in high
  northern and southern latitudes. It appears by Lieutenant
   Foster’s report of experiments made in His Majesty’s ship
   Conway, under the superintendence of Captain Basil Hall, to
  lat. 61 degrees S., and under that of Captain Clavering, in the
  recent voyage of the Griper, to lat. 80 de rees north, that the
  difference in the bearing of an object wit the ship’s head at.
  east and west, amounted to 28 degrees before the latter vessel
. left the Nore: this difference afterwards amounted to 50 de
  grees at the North Cape, and to 75 degrees at Spitzbergen.
  Great, however, as this effect was, the method recommended
  by Mr. Barlow was completely successful in counteracting
                                     ,
                                                           '
                                                                    it,

                 Steam-vessels.— Canola—Meteor.               893
it.‘ This is extremely simple: it consists in- merely placing a
small plate of iron abaft the compass, in such a direction as
to counteract in any one place the effects of the other iron in
the ship: after which, without removing      it,    continues to do
                                                   it
the same in all parts of the world, whatever Chan       e may take
place in the dip or intensity of the magnetic nee le. Three
 important advantages will result from this discovery.       It will
 add greatly to the safety of vessels in our Channel in dark
 and blowing weather:      it  will tend to the general correction
 of our charts of variation; and will dispel nine out of ten of
 the supposititious currents so liberally supplied by navigators
 to account for every remarkable disagreement between rec
 koning and observation, and of which there can be no doubt
 the greater number have arisen from this long-neglected error
 in the compass.                    —-—
                    STEAM NAVIGATION TO INDIA.
     A numerous and respectable meeting has been held in Cal
  cutta, for the purpose of taking into consideration the utility
  and possibility of establishing steam navigation with England,
  via Suez. A    committee had been previously formed, who hav»
  ing discussed the merit and importance ofthe project, opened
  a subscription, and recommended that the sum of one lack of
  rupees should be bestowed upon the <U+FB01>rst individual or com-.
  pany who should make two complete voyages from England
   to India in steam vessels, the passage not to exceed 70 days,
   either by the Cape of Good Hope, or the Red Sea, in vessels
   of British register and of not less than 300 tons burthen. The
   recommendation of the Committee was adopted by the meet
  gin .                         —.-—
               STEAM VESSELS IN THE NETHERLANDS.                -   j
      The Dutch are actively employed in introducing the use of
   steam vessels into Holland; and one has just been established
   between Utrecht and Amsterdam, which performs the voyage
   every, day in three hours and a half.
   CANALS      FOR        THE BLACK SEA TO THE BALTIC
                     UNITING
    A   Company hasjust been   formed, under the auspices of the
 Emperor,  whose object     to  unite the Black Sea to the Baltic
                               is
 by means of canals from the Dnieper and Nieman.
                           METEOR.
    On   theevening of Saturday the 17th of April, about a.
 quarter past ten o’clock, a beautiful meteor was seen to the
 northward of the village of Upper Kinneil, parish of Borrow
 stowness.     burst forth with great splendour, illuminating
               It
 the atmosphere; and proceeded with amazing velocity
                                            D             gnEa
    Vol._63. No. 313. May 1824.               a

   394-                        Earthquakes.
   S.E. or S.E. by S. direction, emitting a train of vivid sparks
   which gradually became paler until it entirely disappeared.
   Its duration, the writer of this, who witnessed the scene, thinks
   might be about <U+FB01>ve seconds, during which period it passed
   over about a third of the visible atmosphere.
                      EARTHQUAKE FELT AT SEA.
      The following is from the log book of      the  ship Orpheus,
   bound from England to Ceylon :
                                        Monday, 10th February, 1823.
      “At   1h. 15m. P.M. steerin    N.N.W. at the rate of <U+FB01>ve miles
  per hour, a little swell from t e S.S.E., felt a motion as if the
  ship was runninrr over the ground, or some other solid sub,
  stance; and at tlcie same time for from 60 to 65 seconds heard
  a confused grinding trenlulous noise, alfecting the ship in
  every part; we sounded with twenty fathoms of line up and
  down, but no ground.         The sea not the least confused, nor
  could we perceive the smallest appearance of any thing which
  could occasion this noise and motion. The ship was not felt
  to strike once: she‘kept perfectly upright in her way through
  the water, and answered the helm; nor did she make any wa
  ter in consequence of the shock received.        At 2h. 5m. P.M.
 another shock was experienced, but much lighter than the
 <U+FB01>rst; and about three P.M. a third, which was only just per
  ceptible.    The <U+FB01>rst was so violent as to unship one of the
 compass cards from its point in the binnacle ; and a pair of
 boots, which were hanging on a nail driven into the mainmast
 between decks, were shaken o<U+FB01>l         The ship’s place at the <U+FB01>rst
 shock was 1. 10. N.; 84-. 6. E.:—at the second, 1. 15. N.;
 84. 4. E.”—-Medical Repository.
                           EARTHQUAKES.
     A  pretty severe shock was felt in Trinidad on the morning
 of the 5th of January between three and four o’clock; but
 happil it did no damage.
     At <U+FB01>ergen in Norway, on the 6th of January, about half
past <U+FB01>ve o’clock A.M., a smart shock of an earthquake was ex
perienced, accompanied with a rumbling subterranean noise',
by which the houses were so much shaken that the furniture
was tumbled about.        The direction was from S.W. to N.E.
The noise continued nearly a minute; this shock was suc
ceeded soon after by another in the same direction, but weaker
and of shorter duration.
    Letters from St. Petersburg of the 7th of April, announce,
that in the night of the 11th of February a slight shock of an
earthquake was felt at Irkutak in Siberia.
                                                            Letters

             Remarkable Pkwnomenon.--Statistics.                 895
    Letters received from the island of Santa Maura state, that
 on the 21st of February a violent shock of an earthquake Was
 felt there about eight o’clock in the evening. It produced
 the greatest consternation in the minds of the people. Se
 veral buildin s were much injured, and the brid e which joins
 Fort Alexan er to the city was broken down.       0 lives were
 lost, but two females were severely wounded.
                     SINKING       or THE EARTH.
                                                   Naples, April 5.
    Continual and excessive rains in the course of last month
 have caused a sinking in of the ground in the district of Avi
 gliano, in the province of Basilicata, which has shaken a great          \
 part of the hill on which the town is built.         This terrible
 phaenomenon      <U+FB01>rst manifested itself in the night of the 17th,
 by the fall of a house close to the barrack of the gendarmes.
 The house, which is totally destroyed, carried with it in its
 fall the barrack and several adjoining build'          s.  In the
 morning of the 28d, a greater misfortune followe ; for a gulf
 opened near the inhabited parts, which swallowed up, under
 enormous masses of earth, two mills, of which not a vestige
 remains.    The same day, all the young girls of the place were
 nearly the victims. They were going in procession to the church
 of St. Mary, about a mile from the place, to implore the
 Divine mercy in this moment of calamity, and they had hardly
 passed a certain spot, when the ground to the extent of <U+FB01>ve
 acres sunk in with a tremendous crash, overthrowing all the
 trees that covered  it,  and destroying all traces of the road for
 about a quarter of a. milé.        At the same time another gulf
 opened   on   the  north side.   It may be supposed that many
 buildings  in  the town  have  been damaged by this event.    The
 Intendant of the province immediatel          sent an architect to
 save them from entire destruction.         {lappin no lives were
 lost except one gendarme.         On the same night there was        a
 dreadful storm in the Adriatic.
                            STATISTICS.
                                                    Paris, May 21.
   It    results from some tables just published by M. Benoiston,
v in   a  Me'moire sur les quans trouve's,      that the number of
  foundlings has gone on increasing in every State in Europe,
   except from 1790 to 1800.   _   During that interval the diminu
   tion amounted toa      third; but after that eriod, and particu
   larly since  1815, the  number  has constant increased. _ There
                                             y
   were 51,000 foundlin sin France in 1798, 69,000 m 1809,
   84,500 in 1815, an         138,500 in 1822.     According to the
                  '        8     D 2                       Annuarre

 396           Education in Denmark—South            America.
  Annuaire du Bureau (les Longitudes, there were in 1 828, 932,180
  births in the year, which gives one child abandoned out of
  every twenty-eight.         It appears, from the information given
  by    the Government,      that   the provinces near the sea, in which
  there are most populous cities, and which are the centre of
  arts and industry, containing 20,000,000 inhabitants, hardly
  give as many foundlings as the remaining 10,000,000 who oc
  cupy the centre provinces, from which Paris and Lyons are
  subtracted, as each of them supplies 6000;
                         EDUCATION IN DE NMARK
      'In Denmark      the   system of mutual instruction is making
  great pro     ress;   and   although only a short time since it was
  establishe( , there are already one hundred and forty schools
  where this method is followed.              Count Moltke, blinister of
   State to the King of Denmark, is recently dead; and not
  content with patronizing the scienCes during his life, he
  even wished to support them after his death.                He has. in
  consequence,      left  to   the   University  of  Copenhagen 60,000
   rix dollars, to be distributed as rewards to the Professors of
   Natural Sciences who shall treat certain questions to be pro
  posed by the University in the best manner.                 He has also
  given 10,000 dalers to the Academy of the Fine Arts, and
   100,000 to be employed in educating the sons of poor of<U+FB01>cers.
   These legacies are strongly contrasted with the regulations
   sometimes made in other countries in favour of monastic in
"
   stitutions that some people are desirous of reviving.
                                SOUTH    ABIERICA.
        M. Humboldt communicated            to the Academy of Sciences,
   at its last sitting, some very interesting observations made by
   hiessrs. Boussingault and Reveno, two travellers whom we
   have several times mentioned to our readers.             These gentle
   men have analysed           an a'e'rolite, weighing several quintaua',
   which they found in the mountains of Santa Rosa, to the
   north-east of Santa-Fé-de-Bogota.              They say, according to
    lettersfrom    Antioquia,      that a  mass  of native gold has lately
   been found, weighing more than 1901bs.               They have proved
   the presence of both sulphuric and muriatic acids in the
   waters of a small river which runs from the volcano of
   Parace’,_near Popayan, and which is called by the inhabit
    ants Vinegar River.         The letters of these gentlemen are up
  to January 5, 1824. Atthat time a School of Mines was
    about to be established at Bogota, and the country enjoyed
    the greatest tranquillity.—C0nstitut1'01mel.
                                                                  CANCER.

                     Cancer.—Calendar   of Flora,  &c.           897
                                 CANCER.
    Y The very remarkable       number of cases of cancer in the
   neighbourhood of East Grinstead, Hart<U+FB01>eld, and Withyham
   in Sussex, has attracted the notice of several medical persons,
   and it is likely that this subject will undergo some regular
   investigation as to its causes.   Upwards of ten cases of direct
   cancer have died at the small village of Hart<U+FB01>eld within four
   years.    Some persons have attributed the prevalence of this
   disease to the waters, which, resembling ,those of Tunbridge
   Wells, are prodigiously unwholesome; while others lay it to
   the air.   Mr. Wallis, surgeon, who in conjunction with Dr.
   Forster is making out a list of the cases, states that pork and
  hog’s <U+FB02>esh in general form the chief diet of the poor of the
  district; and we have the concurrent testimony of several phy
   sicians, that the <U+FB02>esh of the hog is very liable to bring on
                                                                 vio
   lent diseases.
   Calendar   qf Hora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Harg/ield. in   Sussex;
                               for April.
      April 1.—The spring advances very slowly, and is at least
  a fortnight behind the usual time in most things.
      April 3.—Tulipa' suaveolens in <U+FB02>ower in the garden.--I1{ya_
  cintlzus orientalz's begins to blow.-—M0tacilla alba very abun
   dant.
      April 5.—Cardamine pratensis in <U+FB02>ower, though not com
  mon yet.      Its common name of Our Lady’s Smock evident]
  comes from its blowing about Old Lady Day.             This plant
  <U+FB02>owers very abundantly throughout April and May in this
  our moist country.— Pilewort begins now to be abundant,
'
  and to bespangle every shady bank with its yellow stars.—
  Erythrom'um dens cams in blow.
      April 6.--Certhz'afamiliaris seen on the trees.
      April 8.—Fumaria q<U+FB02>'icinalis <U+FB02>owers in the garden.
      April lO.—Narcissus incomparabz'lz‘s in <U+FB02>ower.
      April 15.—Sa.z'g<U+FB01>"aga crassg'<U+FB01>Jlia begins to <U+FB02>ower, which is a
  fortnight behind its rr'iéan time of <U+FB02>owering—The Snake <U+FB01>rst
  seen to day.                                                      \
      April 18.—Iyn.r Torquilla <U+FB01>rst     seen at Hart<U+FB01>eld.——Sylvz'a
  Phoenicurus    seen.                                             _v
      April 19.—Him;de rustica <U+FB01>rst seen at Groombridge ; this
  bird did not become common till quite the end of the month.
      April 20.—Tussilag0 petasites in <U+FB02>ower.-—Narcz'ssi Tazettzz
  and N. orientales of various sorts in full blow in the garden,
  together with Hyacinthi orientales.—B0rag0_ q<U+FB01>cz'nalz's <U+FB02>owers.
      April 22.—Chcirantlzus Chez'ri, Lamium purpureum, Leu
                                                              erg/um

  398     Calendar cnglora, éc.—Obituary--Bar0n               Maseres.
  cqjum vernum, and the Claimond Tulip, which                 I call Tulz'pa
 pneeoz', but which botanists have confounded with T. Gesneri,
  are now in blow.—-This night the prodigious quantity of spiders
  on the walls of the house foretold the wet weather which fol
 lowed.        I  have observed that this is as sure a sign of rain, as
 the much braying of the ass is of showery weather.
     April 24.— Cuculus canorus <U+FB01>rst heard—Lilacs begin to
 throw forth leaves.—-The Cuckoo was heard at Walthamstow
 as early as April 21, its mean time at that place.—Cowslip
  Primula       verz's now abundantly in <U+FB02>ower in the meadows.
  Primroses still cover every bank, and mix agreeably with
  Violets.—-Scz'lla nutans <U+FB02>owershere and there—Narcissus bi
 color (vel N. petalis albis nectarium <U+FB02>avum submquantibus)
 <U+FB02>owers in the garden.
     April 25.—Ranunculus' bulbosus begins to blow sparing] :
 during May this plant covers the meadows, succeeding t e
 Dandelion now in profusion.—-Stellaria holostea <U+FB02>owers plenti
 full  .
     Xpril 26.—The early Daffodil still abundantly in blow in
 a <U+FB01>eld near Fisher’s Gate in Withyam.—-Narcissus tenug'folz'us
 in <U+FB02>ower in the garden.
     April 28. Erysz'mum Barbarea, E. Alliarz'a, Tulipa sylves
 tris, Fritz'llarz'a Meleagrz's“, and F. imperiale, in <U+FB02>ower at Hale
  End, Walthamstow.
     April    30.-—L_yc/mis dioica in <U+FB02>ower at Walthamstow.
     This    has been in general a most unpropitious spring for
 <U+FB02>owers, and last winter although mild has killed a great variety
.of plants.
     April    closed without having afforded one warm day.              The
 Dandelion         was still the prevalent plant that yellowed the
 meadows,         mixed with Daisies.        Harebells were as yet but
 few in number.          Primroses and Polyanthuses abundant.              A
 single Tulip appeared here and there in warm places.+
    Hartwell, May 22, 1824.                                 T, FQRSTER,
                       OBITUARY.—-BARON Masnnns.
     On the      10th  of May, at the advanced age of ninety-three,
 died Francis Maseres, Esq. F.R.S. Cursitor Baron of the
 Exchequer, a profound mathematician, a muni<U+FB01>cent patron
 of science, and an excellent man.
    * Fritz'llaria Meleagris was in <U+FB02>ower plentifully May 10 in a mead be
 tween Billington in Bedfordshire and the church at Slapton, Bucks,—a
 habitat of this plant not heretofore recorded, as we believe—E1311
    1‘ On the 5th of May I found lVart-ixsus bi<U+FB02>orus in <U+FB02>ower in abundance
 in a <U+FB01>eld near Ling<U+FB01>eld; and as I saw other plants of the same species
 blowing in the marsh far remote from any house, I have no doubt of its
                                                       '
 beinga genuine habitat.
                                                                      - LIST

                            List qf New Patents.                              399
                           LIST OF NEW PATENTS
       To Alexander Dallas, of Northumberland-court, Southam ton-buildings,
   in the parish of St. Andrew. Holborn, Middlesex, engineer,        {gr
                                                                        his machine
   to     ick and dress stones of various descriptions, particularly granite stone.
   — ated 27th April 1824.-—6 months allowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.
      To John Turner, of Birmingham, Warwickshire, brass- and iron-founder,
   for his machine for crimping, plaiting, and go<U+FB02>'ering linen, muslins, frills,
   and other articles.—27th     April.—‘2 months.
      To George Vaughan, of Shef<U+FB01>eld, Yorkshire, gentleman, for his improve
~ merit or                                        by   which means power will be
               improvements on steam-engines,
   gained, and expense saved.— lst May.—6 months.
    T    0 John Crosby, of Cottage-lane,    City Road, Middlesex, gentleman, for
   his improvement in the construction of lamps or lanterns for the better pro
                 the light against the effects of wind or m0tion.--5th May.—
6  tectionhof
     mont 5.
      To James Viney, of Shanklin, Isle of Wight, Colonel in the Royal Artil
  lery, for certain improvements in and additions to water-c]osets.—6th       May.
  —6 months.
      To William Cleland, of Leadenhall-street,       London, gentleman, for his
 improvement in the process of manufacturing          sugar from cane juice, and
  in re<U+FB01>ning of sugar and other substances.—6th May.-—6 months.
      To John Theodore Paul, of Geneva, but now residing at Charing Cross,
  \Vestminster, JMiddlesex, mechanist, who, in consequence of communica
                                                                     a
  tion made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad,      is   in possession
 of certain improvements in the method or methods of generating steam,
 and in the   a    plication of to various useful purposes.—13th
                           it                                       May.—6 mo.
  T     0 John gotter, of Smedley, near Manchester, Lancashire,        spinner and
 manufacturer, for certain improvements in looms to be impelled by me
 chanical power for weaving various kinds of <U+FB01>gured fabrics, whether of
silk, cotton, <U+FB02>ax, wool, or other materials or mixtures of the same; part of
 which improvements are applicable to hand looms.—l3th May.—6 mon.
     To Jacob Perkins, of Fleet-street, London, engineer, for his improved
method of throwing shells and other prnjectiles.—l5th May.—6 months.
     To William Church, of Birmingham, Warwickshire, esquire, for certain
improvements in the apparatus used in casting iron and other metals.—l5th
 Ma .— months.
          6
    Ti)    John Holt Ibbetson, of Smith-street, Chelsea, Middlesex, esquire, for
certain improvements in the production or manufacture of gas.—-l5th May.
 —6 months.
     To Lemuel Wellman Wright, of Wellclose-lquare, Middlesex, engineer,
for certain combinations and improvements in machinery for making pins.
 —l5th May. ~2 months.
     To Joseph Luckcock, of Round Cottage, Edgebaston, near Birmingham,
Warwickshire, gentleman, for his improvement in the process of manu
facturing iron.—l5th May.—6 months.
     To William Henry James, of Cobur Place, Winson-green, near Bir
mingham, Warwickshire, engineer, for         is  improved method of construct
ing steam-carriages useful in the conveyance of persons and goods upon
highways and turnpike roads without the assistance of rail-roads._-l5th
 May.——   6   months.
     To Thomas Parkin, of Bache’s-row, City Road, Middlesex, merchant,
for certain improvements in machinery or apparatus applicable to or em
ployed in printing—15th May—4 months.
                                                                     METEORO

                                                                                                                                                        at              Mr.     CARY       in      London,   and Mr.       VEALL      at Bomm.
A                                           TABLE:                                    the Observation:                of       Df-BURNEY                     Gosport,
    METEOROLOGICAL                                                 comprising
                                                                                                                                                                 Thermometer.                  RA“,
            GOSPOM‘, 8t half-past              Eight          o’Clock,    11.111.                           CLOUDS_                          Height of                                '                                    Win-111111.
                                                                                                                      ‘                    Barometer, in        L
                          @-              su       -      .                                                                                                                 i             15
                          1:                                                                                                  5f         01 Inches, &c.         _°ND°N‘         :-                    a
                           “log    5       OE                       .      L's   _     1.15      _          1:
                                                                                                          .er                                                                                                “.74-\                             ‘5,
    Days of
                                          25                               95          6%        5=6s.%2£____.
                                                                                                                                                                                          g
    Month,                 E5                                                                                                                                                                         26
                                    1-                                     55          Emma-12551.51                                                    MHz-6,15                                             London.                 Boswn'
     1824.                 55             55           E 8 5’ m   ‘2 '5
                                                                                               6                                      Z                                       mac         A           in
                          @151
                                   5 F
                                          (Ty/‘3;                                                    5‘6                    a                 [P.Mr'   8%A.M:
                                                                                                                                                                :1 2    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~31   Cloudy        Rain
                                                                                                                                             129-64    29-40              51
    April    26           29-66    53    48-00         74         SE.                                        Uni—I:                                                                                          Fair          Fine
                                                                                      0175...}                           1                                       50,59‘54 51-5
             ‘27          29'80    52     ......       68         W.       012         -010                          ,   1                   129-94    29-40     506250
                                                                                                     ...l                                                                 52                                 Rain          Cloudy, brisk wind
             '18                   55     ......                                       065                                                   129-95    2954      50156155
                          29-93                        75                                                                                                                                                    Fair          Cloudy
0                                                                 s. s.               -
                                                                                      ......                                                   29-80   29-45              56
             29           29-80    58                  65                                               1111,,"                                                  57168‘60                                    Fair          Fine
                                                                                                  11- 1 1                                    129-75    29-50     606553   58
             30           29-68    59     ......       59         sw.            18    030                1..                                                                                                Fair
                                                                                                                                                                          56-5.                                            Fine, brisk wind
                                                       60         SW                   010                 1,,                               130-00    2960      536455                                                -
     May                  2993     57    48-11                                                                            1 1 1                                                           0-10}‘             R5111          Cloudy
              1 2
                          2990
                          29-66
                                   52
                                   53
                                          ......
                                          ......
                                                       64
                                                       64
                                                                  NW.
                                                                  NW.        -25
                                                                                        040
                                                                                      ......
                                                                                                 1 ll 1 1
                                                                                                           1,",
                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                       129-89
                                                                                                                                       129.56
                                                                                                                                                       2960
                                                                                                                                                       2935
                                                                                                                                                                 525647
                                                                                                                                                                 474645
                                                                                                                                                                          55
                                                                                                                                                                          48
                                                                                                                                                                                   l                   -14
                                                                                                                                                                                                       '47
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rain
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Showcry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lulu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rain
                                   52     ......       60         NW                    010      1    l                                12976           2962      4555644435
                          (4970                                                                                                                                                                        '05   Cloudy                   rain (1.771,
                                                                                                            1 ‘I                       l‘29'94         29-63              50                                                Cloudy,
                          2989     56     ......       60         SW.                    240 l...                                                                50‘6150                                     Fair
                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                         1                             2960               52-5                                             l-‘lne. rain p.111.
    1*                    2992     54     ......        64         W.        -30        -230.....-.                                    129-90                    5016451
                                                                                                                                                                                                       13    Fair           Fine,rainp.m.
                                                                  NE                   ......    l           1...?-                       29-98        2957      526450   56
                          29-88    53    4825           65                                         1 1 1                                                                  56              0-60         -15   Cloudy         Cloudy
                                   56     ......        62        W.                   ......                                             30-26        29-90     5016350
                          3018                                                                   1 1   1         1’ =                                                                                        Fair          Fine
                                                                                                                                          30-32        30-10     496149   50
              3456 78 9
                          30-30    53     ......        64         E.        -20       ...... '1...
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fair          Fine
                                                                                       ......      1   1                                  30-03        29-80     516651       55-5
              10          3003     58     ......        58        NE                                                                                                                 -'
                                                                                                                                                                 505347       51                           Cloudy          Cloudy
              H           2990     53     ......        60        NE.                   -1oo                  1,,.                     129-99          29-80
                                                                                                                                  1 1                            485044       46                           Cloudy          Cloudy
              12                   50     ......       67         NE.        -20       -250_,_,____.                                   129-91          2975
                           29-81                                                                                                                                                                           Rain            Cloudy
O                                                                 NE                  1120....                                         129-77          2970      424748       49-5
              13           2977    45     ......        74                                                                                                                                                                 Rain
                                                                                                                                                                              45                       ~18 Rain
                                          ......        86        NE.                 1210..                                      .. 129-56            29-50     454843              1
              14           2946     47                                                                                                                                                    2'10         '20 Rain            Rain,
                                                                                                             ..            .      .. 129-54            ‘29-40                 445;                                                    storlnynight
              15           29'50    44   48-25          89         N.        '05          '950                                                                   434544
                                                                   N                                    .     1..                  1... 29-89          2963      435041       46    1                  -37   Cloudy        Cloudy
              16           29-74    44    ......        72                                                                                                                                                   Fair
                                                                                                                         11                                      435647       49                                           Cloudy
              17           3006     55                  48         W.         ..          '040                1..                      130-02          2975
                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                 1 1          1..                                                50.5450      49   l1                        Cloudy        Cloudy,      rain p.1n.
              18                    55    ......        60        NW.        -20          -001                                         129-95          2970
                           29-96                                                                                                                                                                       ~10                 Cloudy
                                                                                                   1          1..
                                                                                                                      ll               129185          29-60     455543       45-5;                          Cloudy
             19            29-80    54    ......        58        NW          .          070
                                                                                                        .     1...                                               455042       43-5                           Cloudy        Cloudy
             20                           ......                  NW.                  ......                                                129-77    2950
                                                                                                                         1 1 1 1
                           29-72    48                  50
                                                                                                                                   1 1 1 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fair          Fine
                                                                   E                                                               1...        29-92   2973      455443       45
    11       21            29-88    45   4825           48                                                                                                                                                                 Fine
                                                                                                                                                                              47          0-20               Stormy
             22                     49      .           46        NE                                                 .                       12999     29-80     445245
                           29-95                                                                                                                                                                             Fair
                                                                                                                     .                                 2970                   50                                           Cloudy
             23            29-93    52    ------        47         N                                                                         129-95              455550
                                                                                                                                                                                                       22    Cloudy        Rain‘
                                                                  NW                                                     ..                  129-96    2967      455450       50
             24            2994     54    ......        56
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -08                 Rein           1,.
                                                                                                                               1 1 1 1
                                                                   N                                    .        ..                          130-00    2994      445455       49                             Cloudy
             25            30-16    56   48-75          50                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                     118 17 23 29-89                   29-62    48!           50          3-00        2-40
                          29661    52404827            62-4                2-41 4'631131022
    Averages!
                                                                                                                                                                                              *-                           V..‘,.i

                                         THE
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                      AND'            J OURNAL.
                            30‘h     JUNE            1824-.
 LXVII.
 '
               An Account of some Experiments made in order to de
     termine the Velocity with which Sound is transmitted in the
     Atmosphere.       By OLINTHUS GREGORY, LL.D., Associate
     Acad. Dijon, Honorary Member of the Literary and Philo
     sophical Society of New York, of the New York Historical
     Society, of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, <U+FB01>r. Secretary
     of the Astronomical Society ofLondon, and Pro/cssor                          qua    '
     thematics in the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich.*
              theoretical investigations of different philosophers, in
THE     order to ascertain the velocity with which sound is trans
mitted through the atmosphere, however ingenious and ele
gant some of them may be, seem to rest too much upon gra
tuitous assumptions, to allow any cautious inquirer after phy
sical truth to receive them unhesitatingly, except so far as
they may be con<U+FB01>rmed by accurate experiment. Unfortunately,
too, the results of experiment present irregularities both for
midable and perplexing; since many of them cannot well be
imputed to any want of skill or caution in the conductors of
the in ui .                                                             Feet per Second.
Thus, Mr. Roberts assigns a velocity of . . . 1300
           Mr. Boyle                                    .            .    .   1200
           Mr. Walker and Duhamel                  .    .     .      .   .    1338
           Mersenne in his treatise De Sonorum Natura,
                 Causis et Ejectibus           .  .    .      .      .   .    1474
           The Florence Academy                .  .         .     .      .    1 14-8
           Cassini de Thury (Mam. Paris. Acad. ann.
                 1738)        .    .   .  .    .  .    .      .     .    . l 107
           Meyer .        .   .    .      .       .    .      .     .    .   1105
           Derham         .   .    .     .     .  .                 .        1 14-2
           Muller       .          .     .        .                          1 109
           Pictet    .    .   .    .   . .     . v.    .      .     .    .   1130
           Arago &c., from experiments in 'June                        1822,
                 give 337-2 metres at the temperature of
                 + 10° centigrade . . . . . . .                              1106'32 f.
   4* From the Transactions    of the Cambridge Philosophical Society for1824.
    1- This is the last result of which     I had heard previously to the com
mencement of my own experiments.
     Vol. 63. No. 314. June 1824.                               3    E       _       The

  402                      Dr. Gregory     on the
      The theoretical formula most generally adopted, especially
  by continental philosophers, is this :            _
     Velocity in horizontal   direction =333'44    met. V 1 + '00375t;
  the metre being =3'2809 English feet, and t denoting the
  indication of the temperature upon the centigrade thermo
  meter.
      I  am inclined, however, to think that this can only be re
     arded as an approximative formula; and that we are not yet
  in a state to receive otherwise than as an approximation any
  theorem which simply includes the variations of temperature.
  The air is subject to various classes of changes, ‘indicated .by
  the barometer, thermometer, hy rometer, and anemometer
  respectively, as well as others pro ably, for the ascertaining
  of which we have not yet any appropriate instrument. If we
  could select these, one by one, ad libitum, and carry experi
  ments <U+FB01>rst through a moderate range upon the barometric
  scale, all the other probable elements of modi<U+FB01>cation remain
  ing constant; then, through a su<U+FB02>iciently extensive range
  upon the thermometric scale, the others remaining invariable,
  and so on; the question would soon be set at rest: but this is
  impossible.      It becomes desirable, therefore, to augment the
  number     of recorded   facts, as they result from accurate experi
  ments, in order that at some future (and it is hoped no very
  remote) time a cautious investigator may so select, compare,
   and classify them, as to deduce a more comprehensive and
   accurate theorem than is yet known.
      With a view to contribute, though in a small degree, to this
  purpose, I now present an account of a few experiments made
   by myself in the course of the present year.
      My objects were, to ascertain the velocity with which the
   sound passed over the surface of the earth, over the surface of
   the water; under di<U+FB01>'erent temperatures; in a quiescent state
  of the atmosphere, and in windy weather; by day and by
            the velocities of direct and re<U+FB02>ected sound; and the
   night;
   ve ocities of sounds of di<U+FB01>'erent intensities and produced by
   different means.      As yet the experiments have not been car
   ried to their projected extent; but while       I  record the results
   thus far obtained,    I  look forward with hope, that in another
   year or two I shall be able to complete them satisfactorily.
‘
       The instrument with which         I  measured the intervals of
   time, was one invented and made by Mr. Hardy, by means of
   which, with a little previous practice,      I could measure an in-
   terval accurately to a tenth of a second, and approximati'vely
   to a twentieth of a second.        The velocity of the wind was as
   certained by means of an anemometer; and the barometer
   and thermometer were of the best construction.                 I em

                              Velocity Qf Sound.                     4055
     I employed     no hygrometer (much as I wished it); for as
  yet I am not      acqualnted with any in. whose results       I should
  be inclined to con<U+FB01>de.        With regard to the distances between
  the stations at which the sound was emitted and heard, they
  were in some cases taken from the Ordnance Map of Kent,
  and veri<U+FB01>ed by new operations; in others they were deter
  mined by actual and careful measurement: in others by tri
 gonometrical operations with accurate inatruments.                 The
 whole were conducted with care; and it would be useless to
  enter into the detail of them.
     Friday, Jan. 3, 1824-.—A musquet was <U+FB01>red from the bat
 tery near the Royal Artillery Barracks, and the interval of
 time between the .<U+FB02>ash and sound was observed at two dif
 ferent distances on the mortar-range, direction nearly north
                                                         ’
 and south.          - ~
    January 3, half-past 2 P.M., barom. 297 inches, Fahr.
 therm. 45°, rather moist atmosphere, but no rain; very gentle
 wind blowing in direction nearly perpendicular to that of the
 ran e.
    Dgistance from musquet to my station 8600 feet.          Six rounds
<U+FB01>red: in one the interval of time employed by the sound in
   assin over the 3600 feet was doubtful: in the other <U+FB01>ve the
mterv s were 3"'25, 3"‘8, 3"'25, 3"'2, 3"'26, the mean of these
is 3"‘252.
         3600
              =   1107 feet, velocity  of sound;   therm. 45°.
        T2572
    Same day, 8 o’clock P.M., barom. 29-64- inches, Fahr.
therm. 45°; atmosphere, wind and weather as before.
    Distance from musquet to station 3600 feet.            Five rounds
<U+FB01>red; intervals 8"'2, 3"'Q-, 3"'8, 8""3,:8"'25; their mean 8"‘25.
        W =.1108
         3600
                        feet, velocity  of sound; therm. 45°.
    Same day, half—past 3 P.M., barom. 29°64: inches, Fahr.
therm. 45°; atmosphere, wind and weather as before.
    Distance from musquet to station 2100 feet.         Eight rounds
<U+FB01>red.      Interval between <U+FB02>ash and report in one case doubt
ful: the others were l”'88, 1”'88, l"'9, 1"‘9, 1”'9, l”'9, 1"‘91;
the mean 1"‘896.
        2100
              = 1108 feet, velocity of sound;     therm. 45°.
        17355                                                             .
    Thursday, Jan.       9,  three quarters past 7 P.M. dark, but
clear, star-1i ht, frosty ni ht.       Barom. 29'82 inches, Fahr.,
therm. 27°. Try; no win . Musquets <U+FB01>red from the battery,
as before, distance 3600 feet.                       I
    Six rounds <U+FB01>red, one doubtful.           The other intervals be-.
                                    3 E  2                        tween

40%                       Dr. Gregory   on the
 tween observing the <U+FB02>ash and hearing the report,       were 3”-25,
 3”'28, 3"'3, 3"'8, 3”'32; mean 3429.
             =  1094'2‘ feet, velocity of sound ; therm. 27°.
        11%;
     The sound of the    same charge, <U+FB01>red from the same mus
 quet,   was  heard  much     more Intensely on this clear frosty
 night than in the day-time of January 3, at the same distance,
 3600 feet.
     Same day, January 9. Bein anxious to extend the experi
ments to greater distances, I ad previously applied to Ge
neral Ramsey, of the Royal Artillery, the Commandant of the
Garrison here, for the use of cannons as well as musquets:
these, with his accustomed courtesy and kindness, he imme
diately ordered to be at my disposal whenever        I should need
them in the course of my experiments.
     On the mornin of this day, therefore, I chose a station for
the un on the si e of Shooter’s Hill, between Severn-Droo
 Cas<U+FB01>e and the 8 mile-stone on the Dover road.           I selecte
three other stations from which the gun could be seen with
a good Theodolite telescope ; one of these was at the entrance
of the lane turnin from the Dover road to Charlton, between          ‘
                            ”
‘i‘ the Sun in the    ands    and the 7 mile-stone; the, second in
the Kidbrook Lane which turns o<U+FB01>‘ from the Dover road be
tween the 6 mile-stone and “ the Sun in the Sands ;” and the
third on Blackheath, nearly in a continuation of the western
wall of Greenwich Park towards the windmills.          These three
stations are probabl 200 feet above the high'water-mark in
the Thames at Woo wich ; and the station at which the gun
was placed is still more elevated.                           -
    The distances, as accurately measured, were, from the
Shooter’s Hill station to that in Charlton Lane 6550 feet;
from Shooter’s Hill to that in Kidbrook Lane 8820 feet; from
the Shooter’s Hill station to that on Blackheath, 13,440 feet.
    The un employed was a six-pounder, the charge of pow
der eig t ounces. The serjeant-major who remained at the
gun was directed to order the men to commence <U+FB01>ring at a
certain minute by his watch (which was previously made to
agree with mine), and then to <U+FB01>re regularly a certain number
of rounds at intervals of two minutes.- this was the practice
throughout the experiments, the gun was always pointed to
wards me, at a very small elevation, except it be Otherwise
expressed.
    January 9th, noon. Barom. 29-92 inches; F ahr. therm.
33°; weather dry, wind scarcely perceptible, a clear cloudless
                                '
frosty day.
                                                                 Six<

                           Velocity   of Sound.                          4-05
     Six rounds <U+FB01>red.          Interval of passa e of sound from
   Shooter’s Hill to Charlton Lane, 5"‘9, 6 '0, 5"‘9, 6'"0, 6"‘0,
  6”'0, their mean 5”'9§, distance 6550.
         6550
               =  1098 feet, velocity   of sound; therm.      33°.
         59.}
     Same day, January 9, half-past 12, barom. 29'86 inches;
  Fahr. therm. 33°; weather dry, wind scarcely perceptible.
  Six rounds <U+FB01>red. Result in reference to one, very doubtful.
  Intervals of passage of sound from Shooter’s Hill to Kid
 brook Lane, were 7"‘95, 8"‘0, 8” '0, 8”'0, 8"‘05 ; their mean
 8".    Distance 8820 feet.
               =  110215 feet,  velocity of sound;    them. 33"
         88820
     Same da , January 9, quarter past 1 PM., barom. 29'82
 inches; Fahr. therm. 33°; weather dry, wind scarcel per
 ceptible.     Five rounds <U+FB01>red; intervals of the passa          0 sound
 between the stations at Shooter’s Hill and                    lackheath,
 1‘2"-2, 12"-25,    12”-3, 12"-24, l2”'26; mean 12”'25, distance
 13440 feet.
         13440
                =                        of sound; therm.
          "i       1097 feet, velocity                         33°.
 g (1098 +1102§+ 1097)=1099{; feet, mean velocity from the
                                                            ‘
sixteen rounds; therm. 83°.
     Monday, February 17, noon. Barom. 29-98 inches; Fahr.
therm. 85°.       Air humid, but neither rain nor sleet; very gen
tle wind N.E. by E. Employed bells on the mortar-range on
Woolwich Common, lyin nearly north and south.
    A bell run at the no          station, was heard by a soldier at
the south station, who immediately rang another bell, havin
his arm elevated for the purpose.          I stood by the soldier who
rang the <U+FB01>rst bell, and measured the interval of time between
the sound of the <U+FB01>rst bell, and the sound of the second bell
when transmitted from the other station.                            -
     By several preceding experiments,          I  estimated     the   time
which elapsed between the moment when the man with the
second bell heard the sound from the other, and struck the
clapper against his own bell, <U+FB01>ndin it to be one-<U+FB01>th qf a se
cond,- this, therefore, I deducted from the intervals which
            the passage of sound, before I recorded them, as be
inarked
  ow.
    Distance between the two bells 1350 feet; whole distance
traversed by the sound 2700 feet.             Intervals elapsed (cor
rected as above) in <U+FB01>ve experiments ; 2"‘5, 2"‘48, 2”"M,
2’"4~6, 2"“42; mean 2”'46.
        2700
               = 1098 feet, velocity   of sound; therm.    35°.
        T46
                                                                      Same

4-06                             Dr. Gregory          on the
     Same day, quarter past 12, barom. therm.wind and weather
as before.
    Distance between the two bells 1650 feet; whole distance
3300 feet. Intervals elapsed in four experiments, 8"'0, 3"‘0,
              T
3!].0, slllo.
              3300                          .
                     =   1100 feet, veloclty     of sound; therm.     35°.
    Same day, half-past 12, barom. therm. wind and weather
as before.    Distance between the two bells 1800 feet; whole
distance 3600 feet.      Intervals elapsed in <U+FB01>ve trials, 3"'25,
3"‘241, 3"‘26, 3"‘25, 3"‘25; mean 3"‘25.
              3600
                     =   1108 feet, velocity     of sound; therm.     35°.
              E5—
%   (1098+1100+1108)=     1102 feet, mean velocity from this
da     experiments; therm. 35°.
      ’s
   Triday, May 23. This morning there was a tolerably brisk
wind blowing from the S.W. by W. nearly in the direction of
my Charlton and Kidbrook stations from Shooter’s Hill. Of
this      I
       gladly availed myself, as the mornin was in other- re
spects favourable, in order to ascertain w at would be the
effect of such a wind upon the velocity.   Cloudy, air humid,
but no rain.
   I measured the velocity of the wind frequently with an ane
mometer, and found it vary between 22 and 26 feet, the mean
24- feet.
   The gun a six-pounder, charge 8 oz. of powder.      11 A.M.
gun at Shooter’s Hill, sound heard at Charlton Lane, distance
6550 feet.   Baron]. 2966 inches.     Fahr. therm. 58°, air hu
mid.   Six rounds <U+FB01>red; the intervals were 6”'1, 6"‘05, 6”'0,
6"‘05, 6"‘0, 6"'04~ ; their mean 6"'037.
     6550
                =    1085 feet, velocity        of sound, when   opposed by the
     6'037
wind.
   Same day, quarter past 1 P.M., barom. 29'67 inches,
Fahr. therm. 60°; air drier. Gun at Charlton Lane. Sound
heard at Shooter’s Hill.    Distance 6550 feet.   Five rounds
<U+FB01>red: the intervals were, 5”'65 doubtful, 5"'8, 5”"78, 5”'76,
               the <U+FB01>rst, the mean interval of the other four is
5:78, omitting
5 '78.
     6550
    —5;7?=11382
               l                        .
                             feet, veloclty 0     f
                                                                    - .
                                                      sound, when azded by a 1e
wind.
    ~1-
    (1085   11335): 1109} feet inferred velocity of sound in
                     +
dependently of thewind; therm. 59°.
  And    (113345—1085) =24} inferred velocity of the wind
               @-
                                                                             at

                                Velocity  of Sound.                407
  at the times of the experiment, supposing it to be nearly the
, same at both times.        This agrees quite as nearl as could be
  expected with the mean velocity of the wind etermined by
  the anemometer.
      Same day, May 23, half-past 1 1 A.M., barom. 29'67 inches:        _
  Fahr. therm. 58°: air humid; wind as before.
     Before the gun was removed from Shooter’s Hill, six rounds
  more were <U+FB01>red.          The intervals in which the sound reached
  Kidbrook Lane, were 8”'1, 8”'125, 8"‘13, 8"'15, 8'"1, and one
  very doubtful.       The mean of these is 8"'12l. Distance 8820
  feet.
      8820
             =  1086 feet, velocity   of sound, opposed by the wind.
     am
     Here the sound was but just audible, the wind diminishing
  its intensity exceedingly.
      Same day, therefore, the           un was removed to Kidbrook
  Lane, while I went back to S ooter’s Hill.
      Half-past 12, barom. 29'67 inches; Fahr. therm. 60°; air
  drier; wind as before.          Six rounds were <U+FB01>red. The inter-
  vals between the <U+FB02>ash and the report were 7”'8, 7”'7, 7”'8,
  7”'78, 7"‘78, and one very doubtful; mean 7"‘77.
             =  1 136 feet, velocity of sound, when aided by the wind.
     872_3%
      {r (1086+ 1136)=1113 feet, inferred velocity of the sound
  independent of the wind; therm. 59°.              % (1136—1086)=25
  feet inferred velocity of the wind, nearly as before.
     The same day, May 23, in the afternoon, the wind sub
  sided, so as not to exceed 6 or 8 feet per second, while the
  temperature of the air remained nearly the same.          I anxiously
  availed myself of this opportunit to ascertain the velocity of
  the sound, when scarcely affecte           by the wind.  Mortars and
  howitzers were <U+FB01>ring from the battery, the former at an angle
  of 45°, the latter at low angles for Ricochet practice. At
  3% RM. when the barom. was at 29% inches, Fahr. therm.
  at 60°, the sun shinin , I took a station 3100 feet from the
  battery, and in a direction nearly perpendicular to that of the
  wind, then gently blowing.          I observed the intervals between
  the <U+FB02>ash and the report, for six rounds, of which the <U+FB01>rst
   three were with howitzers, the next three with mortars; these
   were successively 2"'77, 2”'76, 2"‘79, 2"'79, 2"‘8, 2”‘8; their
   mean 2”'786.
          ;% =      11 12 feet, velocity of sound; therm. 60°.
      In   these latter experiments the sound was very distinct and
                                                                sharp:

 408                                 Dr. Gregory     on the
 sharp: the result, though drawn from a short distance, serves
 to con<U+FB01>rm the preceding results on the same day.
    Thursday, August 7. On this day, which was cloudy, but
 with intervals of sunshine, I employed the same six-pounder
 as before, sometimes with charges of 8 ounces of powder, at
others, when the distance required        with 12 ounces. The
                                                        it,
wind was quite brisk, varying in velocity from 30 to 35 feet,
as determined by an anemometer.
   At eleven o’clock A.M., barom. 29'80 inches        ahr. therm.;.F
66°; air dry, cloudy, but sun shining; wind nearly opposing
the motion of the sound, and having a velocity of 30 feet.    Six
rounds were <U+FB01>red from Shooter’s Hill.        The intervals occu
pied in the passage of sound from thence to Kidbrook Lane,
distance 8820 feet, were 8”'1, 8”'15, 8"'16, 8”'13, 8"‘13, 8”'12;
their mean, 8”'13.
         SST?
                =       1085 feet,   velocity of sound, when opposed by the
wind.
   Same day, August                   7,
                           quarter past   P.M., barom. therm.
                                                        1
wind and weather as before.
   The gun being placed in Kidbrook Lane,           went to the  I
station on Shooter’s Hill.     Six rounds were <U+FB01>red, and the
intervals occupied in the transmission of the sound were 7”“7,
7”"75, 7”-68, 7”'67, 7"'72, 7”'68; their mean 7”'7.
    F
                                            ’
    8820
                = 1145§       feet, velocity    of sound, when aided by    a wind
of about  the same velocity as the former.
    -§(1085 + 1145%)=1115i- feet, velocity ofsound; therm. 66°,
   i(11&5§—1085)= 3044- feet, velocity of the 'wind.
   Same day, August          half-past7,              ll
                                            A.M., barom. 29'80
inches; Fahr. therm. 64°, the wind blowing in the same di
rection as before, with (an estimated) velocity of 30 feet; air
dry, cloudy, no sun.     The same six-pounder gun was <U+FB01>red
from the Shooter’s Hill station with a charge of 12 ounces of
powder, and      took a station on Blackheath 20 feet further
                          I
than on January            distance being 13,460 feet from the
                                9,   its
g un.
   Six rounds were <U+FB01>red; one of the intervals was very doubt
ful; the others were 12”'4-, 12"‘88, 12”'4¢2, 12”'38, 12"'4, 12"'4;
their mean 12"'396.
    13460
                    =    1085'8 feet, velocity   of sound when   opposed by the
    12'396
Wind.
    Being fearful             of bringing      the gun to Blackheath,   in the vi
                .                                                           cinity

                           Vt'locz'ly  of Sound.                 4-09
                                                             I
 cinity of so many carriages as were incessantly passing, could
 not here avail myself of the bene<U+FB01>t of comparing the above in
 tervals with those in which the direction of the transmission
 should be reversed.      I venture, therefore, to add the velocity
 of the wind to that of the sound, as obtained by the experi
 ment, and thus obtain 1085'8+30= 1116 feet nearly, for the
velocity of sound, the them. standing at 64°.
    Monday, August 18. On this day, the same six-pounder
gun was placed upon the wharf by the side of the Thames in
 the Royal Arsenal, and          I   took a station at the opposite
 extremity of the Gallion’s Reach, not far from the mouth
 of Barking Creek; the distance from the gun was 9874 feet,
 the time of high water there, on that day, was about 11
o’clock A.M.
    At half past 11 A.M., barom. 29'84- inches; therm. 66°;
 air dry, sky rather cloudy: very gentle wind nearly perpen
dicular to the line of transmission of the sound. Six rounds
 were <U+FB01>red with the muzzle of the gun towards me: the inter
 vals were 8'-"8, 8"'84~, 8”“86, 8”'86, 8”'83, 8"‘85; their mean
 8"‘84.
     At three quarters past 11 A.M., barom. &c. as before; six        _
 more rounds were <U+FB01>red, the gun muzzle being directed <U+FB01>om
 us (up the river) in a horizontal angle of about 140 degrees:
 the intervals were 8”'86, 8”'841, 8”'82, 8"'82, 8”'85, 8”"86 ;
 their mean 8"'841.
             1117 feet,   velocity     of sound; therm. 66°,  over a
    59%:
 surface of water.
    Although there was no perceptible difference in the mean
 intervals occupied by the transmission of sound, in the two
 different directions of the gun, yet there was a considerable
 modi<U+FB01>cation of the intensity ,- the sound being much weaker
 when the gun muzzle was directed westerly, up the river,
'than'when it was pointed down Gallion’s Reach, towards the
 place where     I  stood. In the former case, too, besides the
 <U+FB01>rst report, which was marked and distinct, though compa
ratively feeble, there was a series of audible re-percussions, at
 intervals of about a tenth of a second, and gradually dying
 away: these,     I  conjecture, were re<U+FB02>ected sounds from the
 faces of storehouses and other buildings standing on or near
 the side of the river at Woolwich.
     Same day, August 18, one o’clock P.M., barom. 29'82
 inches, Fahr. therm. 66°; fair, but cloud ; scarcely any wind:
  I took a station on the Essex bank of t e Thames perpendi
 cularly opposite the large storehouse on Roff’s Wharf at
  Woolwich, in order to ascertain the interval occupied by both
     Vol. 63. No. 314. June 1824.                   F

                                                                          Y)
  4-10                      Dr. Gregory     on the
  the direct and the re<U+FB02>ected transmission of the sound from a
  musquet <U+FB01>red by my side, and returned in an echo from the
  front of the said storehouse. The distance from my station
  to the front of the storehouse, determined carefully by a. tri
    onometrical operation, was 1523 feet.
       Of eight rounds <U+FB01>red from the musquet,              I  failed twice in
  the appreciation of the interval between             the   sound    and the
  returning     echo,   from   a  very wrong      estimate    of its probable
  duration; and that from an erroneous impression as to the
  time observed by Dr. Derham in a similar experiment".                    Of
  the remaining six rounds, the musquet pointed across the
  river, the intervals were 2"'7, 2""75, 2"‘74, 2”'72,' 2"‘75, 2"‘74;
  their mean 2”'78'
       Next, three rounds were <U+FB01>red, the musquet being pointed
  directly‘         the river; the intervals were 2”“7, 2"‘73, 2"‘76;
  mean as before.
       Lastly, four rounds    were <U+FB01>red along the bank, at an elevation
  of about      45°;   the intervals   were 2"‘75, 2”'7, 2"‘73, 2"‘74;
  mean as before.
       Distance occupied by the direct and the re<U+FB02>ected sounds
  3046 feet.
       W=
        3046
    .           1116 feet velocity   of sound across      a surface    of wa
  ter, half direct, half re<U+FB02>ected; therm. 66°.
       The near agreement of this with the former result on the
  same day, serves to con<U+FB01>rm the opinion that direct and re
<U+FB02>ected sounds move with the same velocit .
       Thursday, August 21, three o’clock .M., barom. 29-86
  inches, Fahr. therm. 61?; clear sunshine; wind scarcely per
  ceptible, westerly.
       Mortars were <U+FB01>ring from the battery, and             I  took a station
  3900 feet south of it. I observed the intervals between the
 <U+FB02>ash and the report in six successive rounds: they were 8"‘5,
  3’1'5, 8""48, 3"-52, 3”'5, 3"‘5, respectively; the mean being
  3"‘5.
                _
           3900 __ 7800
            3‘5      7
                         = 1114?   feet, velocity   of sound, therm. 64°.
       These are all the experiments in reference to the velocity
      * He made it 3 seconds, by means of a hay-second                     My
                                                               pendulum.
 erroneous recollection of his experiment led me to anticipate an interval
of between 4 and 5 seconds. Icould not account for the supposed dis
 crepance until after my return home, when, on examining Derham’s paper,
and computin      the real breadth of the river from my trigonometrical   ope
ration, l foun the corres ondence of the two experiments to be quite as
great as could be expecte , considering the different natures of the chrono
meters employed, and the varying breadth of the river.
'
                                                                            of

                        Velocity       of Sound.                             41   1
of sound, as transmitted through the atmosphere, which                            I
have yet been able to make.     Their chief results may be
brought into one view as below.
                                                   '
                                                                  Feet.
     Velocity of sound, Fahr. therm. 27°                          1094~'2
     ——--                       ditto           as                1099i,
     —-___
     -__-__-
                                ditto
                                ditto
                                ditto
                                                35
                                                45
                                                59
                                                        0....     1102
                                                                  1107?;
     ~_--—-—                    ditto           60      .u...
                                                                  11091
                                                                  1112
     __.._.________                .
                                ditto           64      ..... _
                                                                  1114-2
                                                                        ‘r
                                                                  1116
                                                                  1116
                                                        IUD...
    Of these results, some have been obtained in the day-time,
others in the night; some when the sound has been trans
mitted over the surface of the earth, others when it has been
transmitted over the surface of water; some are the result of
direct sound, others of both direct and re<U+FB02>ected sound; some
from the report of cannons, others of musquets, others from
the sound of bells.                         ,
    Were these the only experiments on the subject that had
ever been made,    I   should not regard them su<U+FB01>iciently exten
sive to           me in deducing from them even an approxima
         justify ut as they have been made with
tive rule.                                               eat care, 1
may at least venture to present a rule, which, whi e it includes
with only slight discrepancies all the precedin          results, is
simple enough to be easily recollected by practic       men; and
may, perhaps, be employed in our own climate.         It is this ,:
    At the temperature of freezing 33°, the velocity of sound is
 l 100 feet per second.
         For lower temperatures d e d not        a fOOt'”_
         For higher temperatures add }half
    From the 1100
                        for every degree of difference from 33°
        to the l 100
                  }
on Fahr. therm. ;'the result will show the velocity of sound,
ver nearly, at all such temperatures.       I
      bus, at the temperature of 50°, the velocity of sound                       is,
                1100x §(50-:P,:'.)=110.<.;;,~ feet.
   At temperature   60°,   it   is
                                  1100+§(60—33_)=.1113§  feet;
    eeing with the eXperimental result quite Within the lunits
o a practical rule.
  The theorem 3334/1 met. V +00375      1    before cited, gives
                                                       t,
nearly 1094- feet for the velocity at the freezing point; and
1114 feet for the temperature 10° centigrade, or 50° Fahren
heit: thus occasioning a greater augmentation to the velocity
                                 3     F    2                                     1n

412                            Dr. Gregory   0n the
in the higher temperatures, than my experiments seem to in
dicate.
      The above practical rule, so far as it may be entitled to
con<U+FB01>dence, may be useful, 1st, to the military man in deter
mining the distance of an enemy’s camp, of a fortress, a bat
tery, 81.0.; 2d, to the sailor, in determining the distance of
 another ship, &c.; 3d, to the land-surveyor in ascertaining
 the length of base lines, &c. in conducting the survey of a
 lordship or county; 4th, to the philosophic observer, in ap
 preciating the distances of thunder-clouds during a storm.
 Yet in either of these applications the rule must be regarded
 as approd-imative only; because few practical men can be ex
     ected to possess a time-measurer for less intervals than tenths
 of seconds (if, indeed, so small) : and an error of a tenth of a
 second, will occasion a mistake of from 37 to 40 yards in the
 estimate of the distance.          Beyond this, however, the error
  need scarcely ever extend; because a mean of 5 or 6 careful
  experiments will usually give the interval to a' degree of cor
  rectness far within the limits just speci<U+FB01>ed.         Indeed, an error
  of from 30 to 40 yards in a distance of three or four miles,
  will, on most occasions, where such approximative estimates
  are required, be of but small consequence.                When the di
   stance exceeds four miles, this method of approximating to
   it can only be employed under favourable circumstances of a
   very quiescent atmosphere, &c.: on which account,                      feltI
   scarcely any desire to extend II] own experiments to stations
   more remote from each other, t an those which                   I
                                                               selected 011
    Shooter’s IIill and Blackheath.                       .
                                                                         -
       Combining    the  results of  experiments    here    recorded    with
   those which have been formerly deduced by Derham and
   others, we may,   I  think, conclude unhesitatingly:
       1st, That sound moves                ,- at least, in a horizontal
               or one that does not deviate greatly from horizon
                                                                           ‘
   dii‘ection,
    ta ity.                                                      ,
       2d, That the difference in intensity of a sound makes no
                                                                      '
  '
    appreciable  difference in its velocity *.                 V
       3d, Nor, consequently, does a difference in the instrument
                                                                 '
    from which the sound is emitted.
       4th, That wind greatly affects sound in point of intensity;
    and that it affects  it,also, in point of velocity.
       5th, That when the direction of the wind concurs with that
    of the sound, the sum of their separate velocities gives the‘ap
   parent velocity of sound; when the direction of the wind 0])
 "" * The consecution of the notes in  a   tune, notwithstanding       the difference
 in their intensity, being uninterrupted when heard at a distance, furnishes
 an elegant and dcuslvc con<U+FB01>rmation of this proposition.
          ~                                                                       poses

                                                      ‘
                             Velocity  of Sound.                         413
poses that of the sound, the di<U+FB02>'erence of the separate velocities
must be taken.
    6th, That in the case of echoes, the velocity of the re<U+FB02>ected
 sound, is the same as that of the direct sound.
    7th, That, therefore, distances may frequently be measured
by means of echoes.
    8th, That an augmentation of temperature occasions an
augmentation of the velocity of sound; and vice versi—(See
Newton, Principia, lib; 2. prop. 50.             Parkinson’s Mechanics,
vol. ii. p. 148.)                                             r
    The inquiries with regard to the transmission of sound in
the atmosphere“, which, notwithstanding the curious investi
             of Newton, Laplace, Poisson, and others, require the
gations
  urther aid of experiment for satisfactory determination, are,
 I think, the following; viz.
     lst, Whether hygrometric changes in the atmosphere have
much or little in<U+FB02>uence on the velocity of sound?
    2d, Whether} barometric changes in the atmosphere have
 much or little in<U+FB02>uence?
     3d, Whether, as Muschenbroek conjectured, sound have
 not different degrees of velocity, at the same temperature, in
 different regions of the earth? And whether high barometric
 pressures would not be found (even independently of tempera
 ture) to produce greater velocities?
     4th, Whether, therefore, sound would not pass more slowly
 between the summits of two mountains, than between their
 bases    P                                .
    5th, Whether sound, independently of the changes in the
 air’s elasticity, move quicker or slower near the earth’s sur
 face, than at some distance from it ?—(See Savart’s interesting
papers on the communication of sonorous vibration.)
     6th, Whether sound would not employ a longer interval
 in passing over a given space, as a mile, vertically upwards,
 than in a horizontal direction? and, if so, would the formula:
 which should express the relation of the intervals include
 more than thermometric and barometric coef<U+FB01>cients ?
     7th, Whether or not, the principle of the parallelogram of
 forces may be employed in estimating the effect of wind upon
 sound, when their respective velocities do not aid, or oppose
 each other in the same line, or nearly so?
     8th, Whether those eudiometric qualities, generally (whether
 hitherto detected or not) which affect the elasticity of the air,
    '*  I say nothing in this paper of the transmission of sound through the
 gases,   along metallic conductors, &c. These furnish a most interesting de
 partment of separate inquiry.
                  ‘
                                                                          will

414      ,      Dr. Gregory     on the Velocity  qummd.
 will not proportionally affect the velocity of sound? and‘if so,
how are the modi<U+FB01>cations to be appreciated?
    To the experimental solution of some of these inquiries I
hope to devote myself at no very remote period: but others
 of them, it is evident can only be satisfactorily answered, if
ever, by means of a. cautious classi<U+FB01>cation of skilful eXperi
         made by various philosophers in different parts of the
rriegts
g  0 e.
   Royal Military Academy, Woolwich,           OLINTHUS      GREGORY.
                Oct. 25, 1823.
    RS. Since the above paper was drawn up, a friend has
favoured me with the perusal of Mr. Goldingham’s account
 of his experiments in reference to the velocity of sound, made
at Madras.         From this very interesting dissertation I shall
venture to transcribe the following table of the mean motion
of sound for each month of the year at Madras.
                               Mean height of
                                                              ve-locity
       Month.      r                                   mm        In a
                    Barometer. Thermometer.   H ygrometer.     Second.
                                                                       '
                      Inches.     Degrees.        Dry.          Feet.
    January          30'124        79'05      ‘   6'2           1101
     February        30'126        78'84         14-70          1117
     March           30~072        82'30         15 '22         1134
     April...        30-031        85-79         17-23          1145
     May             29'892       88'11          19'92          1151
    June             29'907       87'10          24'77          1157
    July       ...   29'914-      86'65          27'85          1164
     August          299551        85-02         21'54          1163
     September       29'963        8449          1897           11 52
    October...       30'058       84'33          18'23          1128
    November         30'125        81'35          8'18          1 101
    December         30'087        79'37          1 '43         1099
    These results serve, as far as they go, to con<U+FB01>rm the sus
picions which I have long entertained, that. the velocity of
sound is somewhat different in di<U+FB01>'erent climates; and that
hygrometric changes have more in<U+FB02>uence than has usually
been imputed to them by theorists.          The velocity varies from
1099 to 1164 feet, while the barometric range does not exceed
a quarter of an inch, and the thermometer varies only from
about 78° to 88°.         But the indications of hygrometric change
are   considerable,     passing from 1° to nearly 28 degrees.            Un
                                                           . fortunately,

                                                                    {
                     Mr. Wiseman         on Gauging.                      4-15
fortunately, however, we are not able to make such satisfactory
deductions from these curious experiments as they might have
furnished, had Mr. Goldingham described the construction
of      hygrometer, and the <U+FB01>xed points, or the extent of its
     iris
sea e.
  Royal Military Academy, Nov.    8,   1823.
    LXVIII.      On the New Method             of Gauvz'nw proposed      61
                                                                         J
               Dr. YOUNG.        By Mr.         W. “IlsiiMAN.
   To the Editors ofthePhiZosokacal             Magazine and Journal.
   Gentlemen,
   the Journal of Science, No. 32, there
INmade to the Honourable Commissioners
                                                   appears a Report,
                                                   of the Customs by
 Dr. Young, respecting improvements in Gauging.                The mat
ter being thus made public,        I    shall now take the liberty,
through your permission, to offer a few observations on- the
occasmn.
   The advantages which Dr. Youn states, in the Report just
mentioned, would be derived from 1e adoption of his inven
                                           t
tion, are, the shortening the operation of casting the full con-,
tent,--abolishin the practice of making              discretionary
                                                      a                       al
lowance in the tfength of each 'cask supposed adequate to re
duce such cask to the middle frustum of a spheroid,-—and
at the same time attaining at least an equal degree of accu
rac with the old method.                                                 4
      be detailed Operation of casting the content, at present                in
use, is this :---The beginning of the <U+FB01>rst line         set to the head
                                                          is
diameter on the second line; the number on the third line,
standing against the bung diameter on the second line,                        is
noted; against this number on the <U+FB01>rst line            found themean
                                                        is
diameter on the second line.         Next, the end of the slide       setis
to the length on the fourth line; and against the mean diame
ter on the <U+FB01>fth line    is  found the full content on the fourth
                        '
line.
   The operation which Dr. Youn proposes to substitute for
                                           It
the above, and for the method 0 allowances,                 this :—The
                                                               is
head and hung diameters on the <U+FB01>rst and second lines are
brought together, and against the length on the third line                    is
the full content on the fourth line.
   The formula upon which this operation depends,                 a- most
                                                                    is
scienti<U+FB01>c and ingenious      invention;   and  were     possible to in
                                                        it
vent a   rulewhich     would   always give   the content,     at a single
setting  of the  slide,  suf<U+FB01>ciently  near the truth  in  all  the varie
                                                                          ties

.416              Mr. Wisemau    on {he Method   of Gauging
ties of casks met with in practice, this would perhaps have
been it.    But, without corrections or allowances, the thing
appears to me to be impossible.
   Dr. Young’s formula generalized is I)" x 112"" X l+m=c; or,
in logarithms nB + (2—      n)H + L—     M: C (m being    =294'118);
where n =                        Putting this equation into numbers,
the true value of n will be found for any cask whatever whose
true content is previously known.        Thus the cask No. III.
 requires       a:
                 1'40803; or, if a vulgar fraction with the deno
minator 150 be preferred, the indices of b and I: will be %§1
 and 785%;—N0. IV. requires -}§% and lgfg ;—No. 3, %g% an
 T9556, and No. 8, §51r° and T9306; 8w- T e average of all these,
 515%?
       and T9376, Dr. oung has adopted.      But since the values
of the indices will in practice vary at least from %§%, %§.% to
 %§%, T8396, this circumstance alone shows that Dr. Young’s
 rule (where the indices are constant) will in many instances
'be necessarily very incorrect, and consequently un<U+FB01>t for the
 purposes of general cask- auging.       Those casks (port pipes,
 see Nos. III. and 9), whici, being made in a more regular
 manner, are the easiest to determine near the truth, have their
 contents made furthest from the truth; so that there would be
 a certain loss to the revenue of two or three gallons on every
 cask of that description gauged by this method ! Similar ob
 servations might be made with respect to several other varie
                                         '
ties    of   casks.                               :3,
   It  follows from what has already been said, that this new
method cannot with propriety be adopted unless it can be
 modi<U+FB01>ed in its operation by discretional allowances in and
 additions to the length; something similar to the present
practice: for the having recourse to tabular corrections, which
 Dr. Young himself seems to think may be necessary, is inadmis
sible; since the operation of taking such a dimension as the
wake and applying its corresponding correction, would re
quire, perhaps, tenfold the time and trouble required by those
 operations which this new method is intended to supersede. But
 if even tabular corrections could be applied consistently with
 dispatch, the wake, from the-dif<U+FB01>culty of obtaining it accu
 rately, is the most improper element from which to calculate
them. The obvious want of analovy between the series of
wakes and that of errors given in the    eport, suf<U+FB01>ciently shows
that no table of corrections calculated with the wake can be at
all depended upon.         If;
                           as    said before, tabular corrections
                                 I
"could be admitted, those calculated with the help of the mid
dle diameter _between the bung and head would be most to be
depended on; and this dimension would be far more easily
                                                              and

                     proposed by         Dr. Young.                  417
and accurately taken. But, this new method being modi<U+FB01>ed
by discretional allowances, the change would not be attended
with any advantages; for these allowances would be far more
dif<U+FB01>cult to approximate near the truth, and more perplexing,
to the mind, than those in the present method.
    With respect to the assertion that the new method would
be at least as accurate as the old, I would observe that this
question can only be decided by experiments on a large scale.
 But however, since the elements employed in casting the con
tents are (with the exception of the length) the same in both
methods; and the method of casting the middle frustum of a
spheroid by the sliding rule is known to be nearly true              (it   is
not accurately true, as     I have demonstrated in my small
treatise on Cask Gau ing);        follows that the comparative
                                    it
merits of the two methods rest entirely on the present mode
of reducing the length. But the casks, Nos. III. and                 9,    if
cast by the old method, would each require        or 10 tenths of
                                                        9
an inch to be allowed in the length, to produce the true
 contents; and would require 17 or 18 tenths to be allowed to
 produce the contents as given by the new method; which
last, since the casks are port pipes,     an allowance which no
                                              is
          in his senses would ever think of making; though he
gauger
mig  t   not hit exactly upon the <U+FB01>rst.     Similar observations
apply to various other casks; and            therefore only fair
                                              it   is
to infer that the old method        in general likely to be the
                                     is
 most correct.
 I    have, with Dr. Young’s algebraic theorems, making use
of the wake, calculated the content of each of the 21 casks in
 the table, both by the superior and by the inferior parabolus;
 and the result tends to con<U+FB01>rm my opinion that no depend
ence should be placed on corrections derived from the wake.
    In addition to what has been said, seeing that, could this
sliding rule perform all the thin     proposed, an additional in
                                          s
 strument would be required (for%)r. Young’s four lilies would
 occupy the whole face of the rod, and therefore         could not
                                                            it
 be used as a head-rod), causing thereby a considerable ex
 pense to the revenue, and care and trouble to the gauger, for
 the sake, principally, of shortening an operation which               al
 together does not, in general, occupy the space of half a
 minute,—and that, after all, the operation of ullaging will re
 main as at present, subject to the settings of the slide,   think,
                                                                 1
 on the whole, that the adoption of this new plan of gauging
 would, instead of being an advantage, be detriment to the
                                                        a
 service.      I    am, gentlemen,
                                    Your obedient servant,
Portland Place, Hull, May   18, 1824.                   WM, WlsEMAN.
   Vol.   63. No. 314.   June   1824-.         3   G       LXIX. Let

                              [418]
LXIX.      Leltcr on the Astronomical Ra<U+FB01>-actions.    By J. IVORY,
                          Esq.  MA. ER.S.
    To the  Editors oft/1c Philosophical  Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
I DO       not <U+FB01>nd that there is much to remark upon in the
      Notice addressed to me in your last Number.        I am still
under no little astonishment at the critique on m Table of
Refractions that appeared in the last Journal of Science.       At
present, I can conjecture no rational purpose it could be sup
posed to serve; but time, which is a great revealer of se
crets, may possibly disclose what was really intended by it.
I  was far from wishing to put the Secretary of the Board of
              I
Longitude to the trouble of examining any of my produc
tions; and       confess   I do not see the propriety of such o<U+FB01>i
cial interference unless specially called tor, more particularly
        such suspicious circumstances as attended the present
under                                                            '
instance.
    In my letter in your Number for April, I used the Table
in N. A. according to the directions given with it.         I hope
there will not be found any material errors in my calculations.         ,
    The standard temperature of a Table of refractions is <U+FB01>xed
by that of the elementary quantities employed in its construc
tion.    In this respect there can possibly be no uncertainty.
The dif<U+FB01>culty is to <U+FB01>nd the real temperature of every parti
cular observation.      Whether the estimation is to be made by
the thermometer within, or by that without, or at some in
termediate degree between the two; is the question to be de
termined, and which every astronomer answers for himself
the best way he can. The Table in N. A. has the same
standard temperature with mine.          Now when the S. B. L.,
for 'the express purpose of lessening the errors of his own
Table, lowered its temperature from 50° to 48° or 47°, which
is equivalent to bringing the exterior thermometer two or
three degrees nearer the interior one; did it not occur to him
that the errors of the other Table would likewise be lessened
by the same device?          The reason of the practice applies
equally to both Tables; namely, the exterior temperature is
not really that of the observations, and gives corrections that
are too great. But perhaps this is one of those little ad
 vantages which the Secretary reserves to himself as a pecu
                                                                      '
liar prerogative of his of<U+FB01>ce. ~
    After heaping calculation upon calculation, and trying every
 means of involving a very simple matter, the conclusion in
 the last paragraph of the Notice is just the same with what         I
                                                               have
             ,                                                     _

            Mr. Ivory on    the Astronomical       Rr<U+FB01>actians.         419
have stated at p. 490 P. T. for 1823.            But no mention is
 made of the reason 1 have there assigned. The sums of the
 exterior and interior thermometers are respectively 567-6
 and 6699; and the difference is 102°“3, bein             8° for each
 star.    Now this is a very great di<U+FB02>'erence, an undoubtedly
 leaves a very considerable uncertainty about the real tempe
 rature of observation.      When we consider that, at the low‘
 altitudes in question, every degree of the thermometer cor
 responds to an alteration of 2” or 3” in the star’s place,        I
                                                                   am
 persuaded that the opinion I have advanced in my Paper re
lative to Mr. Groombridge’s observations will be found to be
                                                                '
just.     They are not a proper test of the accuracy of a “able
 of refractions on account of the uncertainty of the tempera—
 ture. Every shifting of the, standard of the Table must ap
 proach nearer the truth, or recede further from          it,
                                                           at the rate
 mentioned.
 I     shall now compare my Table with the same observations,
 on   the  supposition that the temperature    is  found more nearly
 when estimated,       not by the exterior thermometer, but 2°
  nearer the interior one; or, which     is   the same thing,     shall
 lower the temperature of the Table from 50° to 48°.             I I
                                                                  have
  also ascertained, by sound principles as    I    shall show below,
  that no con<U+FB01>dence can be placed in my Table, nor in any
  other at present in existence, passing 8812~° of zenith distance.
  Nearer the horizon the errors of every Table increase at a
  prodigious rate.    Now, leaving out the last star and estimat
  ing  the   temperature asI      have said, the errors of the <U+FB01>rst
  12 stars by my Table are + l2”'5 and — 10”'6, or 23”'l. The
  error of the last star alone     is   17"; making the sum of the
  errors of all the 13 stars equal to 40".         Iwonder the inge
  nuity of the S. B. L. did not suggest some plausible argu
  ment for changin my Table from 50° to 52°, which would
  have given him a ecided advantage.
     The Table in N. A.    is  one of no authority.      No astrono
  mer in Europe, except the author, can tell how             was con
                                                            it
  structed.    Its character rests upon dictum.
                                        a              We know that
  thereis    no correct theory. I      will not again venture to say
  that the formula  is  empirical  for fear of the consequence; but
it
is      partly empirical, as the  author   has admitted.   The Table
  must therefore have been constructed either with the as
  sistance of other Tables already in use, or by means of ac
  tual observations.      Now, as no original observations are
  produced, except one by Mr. Pond,      it   is very probable that     it
   was constructed in the <U+FB01>rst of the ways    I   have mentioned.
      That
         it    may not be thought I     am speaking at random,         I
   now af<U+FB01>rm that the Table in         A. the same with that in the
                                        is
                            3   G2                        Fundamenta

420       .   Mr. Ivory      on the Astronomical quv'actz'ons.
Fundamenta Astronomia’, from the zenith to 45° of altitude.
The standard quantities of Mr. Bessel are, 485,}0 Fahr., Bar.
29'6; the refraction at 45° is 57"‘49: now if this number be
reduced to 50°, 30 B., there will come out 58"‘118; the num
ber in the N. A., which does not extend beyond tenths of
a second, being 58"‘1.         The coincidence is equally exact in
every case within the limits mentioned.             I have formerly
shown that the refractions in N. A. near the horizon are the
same with those of the French Astronomers.               It is reason
able to conjecture, nay it seems to follow as an unavoidable
consequence,      that the middle part of the Table in N. A. must
be   a mean   between    the other two Tables, or, at least, it must
be interpolated by some rule.          I throw out these observa
tions for the purpose of showing how necessary it is to lay
before the public, simpl          and explicitly, an explanation of
the real construction of t e Table.
    It will readily be conceived that a Table may be constructed
in the manner I have been describing, not liable to extreme
errors in practice.       But it would deserve little praise from the
astronomer or the man of science.             It would not do much
honour to     an  exciseman       ’1‘.
    There     is another point that stands in need of elucidation.
 It relates to the corrections for temperature. Without en
tering upon any theoretical discussion, in point of fact the
 corrections in N. A. are the same with Mr. Bessel’s.              The
 diiferences are altogether tri<U+FB02>ing.        For this we have the au
 thority of the Journal of Science            Now the refractions in
                                             +.
 N. A. at low altitudes are almost coincident with those in the
 French Table. But any astronomer should apply Mr. Bes
                             if
 sel’s corrections to the French Table, he would commit a
 great inaccuracy.        On this ground        asserted in your last
                                                  I
 Number     that   the  N. A.  at low  altitudes     more discordant
                                                      is
 with observation than the French Table.                       ‘
     The Table in my paper has fully answered every purpose
 for which     it  was intended.     It has turned out much more
 correct than      I  could possibly have expected.          shall now
                                                               I
 direct your attention to the chief points of my Theory                           ;
 brie<U+FB02>y mention the proofs already given of its agreement with
 Nature; and then add other corroborative evidence that has
 since occurred to me.
     My investigation sets out with supposing that the heat de
 creases equany as we ascend in the atmosphere.             This     no      is
 new law.      It  has long been assumed in the Theory of baro
                       * Sup. Enc. Brit., Article                  *1
                                                  -Wak(<U+FB01>eld.            ,S
                                                                         l
                         No. 29, p. 131.
                       'I'                                                   .
                                                                    metrical

            Mr. Ivory         on the Astronomical                      Re<U+FB01>aclions.        421
metrical measurements as well as in that of the astronomical
refractions.   It is con<U+FB01>rmed by experience to the eatest
heights  to  which we have been able to ascend.    Adopting this
law, I next in uire into all the constitutions of the atmosphere
in which it is   l<U+FB01>lled.             I
                            <U+FB01>nd that they are all comprehended
                                                 1i
in these very simple equations, viz.                             _
                               §=e>                       mi
                               1+5?       _          g         7,—
                               1+qu
                                                                                          ‘
     The letters 12',          1",
                          denote the barometric pressure, the
                        g',
density, and temperature at the surface of the earth; and the
same letters without the accent, stand for the'same things at
any height in the atmosphere; m       an arbitrary number, and
                                                     is
ii the expansion of air for one degree of the thermometer.
Now we know that every hypothesis respecting the atmo
sphere will give the refractious actually observed as far as 70°
from the zenith; therefore       we determine the value of m
                                          if
that will bring out the true horizontal refraction, we shall ob
tain   aconstitution of the atmosphere, and a formula for the
refractions, that must nearly coincide with Nature.    But there
is  another way of <U+FB01>nding m, which         preferable because     is                          it
depends upon a quantity less complicated than the refractions.
If we put .rv for the height above the earth’s surface, we have
this general equation, viz.
                                     P   =f _            y<U+FB01>t”!
p bein equal to    when wi=0.
                        p'          combining this
with   t   two former ones,
           e                  will be easy to prove eguation
                                          it            for                          is
mula, viz.                                                  J
                                     m
                                          _ _              Pl
                                                                                                ’
                                          __   l          ’_
                                                                        \
                                W1—                        e
I being the homogeneous atmosphere, and       the height that               p.
must be ascended at the earth’s surface in order to depress
the thermometer one degree. If we substitute the value of
   and take the most probable determination of it, we shall
l,
obtain                    m=4~;
and thus, in the atmosphere of the earth the foregoing equa
                        ‘
tions become                                                 -
                                     a= L
                                     I"        (e’   >
                                                          a
       .
                                1+1"
                                1+B'r’
                                          _
                                          ..    _¢_
                                                (e')
                                                                 1}.
   The refractions are next‘computed, supposing that the re
lation between the pressure and density represented by these           is
                                                  eqll<U+FB02>ll<U+FB01>nS.

422        Mr. Ivory onlthe Astronomical Rq<U+FB01>actions.
equations.    When this is done, the results are fotmd to agree
very accurately with observations, the horizontal refraction
being no more than 10” above the French Table.
   But the foregoing hypothesis, although it agrees suf<U+FB01>ciently
with the observed refractions, is opposed to Nature in another
respect.   It limits the extent of the atmosphere above the
earth’s surface to 25 miles, which is probably less than half
the real height.    It therefore becomes necessary to take a
more enlarged view of the constitution of the atmosphere,
not con<U+FB01>ned to the exact proportionality       of the altitude
ascended to the decrease of heat.    This leads to the assump
tion of the more general equations,
                                              m+ l
                 ,1;—   =(1—f) (<3)            7+ fe“
                1+B-r
                                                  _ 1
                w=(1-f)(-%,)’" +f9
The lettersf    and m are arbitrar_ numbers; but they are
connected by the condition that      gradation of heat at the
                                           t   e
earth’s surface must agree with Nature.   This    ensured by    is
the formula              f       =        31—11};
And then   m alone remains indeterminate.       When m=&, we
have the atmosphere already considered in which the heat de
creases uniformly.     When m        made greater than 4, we ob
                                      is
tain  a series of atmospheres rising gradually above one
another in their total altitude, in each of which the rate of
the decrease of heat      not uniform, but continually decreas
                          is
ing.   The height through which the thermometer must be
carried at the top of the atmosphere, in order to depress the
thermometer one degree,           equal to <U+FB01>lx (m+l); and
                                 is                                       it   is
therefore very great when m         a great number.
                                     is              Yet all these
various atmospheres agree very nearly in giving the same.
system of refractions; the difference of the horizontal refrac
tions, in the two extreme cases when m            equal to is  and   4,
when  it   isin<U+FB01>nitely great, being no more than 17". The last
case, when m    is a great number,       chosen as best suited to
                                             is
the general circumstances of the terrestrial atmosphere.      The
equations between the pressure and density are in this case,
                         I;_.
                         pl—  -
                                _e_
                                     e!   +i
                                          51   .
                                                    em,
                         Ey=i+r%;
                         1+1}?
which equations are the foundation                      of my Table of Re
fractions.
                                                                 '
                                                                           In

         Mr. Ivory      on the Astronomical Ref/radians.                        423
  In order to place     the proofs         of the accuracy              of my Table
in a clear point of view,    I       shall now put
then 0 will be the depression of the thermometer at any
height.  The equations of the atmosphere, when the heat IS
supposed to decrease uniformly, will now become,
                      _1L_
                      p,_(l          _ w)   %
                                                                        (A)
               l—mzr=(1 _.,)i
                         M
                  M
                       =. 1w+35§                w”   +   81.0.;
                 7+??-
and the equations from which the Table is constructed will be,
                  p
                  ;;=2(1-w>               +     1(1—wr                    .
                 m, = l w.
                  130                                                    (B)
                             4
  These equations very clearly point out what   is common to
all the atmospheres,  and what causes them  to agree in giving
the same refractions.    The <U+FB01>rst term of the development of
the function 1
                 MM
                     is the same in them all and equal to 1- w.  It
                                 I
is this new element which have introduced into the problem of
the refractions: and upon the exactness of the co-e<U+FB02>icient }
the accuracy of my Table will entirely depend. I have proved,
in my paper, that the usual formula for barometrical mea
surements with its equation for heat, is true in both the at
mospheres defined by the equations (A) and (B).               With
respect to the same atmospheres I have likewise shown, by a
comparison with actual experiments extended to the greatest
heights to which we have been able to ascend, that the pres
sures and densities are the same at like distances above the
 earth’s surface, as in the real atmos here. To all this is to
 be added the very exact agreement                   of)
                                            my refractions with ob
 servations to a great distance from the zenith.      Of this am               I
 now in possession of one proof, derived from a com arison
 with actual observation, that will not be disputed.         umbly        I
 hope that the examination of other unbiassed astronomers
 will lead to a similar conclusion; and to their determination,
 to whichI     have ever appealed,    shall very cheerfully submit.
                                        I
   1   shall now add some additional proofs of a different descrip
 tion.    Dalton has sugo‘ested a very remarkable law relative
 to the temperature of the atmosphere          He supposes that
                                                         *2                         a
                  '   Chem. Phil. Part      I.   chap.        1.
                                                               §   8.
                                                                                _
                                                                               given

 424-            Mr. Ivory       on the Astronomical Rq<U+FB01>'actimas.
 given mass of air placed at any height, will always retain the
 same quantity of heat, either in a state a<U+FB01>'ecting the ther
 mometer, or combined with it in a latent form.       Thus, if a
 cubic foot of air taken at the earth’s surface were carried up
 in the atmosphere, none of its heat would be dissipated; the
 portion that disappears with respect to the thermometer, be
ing wholly absorbed as the air dilates, and being necessary to
 maintain the expansion caused by the diminution of pressure.
 As I write hastily,                 I
                          cannot enter upon the proofs of this
law, which          I
                adopt for the purpose of bringing down to the
earth’s surface the equations that have been shown to take
place in the atmosphere.      Suppose a portion of- air at the
earth’s surface to be contained in a close vessel; the pressure,
density, and temperature, being p', 1, r', both within the
vessel and in the open air.   Extract a part of the air from the
vessel; what remains will dilate itself, will become colder,
and then will resume the general temperature.      Let 1 .2' de                              -
note the density of the expanded air, and 0 the heat that
combines with it in a latent form.     The pressure within the
vessel, after the air has resumed the general temperature, will
evidentl be p’ X (l —.r). Put 1) for the pressure that prevails
within t e vessel, the instant the air is extracted; before any
extraneous heat has been communicated to the dilated air
from the surrounding objects; and consequently, when its
temperature is equal to -r’— 6: then the equations (A) which
take place in the atmosphere, being brought down to the
earth’s surface by Dalton’s law, will be as follows, viz.
                                                              4
                                         =                    3
                                 %            (l—J')
                                             {39                         *
                             1   —                       =
                                         1+8?!
It is remarkable that these equations are the same with those
given by M. Poisson, at p. 264- of the Connaz'ssance de Tems
for 1826, published six months after my paper was read be
fore the R. S.  There is a very small difference in the index
of the power of the density; which instead of §is found to
be equal to 1'34-92 by the experiments of MM. Clement and
  ‘1‘
          The densities l—w and          l—x        are connected        by this equation,   viz.
                                     (1-           40%   =   (1-.)   s
     If mass of air elevated in the atmosphere, and having the density
          a
l—m, be carried down to the earth’s surface while its temperature re
mains unchanged; the pressure and density increasing in the same propor
tion, when the <U+FB01>rst   equal to
                        is       X — w),tl\€ other will be equal to
                                          p’       (1               ~H)§                     (1     ;
and then the ressure, density, and temperature, will be the same as in the
close vessel,   tinstant the air
                    e             extracted, and before the accession of
                                              is
any extraneous heat.
                                                                                      Desormes,

                    Mr. Ivory         on the Astronomical Rq<U+FB01>-actious.                      425
Desormes,                and t0 1'3748 by those of                       MM- Gay   LUSSQC and'
Welter.
        It   thus appears that there is a                       reat connection between my
                                                            oflg
Theory and the speculations     Laplace upon the Gases".
And this leads me to remark upon     oint about which am            a                      I
much more deeply concerned than            am about the travesty
which the S. B. L. has taken the trouble to make of my                                         la
bours.       may be said that
                  It                have been directed in my re
                                                     I
searches by the ideas of the eminent French philosopher.
I  am exculpated from this charge as far as                 what
M. Poisson has written on this subject either inregards  Con. des                  t   e
Tems for 1826, or     the Annales de Physique for August 1823,
                                 in
by the dates. . The <U+FB01>rst Memoir of Laplace on the attrac
tion of the Gases, published in the Con. (les Tems1824, was
read to the Academy of Sciences 10th September 1821.
Now       have undeniable evidence that,
             I_                               this date,   was in         at           I
possession   of my Theory as far as regards the present ques
tion. The proofs, gentlemen, are contained in your Journal for
May and June 1821.         he formula in the Number for May
                                            -T
   derived from the equations (A); that in the next Number
is is
   obtained by a particular transformation, taking the general
value m equal to    instead of It.
                               a 5
   My theory has broader foundation and embraces greater                               a
number of natural phenomena than the view of Laplace,
which       con<U+FB01>ned chie<U+FB02>y to the velocity of sound.
              is                                            Since
the equations are found to belong to an atmosphere different
in some respects from that of nature, we must infer that they
are approximate only, not                 true.   All the reason
ings and experiments seem torigorously
                                   ear upon the <U+FB01>rst term of the
development of a function, not upon its com lete expression.
                                             ii
It    this term only which is ascertained.
        is                                       he equations,‘ as
far as they are yet known to us, may be thus expressed,
                                             1+5?!
                                                      ___
                                                        l   3      .17
                          '
                                                    M                                  s
                  -._-
                         (l---'.z')x(l
                                             —
                                                 117;) =                 (1-”)(1-’§)
It   extremely probable that my numbers are the true values
        is
of the indices; and that the experimental quantities are dif
ferent only on account of the unavoidable errors attending
very delicate measurements. But      cannot now enter upon         I
any discussion of principles, and must con<U+FB01>ne myself to the
statement of .results. Two consequences follow from the                                        un
expected coincidence of my Theory with the researchesof
Laplace onthe constitution of the Gases.     irst, :we have}!
direct and Undeniable propf thatJDaltqn’s law actually takes
                                     1'“   Mécan.   Céleste,       Liv. 12.
        Vol._68.         No. 314. June 1824.                              8    H           place

    426         Mr. Ivory    on the Astronomical Refractions.
    place in the atmosphere. And secondly, the value which. I'
    have assigned to the <U+FB01>rst term of the development of the
    function expressing the temperature of the atmosphere, is
    con<U+FB01>rmed by the experiments of the French philosophers.
       Another phenomenon lends its aid to con<U+FB01>rm the same l
    conclusions.      It is the propagation of sound in the atmo-l~
                                                                               '
    sphere. Nothing can be more curious than to <U+FB01>nd the velo-
    City of sound made a deduction from a theory of the astro
   nomical refractions.         Yet this follows immediately from the
   foregoing equations by applying the method of accounting for
   the phenomenon which we owe to the abilities of Laplace.
    Let Z denote the homogeneous atmosphere in feet; then, ac
   cordin      to Newton, sound, in a second of time, moves
   througi a space equal to                       _
                                                  '
                                  V 32   f;  x l
   but, according to the accurate theory of Laplace, the ve
   locity of sound deduced from the foregoing equations is equal
   to           -              V 32%   x l x g;
   and this agrees suf<U+FB01>ciently well with experiment._                  _
       I have now traced an unexpected connection between many
  interesting phenomena that seemed to be very little related
   to one- another.      There can be no doubt that the whole in
                  “leads to a simple principle; by setting out from
   vestigation
   whic , and ‘followin        a retrograde order, all the phenomena
   may 'be deduced.            ut I do not now touch upon this point.
   The dif<U+FB01>culty and the labour is to arrive at simple and com
   prehensive news.         So many different facts clearly prove that
   the element I have introduced in the theory of the refractions,
   has‘been rightly determined.            The accurac of the table de
  pends    u   on  this circumstance,      and  is limite by it.
       The‘ orizontal refraction by my formula is greater than
   that in any Table of refractions except M. Bessel’s.                  It de
   pends entirely upon the <U+FB01>rst term of the development of the
   function expressing the .heat of the atmosphere.                   Had it
  .agreed exactly with observation, it would have followed that
  {the refractions depend upon that quantity alone, and that the
-
   other terms of the development 'have no sensible effect.                But
   the observations
            '
                         of  M.  Bessel    make     the horizontal refraction
   muchj      eater than it is in my Table.           According to the most
   probabe determination that can at present be deduced from
   the labours of that distinguished astronomer, it is about 36' at
   50° Fahr., 30 B. It thus appears that the other terms of the
   development beside the <U+FB01>rst have a sensible in<U+FB02>uence on the
   refractions at very low altitudes.          I apprehend that this is the
   true reason why    l
                         my  i
                              Table  fails  in accuracy    within l%° of the
                                         '                           horizon.
                                                                                 I

             Mr. Utting   on   Errors in Dr. Hutton’s              Tables.            427
horizon.    Further researches, both mathematical and astrono
mical, are therefore required for completing the solution of
the problem of the refractions.     Theory must supply the for
mulae; and the astronomer, by numerous observations at and
near the horizon, must furnish the data necessary for deter
minin the theoretical quantities. Even although there should
be litt e chance of attaining, near the horizon, all the accuracy
desired by the astronomer, yet the question is still one of
great interest, as it may lead to important results respecting
the constitution of the atmosphere.
    My chief design, gentlemen, in addressing you in this letter,
is to put on record my ideas on the topics treated in       which            it,
I have frequently mentioned in conversation.         have written I
hastily, and desire the indul ence of our readers.
                                ave the onour to be, &c.
                                   I
   June 14, 1824.                               James IvoaY.
LXX.           On some Errors in Dr.        Hurron’s Tables qf the Pro
         ducts and Powers   of
                             Nmnbers.         By Mr. JAMES U'r'rmc.
          'Gentlemen,
0Ntioned
'
    perusing
           in
                your Journal for lastmonth, the errors men
                 Dr. Hutton’s Tables of the Products and
Powers of Numbers attracted my attention. Mention       made                     is
in your Journal, of 40 errata occurring in p. 20 of Dr. Hut
ton’s Tables.   Now, Gentlemen, the number of errors in this
page actually amounts to about 1700! which       discovered se    I
veral years since, and of which no mention     made in the list
                                                              is
of errata: and conceiving      will be rendering an acce table
                                    it
service to such gentlemen as use Dr. Hutton’s Tables,      take
this opportunity of pointing them out; viz. The Products of
all numbers from 361 to 380 at the head of the Table by 15
                                                                             -
to 99 at the side are all 100 too little.                                                .'
                      remain, Gentlemen, yours trul
                        I                                                    ,
Lynn Regis, 10th June,    182-1.                              JAMES          TTING.
LXXI.     Introduction to the Sixth Sec/ion         BESSEL’s Astrono
                                                             of
                          mical Observations.
    SHALL <U+FB01>rst 've such short description of the meri
                                        a
      dian circle as is necessary for understanding the observay
tions: a more detailed one would no doubt be very curious to
all those who take an interest in the great advanCBmel'lt of the
art of constructing astronomical instruments brought about
     Reichenbach *; but
    by                            would require plates, and fall far
                                   it
   * \Ve think   right
                  it   to observe that M. Bessel has never seen the Green
                                                     '
wich instruments—EDIT.
                                                         ’
                                        3   H   '2                                    short

428                Introduction to the Sixth Section
short of that description which is expected from the great
artist himself. vThat description will not only detail the ori=
   '
       al course which this ingenious artist has pursued, but like
   ise contain the reasons for the whole and every part of the'
 instrument.
      The instrument is <U+FB01>xed between two pillars like a transit;
its horizontal axis, of 32 inches (Paris) length, terminates in
steel cylinders which rest on Y’s of bell metal; the latter are
formed of two planes meeting at an angle of 60°.                      Their co
vers have springs, by which means, when the instmme'nt is
                balanced, the axis is pressed equally against the three
perfects;
sides           an equilateral triangle.          The equilibrium is pro
di'ic‘ed by lé'i’e‘rs, the supports of which are on the columns
that stand              the pillars; they carry the instrument by means
 of friction Wheels, which 've to the whole an exceedingly gen
tle and easy motion.                 he horizontality of the axis is ob
tained by a <U+FB01>ne level, the construction of which is such as to
ensure the greatest a'ccurac in levelling.
      On this axis are screwe the two halves of the telescope of
<U+FB01>ve feet in length, and secured against <U+FB02>exure by a lever ap
paratus; the object-glass has _4-8'2 lines aperture; the four
e'e-glasses
 '                   magnify 66,107,129,182 times, and in the focus
     ‘e're are <U+FB01>v‘e’ve'rtical and two horizontal wires, the latter be
ing brily' 3” distant from one another, which interval the ob
ject that is to be observed bisects.               Thus far the instrument
is,    therefore, a complete transit, with the advantage that                 it
 can be used With great ease        iii   both ositions of the axis. The
                 of the axis, which must be done without the weight
9      e    lns'trliiile'<U+FB01>t resting on the pivots,  is     obtained   by a Con
                  , ually   simple and secure, by- which the counter
Tp'oises               to acts before the pivots reach the Y’     .     On the
 bile end of the axis'there       is     <U+FB01>xed ‘a    cast circle of three feet
 _in   diameter, whichon the side towards the pillar            is   divided to
 three     Iniinite'sr   on silver.   An  ailh‘idade  circle
                                                           is    applied  to the
  same ehd bf the           axis  in such a manner that the axis passes
 through its centre and turns in          a      conical collar.     This albi
‘dade circle has 'four verniers in a plane with the principal
 circle, by which the latter       is    divided to 2";   it    carries a <U+FB01>xed
 level with scale divided to lines (Paris),
             a                                       by    which the changes
 of its position with regard to the horizon can be measured.
  By Very
       a                         issuing from its centre, and an adjusting
                    attac ed to the pillar, so that the level would al
rscrew, it'isstrong1arrn
 ways retain the same position, were          it   not for the small chan' 'es
 caused by the revolving of the axis of the instrument which
passes through the alhidade circle, by~the temperature, or by
 an alteration of the position of the pillars; the real
                                                                      existence}
                                                                              0

              qf Bessei’s Astronomical   Observations.              4-29
of these   changes   consequently renders necessary the reading
off of the level at every observation. An arm on the other
end of the axis, with a collar through which this end of the
axis passes, is <U+FB01>rmly clamped to the axis by means of a screw,
and then serves for bringing the telescope into its proper
position.   The artist has thu contrived that there should be
no strain whatever on the circumference of the two circles,
from which in other cases change of <U+FB01>gure and considerable
errors have arisen.   The illumination of the wires is through
the axis, which is perforated at the extremity furthest from
the circle.    The necessary changes of its intensity are ob
tained by a diaphra' an attached to each pillar, the greater or
less opening of whic allows a proportional quantity of ii ht to
pass.    A considerable increase of ii rht has been e cted
since November 1820, by conical meta tubes Glisth in‘the
inside and <U+FB01>xed in the perforated hollow of         e pillar. This
contrivance has been before adopted in the observatories ofk
                                                                ‘ '
Munich and Giittin en.
   In placing this highly perfect instrument,       I have endea
voured to avoid every circumstance known to me by former
experience, which might tend to produCe unsteadiness;—the
manner which I have used having been found to answer the
purpose, I think that          I
                           ought to describe it. An excavation
of six feet deep, ten feet long from east to west, and seven
feet broad from north to south, was lined with a wall; in the
middle of this hollow there was built a parallelopiped three
feet and a quarter high, of broken rocks, forming a mass of
solid mason _, leaving between its vertical sides and the sur_
rounding will an empty space of six inches in breadth;         The
two granite pillars      feet long, two feet broad, <U+FB01>fteen inches
                        ésix
thick) which were ormerly the supports of the transit, Were
placed on this parallelopiped, in the direction of the meri;
dian, the centres being four feet distant and walled round.
On them was placed          slab of stone carefully cut, six feet
                            a
long,  four feet broad, and   one foot thick, which was as <U+FB01>rmly
as possible attached to the pillars
                                         '
                                         b  means of cement and
iron cramps. The upper surface of this slab             six inches
                                                         is
below the <U+FB02>oor; on     itare placed without any other essential
Fastening the new pillars, six feet four inches high, 20'5 inches
broadband 15 inches thick, of very hard perfectl uniform
                                                              oi:
sandstone of a very <U+FB01>ne grain, which on account            the uni.
formity of its grain I  have preferred'to granite.
   The Manner of placing the supports secures them against
                                                                           ‘
the e<U+FB01>'ects of the freezing and thawing of the ground, which
 only'a'ct on the surrounding Wall,'that goes deeper than the
frost ever penetrates into the ground: they ’are likewise
                                                               proé
                                                             tecte

  4.30               Introduction to the Sixth Section
  tected as far as possible against the e<U+FB01>'ect of a general sinking
  of the ground, as the <U+FB01>rmness. and solidity of the connexion
q
  of all parts render any rotatory motion very improbable; and
  lastly, the moving of the observer has no effect on them, as
  the <U+FB02>oor does not rest on the stone slab, but on the surround
  ing wall, and as between the <U+FB02>oor ' and both the slab and the
  pillars there is an empty space.
      The instrument being constructed for reversing, which is
  indeed one of its most beautiful advantages, care was to be
  taken that the reversing itself should produce no change of the
  pillars.    The end of the axis which carries the two circles is
  more heavy than the opposite one, and therefore requires
  heavier Counter-weights, by which the levers exert on one side
   a     eater pressure by 104 pounds than on the other.            The
  was bein levelled and the instrument reversed, the pillar
  which before sustained the greater pressure, now sull'ers the
  less, and vice versd ; and it cannot be doubted that a difference
  of 208 pounds will produce a sensible change in the horizon
   tality of the axis.      In order to obviate the error proceeding
   from this circumstance, there were <U+FB01>xed in the wall sure
   roundin      the base, two strong iron bars,)p_assing along the
  pillars from south to north without touching either the stone
   slab or the <U+FB02>oor.      From these bars proceeds vertically along
   the middle of each pillar a weak iron rod, which by means of
   a quadrangular frame incloses the Y’s of the instrument.          On
   the upper end of the latter rod on one end a lever may be
   made to act, which by a weight ap lied on the opposite end,
   exerts a pressure of 104 pounds.          is lever is always applied
   to  the side  Opposite to that   where the  circle is attached, and
   thus most completely removes the cause of the error.          With;
   out this apparatus there would be in the two positions of the
   axis a difference of l"'3.
      However perfect the meridian circle of Reichenbach may
  be,   I did not conceive that I ought to give up the opinion, on
   which I had hitherto always acted,—viz. that all instruments
   ought to be subjected to an accurate and rigorous examination
  q<U+FB02>er they are placed in the observatories. In regard to this
   instrument, a two-fold investigation is required: <U+FB01>rst, onthe
   curve described on the celestial sphere by the line of colli;
   mation; and next, on the points of this curve answering to va¢
   rious distances from the pole and zenith.           Only the <U+FB01>rst of
   these investigations has hitherto been accomplished.          I shall
   therefore now explain the examination of the instrument,
   when used as a‘transit; reserving for the next section the re
   port on its use for measuring zenith distances.
                                                '
                          '
                                                                 1.  De

                      qf   Bessel’s   Astronomical Observations.                   \
                                                                                            431
                1.    Determination qftheMagnifyingPo'wers.
      I
      have founded this investigation on the same princi le which
 is the basis of Ramsden’s dynameter ; but                     I
                                               have emp oyed the
   divisions of the circle for measurino the diameter of the image of
   the cell of the object-glass formed hy the eye-glass. With this
   view a compound microscope was horizontally placed before
   the telescope, which was likewise in a horizontal position, so as
   to show distinctly the wires in the focus, after the eye-glass
  0f the telescope was taken out; this microscope was furnished
   with a wire, which, by being made to bisect the interval be
 tween the two horizontal wires in the telescope, might beeasily
  placed horizontal and consequently parallel to the axis of the
  instrument.       Then the eye-glass was put in, and the micro
  scope    drawn   back    until it showed distinctly the image of the
                                                                      '
  cell of the object-glass, after which the fngle                         as observedl
  which it was. necéssary'to‘turn the circle,                   or 11}      to produce
 a   contact of both the limbs of this image With the win? of the.
   microscope: this angle was found for the different eye-glasses,
 6'   29"-00  ;       Mos;
                     4/               as"-=;;    2’ 25"-17,
                                                                  frOm
                                                                            Whlct. “he
  magnitude of the image may
                                           liefound,      its'distance
                                                          if                   from the
  axis of rotation of the instrument           be  known.                order
                                                                             In_  to <U+FB01>nd
  this distance,     I made    at   ra    om     dot
                                                 a     on   the    microscope, the
  distance of     which    from      a_‘dot  on   the  telescope        situate        the
                                                                                       in
  plane of    the  wires,  was   foilld    without   the   eye-glass        403     lines,
  and with the four eye-g                  =58'l; 52'6; 50'5; 47'31mes;
                     follows       4 the four
                                                  images of the eye-glass are
                                      *
  from which      it              a
  distant from the plane of tire wires 18'1; 12'3; 10'2; 7'0 lines,
  or from'the axis of rotation 387'6; 381'8; 379'7; .376'5 lmes;
  the latter being distant from the wires 269-5 lines.                                The
  diameter of the cell of            the   object-glass      is   482       lines, and
  therefore the ratio of         its    magnitude     to   those        of  its  images
  before the eye-glasses        65-94;     106'69;    128262;        18190.
      These numbers would denote the magnifying powers of the
  four eye-glasses,        the latter were. so placed that parallel rays
                           if
 falling   on  the object-glass      likewise issue from them parallel; but
                                                                       has placed the
  they require a small correction when'the observer
  eye-glasses according to his own
                                                            Let     the    diameter of
- the
       objeCt =0; that of the image
                                                sight.
                                                     efore                            =0;
                                                               the eye-glass
  the focus of the object- lass           =P;    that  of  the   interior     eye-glass
   =f, the exterior         f’;   t   edistance      of
                                                     the
                                                           two eye-glasses =d,
  that of the object-        lass    from         interior                      =F+d,
                                            the                eye-glass
  that   of the   image     mm       the  exterior   one    =3       that,   of  the eye
  from    the  point  of  distinct    vision   =9,   and   we    have
                                                                                      8,—

4'32                Introduction to the Sixth Section
                     81   -
                          _~        (F+
                                            11)
                                                  5)   (f—dif'jlle
                                                  (f+f'—d)+(d—f’)f’
                            T
                                   <F+
                     0    _
                          '-         .                 .Off'
                                                                  j      r
                                     +i><7+f'-d>+' (cl—11)?
                     8    _          (4-5’)f(f:'QiJfJ_‘_’_.
                        (ti-'3’)(f+f’--d)+f--d).l‘7
   Thence         the magnifying     power for                               parallel    rays,       or
m:                       or (with suf<U+FB01>cient accuracy) =                          2            £0)-
                                                                                                é
        Fifi-{4:9
                                     37--   =
 I      have supposed                              6,   and found the magnifying powers
=66-oa; 106-75; 128-61; 18193.       By this .method any de
  reg of accuracy may be obtained by taking into the account
  <U+FB01>lethickness and curvature of the glasses; whlch, however,
in this case, would be entirely unnecessary. Up to the <U+FB01>st
of April            have alternately used the middle powers;
                 1820,   I
but from the   22d  of April     have exclusively employed the
                                                       I
                                                    -        ~
highest pow     01739.—
                    *
          '
             -   The Lmel
                     -         the Horizontal Axis.    (yr
   This- ‘lével 50 consulhted that can be placed exactly in
                     is                                           it
 a Wine With the axis, Whikh renders the small cross level
'wh<U+FB01>dh      commonly “58d, Sllpw-<U+FB02>uous, and reatly contributes
            is
’10 the accuracy in levelling,              air-bu        does not sensi—      9
  bly change its place,      the plane‘sass‘mg throu
                                     if                      the axis and
 the level sensibly                                          value of the          e h
                        deviate  from      ticahty, .T
‘parts   of the scale   was  determinedhy <U+FB01>xing        the level to Cary’s
  circle, and observing its changes; by the microscopes.               By
 three sets of such observations a{change of the bubble of
  one line (Paris) was found                                       1;;
                 .= 2"-196 therm. +           5°-0    Bessel.     ?
            -
                      2"‘120
                      -2’”1'75
                                    . .
                                  - . .
                                        .+ {13%;
                                         +     4°96 .
                                                      Argelander.
                                                       .
                                                               __                  _
     "Mean -=2"'16@.        Although the a ihbubble in each of these
  sets was gradually moved four inches, there never appeared ,a
  trace of irregularity of curvature, as there never appeared .an
 1error of one second which might be ascribed to this cause.
        _                 Figure
                               _     the Pivots.
                                     3.                      of
     The eXamination   of  the horizontality of the axis instituted
 . gteach reversion
                    of the instrument, has proved that the pivots
  somewhat deviate from the <U+FB01>gure which they ought to have.
  This examination was repeated each time in the two opposite
 .horizontal positions of the instrument, from which followed,                           it
 \that being directed to the north, the level was 0'194 line
  more to the westward than when turned to the southward:
  this quantity     the mean of the following 62 observations
                          is
                                                             '
 from the 17th March 18-20 to‘lst July 1821.
                                                      Position

               of BeSsel's Astronomical                   Observations.                       4'33
                   53.8133212‘
                                            E'"                      W"
                        1820.              Lines                     Lines
               March                      0'18     E.               0'45 W
                                                   -
                                17
                                28    '
                                          0’45    W.                0'10 E.
               April             7        0-15                      0'81      W.
                                13        0'12 —-                   0'32 —
                                21        0'07 -—                   0'17‘ '—
                                26        0‘28 —"                   0‘30 E.
               May               8        0°50    ——                0'20 W.
                                15        0'02                      0'62 -—.
                          .'    25        0'30    W.        _       0'30 —.
                                                  —                 0'12 -—
                                                                              -
               June             11        0'12              ,
               '
                                27        0'60    ~—-               0‘27 ——
               July             16        0-42    ~                 0-45
               August            1    .   0'20 -—                   0'20 —
                                 9        0'12 —-                   0'28 ——
                        20
               Septemb. ,7
                                          0'4-3
                                          022
                                                  —
                                                   _-
                                                                    0'43 ——
                                                                    0-25      -
               ’
                                                                              E.   -
                                                                              -
                                16        0'35    —~                0'10
               October 12"                0'10     —-‘-         '
                                                                    0'48      W.
                                                                '
               Novemb. 1                  0-10     E.               0-23
               Decemb. 16                 0'15    W.                0'15      —
                       1821.                                         _
               January          12        0'20 E.                   0'18      W.    '
               Februarle                  0'08 ---                  0'05      E.
                                28        0'14 W.                   0'12      —
               March            25        0'42 E.                   0'25      —
                                31        0'20 W.                   0'83      W.
               April                      0'25    --                0'15      —
           '
               May
                           ‘    25'
                                 5        '0-40 —                   0147      '-    '
                                23         0'05 —                   0'40      —
               June                       '0'02 E.                  0'18'-—
                                                   -
                                 5
                   '
                                19        0'40    W.        ,       0'23      —
               July              1        0-34-                     007 .E.
                                                                                         '\   ii.
                          Mean... ...0'172W.                        @215      W.
  The probable error of a levelling of the axis        . therefore,                is,
0'112 line =0"-24~3,   and consequently   that of the above mean
=0'0201 line; from which         clear, that there cannot be any
                                          it
                                          is                                                         '
doubt of the above-mentioned irregularity.      .The small devia-
tion probably does not proceed 'from an imperfection in the
                re of the pivots,                 buter
                                             their axes not being
             0. 814-. June 1824-. -                         exactly      SI

4-34-                Introduction to the Sixth Section
 exactly in the same straight line: the points of the pivots
 which touch theY’s are distant from those, on which the level is
suspended 9 lines; an angle of 9” of the axes of the two cylin
 ders would therefore account for the small deviation.     If this
be really the 'cause, the repetition of the levelling in reversed
 positions of the telescope entirely destroys its e<U+FB01>'ect. The
diameters of the two pivots are not exactl equal, the one
more distant from the circle is the thicker. 'llhree-and-thirty
reversions of the instrument have given the difference of the
level in both positions =1'286 line: viz.
             1820.                     Lines.             1820.                       Lines.
         March       -
                             7         1'50            September        7             1'61
                             8
                                        '
                                       1 1O                            l6             l '39
                         17            1-40        October  12                        1-09
                         28            1'02        November 1                         0'89
         April               7         PM          December 16                        1'52
                         18           1°37                   1821. '
                         21           1'81         January             12             1'29
                         26           1'05         February            10             1'54
         May              3           1-79                             28             1'61
                      15              0'90-        March               25             1'31
                      25               1 112                           31             1 -1
                                                                                             1‘
                                                                                 '
         June            11           0'95         April               25             1'40
                      27               1'04            May              5             1'11
         July         16               1'48                            28             1'4-0
                                                                             '
         August              1         1'30        June                 5             1 '30
                       9               1'25                            19             1'35
                      20               1 -05       July                 1             1 '26
   The hooks by which the level is hung to’the pivots, form
an angle of 90°, the Y’s an an le of 60°.        If the diameter of
the thicker cylinder be denote by 1", that of the thinner one
    r, the height of the points in which the planes forming the
  lay
 ’s  meet above the same level, that of the eastern one by                                             II,
that of the western one by h’; the heights of the centres of
the axis, when the circle       towards the east, are
                                            is
 ,       _
                       Iz+2r,    and Iz’+21’                     y
and  the  heights of the points where the planes forming  the hooks
                                                                       11'
ofthe level meet                 11
                         + 1',(2 +‘ 4/     and    4-       + V 2).v
                                                             2)                      '1"
                                                                                           (2
The motion Of the bubble to the west         therefore, in lines (if
                                                                  is
R expresses the length of the axis)
        =1      (hI-h)+(1I-ri(2                    + 4/23
                                                                  and after reversing
                                                                                                   Q
                         _       qR   sin 2”'164   _
                                                                                                  .1":

    -‘
           a
            .z' _
                _r=
                        W
                        (w
                     of Bessel’s Astronomical Observations.
               ,_(h'—h)—(r'—-r)(2+4/2)       From
                                        24-4/2
                                                       -'
                                                                                 which follows
                                                                    = 0.0007587 line.
                                                                                                        4-35
                            W
       In examining the deviations of the axis from the horizontal
    position, the state of the level before and after reversing was
    always consulted : we have the elevation of the western end
    above the eastern one expressed in seconds =
               15 b   =     h'-—h       +   2(r'—r)        -   and likewise
                  11 =
               h' —        + .r') R sin l”'082; therefore
                                 (.z'                                                                    I
             15   =
                  b     + .2") l”'082
                            (x            815; where the upper <U+FB01>gure
                                                  i            0
    is    to be taken for the eastern, the lower one for the western
    position of the circle. If the level observed in one position    is
    only, we have 15      = x. 2"'64-
                                   b    0”“576.                $
    4--   Examination of                  the   Invariability of             the Instrument while
           >
                                                  revolving.
             the observation of Mr. Pond, who found a considerable
          After
    change   of the old Greenwich transit while revolving, a more
    accurate investigation of this point seems to be indispensable.
    It has, however, no small di<U+FB02>iculties, if  be required to <U+FB01>nd           it
‘
    out and to take into the account even small constant errors.
    0n the supposition that the deviations from the meridian re
    sulting from a chan e of the instrument itself, depend on the
     sine and cosine of 1e single zenith distance, or, which
                                    t                                the                           is
     same thing, that they take place in a great circle, the deviation
     of the middle wire from the meridian will be in opposite posi
                                                           ‘
     tions of the axis
                                                                                              v
                                                                                                  '.
    '    ~15 (a-l-u) sin (ow—8) + 15(1) + <U+FB01>)cos(<p —-8)+15c
      and 15(a'+a)sin(¢ -8) + 15 (b'—<U+FB01>)cos (go—8) + 15c'_
     where a,         b,
                     a',   0’ denote the <U+FB01>fteenth parts of the devia
                           c,       b',
     tions in azimuth, in the horizontalit    of the axis, and of the
     erro'r of collimation, and a and           deviations peculiar to
                                                                5   t   e
     the instrument, all expressed in seconds.      The <U+FB01>rst formula                                      I~
     suppose to be for the eastern position of the circle, the other
     for its western position.                         '
        From these formulae        apparent that by astronomical ob
                                             it   is
    servations in contrary positions only, the quantit       cos (go-8)             2
            —                                                                         is 5
     +    (c     can
                  0') be determined;   but  not  a, whic     alto  ether
    joined with the azimuth, and has no in<U+FB02>uence on                  re                       t    e
     sults obtained by the transit:       only causes that a vertical
                                                               it
    plane which,      described by the line of collimation
                           is                                   nOt per                  is
    pendicularly intersected by        horizontal axis; and there !8
                                                           theI
                                                       8   2          no

436                    Introduction to the Sixth Section
 no means to <U+FB01>nd this out, as the direction of the axis cannot
 be observed independently of the telescope.
    The determination of B, on the contrar , is necessary, and
 may be obtained either by repeating the observations after re
 versing the instrument, or by comparing the image of the pole
star re<U+FB02>ected from a horizontal plane, with that seen by direct
vvision.   The latter method appears to me to be far more ad
 vantageous, on account of the slow motion of this star, of its
 being independent of other errors, and on account of the        eat
 ness of the quantity by which the effect of [3 shows itse f, es
 pecially in our high latitudes.
    The observation of re<U+FB02>ected images of stars has, as far as
 I know, been <U+FB01>rst employed by Tralles for <U+FB01>nding the errors
 of collimation of his instrument, when measuring the height
 of mountains in Switzerland: it likewise affords ver valuable
methods for examining astronomical instruments, and, is there.
fore frequently used in the Kiinigsberg observatory.        I have
used water to obtain the horizontal plane; at <U+FB01>rst in a vessel
 18 inches long and 12 broad; but this was found too small,
as it did not alwa s with perfect distinctness represent the
images of stars w en viewed with the highest power, while
the telescope was <U+FB01>xed,—the distinctness of the images in a
telescope of such aperture and power being the surest sign of
a level surface.   In a vessel of three feet diameter, from the
middle of which the re<U+FB02>exion takes place, I found no such de
viation from a plane, and have therefore, ever since the 12th
of April, used such a vessel.
  If  the zenith distance ofa star be z = e     8, it is for its re -
<U+FB02>ected ima e = 18b — z = 180 — ’p + 8; therefore the devia
tion of the instrument from the meridian for this image of the
                                                ‘
star =
      15 (a-I-a) sin (e -8) — l5 (b-l-<U+FB01>) cos (@--8) +l5c
and 15 (a'+a)sin(¢— 8) — l5(b'—B) cos (¢                3)+]5c'             -
   If the times of transit of a star over the middle wire have
been observed b direct vision and by re<U+FB02>exion = t and            we                    t',
have, the circle being to the east,
                   .
                       _3
      .+   (a
                                           ._3
             +¢)s‘lcf,%l +(b+13) “.2211 + ace =
  r    +   a      +¢>                   —    <1)   +a                   +
                                                                              C
                              05
                           '——r‘“.“"“                   ——§—“°“.Lt“"
and when the circle              is   to the west,
                           sin (go—3)                                        c'
   t   +   (a.    +   a)                    (b,__<U+FB01>)                     +          =
                             c055                         cos               cos
                                                                              I
           (“ ,
                            in    _a                      .     -   z
                                                                        +
                                                                             '
  i.   +          +   “)‘i<U+FB01>ér'                     75) 2%.;
                                             ,
                                        “‘45                                “+5:
                                                                                   therefore

                  ,       _    of Bessel’s Astronomical                              Obsérvah‘bm.                                     437
>                                                                   cost
                                             __t’—t                                   I __t'—t                             cos}
                                                                                     b—B_T.    W23),
          _           _                                                          _                                                     _
    theiefoieb+BT—2—.                                          cough),
    12 and 6’        known by the level, [3 may be found, and the
    agreementbeing0 the determinations obtained in both positions
    will prove, that a great circle accords with the four observed
      oints of the curve, described on the celestial sphere by the
                                                                  '
    line of collimation.
       The observations of the pole star made with this view are
    the   following:                                                                                                             '
                                            The Circle turned to the East.
                                           Passage.          l'—t                              15 b           15 B           7
                                                                           HUM-<U+FB02>)!                                    ‘
'
     1820.    June                  2       Lower           ~10illO          +272         +2119?          —020             1'0
                                    3
                                    6        __             —12-04
                                                            -11-51
                                                                             +324
                                                                             +309
                                                                                          +289
                                                                                          +282.
                                                                                                          +025
                                                                                                          +0-27
                                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                                           o-75
                                    9       -—-_            — 13'87
                                                                             +373         +974            +099             1'0
                                   l0        -—-
                                            _
                                                            — 11'39
                                                                             +306         +2‘7l           + 0‘35           1")
           Nov.                      4      Upper           + 14-16          +3'66        +3'36           --0‘20           1'2
     1821. March                   '27      Lower           —3l*9‘2          +858         +7'54           + ['04           0'75
                                   29                       -30-15           +8-10        +7‘87           +023
              April                25        —-             + 9-45           ~4'54        —3'36           +o~82
                                                                                                                           0-75
                                                                                                                           1'2
                                   28       Upper           -- 12'98         —3'36        —3‘13           —0'23            1'2
                                   ‘29      Lower           + 795            —2'l4        -3'10           +096             l'Q
              May                    4                      +1228            ~3-30        --2-77          _o‘53            1-2
              June                   1      Upper           -12-93           -3-34        -364            +030             0 -7 5
                                    3       ~—              -ll'46           —2'96        —3‘43           +0'47            0'75
                                   23       ——              —13'24           -—3‘42
                                                                                          ~3‘09           —°'33            0'67            ,
                                                                                  Mean 2       .....      + 0274           7:141‘1         .
                                           Tbe      Czrcle turned to the West.
                                         Passage.       t’ —-t         (b’ —-   H)        b'              B          y
    1820.     May
              June
                              24
                              21
                                         Lower
                                                      --     9-31      +230           +1-5'7          ~0~§3          1-2
                                          --
                                                             4-60      +1-24          +2-41           +1-17          1-2
                                                       --
                                          _--
                              23         Upper        +      6'86      +l'77          +‘Z'75          +093           0'67
                                                             2-80      -o-72          -0-18
              Sept.
                                          --_                                                         +0-54          0-75
                               9
                              13
                              15                      -  1-83
                                                             696       -1-80
                                                                       -0-47
                                                                                      -0-63
                                                                                      -0~76
                                                                                                      +1-17
                                                                                                      -0-29
                                                                                                                     o-75
                                                                                                                     1-2
              Oct.            21                      + 9-09           +2-35          +1-72           -0~63          1-2
                              22-                     +11~17           +289           +1-81           -1-08          1-2
              April
                                          ---
                                         Lower
    1821.                     21                      +‘21-55          —5-79          —4'80           +099           1-2
                              24                      +1214            —s-10          —4-94           +019           1-2
              May             5           -—-         +13-97‘          ~3-70          ~4-15           -0-45          1-2
                                         Upper        —l7-22           —4'45          -4'21           +0'24          1‘2
                              8 5         _._..       -15-30           -3-95          ~4‘56           ~061
                                          --
                                                                                                                     1-2
                              15         Lower        +18-80           *5-05          --5-31          -o-26          1-2
              June            12                      +15-91           _4-28          -4~89           -0-61          0-75
                              13         Upper        — 20'93          — 5'41         — 4'89          +0'52          1-2
                              14         Lower        +     15-34      *4-12          -490            #078           1'2
                                          —-
              I
                              16
                              16         Upper        -
                                                      +22 43
                                                            18-34      -
                                                                       -6-03
                                                                           4-74
                                                                                      -4-91
                                                                                      — 4'91          -o
                                                                                                      +1-12
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                     1-2
              July                       Lower        +l5'44           —4'15          --4'34          —0'19
                              2 2
                                                                                                                     1'0
                                         UP?"         -17'41           —4'50          —-4‘34          +016           1'2
                                                                             Mean    .
                                                                                     .
                                                                                     .
                                                                                     .          ..    +0013 1-2342
                                                                                                                                     The

‘4-38                Introductioh to the Sixth Section
 ,   The 7 contained in the last column of                these tables are cal
                              I
                                    all.
culated from the formula           a +     a»   where a and   (1’   denote the num
ber of wires observed by direct vision and by re<U+FB01>exion.           The
probable error for       y:
                         l is found=0"'4~53; and hence that of the
<U+FB01>rst mean =0"'1205, that of the second =0”094- ; so that the
small value of 5 thus found, may without great improbability be
attributed to the contingent errors of observation.        The mean
of both determinations is + O"'l>12, and its probable error
 =0”'074-2. This investigation rests on the suppOsition that the
deviation of the instrument from the meridian is dependent on
the sine and cosine of the single zenith distance, which is indeed
not improbable, but is not proved to be true; without this sup
position we should have obtained in place of              two differ  {3,
ences of the deviations for the direct and re<U+FB02>ected place of the
pole.   But other deviations may yet exist which do not com
port with great circle, and the complete destruction of' which
            a
is not necessarily obtained by the construction of the instru
ment, by which observations in nearly equal numbers are ob
tained in the two contrary positions of the axis. The errors,
however,    ifexisting, would become apparent in the right as
cension of <U+FB01>xed stars,      observed above and below the pole in
                              if
both positions of the instrument;        may be required of every
                                                  it
transit, that either immediately, or after                the proper
corrections,    it                            applying
                should constantly give the same     rig lt-ascension,
whether the star be compared to the fundamental stars above
or below the pole in one or the other position of the axis           a        ;
constant di<U+FB01>'erence  of these   four determinations   would  indicate
an error of the instrument, which would require further inves
tigation.
   This subject being of the highest importance for practical
astronomy,  I  have thought necessary to undertake this inves
tigation, which have founded on 58 circumpolar stars almost
                     I
down to the horizon.    But before    communicatethe results
                                                   I
thereby  obtained,   must
                     I    explain my  method of adjusting the
instrument.
 5. Corrections   of the Times of Transit over the middle Wire.
   The position of the transit has hitherto been adjusted'in the
 Kiinigsberg observatory by determining the distance of the
line of collimation from the pole, by means of observations of
the pole star, the line of collimation by reversing, and the devia—
tion from the meridian in the equator by the level or the me
ridian mark.  The <U+FB01>rst of these determinations has in certain
seasons some dif<U+FB01>culty, from the inconvenience of the moment
of one of the passages, which, owing to that circumstance,                        is
commonly not observed.     In that case one must be satis<U+FB01>ed
                                                         with

                  of    Bessel’s    Astronomical Observations.                                     14-39
with one passage, or use besides another star as pole star. For
this purpose 3 Ursa: minoris is very convenient: it passes about
six hours before or after a Urs. min.; it is so near the pole
that it may be observed with equal accuracy, and has light
enough to be distinctly seen at all times.        I have therefore,
for all determinations of the position of the instrument with
regard to the pole, employed both these stars; and have found
this so advantageous and convenient, that I cannot omit re
commending this practice to other observatories furnished with
instruments of suiiicient light.     In order to give‘ to the use of
this star the same facility which that of the pole star already
has, I have calculated tables for                  it,
                                          which are to be found at
the end of this introduction.      Professor Struve of Dorpa't has
calculated from these tables an ephemeris for the years 1820,
-21, -22, which he has printed at the University press, and by
which he has made to the observatories a very acceptable
present.
                                                                                                    ‘
   Of the two stars, the one, the passages of which happened
at convenient times, has always been used for <U+FB01>nding the de
viation of the instrument from the pole, according to the fol
lowing method.        The true sidereal time a of the passage over
the meridian       obtained from the observed time by the for
                    is                                                           t
mula                       a=t+r+m+ntg3+csec8
and for another star         = + +m +n
                                   a.’   t’   r'     + sec             tg   8    0            8'
where a,     a' denote the right-ascensions (for lower passa es
+12“)   8,   8'the declinations (for lower passages their supp                                      e
ments) 1', -r'~the corrections of the time of the clock.    Hence
                  .-¢    - .'-r      +'.'-. =                    sin        :+   r)
                  Lit—éizt—g)?
                                                   n     +   6
                                                                     cos:   Eb—B’)
   The observations which     have hitherto obtained showtthat
                                         I
the right-ascensions of a. Urs. min., as taken from the vta
bles of the Fourth Section of my observations, require at pre
sent the correction + 1”'05, those of     Urs. min., however,8
require no sensible correction: the second star have con
stantly taken from my fundamental catalogue, and have cal;                       I I
                                                   l                        i        3   Z/
culated tables for the values of              tg—aj'tz'g,
                                                                 =   l;
                                                                            872%               =vh.;
of whiCh I        give here the following extract:
                                                   .                                                  1
                                                   I
                                                                             -
                                                                             .           a UTSQ

440               Introduction to the Sixth Section
                               at   Ursa' Minoris.
                      Upper Passage.                       Lo Wer   Passage.
        6’            1.                  Ir.              1.                Ir.
      +4-0°      +0'02952             0'987          —0'02813            1'014
        30       + 0'02952            0’984-         —0'02838            1'017
         20      +0'02911             0'980          --O'02851           1'020
         10      + 0‘02895            0'976          —0‘02866            1024
             0   +0'02881             0'972          —O'02881            1'029
      -10        +0'02886             0'966          —O'02895            1'035
      —20        + 0'02851            0'960          -O°02911            1'042
      —30        + 0'02893            1   '951       —O'02929            1‘051
                               8    Ursze       Minoris.
                      Upper Passage.                       Lower Passage.
       5'             L                   Ir.              l.                Ir.
      +4-0°      +O'06301             0'972         —O'05699             1'028
        30       +O'06199             0'966         --O'05785            1'085
        20       +0'06118             0'959         —0'05857             1'013
         10      +0'0604-9            0'951         —0'05922             1'052
             O   + 005985             0942          —0'05985             1'062
      —10        + 0'05922            0'931         --O'0604-9           1'074
      —20        +0'05857             0'918         —0'06118             1‘089
      -- 30      + 0'05785            0'902         —0'06199             1'109
   By these tables 11     =k
                           +  was calculated from each obser
                               c      p
vation, and the mean of all values obtained during a certain
  riod was considered as the value of       for that period.
'
                                                           p                       I
   ve endeavoured to determine the change of      by the obser      p
vations; but    has always been so small and irregular that
                 it                                                                I
have been           to give up the attempt, from which, how
           obliged
ever, no consi   erable error can arise, almost the same stars
having constantly 'been observed during the whole period.
Thus, for the whole period from the 12th to the 27th of June
1820, the following values obtained by the mean of 14- ob
servations were adopted,            p:
                              -0”.2451,           0.996.    Ir:     -
   In order to <U+FB01>nd n frbm = n + kc, must be determined
                                    p                      c
by reversin the instrument, and either by the meridian mark
or observations of the two pole stars.   In order to apply the
<U+FB01>rst method with success,     have given the meridian mark
                                    I
                                                             on

                   of Bessel’s Astronomical         Observalimzs.              Mi
      on the 11th of May 1820 a convenient form.         This mark      a      is
      parallelepiped of granite, which has towards the observatory a
      face 24 inches high and 18 inches broad: this face       furnished
                                                                      is
      with  5 sets of black rectangles on white ground, of 4-" breadth
      and 2”'6 in height, which are contiguous in the direction of
      their diagonal lines; so that the centres of tWO contiguous
      rectangles differ 4” in azimuth.      The <U+FB01>rst set begins at the
      (apparent) upper edge of the mark in the middle of its
      breadth, and determines the azimuths O— 4-"—8”; the se
      cond set has <U+FB01>ve rectangles for 7”, 3”, — l",           -
                                                          5”, — 9"; the
      third has four rectangles for 6”, 2", — 2”, — 6"; the fourth has
      <U+FB01>ve rectangles for 9", 5”, 1”, — 3" -—- 7”; the <U+FB01>fth has three
      rectangles for 8", 4”, 0.  By this construction the single se
      conds of the deviations of the wire are immediately perceived.
         When the atmosphere      isat rest and the illumination good,
      one may estimate parts of a second; and as one may wait for
      these favourable circumstances,      may be assumed, that the
                                           it
      deviations of the wire from the mark, as given when re
      versing the instrument, or in the last column of the observa
      tions, are correct to 0”'2 or O”'3.    Notwithstanding this cer
      tainty in observing the deviations,       I have found that this
      method does not perfectly determine the error of collimation;
      by reversing the instrument     Ifound from 11th June to 12th
      October,
                 June 11 + 0"45            Aug. 20 + 2”'1
                       27 + 27/.4          Sept.        2'0
                                                          7   +
                 July 16 + 0‘75                  16 + 1'85
                 Aug.  1   + 1'5           Oct. 12 + 1'7
                       9   +   2-25    I
      These observations would appear to prove a sensible al
      teration, which, howeVer, as shall show below, did not take
                                      I
‘4“
      place.
          The other method of determinin            the   errorof collimation
      by the pole star cannot be employe with instruments                  of this
      klnd, as the reversing cannot be effected quick enou       to ob     h
      tain a satisfactory result by one passage even of a I<U+FB01>‘s. min.            :
      and in combining di<U+FB01>‘erent passages one would run the
      risk of transferring small alterations of the pillars, 8m. to the
      error of collimation.    The same cause which in the former
      method causes the uncertainty, might besides be apprehended
      in both the latter cases.                   _               _
         An accurate determination of the collimation being, how
      ever, necessary,I     have employed    third method, which has
                                                a
      the advantage of being deduced from repeated observations,
      and at the same time considerably diminishing the contingent
      errors.   It consists in employing for determining the colli
         Vol. 63. No. 314. June 1824-.             K 8         mation,

442 On the Sixth Section quessel’s Astronomical Observations.
mation, all deviations observed durin              a certain period, of
they axis from the horizon, of the midd e wire from the mark,
and of the instrument from the pole: it supposes the invar
riability of the collimation during two periods, and the suc
cess has proved that this may be done : it is besides
apparent that a similar supposition must always be made for
longer or shorter spaces of time.         If  the eastern deviation of
the wire from the mark be designated by 15A, the eastern
azimuth of the mark by 15 Au, we have for the southern ho
rizon             Aa+A= —n sec.¢ +6 tggo-l-c
astronomical observations give p=n+kc; n being eliminated
we obtain
        Aa=—A-—;p.-sec¢ +           btgo + {1+ksec¢}c
where for A, p,      b, the   means of the values obtained for all
passages    of  the pole   stars  must be substituted. The values of
 15A were registered in the last column of the Journal as often
as circumstances permitted; those of b are interpolated from
the beginning and end of the periods.               The comparison of
this equation with that derived from the preceding period,
gives the required determination of c.            For the period above
stated (from June 12 to June 27, 1820), the equation was (for
example)                 A  a:   +0”'57é + 2724 c
for the preceding one from 27th May to 10th June
                      A  a:   —O"‘Q855 + 2'7389 C
 Hence    on  the  supposition of _ the error of collimation being
during the two periods equal, but on different sides
                  a:   —0"'1576 and      n:  ~O”'088l.
     In this manner the errors of collimation from 27th May
 to 27th October were found as follow:
                        1820.
                                            i  c.       i 15
             May     27 to June 10       +0”1576      +2"36
             June    12   --   June 27     01576        2'36
             June    29 -— July 16         0'1429       2'14
             July    20 —- Aug.       1    0'1262       1'89
             Aug.      1       Aug.   9    0'1312       1'97
                                           0'1351       2'03
                          -
             Aug.      9       Aug.  19
             Aug.    21        Sept. 1     01452        2'18
             Sept. 7           Sept. 16    0'1496       2'24
             Sept. 23          Oct.   4-   01611        2'42
             Oct.    13   -—-  Oct. 27     0'1455       2'18
 where there is no considerable alteration.             Were the cor
 rection above designated by 5 not = 0, the value of 0 found
in this way would require the correction
  _.  .  ._
                                                   i<U+FB01> fg esp
                                                                     01'

         Mr. Walsh’s Account of the Binomial           Calculus.       443
   For calculating       the differences of right ascension n and
c are suf<U+FB01>cient;     from the 27th May 1820, only n tg8+c sec 0
was added to the observations under the head Corrections des
Instruments, where c as immediately found was corrected by
 — 0"0121 on account of the daily aberration.               If, therefore,
after that time the times of passa e over the true meridian
are required, m is to be added, which is deduced from the for
mula m = n. cot. g o-Hl cosec. o, where 15a is su posed to be
the eastern azimuth of the instrument observe by the me—
ridian marks and corrected for its deviation, for the beginning
and the end of the period.         The double determinations of m
hence resulting, and registered in the last column of the Journal,
belong therefore to the limits of the period            e. from June 12
 —27 m=+0”'20 and O"'5l ; the di<U+FB01>‘erence is involved in the
rate of the clock, and has therefore no further in<U+FB02>uence.
                             [To  be continued.)
                 I
     LXXII.        Some Account    of the Binomial     Calculus.     By
                            J. WALSH,     Esq.
 IN some
       the year 1815, having met with an accident which for
             time con<U+FB01>ned me, I resumed the study of mathema
tics, of which I had before some knowled e of the elementary
branches.       The <U+FB01>gure of the earth and t e precession of the
equinoxes <U+FB01>rst excited my attention.              I did not believe the
received theory of the earth; nor that the other proceeded
from the action of the sun on the excess of matter at the
equator: because, granting even that the sun possessed an at
tractive force, there couldlbe no accumulation of matter at the
equator, but an extension of the parts arising from the centri
fugal force of the earth. If the equatorial parts became more
extended, the polar parts became more condensed; the quantity
of matter remaining the same in every section taken in any di
rection from the centre of the earth.          Such were my opinions
then: nor are they yet altered; but          I   was totally inadequate
to investigate’them, as I had no knowledge whatever of the
higher mathematics.         I  gave up then any further thoughts
upon those subjects.        But to prepare m self for investi atin
 them at some future time,—and with t is intention on y,—
commenced the study of the in<U+FB01>nitesimal analysis, as it was
 called.   I   got some introductory works on this subject; but
as   I could not understand the principles on whichthey pro
 ceeded,  I  abandoned them as soon as         I  got them.      I gave up
then entirely the idea of prosecuting such a study any longer;
especially, when      I demonstrated that it was grounded on ab
                                  3 K 2                               surd

MA,                      Mr. Walsh’s Account
                                                                                     '
surd propositions.     The <U+FB01>rst of these was invented by the
ancients; the others were invented by the moderns, of which
the last asserts,—-that however small the variable .1' may be
taken, the variable 11 may be taken still smaller; which is
asserting that h-may be less than itself.     It is true, that how
ever small .2' may be, k may be taken as small; but it is ab
surd to say that however small in may be taken, 72 may be
taken smaller, or however small 71 may be taken, 2' may
be taken smaller.     After this I began to dabble at the binomial
theorem, which appeared to me not to have received a satis
factory explanation.      I thought this theorem could be de
monstrated by numbers, as it may be applied to numbers:
and I succeeded in demonstrating the law of its binomiation
when the exponent is a negative whole number.          And shortly
after, I demonstrated the law of binomiation when the expo
nent is a positive fraction.   Encouraged by my success so far,
I endeavoured to apply this formula to the doctrine of curves.
The most illustrious Des Cartes <U+FB01>rst represented curve lines
by algebraic equatiOns; and that impressed me with the idea
that the development of these equations involved the general
theory of curves.     With these ideas <U+FB01>xed in my mind, and
having demonstrated that all those propositions were absurd
which were made the bases of so many theories of calculation,
I  devoted myself with some ardour to apply the binomial
theorem in drawing tangents to curve lines. The equation
yq=ar of the common parabola, is that which I made the
subject of investigation, as being the most simple.      From this
I    gOt       j=(a.r)%+                      — g-(asc)           +8lc.
                              %‘,~(a.z')—ii
it   being any arbitrary      increase of         .z'.    I   saw clearly that the
                l
                lh
                                          .                   .      .
                                                                          But here
term §1(a.r)
                1'
                     , was the   equatlon of a stralght llne.
a question arose: What     straight line it was of which that
term was the equation?     _I saw clearly it was the tangent
straight line. But then it  was necessary to demonstrate this.
           I
Now saw clearly that this would be accomplished, if I could
prove that             y +   %(a.z')%, was  greater than y'
     In order to prove this       I   squared those two terms,            and this
gave me
                          a(.z'+h)+,1,~(aw)I—ln:;.
 which was greater than a       + II), the square of the entire
                                       (.2'
 series, whatever may be h. This broke down the barrier which
 opposed itself to my advancement, and opened to my view a new
 <U+FB01>eld more fertile than any that was before explored, and freed
the human mind from the shackles of an absurd logic by which
  ‘
                                                                                it

                          of tlze Binomial     Calculus.                               445
it had    been for so- long a time enslaved.—The       manuscript
containing this result was sent to Dr. Brinkley, to be re
vised, and published in the Transactions of the Irish Aca
demy.      But the manuscript being in a very disordered state,
in consequence of my health having suffered from long and
intense application, it did not meet the countenance of Dr.
Brinkley.             I
                 sent notice, immediately after the refusal of
Dr. Brinkley, to the French Institute; and it would appear,
that this Institute thought as much about it as the Irish In
stitute. The authority of the Royal Academy of Sciences of
 Paris is no doubt great, but        I
                                   am of opinion that the autho
rity of demonstrated truth is in<U+FB01>nitely greater. Truth, when
opposed to long established prejudices, has always to encoun
ter the most serious obstacles.       It is a bold innovation that
has demonstrated the absurdi        of the principle of reasoning,
employed in the Mécam'que Celeste; and the binomial calculus
has accomplished this. And it appearsto me too, that the
physical hypothesis employed in that work is also absurd.
    When any arbitrary increase is given to the independent
 variables,       I
              con<U+FB01>ne the term dinomiation to the development,
arranging according to the arbitrary quantities added.         call                I
the leading term the <U+FB01>nomial; the second, the dinomial ; the
third, the second dinomial, 810.           I
                                        give the term binomiation
to the development when no increase is given to the variables.
 '
   Dinomial Theorem—In the binomiation, the sign of any
term is the sign of this term combined with all those that fol-
      it'
    low               Let (x+lz)"'=x”(l +p)’.
'
   As x" evidently common to all the terms in the binomia
                 is
tion of (1+p)’, the theorem does not depend on any deter
minate magnitude of .2'. Then               not a determinate re
                                             12   is
lation. It will be su<U+FB02>icient, therefore, to show that the theorem
exists in the binomiation of (+1+1)”, and of (+l—l)", n
being any relation whatever.      With respect to +1)", when             (1
n    any positive Whole number, the theorem       evident. When is
    is is
n    any complex number, the terms are                  alternately
                                                           at
positive and negative: but before this point    length terms con     t   e
verge; and after the commencement of convergence, 'every
term     greater than that which next follows it.
            is
the sign of any term                                Consequently
                           the sign of this term combined
                            is                                 wit                       1
all those that  follow it.
    Considering now (1—1)“, and binomiating,         get         I
                                           —      C.   =   0.
      Taking any term whatever of this         series, and adding all the
negative terms that precede        it    to both sides, and
                                                                              subtracting
                                                                                        a

 4-46                  Mr. Harley              01:   Black Currant             Wine.
 all   the positive terms that precede                                it from both      sides     of the
 preceding equation,                   I get
                                               i
                                                                                    _
          a    "‘"I.2’—1%11—ff‘.i.’f—”
                                                     8w =        a     —""1—2':::.——':£’f;——'*"
   And similarly it can be shown, that the theorem is true in
the binomiation of any polynomial.
                       On the General Theon                       of Oseulation.
face.
       Let y =     f   (1‘be the equation of any curve or curve sur
                             2)
               Binomiating according to any constant in the equation,
 the“
                                  y=fy +f'y +f”y + 8w
   Now,   fy
          f  + y, evidently the equation of straight line,
                            ’      is                                              a
 or of a plane surface; - and by the dinomial theorem, the sum
'of these two terms        either greater than y, or less than y,
                                        is
 when the exponent      not unity: therefore, fy + 'y,
                                   is                         the                  f              is
 equation of the asymptote of the <U+FB01>rst order.       And for the
 same reason     +
                 fy
                 f
                 fy     + ”        the equation of the asymptote
                                    ’y                is
 of the second order,                  8m.
     Dinomiating the equation                        y:
                                                      f         (x, z), I    get
                        y'=y + fly + (Fe + d3y+&¢
       In this,   y     the equation of a straight line or plane
                       +dy        is
surface, and     either greater than
                       is                or less than y', when the
                                                               y 3/
exponent      not unity; therefore,
                  is                    +dy       the equation of            is
osculation of the <U+FB01>rst order.        And for the same reason,
3/+ dy + day the equation of osculation of the second order,
                       is
8C6.   Taking the dinomials of the independent variables, po
sitive and negative: then,      the sums of the terms which con
                                               if
stitute the equation of oscillation, are each greater than '1', or
each less than y', the equation      one of contact; but  is   one                              i
sum     greater, and this less than y', the equation
          is                                             one of in                      is
tersection.
     Cork, June 10, 1824.                                                            J.      WALSH.
LXXIII.            On Black Currant Wine.                             By C. G. HARLEY, Esq.
     To   the   Editors         of the   Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
          Gentlemen,
       AMinduced to send you the following statement, because
I   your valuable Magazine     a general repository for every
                                                     is
scienti<U+FB01>c discovery, as well as for such observations as arise
out of objects commonly presented to our attention.        be                                 I
                                          -
                                                         lieve

                 Notices respecting   New Books.             44-7
lieve that our common fruits, with the wines made from them,
have been but little examined; at least I have never met with
                                                           '
 an analysis of the Black Currant or its wine.
    July 28, 1821, I boiled 2 pecks of black currents in 25
 quarts of spring water (containing no metallic salts), in a cop
~per vessel, until they were reduced to a pulp; upon measuring
 the liquid expressed from this pulpy <U+FB02>uid, it was found to have
increased 10 quarts in quantity—of course, arising from the
 fruit used: 29 pounds of moist sugar were added, and the
 whole was put into a cask the second day after it was made,
 and allowed to ferment until the 2d of September ensuing,
when it was closely stopped down, and remained so till the
 14th of October 1822, when it was bottled off; its colour re
 sembled that of new Port wine; from its sweetness it was evi
 dent that part of the sugar had not been decomposed; its
<U+FB02>avour was considerably astringent: but its great peculiarity
 consisted in a very strong chalybeate taste, which was ob—
 served by several persons as well as myself; indeed, in this
 quality it appeared to surpass the common steel wine of the
 shops. But wishing to ascertain the precise quantity of iron
 it contained, I requested my friend Mr. Cufande Davie, of
 this place (in whose scienti<U+FB01>c knowledge and accuracy of ex
 periment I could place the greatest reliance) to analyse a
 portion of this wine; and the result of his examination is here
 subjoined.                                                  ,
    “The analysis of Mr. Harle ’s black currant wine 'only
 embraced the quantity of alcohol, and iron—
    “ Alcohol (sp. gr. 0'825) . . . . . 1525 per cent.
    “ Per-oxide of iron 20 grains in each pint.                  ,
    “ The steel wine of the present Pharmacopoeia contains
 Only 16 grains in each pint.”
                             Yours    8zc.
Yarmouth 1824.                                  C. G.   HARLEL
             \
            LXXIV.      Notices respecting New Books.
                       Recently published.
Smith’sGeological'zltlas, Part VI; containing the Maps of
 Cumberland, Durham, Northumberland and Westmoreland .
 neatly coloured, and amply explained on the margins : size
 22 inches by 19 :--Cary, St. James’s street, price ll.- 1s.;
 or each' Map singly 5s.'6d.                                  .
WE     are happy at length to have before us, another Number,
    completing about half the work, of the Geological County
Maps of our ingenious and deserving countryman, Mr.            \17_Vil
                                                             1am

                  :
.   -..“...                                            a
                   4-48             Notices respecting New Books.
                  liam Smith, and to observe, that immense pains seem to.have
                  been'bestOWed by the Author on the ample stratigraphical de,
                  tails which the colours on these maps portray.   ,         ,1
                      The Cumberland and Westmoreland maps, in the- moun
                      '
                   tainous district of the Lakes, also in the anomalous ran e of
                   low hills at foot of the lofty Fells on the north-east of App<U+FB01>aby,
                   and the Northumberland maps in the Cheviot Hills, exhibit
                   parts of those more ancient and highly inclined strata, which
                   form the general basis of our island, consisting here of masses
                   of granite, sienite, porphyry, &c., irregular in shape, and va
                   rious in position, in their slaty matrix; on which older rocks,
                   the Author’s series of strata (in which are plelitifully im.
                   bedded animal and vegetable remains, affording the means
                   of their identi<U+FB01>cation) rest in uneoitformable position ,- that
                   is, they cover the edges of the schistous strata, instead of
                   their planes exclusively, which last    isthe manner in which re
                  gular strata rest on each other. Except in two cases, these
                  older rocks in the maps before us, are surrounded by the car
                  boniferous or under-coal limestone, dipping or declining from
                  these rocks on every side :    the <U+FB01>rst of these cases, include four
              _   or <U+FB01>ve isolated patches of very irregularly coarse sandstone (the
                  0er red sandstone of some writers); and the latter exception     is
                  made by an unconformably-overlying          mass of red marl (lo
                  cally imbedding sandstone, which some rather absurdly call
                   new red sandstone) which occupies all the coast of Cumber-            _
                  land southward of St. Bees Head, andvalmost all the remain
                  der of its coast, northward of Maryport, as well-as the whole
                  <U+FB01>at of the Vale of Eden, as far up as the town of Kirkby Ste
                  phen in Westmoreland.
                      The carboniferous limestone receives upon    it,  <U+FB01>rst the lower
                  coal-measures (being without workable seams) interlaid by
                  thin limestone rocks, and intersected vertically by veins of lead
                  ore, particularly about Aldstone and to the eastward of it;
                  then, on these lead-mine measures, rest conformably, the seams
                  of coal (of an inferior and second rate quality) alternating with
                  their shales and sandstones; and again, on these, and still fur
                  ther from the slaty mountains, are found, the thick and valu
                  able seams of coal, with their alternating shales and sandstones,
                  around Newcastle, in the Tyne and ‘QVear district, and near
                  Whitehaven, Workington and Maryport, on the western coast,
                  and in a few other situations; and again, upon these coal-mea
                  sures, both in the coast lands of Durham, and south-east cor
                  ner of Northumberland, and also in Cumberland, south of
                  Whitehaven, there repose unconformably, the magnesian lime
                  stone rocks, which at length become conformably covered by
                  the red marl.-  which last, though of great thickness, and very
                                                                          remarkable,

                       Notices respecting New Baal-a              449
  remarkable, had either escaped the notice, or appeared unwore
  thy the particular mention, of English geological writers, be.
 fore the promulgation of Mr. Smith's discoveries.             On the
  north-east of Stockton and on the south of \Vhitehaven, this
 red marl resting on magnesian limestone, occupies the highest
  place in the series of strata found in those four counties.        .
      In the Northumberland and Durham maps, Mr. Smith has
  continued the plan, of which he <U+FB01>rst gave an example in his
 fourssheet Yorkshire map, of colouring the thicker sandstone
 rocks, interlaying the coal strata, and so has divided the Tyne
 and 'Wear‘coal-<U+FB01>eld into several stratigraphical divisiOns, cor
 responding with the bassets of the known seams of coal, in each
 of such divisions; an arrangement through, the study of which,
 it is probable that valuable collieries may hereafter be opened
 in estates and places where they are now unknovvn.
 Part I.      Volume V. of The Memoirs of the Wernerz'an Natural
     Iiistmp/ Society qudinburg/z,for 18234, is just published,
     and contains the following papers.
     By Dr. R. Knox. An Account of the Foramen centrale of
 the Retina, generally called the Foramen of Swnmming, as
 seen in the Eyes of certain Reptiles. Observations on the Ana
 tomy of the Duck-billed Animal of New South Wales, the Or
vnz'l.‘1101_~ym'kus paradoxus of Naturalists.    Additional Observa
tions relative to the Foramen centrale of the Retina in Reptiles.
Observations on the Organs of Digestion, andtheir Appendages,
and on the Organs of Respiration and Circulation, in the Omi—
thmynclzus paradomus.           Inquiry into the Origin and Characte
ristic Differences of the native Races inhabiting the Extra Trm
pical Part of Southern Africa—By L. Edmondston, Esq. Ob
servations on the lesser Guillemot and Black-billed Auk, the C0
lymbus Minor and the Alca Pica of Linnaeus—By Dr. R. K.
Greville, and G. A. W. Arnott, Esq. Tentamen Methodi MUS!
comm ,- or, A New Arrangement of the Genera of MOSS<U+FB01>s,,with
Characters and Observations on their Distribution, History, and
Structure—By M. Miller, Esq. Register of. the Weather at
Corfu, during the Mouths of August, September, October, and
November, 182L—By A. Marshall, Esq. Contributip-n‘to a
Natural and Economical ,I-listory of the Coco-Nut Tree-TRY
John Coldstream, Esq. An Account of a Series of Thermome~
trical Observations, made hourly at Leith, during Twenty-four
successive Hours, and once every Month, From July 1822 to
July.1823.—-By G. A. W. Arnott, Esq. 'Notice of a Journal
Of a Voya e from Rio de Janeiro to the Coast of Peru, byler.
William <U+FB01>rmeson, Surgeon—By David Don, Esq. A Monos
    Vol. 63. No. 3111-. June 1824.         .      3 L          graph

4-50                Notices respecting New   Bo'o/cs.
graph of the Genus Pyrola.-—By W. Mac'gillivray, Esq. De
scriptions, Characters, and Synonyms of the different Species
of the Genus Larus, with Critical and Explanatory Remarks.—
By J. Atkinson, Esq. Sketch of the Geographical Distribution
 of Plants in Yorkshire—By the Rev. Dr. Fleming. On a New
British Species of Spatangus.
   These Papers are illustrated by seven engravings.
 Transactions    of the Royal  Society of Edinburgh,    vol. x. Part I.
>
                  containing the following Papers.
   On the Existence of two new Fluids in the Cavities of Mi—
nerals, which are immiscible, and possess remarkable physical
Properties. 'By Dr. Brewster.—Observations            on the Compa
rative Anatomy of the Eye. By Dr. R. Knox.—Notice of an
undescribed Vitri<U+FB01>ed Fort, in the Burnt Isles, in the K les
of Bute. By James Smith, Esq.—On the Formation of C 18.1
cedony. By Sir-G. S. Mackenzie, Bart—Notice respecting
the Vertebra of a Whale found in a Bed of blueish Clay near
Din wall. By'the same—Description of Hopeite, a new Mi
nera from Altenberg, near Aix-la-Chapelle. By Dr. Brewster.
—Astronomical Observations made at Paramatta and Sydney.
 By Sir Thomas Brisbane and M. Rumker.--On a remark
able Case of mvaanetic Intensity of a Chronometer. By George
Harvey, Esq.— emarks concerning the Natural-Historical
Determination of Diallage. By \V. I-Iaidinger, Esq.-—Investiga
tion of Formulae for <U+FB01>nding the Logarithms of Trigonometrical
Quantities from one another. By Professor Wallace—A pro
posed Improvement in the Solution of a Case in Plane Trigo
nometry. By the same—Some Notices concerning the Plants
of various Parts of India, and concerning the Sanscrita Names
of those Regions. By Dr. F. Hamilton.--On a new Species
of Double Refraction, accompanying a remarkable Structure
in the Mineral called Analcime. By Dr. Brewster.—-()n the
Speci<U+FB01>c Heat of the Gases. By VV. J. Haycraft, Esq—On
the Forms of Crystallization of the Mineral called the Sui
phato,-tri-Carbonate of Lead. By W. Haidinger, Esq.
   These papers are illustrated by nine engravings.
   The Edinburgh Journal of Science, No. I. has just appeared.
It  is conducted by Dr. Brewster, with the assistance of Dr.
MacCulloch in Geology and Chemistry;                 Dr. Hooker, in
Botany; Dr. Fleming, in general Natural History; Mr. Hai
dmger, in Mineralogy; Dr. Knox, in Zoology and Comparative
Anatomy; and Dr. Hibbert, in Antiquities and Geology.
   The Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, formerly conducted
by Dr. Brewster'
                    and Professor Jameson, Will now proceed un
                    ‘
                                                                   der

         Analysis     of Periodical Works   on   Natural History.    4-51
der the direction of the latter gentleman, with the assistance
of Professors Leslie and Wallace, and of other gentlemen of
the University of Edinburgh.
    An Elementary Treatise on Optics.        By the Rev. Henry
Coddington,    M.A.    Fellow  of  Trinity College, Cambridge. I
In one volume 8vo, with Plates, price 8s. boards.
    An Inquiry into the Principles of the Distribution of Wealth
most conducive to Human Happiness; applied to the newly
  roposed System of voluntary Equality of Wealth.       By Wm.
   hompson.   In a thick volume 8vo, closely printed, price H-s.
in boards.
  ANALYSIS        or PERIODICAL wonxs 0N NATURAL HISTORY.
       No.   II. OfThe Zoological Journal has just appeared, con
 taining nineteen papers, of which the following are original,
 or have original notes appended to them.—Continuation of
  Mr. Gray’s Monograph-on the Cyprazidre, with a coloured En-‘
   raving—Mr. French On Instinct, Essay II. containing an
    xamination of the Views of that Subject taken by Dr. F le
 ming and M. Frederic Cuvier.—Continuation of Mr. Bell’s
 Translation of Gaspard On Helix Pomatia.——Some Obsmva
 tions on the Nomenclature of Ornithology ,- particularly with
 reference to the admission of New Genera. By N. A. Vigors,
jun. Esq. A.M. F.L.S.—Remarhs on the Animal Nature of
 Sponges. By Mr. Bell.—Conchological        Observations, being an
 Attempt to <U+FB01>r the Study of Conchology on a <U+FB01>rm Basis. By Mr.
 J. E. Gray, M.G.S.—Note on the supposed Identity of the Ge
 nus Isodon of Say with Capromys.      By Mr. Bell.—-A Revision
     the Family Eguidae. By Mr. Gray.       Mr. Gray divides the
 jqf                     the two
  amily Equidae     into          genera Equus and Asinus, de
 scribing   the  Equus   Zebra of  Burchell, as Asinus Burchellii;
 A. albidus, nucha dorsoque fasciis alternis nigris et fuscis, ni
gris latioribus, line<U+FB01> dorsali nigra albido-marginatis       ventre,
                                                                 ;
cauda, artubusque infasciatis.      A plate given, showing the
                                                  is
animal itself, and also the difference between its hoof and that
 of the Equus montanus of Burchell, which          the true zebra.
                                                       is
—-Description of two new Species         Helicina
                                          of           also by Mr.
                                                            ,-
 Gre .—Deseription of a remarkable Fossil found in Coal Shale.
 By      r.   D. C. Sowerby.—On the Structure of Melania setosa.
             .I
             .
By Mr. Gray—Abstract of a Monograph On a new Genus of
,Gasteropodous     Mollusca, named Scissinella          M. D. Or
                                                       ,-   b
bigny.      \Vith  Notes  by Mr. G. B. Sowerby.       here  are four
plates besides those already mentioned; one of them lithogra
   hic: theirvsubjects are, Helicinae, Baleae, Isodon pilorides,
    elania setosa, the fossil bone from the coal, shale, Epeira
curvicauda, and Nyctinomus Braziliensis.                          I
                   a              3L  2                      Curtis’s

452         Analysis        of Periodical   Works on Natural History.
                            Curtis’s British Entomology.
                        No. 6. contains the following subjects:
   P1. 23. Siagonam quadn'corne.     The female of this rare and curious
species was unknown until now, and characters for the genus were much
wanting, as a <U+FB01>gure in the lntroduction to Entomology was all that we had
to help us to the knowledge of one of the most singular genera of a very
intricate family—Pl. 24. Gartropac/m querqifolia (Lappet Moth). The
larva and a male of this <U+FB01>ne Moth are <U+FB01>gured, together with elaborate dis
sections to exemplify the genus—Pl. 25. Psen equestris. A pretty and rare
Hymenopterous insect from the New F orest.—Pl. 26. Albenlr Ibis. Figures
of both sexes of this rare and beautiful species are given, which from their
disparity have been hitherto considered as distinct species.
                       The Botanical Magazine.             No.   44-9.
    Pl. 2489. Bubon Galbanum. The observations of the Editors do not
lead them to concur with Professor Schultes in refhrring this plant to the
genus Selinnm.—Eucrosia bicolor, the drawing and description of which, in
the Botanical Register, are said by Mr. Herbert to be very inaccurate—i
 Bouiaa linoplrylla, discovered by Mr. Brown in New Holland.—C'ampanula
India, a rare and elegant Alpine species.—Centaurea spinosa, of which it is
 said there has been no <U+FB01>gure, except the indifferent one of ProsperAlpinus.
                     “
—-Alpim'a tubulatn,    scapo radicali laterali, bracteis scariosis corollem tubui
 losam subaequantibus, labell'o incluso.”
                             Botanical Register,           No.   112.
   P1. 801. Iri; fm-cata.—Cytisus nz' ricam,—-tn this are annexed some valuaw
ble remarks     by Mr. Lindley on t e di<U+FB02>iculty of de<U+FB01>ning the limits of
genera, in orders the species composing which are well understood—1
Periploca gram, one of the oldest of the climbing plants of our gardens,
but never <U+FB01>gured in any of the popular botanical works of this country.—.
Rosa indica      odoratim'ma: some animadversions of apparently well me.
                 [3.
rited severity are here bestowed on M. Trattinnick’s Synodus Botanical—
Columnea mandala—I<U+FB01>biscus hafnium—11ndromcrlajloribunda.-—Hed_ysarum
ulplnam
 _.;_L
                 LXXV.         Proceedings     of Learned        Societies.
                                  ROYAL SOCIETY.
 May     27.           HE   reading of Mr. Abrahams’ paper on
                                                               “ Mag
                              ” was
                       netism       resumed and concluded and    paper   ;    a
 waread,         “     On the Direction of the Eyes in PortraitaPainh
ing;” by         W. H. Wollaston, M.D. V.P.R.S.                                   '
     June      3.--A        paper was       read,       “ On   the Generatitm of
 Fishes   by;”         J.   L. Provost,   M.D.      :   and the Society adjourned
                                                                             ‘
 to June17.
   June17—The following communications were read:
   “ On the Organs of Generation of the Axolotl and of other
 Protei;” by Sir E. Home, Bart. V.P. R.S.
   “ On the Effect of Temperature on Magnetism and the
           '
                                                    Diurnal

                      Royal Society.—Lilzn¢2ari  Society.        458
Diurnal      Variation of the Needle;” by S. H. Christie, Esq.
M.A.:     communicated by Sir H. Davy, Bart. P.R.S.
    “ On the Preservation of the Copper Sheathing of Ships,
and on some new Facts connected therewith ; ” by the President.
    “ On the Application of Daebereiner’s new
                                                        Discovery to
the Purposes of Eudiometry;” by W. Henry, M.D. F.R.S.
    The Society then adjourned, over the long Vacation, to meet
 again on Thursday the 18th of November next.
                           LINNZEAN   SOCIETY.
    June   l.—A     further portion of Mr. Vigors’s Observations
 on the Natural Af<U+FB01>nities that connect the Orders and Fami
lies of Birds was read, which proceeds in the illustration of
 the opinion expressed at the commencement of the paper, viz.
 that the system unfolded by Mr. W. SrMacLeay in his Hora:
 Entomologicae appeared completely to hold good in Ornitho
logy : and that following the train of af<U+FB01>nities in natural sue
 cession we are presented with groupes, primary and subordiq
Date, in series returning into themselves, and exhibiting analo
 gies with corresponding groupes in the other classes of the ani
 mal kingdom.        He also <U+FB01>nds that, as has been remarked by
 Mr. MacLeay in the other classes,’the primary division of'
 Birds is into <U+FB01>ve groupes, viz.
                      Raptm'es,   Birds of prey.
                      Insessores, Perchers.
                      Rasores, Gallinaceous.
                      Grallatores, Waders.
                      Natatores, Webiooted.
 All of which are successively considered as to their natural
 characteristics, the families into which they are subdivided,
 and the relation of these to each other.                           ‘
    In the part of Messrs. Sheppard and Whitear’s Catalogue
 of Norfolk and Suffolk Birds, which was also read, some con<U+FB01>r!
 mations were given of the fact of the Great Cinereous Shrike
 spitting mice and frogs upon thorns before it devours them.
    June 15.—A. B. Lambert, Esq. V.P. in the chain—Pre
sent His Royal Highness the Prince Saxe                           the
 Duke of Somereset, the Bishop of Salisbury, &c.CObOHIE, 8L0.     art
 of a paper was read, entitled “ Anatomical Observations on
the Natural Groupe of Tunicata; to ether with the Descrip
tion of Three Species collected in          0x Channel durin the
 late Northern Expedition—By \Vm. S. MacLeay, Esq.               .M.
 F.L.S."——The three species described were brought home by
 Wm. Nelson Grif<U+FB01>ths, Esq., and are a part of the fruits of
 the laudable industry _
                           with which the of<U+FB01>cers who
ix:
                                                        accompanied
                                                            -    apt'

454-                     Geological Society.
 Capt. Parry devoted much of their time to the collection of
the natural productions of the regions which they visited.
    A curious Papilio was exhibited by A. MacLeay, Esq.
 Secretary,               the forms and colours, we believe, of
the Laodocus presenting)
                  and    olycaon of Fabricius, which therefore
are doubtless the male and female of a single species.         The
specimen has the wimrs of the former on one side, and those
                                                                  -
of the latter on the ot er.
                    > GEOLOGICAL      SOCIETY.
    May   21.—-The   reading  of  the  paper “ On the Geolo ‘ of
the Ponza Islands in the Mediterranean ;” by George            ou
lett Scrope, Esq. M.G.S., was concluded.
    The Ponza Islands lie off the coast of Italy opposite Ter
racina and Gaieta.      They consist of Ponza (anciently Pan
dataria), Palmarola, and some islets; Ventotiene and San Ste
fano connect them with Ischia.          The harbour of Ponza is
excellent.    Dolomieu’s Me'moire sur les Isles Ponces excited
curiosity, but is too general to satisfy it. These islands are
composed of rocks of the trachytic series; and presenting
<U+FB01>ne sections along their coasts, enabled the author to clear
up many doubts and errors which the mere investigations of
inland localities have caused to be af<U+FB01>xed to this formation. .
    The Isle of Ponza is long and very narrow, and is eroded
b the sea into deep concavities.       Harder masses left alon its
sliyores show that it once was broader, and protruding      legges
mark its former connexion with Quannone and La Gabbia.
Prismatic trachyte, variously coloured and disposed, forms
the ossature of the island.      It is constantly accompanied by,
and alternates with, a semi-vitreous trachytic conglomerate
formed of minute pulverulent matter inclosing fragments of
trachyte.    The prismatic trachyte seems to have been forcibly
injected through the conglomerate; and wherever it touches
the latter, its earthy base is converted from two to thirty feet
deep into a pitchstone porphyry; sometimes it becomes-a
pearlstone, at others incloses a true obsidian.       These rocks
are connected with a siliceous trachyte resembling in ap
pearance the siliceous buhrstone of Paris.         Restin   on the
semi-vitreous trachyte and forming the base of t e'Moru
tagna della Guardia is a rock 300 feet thick, which the author
distinguishes mineralogically from common trachyte, and
proposes to call Greystone.
    In Jannone the trachyte overlies a limestone which Broc
chi describes as transition limestone: at the point of contact
this latter becomes dolomite.       Having described the whole
                                                                of

                        , Geological Society.                   4:55
 of this groupe, the author terminates his paper by connecting
 their geological structure with that of the neighbouring con—
 tinent of Italy.
     A paper was read entitled “ Notes accompanying Speci
 cimens collected on a Journey through Part of Persia and the
 Russian Tartaries;” by James B. Fraser, Esq. M.G.S.
     A paper was read entitled “ Description accompanying a
 Collection of Specimens made on a Journey through the Pro~
 vince of Khorosan in Persia; ” by Jas. B. Fraser, Esq. M.G. S.
     On quitting Tcheran, the road passed by the roots of the
 chain of Elburz through the pass Gurdunee Sirdara to Sem
noon and Shahrood, over gravelly hills,v having to the south
a salt desert and appearances of salt on all sides; thence by
 Mey Amood, Abassabad, Muzeenoon, and Subzawar to
 Nishapore; about 40 miles west of which place are found the
 celebrated Turquoise mines, which are worked along the sides
 and ridges of a narrow valley.      The principal mine is called
 Abdool Rezakee. The white is found pervading a soft yel
low stone and a mouldering reddish rock, as also a rock of
 much <U+FB01>rmer texture resembling quartz rock, of a grey colour
 with reddish streaks, and containing specular iron.       A con
 glomerate rock occurs in the vicinity.       The mineral is found
 sometimes in veins, sometimes      mammillated in <U+FB01>ssures, and
at other times irregularly dispersed through the rock.         The
 author describes all the mines actually worked; they are the
property of the Crown, and were valued, when Mr. Fraser vi
 sited them, at the annual rent of 2000 tomauns of Khorosan,
or about 3,5001. sterling, and are farmed to the best bidder.
 At Derroad, 25 miles from Nishapore, the primitive rocks of
 Elburz appeared similar to those seen in the lofty range be
tween
  _      Ispahan and Cashan.                   .           _
    A paper was then read entitled “Geological Observation son
the Sea Cli<U+FB02>'s at Hastings, with some Remarks on the Beds
immediately below the Chalk ;” by Thos. Webster,              Esq.
 Sec. G.S.
    This paper commenced with a geographical description of
the cliffs on each side of the town of Hastings, from the
White-rock on the west, to the end of Fairlee cliff on the
east, which form a very instructive natural section of an ele
vated tract in Sussex surrounded by, and coming out from
under, the clay of the Wealds.
    These cliffs consist of alternating beds of sandstone, shale
and clay, more or less charged with oxide of iron and car
bonized vegetable matter. The iron is most abundant in the
lower part, where there are beds of two or three inches thick
of rich argillaceous iron ore, that were pro<U+FB01>tably
                                                      workedfbe ore

4336                    "Geological Society.
fore the fuel of this part of the country became scarce.           The
middle beds of the cliff have much          less  iron,   the  greatest
part consisting of very white friable sandstone.         In the upper
part of the series there are many large blocks of a grey cal
ciferous sandstone, the surfaces of which exhibit a mam]
lated structure: this rock may be considered as a variety
of the chaux carbonatée quartzifere of Haiiy, having much
analoo'y with the crystallized sandstone of Fontainebleau. The
mami lated appearance is very well seen at the \Vhite rock,
and has (though erroneously) been usually attributed to the           '
action of the sea upon the fallen blocks.
    The fossils in the cliffs of Hastings are not numerous; the
shells being con<U+FB01>ned to two or three species of small bivalves,
                                                      marble. Thin
and a univalve resembling that in the Petworth
layers of lignite   are  frequent,  and   fragments     of a very sin
gular   silici<U+FB01>ed wood  of  the  monocotyledon     kind,   the cavities
of which are <U+FB01>lled with minute transparent crystals of quartz.
    Bones of large Saurian animals, and of birds, also occur,
though rarely; together with scales of <U+FB01>sh.
    The author observed that the grey calciferous rock has not
hitherto been noticed in any part of the formations between
the chalk and the Pin-beck, except in this district: and from
its not being co-extensive with the rest of the ferruginous
sand series, and the want of continuity and correspondence
in many of the beds, he took occasion to remark, that it may
be frequently more correct to consider the subdivisions of
some formations rather as irregularly lenticular than as tabular
masses.
    June 18.—A paper                            “ Notes on Part of
                          was   read entitled
the opposite Coasts of the En lish Channel, from Deal to
Brighton, and from Calais to, Freport;” by Wm. Henry
Fi‘tton, M.D., M.G.S.             -                                 .
    This paper was accompanied by      a connected    series  of views
or elevations of the coast, drawn by Mr. W'ebster, from the
  lace where the chalk rises near Calais, to where, after being
cut off near Blaric-Nez, the chalk avain appears upon the
shore near Treport; and, on the English side, from the rise
of the chalk near Deal, to where it sinks at Brighton. The
author expresses his acknowledgments to the Baron Cuvier,
through whom he obtained permission from. the French au
thorities to pass along the coast by sea, and experienced every
where the greatest attention from the of<U+FB01>cers of the French
 Customs.      The paper brie<U+FB02>y describes the-leading geological
features of thecoast, reciting the partial descriptions already
published; and referring for an account of the cliffs near
 Hastings, to a memoir by Mr. Webster read at- the last meet
                                                   .                mg

             [fin-[icultural Society.—'Aslron0mical Society.    457:
  ing of   the Geological Society, and for a detail of the beds
  which form the cliffs from Gris-Nez to Equihen, to an account
  of the lower Boulonnois, to be read at a future meetin . From
  Equihen to the mouth of the Somme, the coast is together
  occupied by dunes of sand, the sand-hills being in some
  places, especially in the vicinity of Etaples, more than 100 feet
  in hei ht.       These hills are in general somewhat crescent
  shapef, the back of the crescent being turned towards the
  prevailing wind, and the slope on the lee-side much more
  rapid than the opposite one.          The immediate base of the
  dunes seems to be peat, which is found both on the land
  side'of them, and without, just on the verge of the sea, and
  in some places below the level of high water: but no rocks
  have yet been discovered along the coast beneath the dunes.
'
  A list of heights obtained by the barometer is subjoined to
  this paper, and some detached sketches are annexed to it of
  interesting geological appearances on the French shore.
                         HORTICULTURAL    SOCIETY.    .
     June l.--'-A paper by the Hon. and Rev. Wm. Herbert,
  containing
                 “ Further Observations on Hybrid Plants," was
  read.                                                .                .
     June 15.—His Imperial Majestythe Emperor of Russia                   -
                                                                  '
   was elected a Fellow of the Society.
     The following communications were read:
     Description of_a Melon Pit on anew construction.             By
   Richard Lacy, Esq.                                                  .
     On the best Means of Protecting the Blossoms of Trees
                                                             '
  on Walls.       By the President                 .
                          ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.                      ..
     June ll.--The followin papers were read :—                        :
     lst. On the Variation 0 the mean hlotion of the Comet of
  Encke produced by the Resistance of an Ether; by M. Mas
  sotti. - This comet is well known to evince a diminution ofits
  periodic time at each revolution, and the object of this paper
  was to demonstrate the cause of this effect.        Encke himself
  supposed it was occasioned by an ether diffused through space ;_
  but if so, how happens it that the planets also have notbeen
  retarded?      This the author attempted to show might-be the
  case, althou h the'phzenomenon m' ht pass unobserved.          He
  ado ts with ianG, the hypothesis 3f Newton, that'the density
  of t is ether diminishes in the inverse ratio of the square of the
  distance from the sun; consequently that the planet Mercury
  would be most likely to be affected by it; and by a long series
      Vol. 63. No. 314. Jime 1824.          s M                     of

Q58        .-          Astronomical Society.
of analytical investigation, assisted by Legendre’s tables of
elliptic functions, arrives at the result, that this resistance
would not produce a greater change in the mean geocentric
longitude of Mercury, than 31”-2 in the course of a century.
 Hence he concludes that the comet may have such a resistance
from an ether, as will be su<U+FB02>icient to account for the di<U+FB01>erence
between the calculus and the observations, and yet that the
planets shall not hitherto have manifested the least effect of
such a medium.
    2d. On a new Astronomical Instrument called the Diffe
rential Sextant; by Benjamin Gompertz, Esq. F.R.S. _ This
paper was a further and more particular description of the
construction and application of the instrument before invented
by Mr. Gompertz, and partially described in his paper on
Astronomical Instruments read before the Society on the 11th
of January 1822.      In this instrument, the index re<U+FB02>ector is
susceptible of motion on one end of the index as on a centre,
being the same as that on which the index itself turns, so that
the re<U+FB02>ector ma be set to make any angle at pleasure with
the index; the w ole being permitted to move, as a bent lever
about the centre. The horizon glass also is capable of being
                                                                   '
adjusted and <U+FB01>xed at di<U+FB02>'erent angles to the <U+FB01>xed arm. The
object proposed by Mr. Gompertz in this contrivance is to
measure the dt<U+FB02>‘erence of angular distances in any two ce
lestial phaenomena, occasioned by those varying circumstances
which produce small changes“; such as refraction, parallax,
aberration, &c.: and the paper concluded with some appro
priate hints as to the best manner of employing the instrument
to these purposes.                                             1.;
    3d. An Account of an Occultation of the Gem-giam Sidus
by the Moon, which will take place on the 6th of August
next, by Francis Baily, Esq. F.R.S. and V. Pres. Ast. Soc..—
Mr. Baily begged to call the attention of the Society to this
interesting phaenomenon which has never yet been seen, as no
occultation has occurred since the discovery of the planet. The
occultation will occur within a very few minutes after the
moon has passed the meridian; insomuch that those
possessing a transit instrument will see the planet in tpersons
                                                          e <U+FB01>eld.
of view when the moon’s centre is on the meridian. This
notice was accompanied by a diagram, showing that the planet
would enter the western or dark limb of the moon at about
half we between the moon’ s outer and the upper or northern
part of er disk.     There will be suf<U+FB01>cient time to observe the
occultation of the planet alter the transit of the moon.    This
 interesting phaenomenon will no doubt attract the notice of
                                                           every

                        Na»       sew/1 Wales.                   £59
every practical astronomer.    This being the last meeting of
the Society’s present session, an adjournment took place until
                                              '
the 12th of November next.
 _          ROYAL ACADEMY or SCIENCES or PARIS.
     Feb. 16 (continued). —- M. Poisson read his Memoir on
 the Theory of Magnetism.
     Feb. 23.--M. de Humboldt gave a verbal account of a
 work by M. Auguste Saint Hilaire, entitled “ Description
Ides Plantes Naturelles du Bresil,” Cahier I.
    M. Moreau de Jonnes announced that earthquakes had
 been felt at the Antilles on the 11th of November and 13th
 of December.                    -  '      '                  '
    M. Percy, on exhibiti      to the Academy an original por
 trait of Copernicus, whic he proposed to present to the
 Royal Observatory, read a biographical notice of that Philo
 sopher.   The new propositions of the Commission on Gas
 Illumination were approved of by the Academy. M. Dulong,
 in the name of a Commission, gave an account of a Memoir
 by M. Longchamp, on the Analysis of Phosphoric Acid, and
 of the Phosphates.
       LXXVI.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                              '
                        NEW       SOUTH   WALES.
          16, arrived o<U+FB02>' the Isle of Wi ht, the Competitor,
JUNECaptain Ascough, in one hundred and t irty-four'days from
Sydney, New South Wales, with a cargo consisting of various
kinds of colonial timber, seal skins, elephant oil, and two hun
dred and eighty bales of wool.    Came through Book’s Straits,
New Zealand, and by way of Cape Horn.              The Elizabeth,
Brooks, sailed the same dayas the Competitor; and the Ocean,
Harrison, was to follow in ten days'
                                      after, both loaded with si
milar cargoes.                                                       .
   Mr. Oxley, surveyor general, had returned in January <U+FB01>'om
surveying part of the coast to the northward, and succeeded in
discovering a river in Moreton Bay, lat. 28° (which he has
named the Brisbane), superior to any yet known in New Hol
land.   He ascended it for 50 miles, and saw its course from'
                                                                           '
an eminence for 80 or 40 further, being compelled to return
from further examination for want of provisions.         It is three
miles broad at the entrance, and has usually from three to
nine fathoms water up to where he left off the survey; but
about twenty miles from the sea it is crossed by a ledge of
rocks, over which there are only twelve feet at high water.‘
At the distance to which                    the tide rose four
                          heparietrated,                           feet;
         -                        3       2                      an

460                      New South Wales.
and a half, and ran upwards of four miles per hour.‘ The
country all around was an undulating level, abounding in very
superior timber, the soil rich, and well covered with rass, but
rather stony.     The river came from the south-west 1n the di
rection of the Macquarie marshes, of which it may probably
prove the outlet, being at the termination of Mr. Oxley’s sur
Vey about three hundred and <U+FB01>fty miles in a direct line from
where ‘he lost the Macquarie river among reeds in his former
trip into the interior.    The country around was not subject to
<U+FB02>ood, no marks of it being seen higher than seven feet above
the then level of the river, which was considerably within the
banks.    It contained abundance of <U+FB01>sh, and several parrots
were   shot in the vicinity, of the same species as have hitherto
only  been  found  near the banks of the Macquarie.      A river of
tolerable magnitude called the Tweed, was also discovered be-       '
hind Mount Warning, a little to the southward of the last,
with a <U+FB01>ne bar harbour of 11% feet, and the country seemin 1y
good around.       A smaller one, called the Boyne, was also
found in Port Curteis.       The governor intended proceeding
to survey the Brisbane in April, in His Majesty’s ship Tees
lately arrived from India.      Mr. Oxley’s health havin been
materially injured by his two former hazardous expegitions,
the hardships encountered in this last had given it a still se
verer shock; but he had nearly recovered at the period of the
Competitor’s departure, and was anxious to set out on a fur
ther journey of discovery for the bene<U+FB01>t of science, and the
colony to which his patriotic and meritorious exertions have
already been so serviceable.
   Mr. Archibald Bell, junior, of Richmond-hill, had also dis
covered a new route over the Blue Mountains, to Bathurst, by
way of Richmond, which passes through a fertile, well-watered
brushy country; and besides considerably reducing the di
stance, the road will be comparatively level, and free from
nearly all the obstacles which render the bleak and barren one
now used, so uninviting to the traveller and ill adapted for the
         of carriages and cattle.   The veteran' corps, lately dis
passage
  anded, is to be settled alon this line.
   A stage-coach has recent y commenced running daily be
tween Sydney and Parramatta, and a second caravan was pre
paring to run between Sydney and Parramatta daily; a third
between Parramatta and Liverpool; and a sta e-coach between
Parramatta and Windsor; so that now trave lers may proceed
by daily stages to all the well settled parts of the colony. '_The
<U+FB01>ve hives of bees taken out by Captain Wallace of the Isabella,
were thriving well, and had ,throwno<U+FB02>' many swarms, the greater
part of which had escaped into the woods, where they will
                                                          multiply

                          New South Wales.      v,               4-61
    multiplyfast, from the climate and country being so favoura
 ble to their propagation;      so that wild honey and wax may
 herea<U+FB01>er become objects of interest to the colonist for domes
 tic purposes and exportation, besides what will be produced
 from the bees in their tame state.
   > Mr. Hannibal M‘Arthur some time ago imported six young
 olive trees from England, from <U+FB01>ve of which, eighty-three
 young' plants have been raised by means of layers, while the
 parent stems have added a full third to their growth.           The
 soil is a very sandy light loam, of which Mr. M‘Arthur was
 .clearing several acres with the view of planting an olive rove,
 from this soil appearing so congenial to them.           Shou d the
               of the olive progressively increase at this rate, Mr.
     ‘Arthur will be able in a few years to disseminate this valu
 Rioduction
  able tree over the whole colony, where all attempts at propa;
  gating it have hitherto failed.                           ‘
     A quantity of New Zealand <U+FB02>ax had been imported,’which
  the female convicts in the factory were taught to dress in the
   New Zealand manner by two natives of that country, after
  which it is spun and_manufactured by the female convicts into
  various descriptions of cloth.      Should this manufacture be
 -
    roperly encouraged and conducted, it may stimulate the
     ew Zealanders to raise a commodity which they can barter
  for useful European articles. Tobacco has this year been so
   extensively cultivated, that the colonists will be independent
   of all foreign supply, a duty of 4s. per lb. having been laid
   upon imported tobacco, to encourage that of colonial growth;
 this measure has put a complete stop to the cultivation of to
  bacco in Otaheite, where it had lately been produced of very
. superior quality.
      The. country is rapidly clearing       means of the clearing
   gangs, the farmer paying <U+FB01>ve bushebys of wheat per acre to
  make it <U+FB01>t for the plough.     A large distillery has recently been
  erected, in the vicinity of Sydne , to distill from grain; and all
   the Coarse earthenware require      by the colony is now manu
   factured by two Sta<U+FB01>'ordshire potters, who say that the New
   South Wales clay is very superior to the English for these
    purposes.                               .
       When the Ocean sails, no less than ten vessels will have
    cleared for England from New South Wales and Van Die
    man’s Land, with cargoes chie<U+FB02>yrthe produce of these colo
    nies.  This great increase in exportation is principally owing
    to the duties being taken of colonial oil- and timber at home;
    but it is also, no doubt, partly. referable to the reduction of Go
_   vernment expenses, and Government bills being no longer dis
    posed of at a <U+FB01>xed price, but sold to the highest'bidder, so
    '                                                                   e
                                                                        tltilat

462      Return  of the Russian Expedition—Mount Rosa.
the merchants <U+FB01>nd it more pro<U+FB01>table to make their remittances
in produce than in bills—Mom. Chron- June' 21.
        RETURN   or THE     RUSSIAN ANTARCTIC nxram'rlon.
     This expedition, under     the command of Captain Bellin s
hausen, has added to our knowledge of the South Polar‘ e
gions, by the discovery of two islands within the Antarctic
circle, the only land hitherto knewn to exist so far to the south
ward.     Both these islands lie in about 69° south latitude;
one of them, named Alexander L’s Island, in 78° west longi
tude; and the other, Peter Island, in 19° west.         Both of them
were so closely enveloped in ice, that no particular examina
tion of them could be made.           This expedition, consistin of
two ships, the Wostok and the Mimi, sailed on the 3d of uly
1819.     They touched at Copenhagen to improve their equip.
ment, and at Portsmouth to take on board the astronomical
instruments which had been ordered for them in London, and
from thence proceeded to .Teneri<U+FB01>'e and Rio Janeiro, on their
way to the southward.         The leading object of the voyage was
to explore the    Antarctic     regions, and perform a circuit of
the southern pole     as  near to  it as the ice would permit; and,
avoiding the   track   of  Captain Cook, to make their highest pe
netration   where  this  navigator   had kept at a distance from the
ice, and on the contrary to retire into a more northerly pa!
rallel in the meridians where the adventurous Cook had made
the most particular examinations. ()n this judicious plan, they
succeeded in the discovery of the two islands we have men
tioned; but they could not approach within thirty miles of
them for ice, and that only on the west side.        The ice was ge
nerall    found to' lie so far from the pole, that their highest
latitu e was only 70 degrees, being short of the point reached
by Cook.      Within'the antarch circle they traversed a di
stance   of near 30 degrees of longitude; and taking the lati
tude of 60 degrees, we <U+FB01>nd that 300 degrees of longitude were
traced in the two voyages by Cook and Bellingshausen within
this parallel, leaving only 60 degrees of longitude unexplored
at this elevation.—App. to Art. PolarRegions, by Mr. Scoresby,
in the Edinb.Encyclopwdz'a, vol. xvii. Part I. about to appear. v
    '
            MOUNT ROSA, THE HIGHEST IN EUROPE.                        ,
     Dr. Brewster has published, in his new             ‘
                                                          Edinburgh
Journal of Science,’ from the Memoirs of the Royal Academy
of Turin, a translation of an account of the <U+FB01>rst ascent of the
southern summit of Mount Rosa, by M.M. Zumstein and
Vincent.     Having determined, by means of the barometer,
that the elevation of the southern summit, which they had
  '
                                                               gained

                   Earthqdakes.—Hopeite,               a new Mineral.               4-68
   ined for the <U+FB01>rst time, was 13,920 Paris or 14,88564- English
at   above the level of the sea, they ascertained, by a trigo-v
nometrical measurement thence made, that the elevation of the
highest summit of the mountain was 1680 Paris feet above                              it,
or 15,600, (16,6264 English) above the level of the sea. Thus
Mount Rosa        in reality the highest in Europe; the height of
                     is
Mont Blanc, according to Prof. Tralles, being only 14,793
Paris, or 15,7084- English feet.
                                       EARTHQUAKES.
I    Onthe night of the 10th of April, ata few minutes before 10
o’clock, one of the severest shocks of earthquake experienced
for many years was felt at Kingston, and in different parts of
the island of Jamaica.    The shock was preceded by rushin                     a
wind, and lasted 30 seconds, during which      was accompanie  it
by a subterranean rumbling noise. Three or four houses on
the north side of the island were destroyed, but fortunately no
lives were lost. The Jamaica Courant mentions, on the con
trar   the singular recover of a man who had been long bed
         ',
rid en from rheumatism. n the alarm occasioned by the shock
he sprang from his bed, and from that moment was able to re-"
sume the duties of his occupation as a brass-founder.    Several
smaller shocks were felt between the 10th and 15th of April,
                               >
when they ceased.
   The Bury Post says,    “ On Monday morning the 3lst of
May, about four o’clock, slight concussion was felt by a num
                                        a
ber of persons in this town and neighbourhood, which they
compare to the shock which would be occasioned         the fall                by
ing of a large house at a distance, but which cannot otherwise
be accounted for than by supposing      to have been an earth—
                                                        it
quake”                        .
                                            ——-———
    ,            HOPEITE, A NEW MINERAL.                                  -
  ,Form prismatic.  Fundamental form     scalene four-sided   a
pyramid of 139°41'; 107° 2'; 86°49', in which the ratio of
the three lines AM: MB: MC=azbz             _=1: 4/4'44-8:    c     is
    ,/1~493.                                                        .
      Incidence of        M on M over          g   =   101°   24"   =    Pr;
     >         '
                   e-of   s       on   s   overl= 81° 84’=(f)1'+w)3.
      (Elea'vage
                    perfect parallel to          Pr+ so (I), less distinct parallel
to Pr+ m (p).      Surface                 of i’r+ co deeply striated in a verti
cal direction, the other faces smooth.
    Refraction double; two axes, the principal one perpendi
cular to the axis of P, and also to      Action of the axis ne
                                                        1.
  '
      -
 ative.    Angle of resultant axes about 48° in the plane of
      on (g), contiguous to the obtuse lateral angle of P.  In
                                                                                    dear

4-64          Colour  of the Sodalite.—Aé"ronautic Ascent.
dew   of ordinary Refraction nearly 1'60] . Colour grayish-white
lustre pearly upon I, vitreous in other directions.           Transpa
rent, translucent.                                                        -
    Iiardness 2'5 . . . 3'0. Specific gravity    =  2'76 of a perfect
crystal.     Pkospleorescence and Electricity, none by heat.
 _ This mineral resembles very strongly         anhydrite and cryo
lite, being two species of the order Haloz'de of Mohs.             It is
soluble in acids without effervescence.         According to an ex
amination by the help of the blowpipe, instituted by M. Nor
denskiold of Abo, it consists of some of the stronger acids, like
the phosphoric or boracic acid, mixed with zinc, some earthy
base; and cadmium. Hopeite occurs sparingly in the cavities of
several ores of zinc, found at Altenberg, near Aix-la-Chapelle.
This interesting substance has been established into a species
by Dr. Brewster, who named it in honour of Dr. Hope.-_
 Edin. Phil. Trans. vol. x. Part I.                                       '
  EFFECT    or LIGHT on THE       COLOUR OF THE SODALITE FROM
                               GREENLAND.           >
     Mr. Allan observed very a                  phaenomenon in rela
tion to the action of light upon    interesting
                                        the co our of the sodalite of
Greenland.        When the massive variety is broken up, many
portions    of it have the most brilliant pink colour; but after
a day’s exposure to the action of light this brilliant pink co
lour almost entirely vanishes. Having broken a specimen
into two, Mr. Allan kept one of them in the dark, and ex-‘
posed the other to light.        The specimen kept in the dark re
tained its pink colour unimpaired, while the other lost it al
                                                                          '
most entirely—Brewster’s new Journal, vol. i. p. 181.
                         Annouiwrlc ASCENT.
    The following authentic particulars of        the  ascent   of Mr.
Graham and Captain Beaufoy, from Islington, on Thursday,
the 17th of June, 1824, are extracted from “The Nation”
evening paper.                 v
     The uncertainty of the weather in the morning prevented
Mr. Graham’s ascending at' so early an hour as had been in           '
tended.
    A stage about <U+FB01>ve feet high was erected, on which all the
operations were carried on ;. so that the spectators had an o -
portunity of viewing the whole of the balloon and car, wit -'
out inconvenience;         while the absence of poles 'or Other,
scaffolding secured the machine itself from an accidents.               -
   [-A number of .assistantsstood around, to hold down               the;
netting andth a dozen cords fastened to the top, gradually
giving way to the inclination of the balloon to rise, as it
                                                                  <U+FB01>lleili
                                                                   W1

                           '
                                         MEI-unautic       Ascent                         462$
          with   s. When      was judged to be suf<U+FB01>ciently inflated, a
                                    it
         large oop, made of strong butr<U+FB01>exible materials, was
                                                              brought;
         and to it were speedily fastened, by means of
                                                            number of      a
         steel swivel loops, the netting and cords above
                                                                  mentioned.
             Four strong leather straps, fastened to
                                                           staples in the plat
          form, were attached to the hoop; and together with the
                                                                            united
          strength of a dozen men, held down the balloon while the
          car was being <U+FB01>xed.
                                                                                   .
             The wind being high, with occasional
                                                            gusts, induced the
          assistants to remove the machine
                                                   (after Mr. Graham and his
          companion had taken their seats) by main force, as far from
          the trees and houses as the platform would admit;
                                                                        and then,
          watchin     till the balloon was perfectly upright, they let 0
          their ho  d, and     rose majestically at
                               it                       minutes past o’cloc .
                                                             5                 6
             Bar; 29 in. tenths; ther. 66;
                         8
                                                 hyg. 17 dr .    Nothing could
         exceed the grandeur of the scene witness
                                                             by the gentlemen
         in the car.                                                            7
             The balloon itself seemed stationary; not the slightest mo
         tion was perceptible; all other objects appeared to sink from
         it; every part_of the immense metropolis, and considerable  a
         portion of its environs, were distinctly visible; not a street,
         or square, or even house was concealed; most of the former
         being crowded with spectators whose cheers were plainly heard;
         and as during the <U+FB01>rst two or three minutes objects had not
         completely lost the appearance of height, St. Paul's and the
         hills near London were peculiarly interesting.             _
            At 8125mm. past 6; bar. 27-4, or 2204' feet; ther. 46; hyg. .
         15 dry, the balloon was directly above Waterloo-bridge                            ;
         when the beautiful distinctness with which every ship and
         even boat on the Thames could be traced by the eye, was ex
         tremely gratifyin        but objects having now lost all
                                                                      distinction
                                :
         of height, the whole country was perfectly <U+FB02>at, like a mili
                             '
         tary map. >                                   ,
            At 12 min. past 6; bar. 2525, or 4128 feet; ther._45,—_the
         ae'ronauts passed through some very thin mist,
                                                                   which Imght
         perhaps have been only the smoke from the metropolis, and
         were now directly over Vauxhall-bridge.                                           '1
            The balloon entered a current of air, which made revolve           it
         gently to the north occasioning a sh ht sensation of giddiness
                                    ;
         and sickness to those in the car an immediately
                                                                      afterwards
                                                  ;
         became enveloped in clouds, when the watch was at 16 mm.
         past 6; bar. 23 in. tenths, or 6240 feet; ther.
                                3
                                                                     3_9
                                                                  ;_hyg.      dry.  20_
            Until this moment every thing had been distinctly visible
         from the balloon      ;trees, _ houses, ships, 81c. had length and
         breadth, but no height: roads seemed like foot-paths, of an
            Vol. 68. N0. 314-. June 1824.                 _N     3         orange
"—L*nl

 4-66                        A'e'ro'nautic Ascent.
 orange colour; <U+FB01>elds of corn, as if ruled with lines of vivid
 green ; the hedges looked thicker and darker.
     On rising above 'the clouds, which had not been by an
 means dark, one vast expanse, like a sea of frozen snow, wit
  masses of every shape and form rising into mountains, extended
 before the eye to the horizon.           The sun, which shone from a
  clear blue sky above, gilding every pinnacle and summit-in the
  most beautiful manner.
     This sight was truly magni<U+FB01>cent. A few very thin vapours
  were still seen far above our heads; and where the clouds be
  neath us were broken, we caught delightful glimpses of the
  country.
      At  20 min. past 6, bar. 21'6 in. or 7872 feet, we heard the re
  port   of a cannon, but no roll or reverberation after it. The bal
  loon now revolved, getting into another current of air; the
  ae'ronauts felt a disagreeable sensation of singing in their ears,
  which had come on when they were passing through the
  clouds, and continued during the whole voyage: the applica
  tion of cotton was found useless, and therefore discarded.
      At 26 min. past 6, bar. 20-2. or 9216 feet, another report of
  a gun was heard—The clouds being now far below, rolled
  over each other into every fantastic shape, with <U+FB01>ssures be
  tween; and their silvery points were tin ed by the sun into
  all the varieties of light and shade.             1'. Graham   recom
  mended his companion to let loose a pigeon“, which at 31 min.
  past 6, bar. 19 in. 5 tenths, or 9888 feet; ther. 32; hyg. 25
  dry, <U+FB02>ew from the car with the reatest ease and rapidity,
  making two or three circles, and t en darting through one of
  the openings in the clouds towards the earth.
   -
      The balloon had now attained an elevation that Mr. Gra
  h‘am judged could not be exceeded without throwing out bal—
  last, which he said was always attended with the inconvenience
  of making the descent and landing more dif<U+FB01>cult; and as it
  was evrdent
                     no new scenes could strike the eye, by rising
   higher into the blue expanse, at 20 min. to 7, bar. 19 in.
   2-tenths, or 10,171 feet; ther. 32; hyg. 31 dry, he opened
   the           for a moment, and the balloon began to fall very
          y.
   gen t\ialve'
      At this great height—only 384; feet short of two miles—the
  report of a gun was heard.           To this time the metropolis had
  always been 1n view, except when clouds intervened; and the
  balloon had
                   not appeared to the voyagers to make much 'pro
  gress except in ascending; but it now <U+FB02>oated rapidly to the
     * The         pigeon reached White Conduit House at nine o’clock the
              <U+FB01>rst
- same evening.                                '
                                                             southward,

                            Aeronautic Ascent.                        467
  southward,     and being uite distended by the rays of the sun,
  some    of the gas escaped through the safety valve.
      At 18 min. to 7, bar. 19 in. 5 tenths, or 9888 feet, ther. 31.
  we caught a view of the country below; the Thames seemed
  diminished to a small stream, but re<U+FB02>ecting the rays of the
  sun brilliantly.                                                         .
       This scene was interesting; yet much inferior to the sight
  of the vast expanse of silvery clouds.           ,
       The descent was so extremely gradual, from Mr. Graham’s
  experience and excellent management, that it was only by
  constantly throwing out small pieces of silver paper, it could
  be ascertained whether the balloon was rising or falling.
       At 9 min. to 7, bar. 223, or 7200 feet; ther. 38; hyg. 23 dry,
  the a'éronauts found they were approaching the clouds; and
  at 5 min. to 7, bar. 24, or 5568 feet, they began to enter
  them; the appearance being that of a thick white mist rising
  up with great rapidity.
       At 4 min. to 7, bar. 24-"5, or 5088 feet, the balloon got into.
  another current of air, and revolved slowly.          The clouds be
  came much thicker and of a darker colour as they more com~
  pletely enveloped the voyagers, giving a disagreeable impres
  sion of space without any object to rest the eye on.               The
  voices of the gentlemen now appeared much weaker and lower
  to each other, than when either above or below the clouds ;
  but unaccompanied by any oppression on the chest.
       At 7 o’clock, bar. 25 in., height 4608 feet, the machine
  emerged from the clouds; and experiencing a fresh current of
  air, it again revolved.
       At 3 min. past 7, bar. 26 in. 5 tenths, or 3168 feet, objects
  on the earth once more became distinctly visible; so that even
  the sheep (appearin        like white dots on the green pasture)
   cOuld have been easi y counted.
       Mr. Graham now let down his grappling-iron with a'cord
   of 160 yards, which thus became of a very considerable
                                                                        to
  weight, at the same time giving every necessary instruction
   his companion to ensure their safe landing.
       At 7 min. past 7, bar. 28 in. 3 tenths, or 1440 feet; ther.
    '
   50; by . 22 dr , the ae'ronauts <U+FB01>rst perceived any difference
   of heigit on t e face of the country: and descended with a
. rapidity that seemed the greater, because they had
                                                             now an op-
               of comparing    it with surrounding    obJects.    Several
   portunity
                                                     balloon,   and    the
   persons were seen running towards the
              soon after grounded, passed through hedge,  a           and
      eld tight among the boughs of an oak, bringing the_ car al
   grapple
                                                                violence,
   most instantaneously to the ground with Considerable
   which shock the ' gentlemen        avoided  by hanging      with  their
                                     3 N 2                          handS

'
    468                       Aé’ronautic   Ascenl.
     hands on the hoop, and lifting up their legs.                The balloon
     rose again     the  height  of  the   cord,  with  great  elasticity;   but
     the grapple holdin         tight,   and   several  men   coming    to their
     assistance, Mr. Gra am and his companion, after three-more
     shocks against the round, each less violent than the prece
    ding, stepped out ot the car on the <U+FB01>eld of Mr. M. Wilkes, in
     the parish of T andridge, one mile from Godstone, and twenty
     tWO from London, at eight minutes past seven.
          The voyagers experienced the greatest civility and ass' t
     ance from the crowd of individuals who had collected; and
     the machine, its car, and all the mathematical instruments,
     were soon after placed in a chaise, perfectly unin'ured ; another
     pigeon being let loose, to carry the news 0 their safety to
     London *.
          He and his companion arrived in Oxford Street perfectly
     well, at eleven o’clock the same night.                     _
          REMARKS.—-In the calculation of height, 96 feet has been
     allowed to each tenth of an inch the quicksilver sunk in the
     barometer, which is rather below than above the actual ele
     vation.
          Contrary to expectation, the atmosphere became drier as
     the balloon ascended, (except at the height of 2304 feet,vwhen
     it was two degrees damper,) the hygrometer showing it to be
     14- degrees drier when at the greatest elevation than when on
     the round.        The compass was of no utility whatever, as it
     r_evo ved with the sli htest movement in the car.
          A ntleman had given Mr. Graham a. small in<U+FB02>ated bladder
     of In ian rubber, to be thrown out when at the greatest height
     above the clouds ; in order to observe whether it would waft
     from the.large balloon altogether, or continue attracted h0
     wards  it,   both rising and falling.       Much to the regret of Mr.
     Graham and his companion, this curious experiment was pre~
     vented by the bladder getting damaged before the ascent.
      ~ There     isnothing disagreeable or appalling in looking at ob
    jects from the car, which are not immediame under it; but
     to keep the eye <U+FB01>xed on the grappling-iron, or any thing per
     pendicularly below, for more than           a   few seconds, turns the
     head iddy.                             .                           .
                                                                        ,
       -
          W en at the greatest elevation,        a    slight degree of cold         I
     was felt; which went off almost immediately the balloon be
     gan to descend.                                            ‘
          After the descent, when Mr. Graham’s companion had
               the car, he had occasion to use his pocket handker~
    Epitted
         ief; when the sound in his ears was like the report of a
         " Second         sent    at the time of the descent, reached home the
                pigeon       up        ’
    {bllowing morning.
                                                                       pistol   :

                     Obituary— Wilson Lowry, Esq.                    4-69
     pistol: and this he found to be the case, as often as he re
     peated the experiment during that evening.
        It would, be the greatest injustice to Mr. Graham, not to
     mention the scienti<U+FB01>c manner in which he managed his bal
     loon, by always retaining such a weight of ballast, as would
     prevent the shock of<U+FB01>rst striking the earth from being seriously
     felt by the individuals in the car, and also by expending so
     little of his gas, as to make the descent perfectly gradual, giving
     him the opportunity of choosing his place of landing, by
     bein able to ascend again at any moment.
         T e gas used to in<U+FB02>ate the balloon, was 2% times lighter
     than common air.
         Diameter of valve, 19 inches.
         Balloon 63 feet high, by 37% in diameter.
         Weight of balloon, car, and netting was - - - 231 lbs.
         D0. of ballast, grapple, cord, instruments, Sac. -      107
         D0. of Mr. Graham and his companion - - - 294
                                                               632
                  OBITUARY.—W1LSON LOWRY, Esg.
       Our numerous readers, and the friends of science and art
              , will be grieved to learn that this celebrated artist
     generall
      reathe his last on the 24th inst. (June) at half past two
     o’clock in the morning.
        The mechanical branch of the art of engraving has been
     more indebted to Mr. Lowry than to any or all of the artists
     united, of which England can boast at this moment; and in
     deed it is but doing justice to his brother-artists to state, that
     they are not backward in confessing him, not merely as the
’v   improver, but-rather as the father and founder of this branch
__   as now practised.    Of the exquisite and impnessive manner in
     which he represented machinery and apparatus of every de
     scription, our friends possess many specimens in the volumes
     of the Philosophical Magazine.        It was in this work that
     Mr. Lowry <U+FB01>rst exhibited his powers in this line; and the
     example set by the Philosophical Ma azine led to all that im
     provement in embellishment and i] ustration by which our
     modern works of science are now characterized.           Though
     Mr. Lowry’s time was chie<U+FB02>y occupied with plates in the me
     chanical department—owing       to the fame he had acquired,
     and the consequent pressure of business in that particular
     branch—his powers of execution extended to every other de
      artment, particularly to landscape                  though but
       fiaw
          of thOSe plates bear his own name, englraving;
                                                 aving been
      .                                                              or
                                                              executfed

4370   Meteorological Observations—~Calendar              qf Flora,  6‘0.
for other artists, whose fame they have contributed to exalt
not a little.     These were chie<U+FB02>y executed before Mr. Lowry
acquired con<U+FB01>dence enough in his own powers to believe that
he would be able to meet with constant employment should he
seek it in his own name.          The writer of this brief notice, who
knew Mr. Lowry well, found it very di<U+FB01>icult to persuade him
to make the experiment. He did however succeed.                   Mr. Low
ry’s abilities could not           remain hidden, and from that time
business pressed on him     longrom every quarter.                              _
   It was not merely as an artist, however, that Mr. Lowry
made himself distinguished.             His knowledge may be said to
have embraced every department of science. is In mathematics
and the various departments of natural history, his knowledge
was extensive ; and in mineralogy in particular he had few
equals. His skill in this branch was of such celebrity, that
but few precious stones of great value have latterly been pur
chased by our <U+FB01>rst-rate jewellers, without previously submit
tin them to his inspection.
   in. Lowry’s manners were unobtrusive, modest, and en
gagin ; and the readiness with which he imparted to others,
from is vast stores of knowledge; and the happy facility with
which he communicated his instructions, willlong be remem
bered by numbers who experiencedhis kindness.
  mien; was» > a            mi               net-e.     an m"
                                                                                  '
 =m¥sMeteor0logical      Observations .at Great Yarmouth,
                                                                            ‘_
                          C. G. HARLEY, Esq.
                          [Continued from    p. 75.]
        vDay!-                       Winds-
                  -
                                                          Thermom.      Rain.
um.’ Dry. wé_'=.ET'sE. s.      sw. w. NW. N.
                                            -
                                                 NE-PLOW.    High.Med. In.
Jan.   17      14     -- 1     12     7   7  3    i    34    52   42     1;
                                     -
Feb.   17      12  6   4   4     5    4   2       4    38    52   43     1g
March    9    22   ‘2  4   4     5    2   4  6    4    30     5‘2 45     16
April   11     19  2   6   2     5        4  5    s    39     65  49     it
                                                           Therm.      Rain.
                                            January         38§%        1‘2
Mean temperature for         30 years
                                            February        41%;;
                                                                1       lg
                                                                         _
                       .
Mean quantity of ram for       24-  years   Male}!          “30g.       1
                                                                          a
Calendar    of Flora, Fauna, and Pomona, at Harl<U+FB01>eld, in             Sussex,
                                 for May.                    _                 .
   May    l.——Hz‘ruudo     urbz'ca   <U+FB01>rst seen at Scotts in the'parish              '
of Walthamstow.          This bird was seen a few days afterwards
at Hart<U+FB01>eld.       Narcissus pseudonarcissus petalis albis in blow
at Hale End, Essex.                                                   ,
                                                                         May

                              List of New Patents.                              4-71
         May 2.—-Doronz'cum plantagineum in <U+FB02>ower at Hartwell.
     ,, May 3.—Pa:0nia tenu‘szlia in blow.              Tulips abundant.—
   Dentaria bulby’era, Narcissus bg<U+FB02>orus, N. POEtiWS,nM major,
   1V.   bicolor, and Or'chis mascula, <U+FB02>owering.                    ml?-v
        May 6.-—Trollius europmls, Tr. asiatz'cus, and Tr. inter
  medius, at Hale End.                                                     *1
        May 7.—B0rag0 q<U+FB01>cinalz's and Papa'uer Cambricum ,- Den
   taria bulbzfera at Hale End four days later than at Hartwell.
        May 8.— Caltha radicans at Hale End; also Dalibarda
  <U+FB01>'agarioz'des.       Iris Germanica     at Wanstead.
        May 9.—C0nvallaria Polygonatum.
        May 10.——Anchusa sempervirens.
        May 12.—L_yclmis dioz'ca.
        May 16.—C0n'uallaria multg'<U+FB02>ora, Geum rivale,              Geum inter
   medium, Asphodelus         luteus, Senecz'o   squalidus, Papaver;           cam
                                                                                  >
   brz'cum.                                          at:           .-,:...»+;sa
        May l7.——Polem0nium cmuleum, Centaurea montzma, Vu-i
   lerz'ana Locusta.       Young gooseberries <U+FB01>rst gathered for tarts.
        May 18.—Symphytum tuberosum, Sympkytum asperrimum,
   and Symphytum hybridum in <U+FB02>ower.
        May 21.-—Aquilegia vulgaris. Young cha<U+FB02>inches <U+FB02>y.
        May 22.-—Papaver orientale.
        May 23.—Geranium sanguineum, and Hesperz's matronalis.
         May 24.—Pa:0nia q<U+FB01>icz'nalis, a fortnight behind its usual
   time.      The Pink variety only out today, the crimson was
   some days later.
        May 28.—-Pw0m'a peregrina, a week later than usual, and
   Pwonia q<U+FB02>'icz'nalis with crimson <U+FB02>owers—Hieraciuvaurorum
   ten days too late.
         May 30.l—Hz'eracium Pilosella, and Hypochaeris radicatm;
                                                                                      -
        Some plants have come out at their usual time, while others
   have been this‘season a fortnight later than ordinary.
        Hartwell, June 22, 1824.                                T. FORSTER.
                             LIST OF NEW PATENTS.
        To John Dickinson, of Nash Mill in the parish of Abbotts Langley,
   Hartford, esquire, for his method of cutting cards by means of machinery,
                                                                                   -
   and also a process for applying paste or other adhesu'e matter to paper, and
   for sticking paper together with paste or other adhesive matter, by means
   of machinery applicable to such purposes—Dated 20th May 1824.
   6 months allowed to enrol speci<U+FB01>cation.                                          _
        To James Cook, of Birmingham, Warwickshire, gun-maker, for certain
                                                                 locks     for
   improvements in the method of making
                                               and constructing                 guns,
                                                  months.
   pistols, and other <U+FB01>re-arms.— 20th May.—6                       .
        To Thomas Marsh, of Charlotte-street, Portland-place, Middlesex, sad
   dler and harness-maker, for an improvement in the art of making saddles.
    --20th Maya—2     months.
'
                                                                                  To

1572                       List (3me Patents.
   T0 James Viney, of Shanklin, Isle of Wi ht, colonel in the Royal Artil
lery, for his method of supplying water or uids for domestic orrother pur
poses in a manner more extensively and economically than has hitherto
been usually practised—22d May.——6 months.
   To Benjamin Black, of South Molton-street, in the parish of St.George
Hanover-square,    Middlesex, lamp-manufacturer,    for his improvement on
carriage-lamps.—25th   Ma .—6 months.
   To Joseph Wells, of anchcster, Lancashire, silk and cotton manufac
turer, for his machine for dressing and stiffening and drying of cotton and
linen warps, or any other warps that may require       it, at the same time
the loom   is  working, either with the motion of the loom or other ma
chinery—25th May.—6 months.
   To James Holland, of Fence House, in the parish of Aston, Yorkshire,
shoemaker, for certain improvements in the manufacture of boots and
shoes.—315t     Maya—2   months.                                   .
  To John Heathcoat, of Tiverton,        Devonshire, lace-manufacturer,   for
 certain improvements in the methods of preparing and manufacturing silk
 for weaving and other purposes.—-l5th June—6 months.
     To William Ainsworth Jurup, of Middlewich, Cheshire, salt proprietor,
 and William Court, of Manor Hall, Cheshire, esquire, for their improved
 method of manufacturing salt.—l5th June—2 months.                 .
     To Richard Hooton, of the Aqueduct Iron-Works, Birmingham, Warq
 wickshire, iron manufacturer, for certain improvements in manufacturing
,wrought iron.—15th June.--6 months.
     To William Harwood Horrocks, of Stockport, Cheshire, cotton manu
 facturer, for his new apparatus in giving tension to the warp in looms.—
  llith June.— months.
                6
     To Robert Garbutt, of the town of Kingston-upon-Hull, merchant, for
 his apparatus for the more convenient <U+FB01>ling of papers and other articles,
 and protecting the same from dust or damage, including improvements       on
 or additions to the <U+FB01>les in common use.-—-l5th June.-6 months.
     To William Harrin ton, of Crosshaven, in the county of Cork, esquire,
 for his improved raft or transporting timber.—l5th June—6 months.
     To Charles Chubb, of Portsea, Hampshire, ironmonger, for his improve
 ments in the construction of locks.—l5th June—2 months.
     To Benjamin Ager Day, of Birmingham,          Warwickshire, <U+FB01>re-screen
 maker, for certain improvements inthe manufacturin     of drawer, door, and
 lock knobs, and knobs of every description —-15th une.—2 months.
     To John MacCurdy, of New York, United States of America, but now
of Snow-Hill, London, esquire, who, in consequence of communication
                                                             a
made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad,      is  in possession of
an improved method of generating steam.—l5th June—6 months.
     To Philip Taylor, of the City Road, Middlesex, engineer, for certain
improvements in apparatus for producing gas from various substances.—
 l5th June.-—6 months.
     To John Gibson, woollen draper and hatter in Glasgow, for his manu
facturing or making of an elastic fabric from whalebone, and the manu
facturing or making of elastic fabrics from whalebone, hemp and other
materials combined, suitable for making into elastic frames or bodies for
hats, caps, and bonnets, and for other purposes, and also the manufacturing
or making of such elastic frames or bodies from the same materials
                                                                           by
the mode of plaiting.—l5th June—4 months.
     To William Bailey the younger, of Lane End, Sta<U+FB02>‘ordshire Potteries,
manufacturer     and ornamenter of lustre ware, for his improved gas con.
sumer for the more effectually consuming. the smoke arising from
                                                                     gas bun
ners or lamps.—l5th June.-     2 months.
                                                                 METEORO—

w!                                                                                                                                                            BUBNEY            at                  .Mr.     CARY       in    London,      am           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1117‘. EALL     at 110310”.
                                                                             ..                          the Observationer                                                             (wasporl,
         \,    METEoRbT'O‘GICAL                               T ABLE            éhlnprising
                                                                       0’                                                                                                       of       Thermomewr-                       Ram.
                     Gesvoa'r,            at half-past        Eight          Clock, A.M.                             (11,01,113,                                      Height                                                                             ‘
         HW<U+FB02>e                                                                    -~——w                  'v        ~—— ~——————                                                     in                              —~                                   WEATHER
                           “fang-T».
                                  u                  he.                                                                                       _                                        im          '
                                               ,5
                                                     °    5                    -                        u-u'       ,                      15    ‘5     Ir      Bilirometer,
                                                                                                                                                                   nches, &c.                           z'   _;                    .
               Da   501‘           "'1                                                  é         _                           5                                                          _‘
                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   =‘ '8
               Mai,                          s           a;                                 a5                    EB           géél-Ein»                                                                                                            —~~--~~
                                    2":        °’        5"           >'                    “D:                        3      E
                                                                                                                              E                                                               c    f:               g             58
                1824 .                                                        ’5                        :5      .2            Ea                    EZ         Land            Bost                      ngf‘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          London.
                                                                    Ea. G
                                                                                                                  u           E'5        6     a                                                        mm          A              9;                           Bostom
                                   533::             {3%                                                 g;                                                    MIMI-18%.;
                                                    \                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _
                       26                                 -                                                        .....                          1...         30.50           30-15     556454         55                                Fair         Fine
     ,         May                  30-40
                       27           30-63      60                                       .   0-28                  .........                                    30-64           30-25     476956         61                                Fair        'Fiiie
          Q            ‘29,         30'59                                                                ......   l    l           I,“
                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                               30-57           30-20     5759 63        6'2'51                            Fair         Fine—Thor.            74-5
                       29           30~30                                                               0120....                                  1 1          30-31           2994      606555         655                               Cloudy       Fine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [21mm
                       30           2994                                                                 '100         l.           1,,              1          29'86           29'60                    53                                Cloudy       Cloudy
                                                                                                                           1                  1                                          56,6054
                       3            29.91                                                     80         .010      1               1__                      1299;;             29-47                    61-5                              Fair         Fine,—lleavy           rain
                                                                                                                                                                                         55i6660
           June                     30'l'2                                         .          .. ...................                        1‘     1‘...        30'24          29'85           55       535                        '75    Fair         Cloudy
                        1 2                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                         5567                                                                            [11,711,
                                    3054       63        ......      49       NE.                      -010 1...                   1,_,    l l l                30-35          30-03     50 68 60 56-5                                    Fair         Fine
                                    30‘35                                                                                                                       30'38          30‘10           53. 52                               ...   Cloudy       Cloudy
                                                                                                                                                                                         50'58
           )                        30-33                                                                                                                       30'22          30~ll
                                                                                                                                                                                         50164 50i
                                                                                                                                                                                                   5'2                                    Fair         Cloudy
                                    30'2‘2                                                                                                         -             30'25         3005      49 59 51 52'5
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1               0'00                  Cloudy       Cloudy
                                    30-20                                                                                                          -             3022          2997      506450153                                        Fair          Cloudy
                                    30‘18                                                                                                          -             3018          2990      516960         52                                Fair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cloudy
                                     30'14                                                                                                                    30'13            29"]4     557055         63                                Fair         Fine
                                                                                                                                                   1
                       3456 78 9
                                     30.00                                                                                                                  130111             29-75     506660         53                                Fair         Cloudy
                        10           2991
                                                                                                                                                           1     29‘98         29'70                    565                               Rain         Fine
                                                                                                                                                                                         505551
           0            ll           30‘08                                                                                                                    5014             29‘85     515646         53‘5                              Cloudy       Cloudy
                        11           30-20                                                                                                                    30-19            29-90     475945'50-5               0-40                   Cloudy       Fine
                        13           30-13                                                                                                                  130-10             29-82     466451    51                                     Rain         Fine
                                                                                                                                                  l1   1  1 1
                        14           2954                                                                                                                        2950          29-20     556153‘55                                 -3o Cloudy          Rain
                        15           29-20                                                                                                                  129-33             29-02     525652    58                              ~64 Cloudy          Cloudy
                        16           29'54                                                                                                        ‘1          29613            29'27     53 63 60 57                               '13 Cloudy                    rain 11.1».
               r                                                                                                                                   1 1   1 1                                                                                           Cloudy,
                        17           29'7‘2                                                                                                                      29'90         29'50     5'2 6051 56'5                             ‘09 Cloudy          Fine [rain at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      night.
                        18           3006                                                                                                                        30'06         29'75     516050    52                                  Fair            Fine
               (I       19           29'72                                          .              ,                                 .
                                                                                                                                               -1
                                                                                                                                                  ll       1     29'69         29'44     5i 5655 58                 1'10               Rain             Fido,  rain p.m.
                        20
                                   v29-46       58        ......      67      SW.                         -195.........               .....      .     l         2945          29-12     54 6056 585                              -5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tormy      Cloudy,min      Wm
                        21          29.55       61   49.70            57       “r_            .20                             l‘    1",             I...         29-55         29'13     55 65 56 61                                      Cloudy       Cloudy,    rain p.111.
                        22           2963       64    ......          54      SW'.                ...     ‘145
                                                                                                                           l       l...                          29'61         ‘29'25    54 6555 58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ‘4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fair         Cloudy,    rain p_m_
                        ‘23          29'36      58        ......      67       E.                 ...     '490        l...
                                                                                                                   ll l            l...       llll               2942          2920      55 61 52 58'5                                    Rain .       Fine, rainlmn,
         .7E            24                      55       .  .....              N.                         '030                     l...                          2946          29-20     52 53 55 51                               '98    Rain         Rain
                                     29'44                            63                                                                          lll1
                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                           1 1 1 1
               .        25           29-74      60       49-75        55       W.             -40        ......       1...         1...                          29-78         2935      556156         57                         -33    Cloudy       Cloudy
           Averages:                29-965591349-27                   54-8              -    4'58        3-08517
                                                                                                                             6     1      11      2118               29-89     29-67                    56          1-50          346

   .1!                                      [     m       3
                            INDEX           TO       VOL.         LX111.
                                                 _+_
    A CID,         benzoic,
         clove-tree,
                             in the fruit of the
                                                73
                                                      Bowdich,    (African traveller,)  death    of,
                                                                                               238
    A'éronaulic ascent,                       464     Brande: on white copper,                 120
    As      candidum of Pliny,                 126    Braylcy on the origin of meteorites,     385
    Algebraic_ motions, their application             Ereese, or Brize                         228
         to paral el lines,              161, 246 .   Brem, or Bram, a Teutonic root signi
     Algebraical notation, _                     68      fying to prick,‘                      229
    Ampullariailm           On some new species       Brisbane river, discovery of,            459
          of,                                  276    Burnett, (Dr. W.) on mercurial va
     Analysis'of tho'hlaine meteorite, 19;                pours,                                 42
          of the ore of white copper, 120; of          Cacti, new descriptions of,               40
    J     lamellar pyroxene, 131; of hyalosi‘          Canals from the Black Sea to the Baltic,
    _ dorite, 186; of iron slagn, 188; of                                                      893
          new minerals, 286 ; of green i'elspar,       Cancer, cases of,                       897
          288 ; of Cheltenham water,          312;     Capstans, improvement in,                145
     ‘
        . of black currant wine,               446     Cast-iron, test of its quality,            54
     Anchors, improvement in,                   144    Xulzo; Mowuvomm of Aristotle,            126
<U+FB02>.   Antarctic discoveries,                    462     Cheltenham water, its contents,          812
     Anthracite of Pennsylvania,               234     Children and Daniell on Dcebereiner's
     Antimonium tartarizatum,                   298       eudiometer,                             72
     Apennines, on the geology of,             278     Chloraster, 'description of,             102
      Ascidia.      New species of,             821    Chronometers,     rate of, its    variation
      Axilux oft/1c Romans,                     228        with the densityof their medium, 31 1
      Asinu: Burchellii,                        451    Circle, on the,                          868
      Astronomical information,         65,    230,    Clove-tree, benzoic acid in,               73
                                    252, 392,457       Comet qf1823-24, elements of,            810
      Astronomical Observations,          Bessel’s,    Comet, account of, 63, 147; of Sept.
                                                4-27       1822,                                  65
      Astronomical refractions,                 418     Copper sheathing, preservation   of,      60
      Atmoquiere,       on the dispersive   power       Copper, white,                          1 19
           of the,                        192, 828      Covelii and Jllonticelli on the phaeno
      Babbage’s calculating machine,            855        menu of Vesuvius,                      46
      Baily, (F.) on the opposition of Mars,            Cranberries,                              78
           50; on the circular micrometer, 177 ;        Cromcr Clj<U+FB01>', geology of,                 81
           on Babbage’s calculating machine,            Curtis's British Entomology,              57
           855; on the occultation of Georgian;        Daniel! and Children on Doebereiner’s
          ‘Sidus,     '                                    eudiometer,
                                                458                                               72
      Bakewell,      on the manufacture of salt,        Davy (Sir H.) on the preservation of
                                                  86       copper sheathing,                      60
       Bangma’s method of solving equations,            Denmark, education in,                  896
                                                369     owereiner’a eudiometcr,              71, 72
       Barlow’s variation correcting plate, 892         Earth, <U+FB01>gure of the,               66, 389
       Batrachian animal,                       325     Earth, sinking of the,                   895
       Benzoic acid,                              78    Earthquake, 894 ; at sea,               894
       Bessel on the readings of thermometers,          Earthquake in India in 1819, 105, 170
                                                 807    Earthquakes    with meteors,      114, 178
       Bessel, Introduction to his Astronomical         Earthquake at Colombo, 74 ; in Chili,
            Observations,                        427        227; in Jamaica,                     463
       Bessel on Reichenboch's circle,           S48    Edinburgh Phil. Trans"                   450
       Bevan (13.) on the adhesion of nails,            Electra -magnetical experiments, 95, 266
                                                 168    Electrometer, single-leaf,               244
       Binomial calculus,                        448    Entomology, Thunberg’s cabinet of, 74
       Black curra'nt wine,                      446    Equations, method of solving,            369
       Books, new, 52, 135, 219, 284, 875, 447          Eudiomeler of Doebereiner,           71, 72
       Dournon (M.)           on the gangues       of   Erpeditions, Northern, 69; Southern,
            Ceylon spinelle,                      30                                             462

                                      INDEX.                                             475
Rradny (M.) on Cheltenhnm             water,       tions, 418 ; on the new tables      of  re
                                         312       fraction, .                            261
Feldslmr, green, analysis of,            288   Keferstein (C.) on white copper, ‘ 119
Fir-trees, pierced by an insect,         299   Kmetlt (M.) and M. Pasquich,               282
Flora, Fauna, and Pomona, calendar             Laplace (M. de) Mécanique Céleste, 67
    of,                       315, 397, 470    Lesmr (C. A.) on Ascidia,                  821
Flora, the English, Notice of,          219, ~ Logan Stone in Cornwall overturned,
                                         284                                              518
Forbes    (John), death of,              814   Lowry, Wilson, Esq. death of,              469
Forster (Dr. T.) on the      powers of    the  MacLeay (W. S.) on (Eistrus and Asi
    atmosphere,     192; on the peculia            lus,                                   228
    rities of the stars, 528; calendar of      Magnetic needle, effects of caloric on,
    Flora,                    315, 397, 470                                               130
Frauen/zofer      on the circular micro        Magnetism,      apparent,   of titanium,      15
    meter,                               210   Mammillaria, new descriptions of, 40.
Gadz<U+FB02>y,                                  228   Mars, opposition of,                   50, 288
Gadinia, a new genus of shells,          275   Maseres (Baron) death of,                  898
Galvanic de<U+FB02>agralor,                     241   Massotli (M.) on the motion of comets,
Gauge for compressed steam, &c., 86,                                                      457
                                     92, 190   Mathematical      information,               68
Gauging, new method of,                  415   Megalosaurus,                              225
Geological atlas,                        447   Mercurial vapours, effect of,                42
Geology      of Cromer Cli<U+FB01>‘s, 81; of          Meteor,                                    898
    Russia, 225 ; of the Apennines,            Meteorite of .Maine, analysis of,            16
    278; of New South Wales, 880; of           Meteorites, 233; origin of,                886
    the Ponza Islands, 454; of Hastings,       Meteorology,          76, 80, 149, 160, 240,v
    455 ; of the Coasts of the English                                   320, 400, 465, 470
  '
    Channel,                             456   Meteors,      accompanying earthquakes,
Georgium Sidus, occultation of,          458                                        114, 17s
Gmelin on Doebereiner'seudiometer, 71          Illez'ico, silver mines of,                140
Gompertz’s differential sextant,         458   lchrometer, circular,                177, 210
Gray (J. Edw.) zoological notices, 274         Mineral, a new hyalosiderite,              181
Green Feldlpar,                          28:}  .Minerals, new analyses of,                236
Gregory (Dr. 0.) on the velocity of            Illonticelli and Co’velli on the phwno
              '
    sound,                               401       mena of Vesuvius,                        46
Hare (Robert, M. D.) on the galvanic           Mount Rosa, height of,                     468
    de<U+FB02>agrator, 241 ; on a single-leaf         Murray      (J.)  on the deviation of the
    electrometer,    244; on the combus            magnetic needle,                       180
    tion of iron by sulphur in vapour,         Nails, on the adhesion of,                 168
    245; on impregnating water with            Narcissew, new species of, 7, 102, 186
    iron,                                245   Natural History, works on,            57, 186,
Harlan (Dr. R.) on Amphiuma means                                        224, 297, 375, 451 .
                                         825   Nautical Almanac,                          874
Harley (C. G.), on black currant wine,         Netherlands,     universities in,          237
                                         446   New South Wales, geology of,               880
Haussmann (Pro<U+FB02>) on the geology of             New South Wales, discoveries in,           459
     the Apennines,                      278    (Estrus of the Greeks,                    228
Howkes’s improved anchors,          144; his    Organic remains from Cromer,                 82
    improvement in capstans,             145    Owery, new pendent,                       288
Haworth (A. H.) on Narcisseae, 7, 102,          O<U+FB02>ey’s (Mn) discoveries in New South
     186; Cactus and hiammillaria,         4O       Wales,                                459
Herapath (J.) on thermometers,               8  Parallel lines, application to them of
Hopeite, a new mineral,                  463        algebraic functions,             _    161
 Hutton’s tables, errors in,        857, 427    Parallel straight lines; on,         100, 271
Hyalosiderite,    a new mineral,          181   Pasquich (M.) and M. Kmeth,               232
James’s Powder,                          295    Patents,       75, 148, 258, $18, 899, 473
                                                “ Pllarmacopwia London, 1824," 290
India, earthquake of 1819 in, 105, 170                              of
 “
    In<U+FB01>nite."     On the application of the     Plesiosaurus,                              l 38
     term,                               372    Pond on the parallax of the stars,           66
 Iron in black currant wine,             447    Pogmlation,                               895
 Ivory (1.) on the <U+FB01>gure of        the earth,   Precession, new tables of,                392
     339 ;   on the    astronomical refrac      Pulvis antimonialia,                      295

            4-76                                      LN       D E X.
             I'yrorene lamellar, description       of, 131 ;        Tables of ref-action, on the new,       261
                 analysis of,                             131       Taylor (R10h.) on Cromer Cliii‘s,        81
             Reade (Dr.    J.) his theory of telescopes,            Telescopes, Dr. Reade’s theory of,       20
 t7   -'
         2.(AW'
                     "   3.5!!" ', 5'5?" I“                 20      Temperature of the Caribbean Sea, 69
a,"
 s" i M                                               t 418         Thunberg’s cabinet of entomology,        74
             Refractions, astronomical,
             Reichenba ch'sastronomical       instrum ents,         Thermo-magnetic     experiments,       266
                 427 ; his circle,                       $48        Thermometers, irregularities of, 8; me
             Russel (H.) pressure-guage,                   92          thods of ascertaining  the corrections
            Russia, geol      y of,                      225           of the readings of,                 307
            Sabine (Capt.      0n the temperature           of      Tiarks (D11) on the <U+FB01>gure of the earth,
                the sea,                                   69       Titanium, magnetism of,                  15
            Salt, faggot manufacture of,                   86       Tredguld ('1‘.) _on the strength of cast
                                                                                               ’
            Sea, Caribbean, temperature of,                69         iron,                                  52
            Seaward (Sam) Stalin-gauge, 86, 190                     Turquoise, mines of,                   455
            Sertant diferential,                         458        Vunurem ( L.) on lamellar pyroxene,
            Silver mines of Mexico,                      140                                               131
            Sires-juvencus,    .                         299        Velocity of sound,                     401
            Smith (Sir     J.         “ English Flora,"             Vesuvius, phaenomenn of, 8m.             46
                notice of,                        219, 284          Vigors (N. A.) on natural af<U+FB01>nities of,
            Smith’s Geological atlas,                    447          birds,                               458
            Society, Royal, 59, 136, 224, 299, $78,                 Universities in the Netherlands,       237
                452; Linnaaan, 60, 187, 228, 299,                   Vtryage of Discovery, French,          235
                878, 453; Astronomical, 61, 188,                    Utting (J.) on Hutton’s tables,        427 -
                229, 801, 382, 457; Horticultural,                  Walchner (Dr.) on hyalosiderite,       181
                61, 300, 379, 457 ; Meteorological,                 Walsh (John) on parallel straight lines,
                61, 140, 383 ; Medico-botanical, 62,                   100, 271 ; on the circle, 368; on
                302; Royal Academy of Sciences,                       the binomial calculus,               448
              . Paris, 62, 805; Geological, 137, 225,               Webster (J. W.) on the meteorite of
                880, 454; Medical Society of Lon                      Maine,                                 16
                don, 802; Asiatic: Qestion relative                 Weights, standard,                     237
                to the charter, 808; of naturalists of              Werner-tan Transactions,              449
                Moscow, 886;          Moscow      Agricul           Wheat, history of its prices, &c.        56
                tural,                                   888        White copper, 119 ; analysis of the ore,
            Sodalz'te, action of light on,               464          120; of China,             >         128
                                                       ‘
            Sound, on the velocity of,                   401        Wiseman (W.) on Dr. Young's method
            Spindle of Ceylon, gangues of,                 30         of gauging, 415
            Steam, measure of the force of,              259                    on the magnetism of tita
                                                                    Wollaston
            Steam navigation to India,                   893          nium,              .                   15
            Steam pressure-gauge,                          86      Young (Dn) new method of gauging,
            Struve (Pro<U+FB01>) on the parallax of              the                                             415
                stars,                                     66     Zaltrtmrm,          instrument-makers at
                                                                                 on
            Sturgeon (W.) electro-magnetical             ex           Paris,                              252 -.
                periments, 95 ; his electro- and ther;            Zoological notices,                     274
                momagnetical     erperiments, 266, 269            Zoological Journal,               v375, 451 -
            Tabanm,                                      228      Zoophytes, on the characters     of,    274
                                 END OF THE SIXTY-THIRD VOLUME
                                                       LONDON:
                                    l’ll-INTED HY RICHARD TAYLOR,           SHOE-LANE
                                                             182-1.

                                                                                                                7    .     ‘       QIIP   ll)                 .
                                                                         a»?        \ swift-K
                                         ,   ,            PE                                       vrlla<U+FB01>mr!                                    ngé   '1J.~\.ENA<§
                                                                           \m Q<U+FB01>        w<U+FB01>inwQ         5§S§§§~N
                                                 §   §%        ASNQEQ
                  ENngka   Nka   gig}.
ZQNRQQW   KKEQQ
                                                                                                   h
                                                                               < wl\|\\|\|\.\                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                    .          v
                                                                                    ,   LAG.            ‘   m
                                                                         L                                                                            .;
                                                                               guaxg<U+FB01>aéggwkiw
                                                                                                            \wh<U+FB01>    Q35.
                                                                                                655%
                                                                .   Mk

--.-,_ v.__
     \
szmm.
    \      man .]I.
       1'01.
             J'J’ortzr J' '.

                                      ‘9
‘\\   dl‘   “ ‘l' ll.   %71-71   1‘

<U+FB02>irf’rauc/z/wrfcr.)   ZVeu/   Marni/war.      Flat May.   Val. LXID'J’Z. HI.
                                           //I III
                                           //l
                                                             J‘.J’nrn'rIn

“M—_—__— _
                                                                                                                   FM.M49.V0LLXHI.PL Iv:
               -.
                    M
                                                                                                                                                     war/d 2y;d[/0.m "m;HMO/W
                              pivot 1-Mc Mva/u'c .rcrm Wm. Merezlra mam/liewmazba.~Acne:plan; ofJ/iza‘ wppcrbevy
                          cat-A
                                                                                                                                                                            .~_'1
                                                                                                                                                                               pp;
                                   \1 under01:pirow. rbr#1011                          w Mae plea-J of‘wppcr war
                                                            m revolveon.-4 rod .roldcrad                                            5            \1
                                                 <U+FB01>ctnzcn0k p010:of M: Jaw in cad yogi.
                                       a wanau'on,
                                   j’art of
                                              99¢Iii'fgyfjivW’Qc' £41m”; .rcrl'w-    de a;      Mm nag—w a         mm paw?           ‘
                                                                                                                                                      u n i/ n U/I‘DMI)
                                                                                                                                                  221127              210muouv r)u
                                                                                                                                         '
                                                            '=;
                                                                                                  iiiki'       ‘   _—_§
    ¢
-~
                                                                                                                                                                         /1
                                                                                                                                                               m2")
                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                               nn J
                                                                                                                                                        4“
\
               .
                ‘
                      may6e.rcenMateac/z0mg)! u- 04      MM: tog/bat      '
                                                                                 rg<U+FB01>talyla to
                                                                                                 ft<U+FB01>a:
                                                                                                          Jada:         M1L1‘fi1l.f/§(w/<U+FB01>r/‘ZIJ'WQ
b) 2           g‘
               ‘5‘
                          waéowmeJM                     a
                                                             raids/Paar aa/zpaw com-wany
                                                                                        ofa my)”               (amiasz
        ag     a.‘
               Q‘
        ‘1‘a
        2      EI
*
               m\
        %2                              5
               w
         QQGI                .
         Q§zl          A box opmatZozzo/a
                                                             ,‘
         S‘g                               co/zau'nj/g100
                       Mr<U+FB01>ankp/atax.zh0§cwmw    .rpacc.a.r
                      Japabu- aft/Ea
                                                             ‘
        5 2     ‘3‘
               £9                                                                                   u
         a:    Q
                                   LI
               g Q‘
                                                                                                mm
        E S
                                                                  »                     1'      1,'I
                                                                            ¢.       mum
                                                                                       H        1!   '
         w     @,                71pm    Mrbanl'tm Apr                -
L                                                                            m-b-u            Wig—7
               g                  It adan i6,“pivodnaga                   2013:”:onlyo<U+FB02>‘mgteégétzlm. +
 ;}
               Q:
               2
               =11
                                                                                                __       a;2   5
 w
                                           ‘M‘crometer whichby a            '
                                                    Jadar'gulatar
                                         \x,‘~.i'a'¢w¢£
                                               "
                                              Znealum/
                                              ‘E       vizManx                                                                                ‘
                                                awemnun/lumn);
                                                                                                                    I       (1"
                                                                                                                              W!   I we
                                               100% or'an
"‘                                                                                                                                           ij’orter          .1

is
     1,5.   .vd   II. w\l   '0.   |l
                                  [

                                                                                                                                      Fundy. m. Lxm.        Pl. IV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                            \
                                          audpiwr
                                  E‘Betlveen   *
                                                      .i-   M4 Galvanic.rcn'u szul. Mae z.)-        comm/a <U+FB01>lm: pint; of“.r/kza‘
                                                                                           a metal/z}:         7-             wpgcr641%p/qcai
                                                                                                                                         77,             J‘
                                                       \‘1
                                                             a amnzn'onbarre/z01¢palm:of”): mm [1:eadl 00114)},
                                                                                                                Marcpint" of mppu'auuu
                                                                              Man torerolrc on.-4 rod Joldcred:21
                                                             under01:pl'rou.1231'                                                           J            \
                                                       jart of MeDigit                                           a;               :1;or?
                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                  .rarf'ar.ra'aamui when
                                                                                                                                                                                               ‘45).10
                                                                                                                                                                                                     "nofluid/W:7 31):);
                                                                                                                                                \1
                                                                                                                                                                              “a n1"1'J'AVP/d
                                                                                                                                                                                             my;
                                                                                                                                                                                       '11441
                                                                                                                                                                                           ‘4~n
                                                                                                                                                                                              ‘-hn0 n~-‘-.._-.4.
                                                                                                                                                                       Ill-7|!)
                                                                                                                                                              [0m ‘MAA‘IJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                       \
                              .
                        ‘
  LEAF      E LE C TRDMETEIR
              JJVD
                                                       /
                                                               U‘
                                                                :
                                       MM
                                       A    60.: 0pm at .hmvm/comiu'm‘zzy
                                                                       100
DEFLAGRA'II‘QTRS       IBY 11)?” MAR
                                                   platzJJh cha/nz www.m-        ‘
                                         afm
                                       .50pail-J      May/Mr.
                                                                                   MIMI
   SINGLE
                                                                                       ‘*
                                                                                   iii ‘    ,1   I.       W!             WI
                                                                                                               WWW
                                                                                                      :
                                                  Q
                                                       my_     Mm“       y
                                                                    ' WWI}
                        IMPROVED
                                                                ‘                          m mam-maxioiarb          zw<U+FB01>al'
                                                                                                                              ‘
                                                         on     m pivodr.    bleaad Irqu 55Mzmmon ore/7‘0):
                                                                                                                21110
                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                       TM mar arc weparatai<U+FB01>vm cadi ot/za           &   M: 2m: <U+FB01>vm 01¢aoppa:6.9,m'ww-(flood
                                                                                                                                                                  ,2
                                                                J
                                                                Fig
                                                               160-00140wh'd,by a
                                                            \‘ -
                                                                 favwf Jadarguhta
                                                                    mealurudz:Ail/ran“
                                             V
                                                            ~-
                                                      c,__{~~
                                                                   (two: wmumrm
                                                                                                                                           0””
                                                                                                                                           1‘    a”  ‘
                                                                         ‘1‘” {11M
                                                         $4
                                                                               .                                                                          ‘
                               l
                                         WbodazJW :1»wle dlzybmr1QngJean-ad.
                                ‘                                        I
                                                                                                                                           h—d           Jfl’orterf0

_,—
                     r!     ~15
                                                1‘.
                                                i.
                                                ““n
                                                ~-
                                                 —'-a.‘
                                                r
wzium<U+FB02>   .3150   .        (4.   51.7;   5:22:

      -'
./f’w

YR?




        UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
superp v63
Philosophicai       magazme.
  lll       \llll      llll
                          l
    31951000HIIHEMWIWMUIWIlll

