This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


ST iC^ , ^7
V-9.A-
        A

r

                                             THE
    O
                     LONDON AND EDINBURGH
v-                   ~"
     PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
 f
                                               AND
  .
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                                         CONDUCTED BY
    SIR DAVID BREWSTER, K.H. LL.D. F.R.S. L. & E. &c.
    RICHARD TAYLOR, F.L.S.G.S. Astr.S.Nat.H.Mosc.&c.
                                               AND
    RICHARD PHILLIPS, F.R.S. L.&E. F.G.S.; &c.
           " Ncc aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt,- --*ec novtei
        rilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." JUST. LIPS. Monit. Pott. Itfrfir
                                         VOL. XIII.
      NEW AND UNITED SERIES OF THE PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
            ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY, AND JOURNAL OF ' S/JteNfcE.
                                                                  - - V .
                                JULY—DECEMBER, 183«. ..
                                         LONDON:
       PRINTED BY R. AND J. E. TAYLOIl, RED LION COURT, F.f.f,tfr STRRET :
         SOLD BY LONGMAN, OHMF, BROWN, <,i:l 1 N, ANB LONGJf*:l3'; CAIJELLJ
            BALDWIN AND CUADOCK; SHERWOOD, GILBERT, AND PlPF.t', SIMFKIN
                 AND MARSHALL; WIIITTAKER AND co.; AND s.
                      LONDON : — BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK, ^&
                          THOMAS CLARK, EDINBURGH ; SMITH AND SON,
                            GLASGOW; HODGES AND SMITH, DUBLIN :
                                  AND G. W. M. REYNOLDS, PARIS.

The Conductors of the London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine
have to acknowledge the editorial assistance rendered them by their friend
Mr. EnwAHij.V- Brayliy, F.L.S., F.G.S., Corr. Mem. Roy. Geol. Soc. of
Cornwall, tfoni Mem. S. Afric. Inst.; Librarian to the London Institution.
                                       112<i0o

             CONTENTS OF VOL. XIII.
                NUMBER LXXIX.—JULY, 1838.
                                                               Page
Education of Students in Civil Engineering and Mining in the
    University of Durham                                          1
Mr. R. Potter on the Radii and Distance of the Primary and
    Secondary Rainbows, as found by Observation, and on
   a Comparison of their Values with those given by Theory. .     9
Lieut.-Col. Emmett's Meteorological Observations taken at St.
   George's, Bermuda, in the December half-year of 1837 ; in
   troduced by Corrections of Observations for the June half-
   year                                                          12
 Dr. Golding Bird's Experimental Researches on the Nature and
   Properties of Albumen, &c                                     15
Prof. J. F. W. Johnston on the Composition of certain Mineral
   Substances of Organic Origin. No. V. Elastic Bitumen .... 22
Prof. J. F. W. Johnston on the Separation of the Oxalic from
   other Organic Acids                                           25
Prof. R. Hare on the Reaction of the Essential Oils with Sul
   phurous Acid, as evolved in union with iEther in the Pro
   cess of ^Etherification, or otherwise                         23
Mr. C. HoltzapfFel on a Scale of Geometrical Equivalents for
      Engineering and other Purposes                             32
Mr. R. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity               44
Mr. C. Binks on some of the Phenomena and Laws of Action
   of Voltaic Electricity, and on the construction of Voltaic
   Batteries, &c                                                 54
The Herschel Dinner                                              75
Action of Light on Solution of Cyanogen                          77
Bichromate of Perchloride of Chromium                            78
Meteorological Observations for May 1838                         79
Meteorological Observations made at the Apartments of the
   Royal Society by the Assistant Secretary Mr. Roberton;
   by Mr. Thompson at the Gardens of the Horticultural Society
   at Chiswick, near London ; by Mr. Veall at Boston ; and by
   Mr. Dunbar at Applegarth Manse, Dumfries-shire                79
                  NUMBER LXXX.—AUGUST.
Mr. Ivory on the Conditions of Equilibrium of a Homogeneous
   Planet in a Fluid State                                      81
Mr. Lubbock on a Property of the Conic Sections                 88
Mr. D. Waldie's Experimental Researches on Combustion and
   Flame                                                        86
Prof. J. D. Forbes's Researches on Heat. Third Series           97
Dr. J. Apjohn on a new Compound, consisting of Iodide of
   Potassium, Iodine, and the Essential Oil of Cinnamon        113
Mr. T. Richardson's Researches upon the Composition of Coal    121
                                 a2

 IV                            CONTENTS.
                                                                  Page
 Mr. J. J. Griffin's Arithmetical Analysis of mixed Salts of Po
     tassium and Sodium                                            132
 Mr. C. Binks on some of the Phenomena and Laws of Action
     of Voltaic Electricity, and on the construction of Voltaic
     Batteries, &c. (continued)                                    135
 Proceedings of the Royal Society                                  146
 Cause of the Circulation of the Chara                             153
 Action of Plants on the Azote of the Atmosphere                   154
 Proportions of Animal and Earthy Matter in Human Bones . .        155
 On the Ammoniacal and other Basic Compounds of the Copper
     and Silver Families, by Professor Kane                        156
 Meteorological Observations                                       159
                  NUMBER LXXXI.— SEPTEMBER.
 Prof. Schoenbein's Discussion of M. Fechner's Views of the
    Theory of Galvanism, with reference, particularly, to a Cir
    cuit including Two Electrolytes, and to the relations of In
    active Iron                                                    161
 Mr. C. Binks on some of the Phenomena and Laws of Action
    of Voltaic Electricity, and on the Construction of Voltaic
     Batteries, &c. ( continued)                                  171
 Prof. J. D. Forbes's Researches on Heat. Third Series            180
 Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration                      193
 Mr. J. J. Griffin's Instructions for the Qualitative Analysis of
    Soluble Salts                                                 202
G.T. H. Fechner's Justification of the Contact Theory of Gal
    vanism                                                        205
Mr. J. T. Graves on a new and general Solution of Cubic Equa
    tions                                                         217
Prof.T. Graham's Note on the Constitution of Salts                219
New Books ;—A brief Account of the Life, Writings, and In
    ventions of Sir Samuel Morland, Master of Mechanies to
    Charles the Second ;—RARA MATHEMATICA; or, a Collection
    of Treatises on the Mathematies and subjects connected with
    them, from ancient inedited manuscripts. No. 1                221
Proceedings of the Royal Society, British Association for the
   Advancement of Science, and Geological Society. . . . 222— 225
The Swiss Association for the Advancement of Natural Science 233
Errors in the Nomenclature of certain Stars in Groombridge's
   Catalogue                                                      233
On the Chemical Reactions of Water by M. Kuhlman                  234
On Sugars, by M. Peligot                                          237
Succisterin                                                       238
Meteorological Observations                                       239
                  NUMBER LXXXII.—OCTOBER.
Prof. .I. W. Draper's Remarks on the Constitution of the At
   mosphere                                                       241

                              CONTENTS.                              V
                                                                 Page
M. Quetelet's Observations on Shooting Stars on the Nights
   of the 9th, 10th, and llth of August 1838                     252
Dr. Schcenbein's Conjectures on the Cause of the peculiar Con
   dition of Iron                                                 256
Dr. J. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases as deduced
   by himself compared with the more recent Results of Dr.
   Suerman                                                       261
Mr. Ivory's Remark on an Article of M. Poisson's Traitf de
   Mecanique (No. 593. Edition 2nde)                             274
Mr. C. Binks on some of the Phenomena and Laws of Action
   of Voltaic Electricity, and on the Construction of Voltaic
   Batteries, &c. (continued)                                    276
Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity. —
   Eleventh Series                                                281
Proceedings of the Geological Society                             299
Continuation of the Scientific Memoirs                           310
Synaptasiu                                                        310
Composition of the Blood                                          311
On the Iodide of Amidin, by M. J. L. Lassaigne                   312
New Compound of Sulphate of Magnesia and Water                   313
On Chloretheral, by M. Felix D'Arcet                              313
Formio-Benzoilic Acid                                             315
ProDortions of Gluten in Grain                                    315
Oxide of Phosphorus                                               315
Borates of Potash, by M. Laurent                                  317
Cyanide of Gold                                                   318
Meteorological Observations                                       319
                NUMBER LXXXIII.—NOVEMBER.
Mr. Ivory on a Principle laid down by Clairaut for deter
   mining the Figure of Equilibrium of a Fluid, the Particles of
   which are urged by accelerating forces                         321
Prof. J. F. W. Johnston on a new Compound of Sulphate of
   Lime with Water                                                325
 Prof. J. F. W. Johnston on the Composition of certain Mineral
    Substances of Organic Origin. No. VI. Guyaquillite            329
Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity                   333
Dr. J. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases as deduced
   by himself compared with the more recent Results of Dr.
   Suerman                    ^                                   339
 Mr. C. T. Jackson's Chemical Analysis of Meteoric Iron, from
   Claiborne, Clarke County, Alabama                              350
 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity. —
   Eleventh Series (continued)                                     355
 G. T. H. Fechner's Justification of the Contact Theory of
    Galvanism .                                                . 367

VI                            CONTENTS.
                                                                Page
Dr. Golding Bird's Observations on some peculiar Properties
   acquired by Plates of Platina, which have been used as the
   Electrodes of a Voltaic Battery                               379
Proceedings of the Geological Society, and Royal Geological
   Society of Cornwall                                           386
Reagent for the Detection of Sulphurous Acid in the Hydro
   chloric Acid of Commerce, by Girardin                         392
Processes for preparing Lithia, by Fuchs                         393
New Double Salt of Zinc and Potassium, by Anthon                 393
Reagent for Nitric Acid and Nitrogen, by Desbassayns de
   Richemont                                                     393
Formate of Soda, as a reducing Substance for metallic Poisons
   (Arsenic)                                                     394
 On the Transparency of Carbon, by Degen                         394
Preparation of arseniuretted Hydrogen, by Vogel                 395
Tungstate of Tungsten and Potash                                 395
Analysis of Serum of Blood drawn from a diabetic Patient, by
   Dr. G. O. Rees                                               395
Analysis of the Liquor Amnii                                    395
Stearopten of Turpentine                                        396
Metallic Pectates                                               397
Portrait of Prof. Faraday                                       399
Portrait of Robert Brown, F.R.S., &c                            399
Meteorological Observations                                     399
                NUMBER LXXXIV.—DECEMBER.
Prof. Dr. Jacob! on the Galvanic Spark                          401
Prof. J. F. W. Johnston on some apparent Exceptions to the
   Law, that like Crystalline Forms indicate like Chemical
   Formule                                                      405
Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity. —
   Eleventh Series                                              412
Mr. W. R. Grove on a new Voltaic Combination                    430
Mr. J. B. Nevins on the Reduction of the Chlorides of Mercury
   when mixed with Organic Substances                           431
Rev. E. Craig on the Process for obtaining the Bichromate of
   the Perchloride of Chrome, as viewed under the Microscope    433
Mr. D. F. Gregory on the Experiments detailed in Mr.Waldie's
   Paper on Combustion and Flame, inserted in the Lond. and
   Edinb. Phil. Mag. for August 1838                            434
On a certain Difficulty connected wjth the Demonstration of
   Euclid, Book I. Prop. 29                                     434
Mr. J. P. Gassiot on a remarkable Difference in the Heat at
   tained by the Electrodes of a powerful Constant Battery : in
   a Letter to Mr. Brayley                                      436
Dr. R. Kane on the Composition of Essential Oils                437
Prof. J. J. Sylvester on the Motion and Rest of Fluids          449

                              CONTENTS.                         Vli
                                                              Page
Prof. J. J. Sylvester on an Extension of Sir John Wilson's
   Theorem to all Numbers whatever                            454
Proceedings of the Royal Society                              454
Xyloidine                                                      467
Determination of Iodine in Kelp                               468
Polarization of Platina Electrodes                            469
Sulphocyanide of Potassium as a test for Strychnia            470
Analyses of Pectic Acid, by M. V. Regnault                    47 1
Pectates of Potash, Soda, and Ammonia                         472
On the Decomposition of Siliceous Minerals by means of Hy
   drofluoric Acid                                            473
On the Separation of Compounds of the Oxides of Antimony
    and Lead                                                   473
 Letter from Professor Johnston on the Analysis of the Resins  474
 Analysis of Comptonite'                                       475
 Action of Chlorine on Acetic Acid                             475
 Action of Chloride of Zinc on Alcohol                         475
 Combination of Azote with Metals                              476
 Solubility of fiinoxide of Mercury in Water                   477
 Decomposition of Lithic Acid by Nitric Acid                   477
 Lactate of Urea                                               478
 Caoutchouc in Plants                                          478
 New Anomalous Reptile                                         479
 Meteorological Observations                  .,               479
               NUMBER LXXXV.—SUPPLEMENT.
  Index                                                         481
  GKNBRAL INDEX TO THE LONDON AND EDINBURGH PHILOSO
     PHICAL MAGAZINE AND JOUBNAL OF SCIENCE, VOL. i. TO xu.

                                 PLATES.
  I. Illustrative of Mr. WALDIE'S Researches on Flame.
 II. and IV. Illustrative of Professor FORBES'S Researches on Heat, Third
           Series.
HI. Illustrative of Mr. RICHARDSON'S Researches upon the Composition
            of Coal.
                                 ERRATA.
            Page 45, Art. 34. line 8, for directly read inversely.
            Page 395, line 11,for precombinud read uncombined.

                                THE
              LONDON AND EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                       [THIRD SERIES.]
                          JULY 1838.
I. Education ofStudents iiy Civil Engineering and Mining in
                    the University of Durham.*
IT has long been a subject of regret that no institution
      existed in England in which young men might receive an
education which should peculiarly fit them for the higher
branches of the profession of a Civil Engineer. That pro
fession is comparatively of recent origin. It has bee'n formed
by the exigencies of the times, and has had to struggle with
great disadvantages. The names of Smeaton, Brindley, and
others recall to our minds the difficulties which those men
of masterly abilities had to encounter, in order to devise the
means and create the instruments' necessary to accomplish
the purposes which their genius conceived. A portion of this
difficulty still subsists; while the attainments necessary to
enable the engineer to meet the emergencies which he has to
encounter, have continually become more varied and exten
sive.
   The constntctipn of canals, harbours' and railroads, the
successful application of steam to the purposes of navigation
and of locomotive engines on land, the increased activity in
opening out the treasures of coal ,and other minerals, in si
tuations hitherto deemed inaccessible, have Combined to offer
a field of almost boundless extent for the exercise of talent of
the highest order. In the meanwhile the profession of civil
engineer has risen in the scale of national importance, in
consequence of the immense capital employed under his di
rection. In no other profession, with the exception of that
of the law, are so many questions of pecuniary importance
   * Communicated by the Rev. Prof. Chevallier and Prof. Johnston.
Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 79. July 1838.                  B

 2          Education in Civil Engineering and Mining
 submitted to the judgement of one man. In all public works
  unlimited confidence must be reposed in the skill and inte
  grity of the civil engineer. If a company is formed, the in
  dividuals who compose it, and even the greater part of the
  directors, cannot be competent to form an opinion upon many
  of the questions which are of vital importance to the success
  of their undertaking. The peculiar obstacles to be encoun
  tered, the readiest and most efficacious means of overcoming
  them, or the most dexterous way to elude them, all require
  the union of long practice with natural talents and a cultivated
  mind. An error ofjudgement may entail a loss of millions of
  capital ; and if such misconduct could be conceived possible,
  the want of integrity in the engineer would be ruinous to his
  employers.
      The profession of civil engineer is also requiring from day
  to day a more extended range of information. Every part of
  mechanical science, as exercised in the construction of ma
  chinery, has received, and is still constantly receiving, great
  improvement. Questions arise respecting points which have
  only of late become a part of the civil engineer's practice.
  The relative position of the surface of very extended tracts of
  country, and the easiest lines of communication from place to
. place, require an extent of survey, which hitherto has been
   confined to the great geodetical operations undertaken for
  purposes purely scientific, accompanied with a minuteness of
   individual detail which even those purposes do not require.
   The extended processes of mining call for a knowledge of
   geology, mineralogy, chemistry, and metallurgy ; and the
   constantly increasing boldness of speculation in undertakings
   of great extent, gives rise to practical problems of the greatest
   difficulty, and leads to the construction of works which will
   vie with the most magnificent structures of antiquity.
       Yet, with all these increasing demands upon the skill and
    attainments of the civil engineers of this country, there has
    hitherto been found a great deficiency in the means of ac
    quiring the requisite information. The education of young
    men at school has usually been too elementary to be of much
    service. The course of study pursued at the Universities has
    been too general and theoretical to be adapted to the parti
    cular wants of the young civil engineer ; and although many
    valuable courses of lectures have been constantly given in the
    Universities on subjects intimately connected with the theory
    and practice of engineering and mining, those who are best
    acquainted with academical studies have been of opinion that
    the knowledge requisite for practical men would be more
     advantageously cultivated elsewhere. Hence those civil en

                   in the University of Durham.                3
 gineers who have risen even to the highest rank in their pro
 fession have encountered the greatest difficulties in the early
 part of their career, for want of sufficient training in the
 course of their education. And although men of real talent
 and great perseverance have by the efforts of self-taught
genius successfully mastered the obstacles thus unnecessarily
thrown in their way, there can be little doubt that some even of
these men would have received benefit from more systematic
training, and that many others, who, under a proper course
of instruction in their youth, would have attained eminence
in their profession, have never risen above mediocrity.
    The University of Durham is the first public body which
 has attempted to supply this deficiency in the system of edu
 cation pursued in this country. It appeared to them that it
 was practicable to engraft the peculiar studies connected with
civil engineering and mining upon the more general course
of academical reading; ana that, if such a union could be
made, great benefit might be anticipated from the association
of young men intended for the higher departments of civil
engineering, with those who were destined for the learned
professions, or for other stations in the higher or middle
ranks of life. With this view, it was deemed desirable that
the class of civil engineers should not form a separate body
in the University, composing a college appropriated to them
selves, but be admitted on the same footing as other students,
subject to the same discipline, and engaged in a course of
study which should be assimilated, as far as was practicable,
to the general system of the University.
   The following Regulations were accordingly prepared after
much deliberation, and passed by the Senate and Convoca
tion, in November 1837.
Regulations for Students in Civil Engineering, in the Univer
   sity of Durham, passed by the Senate and Convocation,
   Abw.as, 18S7.
   1. Students shall be admissible, in conformity with the Re
gulations, Title ii., § 1, 2, 3, as Members of the University,
subject to the ordinary University and College discipline, to
go through a course of instruction in Civil Engineering.
   2. No such Student shall be admitted, unless he has passed
an Examination in the Latin language, in Arithmetic, and in
 the Elements of Mathematics.
    This examination shall be conducted by two Examiners
appointed by the Warden.
   3. Every such Student shall be placed, like other Students,
under a Tutor named by the Warden. The Tutor shall
                                B2

4         Education in Civil Engineering and Mining
direct his private studies, and shall have charge of his con
duct and religious instruction.
    4. The course of study for Engineer Students and the se
veral lectures designed for them shall be under the imme
diate superintendence of the Professor of Mathematics, subject
to the control of the Warden and Senate.
    5. The full course of study shall extend over three years ;
 and shall embrace the several subjects which relate to the
 theory and practice of Civil Engineering and Mining.
    6. Engineer Students, who have completed their course,
 shall be admissible, by Grace of the University, to the Aca
demical rank of Civil Engineer.
    Engineer Students may, at an earlier period, receive Certi
ficates of competency in the subjects in which they have been
examined, as hereafter specified.
    7. No Grace for admission to the rank of Civil Engineer
 shall be granted, unless the petitioner has passed three Public
 Examinations. The first of these shall be for Students who
 are in their third term of residence, at least ; the second for
 such as have passed the first, and are in their sixth term of
 residence; at least ; the third for such as have passed both the
 former, and are in their ninth term of residence, at least.
    Yet any Engineer Student, who, at his admission to the
 University, shall pass the first Public Examination thus ap
 pointed for Engineer Students, shall be placed in the same
 position with regard to all terms and examinations relating
 to Engineer Students only, as if he had already kept three
 terms.
     8. The first two of these Examinations shall be conducted
 by two or more Examiners nominated annually by the War
 den, and approved by Convocation ; and shall be directed to
 the subjects fixed by the Senate eleven months, at least, be
 fore.
     After the second of these Examinations, any one who is
 specially recommended by the Examiners may obtain a formal
  Certificate from the Warden ; this Certificate being limited
 to the particular subjects in which he has proved his com
 petency.
     9. The third and final Examination shall be conducted by
 three Examiners, at least, nominated by the Warden, and
 approved by Convocation ; and shall be directed to the sub
 jects fixed by the Senate eleven months, at least, before : pro
 vided always that every such Student shall then pass an exa
 mination in a modern language, or in some one Latin or
 Greek work, melioris teoi et nottEi the language or work to
 be selected by himself, but approved by the Senate.

                   in the University of Durham.                 5
     10. All those who satisfy the Examiners, at each of these
 Examinations, shall be classed. The Senate shall have power
to determine hereafter the subjects in which proficiency shall
be deemed indispensable, and the nature of the classifica
tion.
    11. Any student in arts, upon passing his first examination
for the Degree of B.A., may proceed as an Engineer Student
of the second year; and upon passing his second examination
for the Degree of B.A., may proceed as an Engineer Student
of the third year.
    12. Any Engineer -Student, who is recommended by his
 College, may petition the University, that terms which he has
kept by residence as an Engineer Student may count towards
the Degree of B.A. ; and that the Examination passed by him
in his third term of residence, at least, may be received instead
of the first Examination for the Degree of B.A. ; and the
Examination passed by him in his sixth term of residence, at
least, instead of the second Examination for the Degree of
B.A.
    1 3. The Warden and Senate shall have power to declare,
in the course of Easter Term, 1838, that any Engineer Stu
dent, who shall have kept Epiphany Term, 1838, shall be
regarded, with reference to all terms and examinations rela
ting to Engineer Students only, as if he had kept also Mi
chaelmas Term, 1837.
Orders made by the Senate, for carrying the above Regulations
                            into effect.
    1 . The Course of Study for Engineer Students shall em
brace the following subjects :—
Arithmetic.                       Practical Mapping, and Ar-
Algebra.                             chitectural Drawing.
Euclid.                          Theory of Perspective and Pro-
Logarithms,                         jections.
Plane Trigonometry.               Hydrostatical and Hydraulical
Solid Geometry.                      Instruments in general.
Analytical Geometry.             The Steam Engine.
Theoretical and Practical Optical Instruments.
   Mechanics.                    Theoretical and Practical Che-
Differential and Integral            mistry.
   Calculus.                     Theory of Heat.
Dynamics.                        Mineralogy.
Hydrostaticsand Hydraulics. Metallurgy.
Pneumatics.                      Geology.
Surveying, Levelling, use of The French, German, Spanish,
   Instruments.                      and Italian Languages.
   2. All Engineer Students who do not learn one of the

6        Education in Civil Engineering and Mining
above-named Modern Languages shall attend Lectures in
Latin or Greek during one term, at least, in each of their first
 two years of residence.
    3. Besides keeping the ordinary Academical Terms, Engi
neer Students shall reside during the Easter vacation ; and
 the Lectures shall be so arranged as to provide employment
 for them during their residence.
    4. Engineer Students shall, during the first six terms of
their residence as such, pay for tuition the sum of 10/. 10s. in
each term ; and during their further residence as such, the
sum of 11. in each term.
   5. Every Student admitted to the Academical rank of Civil
Engineer, shall receive a Certificate of such admission under
the Common Seal of the University. The Certificate of
competency given to Students after their second examination,
(granted by the Warden, in conformity with section 8 of the
 Regulations of Nov. 22nd, 1837,) shall contain the names of
the examiners on whose recommendation it is given.
   6. The first two of the Public Examinations shall take place
in the month of October, and the third and final Examina
tion during the Easter Term, in each year.
   7. Engineer Students shall pay a fee of I/, on admission
to each of the first two Public Examinations ; a fee of 21. on
admission to the third and final Examination ; and a fee of 3/.
on admission to the rank of Civil Engineer, or on receiving a
Certificate of competency.
   8. Any Student in Arts may be admitted to attend any
Course of Lectures designed for Engineer Students, upon the
payment of such fee as the Senate shall hereafter direct.
   9. Any Engineer Student may be admitted to attend any
Course of Lectures designed for Students in Arts, upon such
terms as the Senate shall hereafter direct.
   The Regulations referred to in section 1, are as follows:—
                            Of Admission.
   1. No one shall be held to be a Member of the University
who has not been matriculated, that is, whose name has not
been placed on the Register of the University by the authority
of the Warden.
   2. No Student shall be matriculated, unless he is a Mem
ber of the existing College, or of some other recognised Col
lege, Hall, or House, nor unless he has produced to the
Warden satisfactory testimonials of character.
   3. Every Student, at the time of his matriculation, shall
subscribe a declaration of obedience to the Authorities of the
University.
   As this is the first plan of the kind which has been attempted

                   in the University of Durham.                 7
 in this country, and many of the details may be interesting
 to some who are not familiar with academical studies, it may
 be desirable to state somewhat more at length the nature of
 the studies pursued.
    The students at the time of their admission are required to
 be well acquainted with arithmetic, both as applied to com
mercial purposes and as used in the ordinary computations of
engineering. They pass an examination also in the Latin
language and in the elements of mathematics. If, on admis
sion, a student is sufficiently advanced to pass the examination
appointed for those engineer students who have already resided
 for a year, he is entitled to proceed at once in the course of
 reading intended for those who are then commencing their
 second year's residence, and to receive his final certificate at
the end of two years' residence instead of three.
    The lectures for the different years are arranged according
to the degree of proficiency which the students have attained,
beginning with geometry and the elementary parts of mathe
matics ; arithmetic, especially as relating to the course of ex
change, vulgar and decimal fractions and the extraction of
roots ; and proceeding in the course of subjects pointed out
in the regulations. The modern languages which are gene
rally taught are French and German. During their whole
course the students are engaged in practical surveying, level
ing, and planning ; and in acquiring the familiar use of instru
ments, under the superintendence of an experienced civil engi
neer ; and they receive instruction in crystallography, mi
neralogy, geology, and metallurgy. The local position of the
city of Durham, in the immediate neighbourhood of the
largest coal-mines in the world, at no great distance from the
lead-mines of the western part of the county, and in a district
intersected in all directions by railroads carried through very
difficult lines of country, gives peculiar advantages for ac
quiring a practical insight into all the details of the ordinary
operations of civil engineering and mining ; and full use is
made of these facilities.
   The proficiency of the students is tested by public exami
nations every year. At the close of their three years' course,
honours are given to those who distinguish themselves; and
those who have passed all the examinations are admitted to
the academical rank of civil engineer, and receive certificates
to that effect. Certificates of competency in any particular
branch of study may be received at an earlier period.
   It is hoped that the course of instruction thus pursued will
secure for the student a sound knowledge of those parts of
theoretical mathematics and of the sciences of observation,
which are essential for the scientific engineer, and at the same

8           Education in Civil Engineering and Mining.
time give him a perfect acquaintance with all the necessary
practical details.
    It has already been observed that the engineer students are
subject to the same discipline and moral control as the other
students in the University, an advantage which will be duly
appreciated by those parents and others who are desirous of'
securing for a young man the advantage of a sound education,
under wholesome control, and in the society of young men of
the same age intended for other professions.
    By the regulations provision is made for any engineer stu
dent to proceed to the degree of bachelor of arts, on passing
the requisite examinations for that purpose. There are seve
ral scholarships in the University, to which engineer students,
as well as others, are eligible.
    The class of engineers was opened in January 1838, and at
present consists of eight students. The academical year,
consisting of three terms, begins in October; and the lectures
are arranged so that the course of instruction commences at
that time.
    The fees payable by engineer students for tuition are 1 0/. 10s.
in each term. This includes all payments to the professors
and other officers of the University, and gives the student
admission to all the lectures given to his class. The students
have rooms in the University College, and dine in the college
hall. It is understood that the whole expense of residence
during the academical year, including tuition, certainly need
not exceed 100/.
    It will be borne in mind that the new course of study esta
blished by the University of Durham is such as to form not
merely a school of civil engineers in the ordinary sense of the
term, but'also a School of Mines, in which persons likely to be
through life engaged either in excavating the mineral wealth
of various kinds with which the country abounds, or in con
verting the raw mineral into an article of commerce, may re
ceive the elements of the several branches of knowledge which
their pursuits may require. For the especial benefit of the
latter class of persons it is provided that at a certain period
in the course of study a more undivided attention shall be
given to the theory and processes of metallurgy in its various
branches than is considered at all necessary for the engineer
 students as a body. The importance of this regulation will be
understood by those who are aware of the many desiderata and
unexplained circumstances which the smelter of iron, lead, tin,
or copper can detail, or of the national waste of material with
which even the most improved processes are attended*.
   * Our readers will remember that the importance of establishing a School
of Mines in this country has long been urged by Mr. John Taylor, Treas.

      Mr. Potter on the Primary and Secondary Rainboias.                9
 II. On the Radii and Distance of the Primary and Secondary
    Rainbows, asfound by Observation, and on a Comparison of
    their Values with those given by Theory. By R. POTTER,
    Esq., M.A*
 nHHE explanation of the rainbow which Sir Isaac Newton
        has given in the second part of 'the first book of
 Opticks,' appeared one of the happiest applications of his
 great optical discovery, the unequal refrangibility of light. It
 Eas, however, been long observed that there are frequently
 supernumerary bows attending the principal ones, and of
 these the theory of Sir Isaac Newton gives no solution. It
 was reserved for Dr. Young to show that they were results of
 the principle of interferences. (See his Lectures on Natural
 Philosophy, or Phil. Trans, for 1803.) But notwithstanding
 the satisfactory manner in which all the pha^nomena of the
 rainbow appeared to be accounted for, when the interference
of the light was taken into consideration, yet the problem
continued to be discussed in our optical treatises according
 to the old method, and Dr. Young's theory, like most of his
 other fine discoveries, did not receive the notice it deserved.
    In the year 1835, I re-discovered that the solution of these
 phenomena involved the principle of interferences, without
 knowing what Dr. Young had written, and presented a paper
 to the Cambridge Philosophical Society, which is printed in
 the sixth volume of the Transactions, in which I undertook
 to show that the problem belonged to physical optics. Near
 the close of that paper will be found an intimation that the
 ordinary rainbows might not eventually be found in the posi
tions which had hitherto been assigned to them, by Dr.
Young as well as by all others.
    My views with respect to interference on the corpuscular
theory of light (see Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. ii. p. 81.
and ' Correspondance Mathematique et Physique de 1'Obser-
vatoire de Bruxelles,' 2e livraison, tome 8.) had led me to ex
pect this, and I had, at the time of writing that paper, exa
mined Sir Isaac Newton's discussion sufficiently to convince
mvself, that there were abundant grounds for anticipating a
full confirmation when I had time to pursue the investigation
more completely.
    In the beginning of the year 1836, 1 compared the mea-
Gcol. Soc. whose Prospectus on the subject will be found in Phil. Mag.,
First Series, vol. Ixvi. p. 137, and in his " Records of Mining." Mr. H.
English has also repeatedly brought the some subject before the public in
bis Mining Review.—EDIT.
   * Communicated by the Author.

  10           Mr. Potter on the Radii and Distance
  sures of the radii of the primary and secondary bows and their
  distance, as given by Sir Isaac Newton, with the results ob
  tained from the theory, by using Frauenhofer's correct re
 fractive indices. This comparison, which is detailed below,
  completely establishes the discovery that the ordinary rain
  bows are not in the places hitherto asssigned to them.
     I had confirmed Sir Isaac Newton's measures in the year
  1834, by measures of the radii of the iris seen frequently in
 the mornings of autumn, in the dew-drops which float on the
 scum of stagnant ponds. These measures, although they had
 no claims to very great accuracy, were yet so nearly in ac
 cordance with those of Sir Isaac Newton as to convince me
 that the wide discrepancies between the theoretical and ob
 served radii could not possibly arise from errors of observa
 tion ; and this I urged in a discussion at a meeting of the
 Cambridge Philosophical Society in the spring of 1836.
 Since then, the Astronomer Royal has deduced expressions
 on the undulatory theory of light, (see the May number of
 this journal, p. 152,) which indicate that the brightest parts of
the bow ought to have their position different from those cal
culated from previous theories, and in the direction which
the observed measures require; but he finds that the light
shading away from the maximum of brightness, has at the
old position a brightness which is about one half of that at
the maximum, and which ought therefore to be distinctly
seen : this is the point to be examined in order to test his ex
pressions.
    The general discovery that the bows are not in the posi
tions assigned to them hitherto, has been confirmed by mea
sures taken by Professor Miller in M. Babinet's experiment,
in which the phenomena analogous to those forming the rain
bows are viewed in a small cylindrical stream of water.
    Proceeding to discuss the observations, we find that Sir
Isaac Newton's principal measurements were on the extreme
radius of the primary bow and on the least distance between
the two bows ; for after giving the results of his computations
he says, " And such are the dimensions of the bows in the
heavens found to be very nearly, when their colours appear
strong and perfect. For once, by such means as I then had,
I measured the greatest semidiameter of the interior iris,
about 42 degrees, and the breadth of the red, yellow, and
green in that iris 63 or 64 minutes, besides the outmost faint
red observed by the brightness ofthe clouds, for which we may
allow 3 or 4 minutes more. The breadth of the blue was about
40 minutes more, besides the violet, which was so much ob
scured by the brightness of the clouds that I could not mea

            of the Primary and Secondary Rainbffm.             11
sure its breadth." And again, " The least distance between
this iris and the exterior iris was about 8 degrees and 30 mi
nutes." 'We see that the fundamental measures are for the
extreme red of the primary bow, which has its utmost radius
42° 4', and the least distance between this and the correspond
ing part of the secondary bow = 8° 30'. Now, Sir Isaac
Newton has taken £ for the refractive index of this extreme
visible red, which brings, as he says, the computations to agree
nearly with the observations ; but from Frauenhofer's correct
tables of refractive indices we find that it coincides very nearly
with the letter D, or the middle of the orange. After all,—
with this calculation for orange and measurement for extreme
 red, there is a discrepancy of no less than 14', for with re
 fractive index = £, we have radius (if the sun were a point)
 = 42° 2', and adding sun's semidiameter =16' we have
 42° 18', differing 14' from the extreme measurement; the
 measured radius being less than the calculated one.
    Before we can proceed wifh the correct calculation we must
 fix on some refractive index as corresponding to the extreme
 visible red ; and the letter C being about the middle of the
 red, if we take about the letter B this will not be pushing the
 case too far, and will probably err in the favour of the old
 theory rather than otherwise.
    With this refractive index = 1-3309 we find for the radius
 of the primary bow, if the sun were a point, 42° 23', and add
 ing sun's semidiameter, we have radius of extreme visible bow
 = 42° 39', and the difference between this and the observed
 quantity 42° 4' is 35', a quantity far beyond the limits of
 error of observation.
    The distance between the bows, however, shows the dis
 crepancy in the strongest point of view, on account of its
 bearing so large a ratio to the whole distance. The above
refractive index gives for the radius of the extreme red of
the secondary bow 50° 207, and the difference between this
and 42° 23' is 7° 57' ; subtracting from this the sun's semi-
 diameter for each bow, or 32' for both, we have 7° 25', whilst
the observed distance is 8° 30', leaving a discrepancy of no
less than 1° 5' in this small angle, which cannot possibly be
 attributed to faults in the measures.
    To test Mr. Airy's conclusions that the light at the position
 of the primary bow, according to the old theory, should be
 about one half of that at the brightest part if the sun were a
 point, and therefore distinctly bright in the real rainbow, we
 will allow a greater latitude in favour of the theory, and take
 the letter C refractive index = 1 '33171 as belonging to the
  extreme visible red; this gives the radius of the primary bow
  42° 32/, whilst the observed extreme bow has only a radius

12      Lieut. Col. Emmett's Meteorological
                                         £'*   Observations
42° 4', leaving a discrepancy of 26', or there is no visible
light at that position indicated, instead of being of great
brightness.
   Again, for the corresponding radius of the secondary bow
we find 50° 17', and the difference between this and 42° 32'
is 7° 45', so that according to Mr. Airy the light should be
strongly visible to points distant 7° 45' from each other; whilst
the utmost limit to which the light can be traced is still distant
8° 30', and this difference leaves a strong presumption against
the theory, and induces a corresponding argument in favour
of the corpuscular theory, with which this fact is in ac
cordance.
III. Meteorological Observations taken at St. George's, Ber
   muda, in the December half-year of 1837; introduced by Cor
   rections of Observationsfor the June half-year. By Lieut.-
   Col. EMMETT, R.E.*
MEAN height of barometer (Lond. & Edinb. Phil. Mag.
       Nov. 1837.) should be for July 30'069, and not 30-161,
which is the height not corrected. The mean heights for Au
gust and September should each be reduced '020, '054 having
accidentally been added for capillary action instead of '034.
   In the horary differences forwarded to Dr. Dalton it will be
observed the numbers of observations at the different hours
vary ; they were also not always made on the same days :
but in revising my journal I selected those days only for 9 A.M.
and 4 P.M., on which the observations were made for both
hours ; and upon that revision the tables in your January
number were prepared. Such has been the course in the
half-yearly observations now inclosed, completing the year
1837. It is worth notice that the general fall of the baro
meter from 1 P.M. to 4 P.M. usually and considerably exceeds
that from 9 A.M. to 1 P.M. Page 46, lines 4 and 5, should be
subtracted from the " former," not the latter.
   From a frequent comparison of the dew-point directly taken
with the wet-bulb thermometer I feel much confidence in it,
where suspended in a large room free from currents and fully .
open to the air; but where exposed to currents, reflections from
the ground, &c. it cannot be fully relied upon, both it and the
register thermometer being affected thereby, and this it is often
difficult to avoid. As I before stated, the difference between
the wet and dry x by 2 and taken from the height of the dry,
gives the dew-point nearly, but rather too low, as the multiple
should be — 2 ; errors are therefore nearly doubled.
                   * Communicated by the Author.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        «
  Yearl837         Junehair                                                                                                                July.
           Year.                        Dec.                  Nov.             Oct.               Sept.               August.                                       Month.
   30053       29-993         30113
                             30-381      30-400
                                        300371                 1030-
                                                                  7(30-430                           30-360
                                                                                                    30-117                                     30-398
                                                                                                                                               30031
                                                                                                                                                             Moan.
                                                                                                                                                             Max.
                                                                                29-977i
                                                                                30330                                    303GC
                                                                                                                        3007l'
  30-378
39-727|
    -051 30-375                                                                                                                                                                                   Oobsreorlvoagticoanls
                                                                                                                                                                                             Metetak
                                                                                                                                                                                Barometer.
              1 -571
             -731
              29-644         29-810                            29-736            29-594              29-986              29-936:
                                                                                                                          -430
                                                                                                                         78-2                   -490
                                                                                                                                               29-908,'
                                                                                                                                                              Diff.
                                                                                                                                                              Min.
                                          62-25
                                          o'-696:
                                         29-71
                                                                 65-99
                                                                •694!          71-95
                                                                               •706                 76-61
                                                                                                    •374
                                                         1
   67-18      63-54         71-83                                                                                                              76            Mean.
   74-66      71-            78-33      |569-56 73-5                           78-5                  83-5                83-5                  81-5                            Thermometer.
                                                                                                                                                            Max.
                                    1
    60-5      54-6           66-41                             59               64-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                  at
                                                                                                                                                                                                 St.
                                                                                                                                                                                            George's,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  en
                                                                                                    71-5                72                     69-5
                                                                                                                                                            Min.
   1411       16-3           11-92       13-5                  14-5             14-                  12-                                       12-
                                                                                                                         U-5                                Diff.
  71-35       66-9          75-8    64 67-5 6/5 69 75-5 78                                       79-5 82              84 81                82 79-5
                                                                                                                                                                           §,¦3dl
   6102      577            64-34        55-51                 58-25           66-30
                                                                                 3-80'
                                                                               -627                60-48,
                                                                                                    -034
                                                                                                     1-15                69-2                 70-3        Point. Dew        Hygrometer.          v
                                                                                                                                                                                             Bermuda,
    •542      •485 j         11-42
                            ¦607         •454                  •494                                                     •702                   •728         Vapour,
    22-54     11-18                                                                                                                                                                          o/*1831
                                                                                                                                                                                               Dt.echeember
                                                                                                                                                                                            half-year
                                         2-55                   1-92                                                                            2-99        Day.
                                                                                                                         01
    32-61      16-2          16-41
                                          3-85                 2-37             605                  100            j    74
                                                                                                                        •73                     2-41        Night.
                                                                                                                                                                               Rain.
                                                                                                                                 I
    5515     27-32          27-83         6-40                   4-29            9-85                1-15                                       5-40          Total.
                                                                                                                                                          |Goles.
    63        44              19
                                          9                     3               3                    1                   1                        0
                                               IstNW.                                   IstNE.              IstNE.               IstNW.                     Prevailing.
                                                                                                                                                            )
                                    NE.
                                    2nd                   2ndNE.      SW.
                                                                      1st  SW.
                                                                           3rd  SE.
                                                                                2nd            3rd 2nd
                                                                                               SE.   SW.           SE.
                                                                                                                   3rd 2nd
                                                                                                                         SW.              I2ndNW.
                                                                                                                                        LightningTh.&Ligh
                                                                                                                                                    SW.
                                                                                                                                                    1st
                                                                                                                                                                              &c.
                                                                                                                                                                             Winds,
                                    ohservet Jh.&Light i Liphtning
                                    not                    3. Li.      tk
                                                                       2. only
                                                                       Th.   6.
                                                                             Li. Li. 3.
                                                                                     T&h.       Light,
                                                                                                   ¦ Light.
                                                                                                only     &Th.       only Th.&Lig.^
                                                                                                                    Light,

 14         Meteorological Observations made at Bermuda.
                       Horary Changes of Barometer.
                                                         Timet
               No. of     9 A.M.      4 P.M.     Dim     higher No. of       9 P.M.
    Months.   Observa                                  at 4 than Observa
                tions.                                   at 9.     tions.
     July.       29       30121      30113       008       10       28      30-126
     August.     29       30-172     30156      •016        6       25          171
     Sept.       20      30-185      30153       032        5       19          171
     Oct.        28       300/5      30046      •029        4       18         ¦043
     Nov.        29      30192      30-157       035        6       10         •048
     Dec.        27      30-075      30-057     •018        8       16          093
               108       30-137     30113       •024      39      116       30-105
      June                   •057       •025    •029              108          •043
   Halfyear. 156                                          27
     Whole                                                                  30074
      year.    324       30097       30-069      027      66      224
    Mem.—The observations at 9 a.m. and 4- p.m. were all
taken on the same days ; the number of times when higher
at 4- than at 9 a.m. are included in those of column 2.
    In August the barometer was lower at 5 p.m. -013 than at
4 p.m. In September 4 p.m. gave the minimum, which
continued so until near December, when 3 was at times
lower than 4 p.m.
    Nine a.m. was almost always higher than 8 or 10.
                                       Winds.
   Months.       N.      N.E.     E.       S.E.     s.       S.W.      w.      NW.
    July.         4        2       1         6       6        45         3      26
    August.       5        8       4        16       6        20         6      28
    Sept.         4       24       6        21       6        23          1      5
    Oct.        13        26       8        16       8        10         3       9
    Nov.          8       23       6        10       6        27         3       7
   Dec.           4      24        1         7       2        10         5      40
                38      107       26        76     34       135        21     115
  June half     53       70       13       50      44       126        37     145
     year.
   Whole        91      177               126      78       261        58     260
      year.                       39

   Dr. G. Bird on the Nature and Properties of Albumen.                       15
                   Observations on the year 1837.
                                                  Not           Corrected
                                              corrected.    and reduced to 32°.
   Barometer highest on 15th Feb."\                 .al.
   Wind SE., light. Therm. 56° /
   Lowest 19th Jan. SE. heavy and"I OQ.OQ,I                      •;
   suddenly changingtoNW.Th.61 f
                                                 1-088              1-118
             Mean height corrected                       30-053
             Deduct mean of vapour                          ..j'i••-
                                                         29-511
             Mean heat ... 67-18
             Greatest         83-5
             Least            47'
                 Observations on the last six months.
    Solar heat (greatest on blackened bulb therm.)
          July      Aug.        Sep.      Oct. Nov. Dec.
          107°      115°        103°      98°         89°           88°
    On the 14th of November an aurora borealis was seen be
tween 6 and 7 p.m. centring on the north. Streamers ex
tending towards the Pleiades, and converging towards Cassio
peia, never rising so high. Stars, except of first magnitude,
not seen through it. Colour, except streamers, a deep red.
At its close, about 7 p.m., a haze covered the whole space,
and there was lightning in the SW. Barom. 30'024. Therm.
72°. Wind S W. fresh. During the appearance the gusts
of wind were frequent and strong.
    The barometer had been gradually falling from the 10th,
when it was 30-400 ; at 4 p.m. of the 1 4th it was down to
29-998.
    Bermuda, March 31st, 1838.
 IV. Experimental Researches on the Nature and Properties of
     Albumen, fyc. By GOLDING BIRD, M.D., F.L.S., G.&, $c.
    Lecturer on Experimental Philosophy at Guy's Hospital.*
 I N my former papers on this subjectf, I have given an ac-
 •*- count of some of the properties of free and combined al
 bumen, chiefly in relation to carbonic acid and electric currents ;
 and I hazarded a remark that these investigations would pro
 bably serve to point out the presence of albumen in certain
     • Communicated by the Author.                                               <
     • [See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. ix. p. 109.]

 16        Dr. Gold ing "Bird's Experimental Researches
 animal fluids in which its presence was unsuspected, and thus
 bring us acquainted with some new combinations of this im
 portant product of organization : this remark has certainly
  received some support from the facts that have fallen under
  my notice during the last three years, and which I propose to
 detail in this paper. In the last number of the Guy's Hospital re
  ports, 1 have related such of my experiments as appeared to be
 connected with the physiological bearings of this subject, I shall
  therefore confine myself in this communication to the strictly
 chemical investigations, in the hope that they will assist in re
 moving the obscurity hanging over that part of animal chemis
 try connected with the peculiar and ill-defined organic princi
 ples existing in mucus, saliva, &c., and stated by most chemical
 writers to differ from albumen in their chemical characters.
     1. Mr. Brande, in a paper published in the Philosophical
  Transactions for 1809, first demonstrated the existence of al
 bumen in saliva and mucus, and it is a matter of regret that
 this philosopher has not followed up these views, as much light
  must have been thrown on this subject by researches guided
  by his talent. The state of combination in which the albumen
 existed in mucous fluids Mr. Brande failed to discover,
 although he remarked that in some features it resembled very
 closely an alkaline albuminate. Before giving an account of
 the results obtained by a repetition of his interesting experi
 ments, it will be proper to describe the behaviour of those se
 cretions, in which the presence of albumen was suspected,
 towards re-agents, as it will serve to bring us acquainted with
 a combination of albumen, differing from any described in my
 previous papers. For this purpose, saliva, or any other mucous
 fluid which does not coagulate by heat, may be taken as an
 example, and perhaps that viscid glairy fluid secreted during
 the first few days of acute bronchitis is the best for our pur
 pose, as from its abundant secretion, and the frequency of the
 disease, it can he obtained in sufficient quantity for satisfactory
 chemical investigation. This form of mucus appears at first
 to be rather opake, from the presence of innumerable air-
 bubbles, but by repose in a cylindrical vessel these rise to the
 surface, and a nearly limpid fluid is obtained : this does not
 coagulate by heat, and presents the following appearances
 with re-agents :—
    A. On the addition of sulphuric acid a reddish-brown so
 lution is formed ; which by dilution with water loses its colour,
 and becomes quite transparent.
    B. Nitric acid appears atjir&t to coagulate it, rendering it
.yellow in patches, and by the assistance of heat forms a pale
 yellow solution, becoming brown on the addition of an alkali.

           on the Nature and Properties of Albumen, $c.           17
      C. Hydrochloric acid removes the slight turbidity it pre
  viously possessed, and causes it to assume a lilac tint.
     D. Ammonia, by the assistance of heat, partly dissolves it ;
  forming a gelatinous solution, becoming turbid when diluted
  with water.
     E. Acetic acid produces a partial coagulation ; causing the
  mucus to assume the appearance of a corrugated membrane,
  floating in the acid.
     F. Infusion of galls produces a copious precipitate.
     G. A quantity being evaporated to dryness, left a gum-like
  residue; which, when carefully incinerated in a platinum cru
  cible, yielded a perfectly white ash, destitute of all traces of
  iron: it turned turmeric paper brown, and partly dissolved
  in acids with effervescence, demonstrating the presence of an
  alkaline carbonate.
     Upon a review of these experiments, we find none of the
  pbenomena hostile to the opinion of the presence of albumen :
  indeed, some of them (B. C. F.) appear to indicate the pro
  bability of its existence. The action of acetic acid (E.) is quite
  peculiar to that combination existing in mucus ; to which I
  shall again have occasion to refer.
     2. When nearly limpid mucus possessing the above pro
  perties is kept for a few days exposed to the air, it becomes
  turbid, and gradually lets fall a white cream-like deposit.
  Some of this was collected and examined : it presented, under
  the microscope, the appearance of numerous round particles,
  which were readily recognised as coagulated or insoluble al
  bumen ; tor they dissolved in hydrochloric acid, yielding a fme
  lilac-coloured solution;, in nitric acid, with the aid of heat,
  they formed a yellow fluid, becoming brown on the addition
  of potass ; and with acetic acid they yielded a colourless so
 lution, from which ferrocyanide ofpotassium threw down a pale
 yellow precipitate in the cold.
     3. Having thus proved this deposit to consist of albumen, a
 most interesting question arises as to its source; for, as has
 been already shown, (2) none of this principle could be ab
 solutely proved to exist in the mucus before exposure to air,
 however much its presence might have been suspected. My
 first suspicions were, that the carbonic acid of the atmosphere
 had been the active agent, by combining with the substance
 which previously held the albumen in solution : this appeared
 to be probable, as some experiments, which it is unnecessary
to detail, seemed to countenance the idea of the existence of
albuminate of soda in mucus. I accordingly placed a glass
filled with the same limpid mucus under a jar of hydrogen
     Phil Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 79. My 1838              C

18        Dr. Golding Bird's Experimental Researches
gas, and in a few days the same creamy deposit appeared as
when exposed to the free air; hence proving satisfactorily,
that the absorption of carbonic acid is not necessary for pro
ducing this curious change.
    4. When simple limpid mucus is boiled in a test tube, no
coagulation, as already stated, takes place ; but on 'prolong
ing the ebullition, a milkiness appears, and after a few minutes
an insoluble opake deposit ensues. This change is best ob
served by heating two or three ounces of the mucus over a lamp
in a glass basin : the deposit is then more distinct, and by re
pose it becomes considerable. On examination, it is found to
consist of albumen in amorphous particles, in which alone it
differs from that precipitated from mucus by exposure to the
air, or to an atmosphere of hydrogen. This change has been
mentioned by Dr. Pearson *, although he did not examine the
nature of the deposit.
    5. Another variety of mucous secretion, of frequent occur
 rence, is that termed purulent or puriform mucus, secreted
 copiously during chronic bronchitis. This is generally very
 opake, often containing greenish masses, exceedingly tena
 cious; so that on attempting to pour it from one vessel to
 another, instead of falling in drops, it forms one continuous
 rope, sometimes two or three feet in length, which is absolute
 ly sectile. It usually contains innumerable air bubbles, which
 are evolved with difficulty : it can be scarcely said to be mis-
 cible with water, on account of its excessive tenacity. It bears
 considerable resemblance to simple mucus concentrated by
 evaporation, after having deposited part of its combined albu
 men -by exposure to air. The behaviour of purulent mu
 cus with various reagents, therefore, exactly resembles what
 we should, a priori, expect from operating on simple mucus,
 holding numerous minute particles of insoluble albumen in in
 timate diffusion. In general I have observed all the varieties
 of mucus to exert a faint but distinct alkaline reaction on sy
 rup of violets, and on paper tinted with infusion of rose petals ;
 and after a few days' exposure to the air this effect becomes
 still more obvious. Dr. Babington has shown in a late paper-J
 on this subject, that the bronchial mucus is constantly alka
 line ; and my friend Mr. Richard Phillips lately informed me
  that he had been long aware of this circumstance, having de
  monstrated it in the saliva by means of cudbear paper.
     6. The globules or particles of insoluble albumen present
  in puriform mucus are sufficiently obvious under a moderate
              * Philosophical Transactions, 1809, p. 322.
               t Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 539.

            on the Nature and Properties of Albumen, fyc.       19
magnifying power. When acted on by reagents the follow
ing were the results.
    A. Sulphuric acid formed a pale reddish solution with pu
rulent mucus; remaining nearly transparent, after dilution with
water.
     !'i. Nitric acid dissolved it with great difficulty, and not
 until after the application of heat : a pale yellow solution was
 then obtained, becoming orange red on the addition of a so
 lution of potass.
    C. Ammonia by the assistance of heat yielded a turbid so
lution : when this was poured into cold water, it formed, after
a few seconds' repose, a thin layer on the surface ; which, when
 viewed from above downwards, appeared quite diaphanous, but
 when placed horizontally between the eye and the light, ap-
 pearea like a layer of semi-opake jelly : this after some time
 subsided in a manner closely resembling the subsidence of
 silicic acid from hydro-fluosilicic acid, after the addition of a
 potass-salt.
    D. Hydrochloric acid partly dissolves puriform mucus,
forming a lilac-coloured troubledfluid.
    E. Acetic acid did not dissolve it, even after the application
 of heat : it appeared to contract the mucus into a corrugated
 membranoid mass, which floated on the surface of the fluid.
    F. By careful incineration in a platinum crucible, a nearly
 white ash was obtained, which exerted an alkaline action on
 turmeric paper, and partly dissolved with effervescence in dilute
 acids. It is unnecessary to make any remark upon these re
 actions, as they resemble those produced by simple mucus,
 modified only by the presence of particles of free albumen.
    7. Some ounces of rather opake mucus of bronchitis were
 placed in a flask furnished with a tube bent twice at right
 angles, and immersed in lime water. A lamp heat was then
 applied to the flask ; and in a few minutes, long before actual
 ebullition, bubbles of gas were copiously evolved from the mu
 cus ; and on passing through the lime water, they rendered
 it quite milky from a copious deposit of carbonate of lime;
 hence proving most satisfactorily the presence of carbonic
 acid in mucus, either free, or in so loose a state of combination
 as to be evolved by a very gentle heat.
      B. Two fluid ounces of similar mucus were mixed with a
  small quantity of a solution of potass, in a flask furnished as
  before with a bent tube, the end of which was immersed in a
  small quantity of pure dilute hydrochloric acid. On applying
 heat to the flask, the upper part and tube became soon filled
  with white fumes ; and after five minutes' boiling the lamp
  was removed : the dilute acid being carefully evaporated to
                                 C2

20        Dr. Golding Bird's Experimental Researches
dryness in a glass capsule, yielded numerous delicate feathers
of hydrochlorate of ammonia. To obviate any source of fal
lacy in this experiment, some of the same specimen of diluted
hydrochloric acid was evaporated to dryness; but scarcely the
minutest traces of residue were visible even with the aid of a
lens. By simple distillation without admixture, mucus (as
stated by Dr. Pearson) does not yield the smallest trace of
ammonia ; hence we may very safely conclude, that although
mucus does not contain free ammonia, yet it contains a salt of
that base, most probably the chloride, (muriate of ammonia)
a salt which the ingenious researches of Raspail* have proved
to be almost universally present in animal fluids.
    8. Some fresh saliva, obtained without the use of any che
mical stimuli, was mixed with an equal bulk of water, and
after violent agitation filtered; this fluid was quite limpid, but
by exposure to the atmosphere in an imperfectly closed jar
during forty-eight hours, an opacity occurred precisely asin the
case of mucus (2), the substance deposited not being soluble
in nitric acid : the same thing occurred by exposure to an at
mosphere of hydrogen gas. Some of this limpid dilute saliva
was exposed to heat in a glass tube ; no coagulation occurred :
but by protracted ebullition in a glass basin numerous flocculi
were deposited ; these flocculi could not be distinguished from
coagulated albumen by their behaviour towards reagents.
    9. Some fresh human saliva was Altered, and exposed in a
class cup by means of copper wires to a current of electricity
from a battery of six pairs of plates two inches square, excited
by weak brine in the manner described in my last communi
cation on this subject (18) : coagulation ensued in a few seconds
around the positive electrode ; the coagulated mass adhered to
the wire, and acquired a green tint from the oxidation of the
 copper electrode. Another portion of saliva was submitted
 to the electrolytic action of an electric current, in two cups
 connected by moistened cotton : coagulation very soon took
 place at die same electrode as in the last described experi
 ment.
    10. Mucus diluted with water and filtered, presented the
 same appearances when acted on by a voltaic current as saliva,
 coagulation constantly taking place, and at the positive
 electrode.
    11. When the coagulated substance separated by electric
action (9 and 10) from mucus or saliva was examined chemi
 cally, in no single feature was it found to differ from ordinary
coagulated albumen: in its solubility in acetic acid, alkalies, &c,
 not the slightest discrepancy could be detected.
        * Nouveau Syitbne de Chimie Organique, pp. 195, 346, &c-

          on the Nature and Properties ofAlbumen, fyc.         21
    1 2. From all the foregoing experiments we learn, that fluids,
as mucus and saliva, which do not give indications of the pre
sence of albumen in a satisfactory manner by the application
of ordinary reagents ( 1 and 6), by exposure to the air (2 and 8)
or to an atmosphere of gaseous hydrogen (3, 8) let fall a de
posit in the form of minute particles, which resembles coagu
lated albumen so closely that we are hardly justified in con
sidering them as distinct. The same fluids when traversed
by an electric current of low intensity (9, 10) give up, at the
surface of the positive electrode, a white substance, which no
chemical reagent to which it has been exposed can distinguish
from artificially coagulated albumen. The results thus ob
tained by the action of electricity are corroborative of those
obtained by Mr. Brande twenty-eight years previously, the
only discrepancy that exists depending upon the surface at
which the coagulation took place : to this I should beg to pro
pose a similar explanation to that which I have suggested in
my former paper with regard to albumen (23).
    J 3. In consequence of the separation of coagulated albumen?
from saliva by an electric current, the existence of the pectdiar
animal matter of saliva (ptyalin of Berzelius) might appear
questionable, and it appeared probable that it might be some
albuminous combination instead of a distinct proximate prin
ciple. To determine this, some ptyalin was prepared by
evaporating some saliva to dryness, digesting the residue in
hot alcohol, and then in cold alcohol acidulated with acetic
acid. The insoluble residue, which notwithstanding its wash
 ing with alcohol was acid, partly dissolved in water, leaving
an insoluble substance very closely resembling, if not iden
 tical with, coagulated albumen. The watery solution con
 tains, according to Berzelius, (Traite, v. 6.) tolerably pure
ptyalin. This solution was placed in two glass cups con
nected by moistened cotton, and exposed by means of platina
 wires to the action of an electric current from 36 pairs of
 plates two inches square excited by weak brine : coagulation
 ensued at both electrodes, most freely at the negative side.
 This coagulated substance could not be distinguished from
 albumen, hence it appeared probable that the ptyalin of Ber
 zelius consisted of some hitherto unknown combination of
 that principle.
     As it is obvious that no previously known combination of
 albumen would present all the phenomena of the (so called)
 peculiar proximate principles of mucus or saliva with reagents,
 although its solutions in alkalies and in carbonic acid would
 present some, it became a most interesting inquiry to seek
 after and develop the nature of this unknown combination.

22           Prof. Johnston on the Composition of certain
This was a task of no slight difficulty, on account of our very
limited acquaintance with the nature and properties of the al
buminous combinations found in the different secretions.
                          [To be continued.]
V.     ', On the Composition 'of certain Mineral Substances of
   Organic Origin. By JAMES F.W. JOHNSTON, M.A., F.R.SS.
   L. # E., F.G.S., Professor of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
   Durham,*
                V. Elastic Bitumen of Derbyshire.
THE elastic bitumens of Derbyshire and Montrelais have
      been analysed by Henry jun. He found them to con
sist of
                         From Odin Mine. From Montrelais.
              Carbon          52-250            58-260
              Hydrogen...      7'496             4-890
              Nitrogen ... 0-154                 0-104
              Oxygen          40-100            36-746
                            100-              100'
                            Journal de Chimie Medicalet i. p. 18.
   This analysis is open to two remarks; first, on the excessive,
and in the present state of manipulation the almost impossible,
refinement of estimating one tenth of a per centage of nitro
gen ; and second, on the large amount of oxygen which it
indicates. This quantity is so much beyond what we should
expect from the appearance of the substance itself, from its
chemical relations, and from the circumstances under which
it is met with, as at once to awaken doubts of the accuracy
of the analysis.
   I have analysed three varieties of the elastic bitumen of
Derbyshire, and have obtained a widely different result.
   1 . The first was soft, elastic, adhering to the fingers, yield
ing to slight pressure, of a brown colour and a strong pe
culiar odour. At 212° Fahr. it decreased in weight, giving
off a volatile matter possessing the unpleasant odour of the-
mass.
   10-052 grs. burned with oxide of copper gave 31-07 grs.
ofcarbonic acid, and 12'01 8 grs. of water. These are equal to
               Carbon                           85'474
               Hydrogen                         13-283
                                                98-757
                     • Communicated by the Author.

      Minerals ofOrganic Origin. No. V. Elastic Bitumen. 23
    The loss may either be due to the presence of oxygen, or
to the extraction of a trace of the more volatile part when
heated, before burning, for the purpose of pumping out the
water.
    2. The second, of which I had a larger supply, had a close
resemblance to moderately soft India rubber. Its colour was
of a darker brown. Boiled in water its colour became paler,
but it again darkened on drying at 212°. During the boiling
a more volatile portion collected on the surface of the water
and the sides of the flask, which on cooling presented the ap
pearance of a very soft white, or slightly brownish solid. At
212° in the air it also diminished in weight. Boiling alcohol
and ether extracted from it a similar volatile substance, but
very sparingly, and of a browner colour. I did not recognise
 in this substance the bitter taste remarked by M. Henry. I
have in my possession, however, a substance of a similar kind
from South America, which I shall describe in a future Num-
ber, possessed of an intensely bitter taste, a trace of which
may, perhaps, be occasionally present in the elastic bitu
men, and give a bitterness to the matter extracted from it by
ether.
   Of this second or harder variety, 13'66 grs., cut into small
pieces and boiled once in ether and three times in alcohol,
lost 2-46, or 18-008 per cent. It still retained its elasticity
after this treatment.
   Of the portion thus boiled, 11 '195 grs. gave on burning
34-165 grs. of carbonic acid, and 12-67 grs. of water. Of a
second portion, first boiled for a long time in water, and af
terwards in successive portions of alcohol, as long as any
thing seemed to be taken up, 8-74 grs. gave 26-447 of car
bonic acid, and 9-86 of water. These arc equivalent to
                                   1st.            2nd.
           Carbon                 84-385         83-671
           Hydrogen               12-576         12-535
                                  96-961         96-206
And indicate the presence of from three to four per cent. of
oxygen in the portion of the bitumen which remains after the
action of alcohol and aether.
    3. The soft elastic bitumen is said by long keeping to be
come hard and brittle. It is certain that portions of this
brittle kind occasionally occur imbedded in the softer mass.
    Of a specimen of this brittle variety having a vitreous
lustre and conchoidal fracture,
  a. 6-'263 grs. gave 19-47 carbonic acid, and 6-957 of water.
  b. 5-93 grs. gave 18-48                       6'63

24    Prof. Johnston on the Composition ofcertain Minerals.
These are equivalent to
                                       1st.            2nd.
            Carbon               = 85-958            86-177
            Hydrogen             = 12-342            12-4.23
                                     98-300          98-600
   It would appear that this variety also contains a small
quantity of oxygen.
   These analyses show us,
   1. That the elastic bitumens are very nearly akin to the
Hatchetine and Ozocerite, and are probably an equiatomic
carbohydrogen (CH) slightly altered.
   2. The first compared with the succeeding analyses shows
that in the soluble and more volatile of the two portions of
which these bitumens consist, the carbon and hydrogen are
more nearly in atomic proportion than in the elastic insoluble
portion, and render it probable that the soluble part is a
variety of Hatchetine or Ozocerite, of which originally the
entire mass consisted ; and therefore,
    3. That the change which the originally pure carbohydro
gen has undergone, has either been the result of a decompo
sition analogous to that which many of this group of carbo-
hydrogens are known to undergo, or of an oxidation to a
small extent, perhaps of both. If oxidized it may either be
so by the direct addition of oxygen to the unchanged com
pound, or by the replacement of a portion of its hydrogen,
in which case the atomic ratio of the fundamental elements
must be altered. Were we certain that the second variety
 analysed was wholly free from mixture, the ratio of its ele
 ments might be calculated and the true nature of the change
 determined; while doubt remains in regard to its purity,
 however, the result of such a calculation would be deserving
 of little confidence.
    In regard to the origin of this substance, I am inclined to
 attribute its presence in the mineral veins and fissures which
 traverse the mountain limestone in Derbyshire, to sublimation
 from beneath. The immense stratiform deposits of trap which
 traverse that district, indicate a sufficient cause for such
 sublimations. The contact of a fused lnva with the organic
 matters which abound in the strata of the carboniferous aira,
 could not fail to cause the evolution of volatile substances,which
 would condense when they reached a colder region. Bitu
minous substances are found also in the carboniferous lime
stone in Fifeshire, where trap rocks are known to penetrate or
disturb the strata; and it is not unlikely that in most cases
their appearance near the surface is due to a high temperature,

  On the Separation of the Oxalicfrom other Organic Acids. 25
derived from some similar source, acting on substances either
themselves organized, or like coal of organic origin.
      Durham, May 1838.
VI. On the Separation of the Oxalicfrom other Organic Acids.
    By JAMES F. W. JOHNSTON, M.A., F.B.SS., L. # E.
    F.G.S., Professor ofChemistry and Mineralogy, Durham.*
  A T the Liverpool meeting of the British Association in
.**. September last, I exhibited and stated the composition
 of a beautiful salt I had formed some months before, consist
 ing of an atom of nitrate with an atom of oxalate of lead and
 two atoms of water. In the Number of the Philosophical
 Magazine for May is given an extract of a paper by M. De-
jardin, in which this salt is very correctly described, and cer
 tainly without the knowledge of my having previously made
 it known f. As the study of this interesting compound, how
 ever, has suggested an easy method of separating the oxalic
 from other organic acids, I shall briefly describe the unpub
 lished observations I have made upon it.
    I prepare the salt by adding nitric acid in considerable
 quantity to a weak solution of oxalic acid, or of acetate of
JL.nl, and pouring in slowly a solution of subacetate of lead,
 or of dilute oxalic acid. Shining plates of the compound
 speedily begin to fall. If the quantity of oxalic acid be mi
 nute, or if it be largely diluted, the crystals fall only after
 some time, and in the form of six-sided tables, of which two
 of the sides are longer than the others, possessing a silvery
 whiteness and pearly lustre, and striated longitudinally so as
 to exhibit the most beautiful prismatic colours when light is
 reflected from them. I have also obtained it in acicular prisms
 nearly an inch in length, which according to the measurement
 of Professor Miller of Cambridge, are oblique rhombic prisms.
     Decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen it gives a colourless
 solution, which, when evaporated, emits fumes of nitric and
 yields crystals of oxalic acid.
     Heated to 212° this salt does not diminish in weight; at a
  temperature of about 500° Fahr. it loses 2 atoms (5'42S per
  cent.) of water, and before it reaches 570° Fahr. it has given
  off copious red fumes, lost upwards of 19 per cent., and is
    • Communicated by the Author.
    t I may take this opportunity of mentioning, that under the name of
  lodal, M. L'Amy has lately described a compound of which I published
  an account in the Edinburgh Journal of Science (II. p. 415.) some years
  ago. It is obtained by the action of nitric acid on iodine in alcohol, and
  has not yet been analysed.

26            Prof. Johnston on the Separation of the
wholly converted into carbonate of lead. At a higher tem
perature the carbonic acid is driven off.
   Water decomposes it, extracting when boiled over the salt
the greater part of the nitrate, and leaving nearly pure oxa-
late ; a small portion of the double salt being dissolved at the
same time, which precipitates again on cooling. Thus 24-26
grs. boiled in water left 1'2'70 grs. of insoluble residue, or
52-35 per cent. ; the quantity of oxalate in the salt being only
50'016 per cent. When newly precipitated, or before it has
been dried at 212°, it is much more readily decomposed, so
that it cannot be washed on the filter even with dilute nitric
acid without decomposition.
   10-59 grs. heated to nearly 500 Fahr. lost before any trace
of red fumes appeared 0-56 = 5'28 per cent, of water. Three
successive portions on heating to redness left respectively
67'51, 67'55, and a purer variety 67'28 per cent, of oxide of
lead.
   These results agree with the formula P1N+ PIC + 2 HO.
                                  Exper.           Calcul.
Or,         Oxide of lead         67'28          67-312
            Acids                  37'54.         37'263
            Water                   5-28           5-425
                                 100-           100-
   I met with this salt in the course of an examination of the
action of nitric acid on certain organic substances. Thus if
oil of turpentine or of lemons, the balsams, the sugars, colo
phony, elemi, gamboge and other resins, Burgundy pitch,
or indigo be boiled in nitric acid, either dilute or concentrated,
and to the acid solution, from which the yellow resin formed
during the operation has been precipitated by water, sub-
nitrate of lead be added, the new salt falls in great abundance,
indicating the production of oxalic acid. Not suspecting the
crystals I obtained in this way to be a double salt, I was at
much pains in making out their elementary composition bv
burning with oxide of copper, and I only prepared it directly
from a mixture of oxalic and nitric acids after I had completely
analysed it. During the action of nitric acid, however, on
some, if not upon all the organic substances above mentioned,
other acids are formed ; and this is more especially known to
be the case in regard to indigo. These acids are held in so
lution along with the oxalic, and continue to be so held after
the addition of subacetate of lead to the acid liquid ceases to
throw down any more of the double salt. It becomes inter
esting then to examine how far the whole of the oxalic acid

                Oxalicfrom other Organic Acids.                27
could be thrown down by this means while the solution still
remained acid.
   1. If into solutions of acetic, tartaric, citric, carbazotic,
indigotic, benzoic, succinic, gallic, moronic, pyromeconic,
mucic, or camphoric acids, nitric acid be poured and after
wards subacetate of lead, or if nitric acid be added largely
to solutions of acetate or nitrate of lead and solutions of these
acids be dropped in, the precipitate at first formed speedily
redissolves, and no further precipitate, crystalline or other
wise, appears on standing for any length of time. I have not
tried any other organic acids, but the same is probably
true of many of them also.
   2. But if into a solution thus prepared, and containing al
ready one or more of these acids, a few drops of a solution of
oxalic acid be introduced, crystals of the double salt begin to
appear.
   S. This is beautifully illustrated, and at the same time the
conversion of tartaric into oxalic acid, by dissolving the former
or the bitartrate of potash in dilute nitric acid; the solution
gives no precipitate with subacetate of lead, but boil it a little,
and a precipitate in shining crystals appears on adding the
salt of lead. This forms a very instructive class experiment.
Care must be taken to have the solution sufficiently acid, or
more or less of pure oxalate of lead will accompany the double
salt,
   4. 15'92 grs. of tartaric and 6'08 grs. of oxalic acid with
one atom of water (C+H)were dissolved in a small quantity
of water, and poured into an acid concentrated solution of
nitrate of lead in large excess. The double salt collected
and dried at 212° Fahr. weighed 45'O3 grs., equivalent to
6'14 grs. of (C + H). This indicates 0'06 of oxalic acid in
excess, an error which can hardly be avoided, from the im
possibility of sufficiently washing the precipitate and filter
without risking decomposition.
   5. But the oxalic acid may also be separated from all these
other acids, and estimated with tolerable precision, without the
formation of the double salt. Thus 10 grs. of oxalic acid in
crystals (C + 3 H), equivalent to 5'73 of anhydrous acid, were
mixed with 20 of tartaric acid, 10 of citric, 2 of benzoic, 4 of
succinic, and an unmeasured quantity of acetic acid dissolved
in two ounces of distilled water, and acid nitrate of lead added
to the solution. By this method of proceeding a sufficient
quantity of nitric acid was present to prevent the tartrate,

28       Prof. Hare on the Reaction of the Essential Oils
benzoate, &c. from falling, but not enough to cause the for
mation of the double salt. A crystalline precipitate, indeed,
fell, but it was only oxalate, with a few flakes of the double
salt. After drying at 212 it weighed 23'16 grs. and lost when
heated to redness 26'8S percent. Pure dry oxalate contains
24-68 per cent, of acid; and 2.S-16grs. of oxalate are equiva
lent to 5'71 of anhydrous acid, very nearly the quantity em
ployed. Some time must be allowed for the perfect deposition
of the whole of the oxalate or of its double salt.
    From these experiments it appears that by simply acidify
ing strongly with nitric acid, the oxalic may be separated
almost completely from solutions containing any of the other
organic acids above enumerated, and its quantity determined
with considerable accuracy.
    The utility of this process in separating the oxalic acid,
formed so largely in the preparation of the indigotic and
carbazotic acids and other highly oxidized compounds, need
not be pointed out, nor the means it affords us of estimating
quantitatively the nature of the changes produced on organized
bodies by the action of oxidizing agents.
   Durham, May 29, 1838,
VII. Of the Reaction of the Essential Oils 'with Sulphurmis
    Acid, as evolved in union with jEtker in the Process of
    jEtherification, or otherwise. By R. HARE, M.D., Professor
    ofChemistry in the University ofPennsylvania*.
 ITAVING mixed and subjected to distillation two ounces
 -"-of oil of turpentine, four ounces of alcohol and eight
 ounces of sulphuric acid, a yellow liquid came over, having
 all the appearance of that which is obtained in the process
 for making oil of wine, described in a preceding article.
 On removing, by means of ammonia, the sulphurous acid ex
 isting in the liquid, and driving off the ether by heat, a liquid
 remained, which differed from oil of turpentine in taste and
 smell, although a resemblance might still be traced. This
 liquid was without any sensible action on potassium, which
 continued bright in it for many weeks. It proved, on ex
 amination, to contain a small quantity of sulphuric acid. I
 ascertained, afterwards, that in order to produce these results,
 it was sufficient to pour oil of turpentine on the mass which
 remains after the termination of the ordinary operation for
 obtaining ether, and apply heat. Subsequently it was ob
 served that when the sulphurous ether was removed by heat
    • From the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, N.S.
 vol. v.

                    with Sulphurous Acid, Sfc.                29
 or evaporation, without the use of the ammonia, the pro
 portion of sulphuric acid in the remaining oil was much
greater.
   By subjecting to the same process several essential oils, I
succeeded in obtaining as many liquids to which the above re
marks were equally applicable. With some of the oils, how
ever, similar results were, by this method, either totally or
partially unattainable, in consequence of their reaction with the
sulphuric acid being so energetic as to cause their decompo
sition before any distillation could take place. No product
can be obtained by distillation with sulphuric acid and al
cohol from the oil of cinnamon obtained from cassia. From
the oils of sassafras and cloves, but little can be procured.
   However, in one instance, by previously mixing the oil of
sassafras with the alcohol, in the manner described in the ac
count given of the first experiment with the oil of turpentine,
I succeeded in obtaining in addition to a small quantity of the
heavy liquid containing sulphuric acid, a minute quantity of
a lighter one, devoid of that acid, which burned without
smoke, was insoluble in water, and very fluid. I am disposed
to consider the liquid thus procured as a hydrate of sassafras
oil, or sassafreine, as I would call it, being analogous to hy-
dric ether.
   The oil of sassafras, whether isolated or in combination,
possesses a remarkable property, which, I believe, has not at
tracted sufficient observation: I mean that of producing an
intense crimson colour, when added, even in a very minute
quantity, to concentrated sulphuric acid.
   One drop of oil of sassafras imparted a striking colour to
forty-eight ounce measures of sulphuric acid, and appeared
perceptible when it formed less than a five millionth part.
This property was completely retained by the lighter liquid
above described as procured from oil of sassafras.
   I subsequently observed, that when sulphurous acid, whether
in the form of sulphurous ether, in that of a gas, or when in
union with water, was brought into contact with any of the
essential oils (including kreosote), which were subjected to
the experiment, they acquired a yellow colour, and a strong
smell of this acid.
    In the case of the yellow compound thus obtained from
any of the essential oils which I have tried, if the sulphurous
acid be removed by heat, the oil, by analysis, will be found
to yield sulphuric acid. That some acid of sulphur remains
in union must be evident, since washing with ammonia will
not entirely remove the power of yielding sulphuric acid ; and
the total absence of the sulphurous smell demonstrates that

30      Prof. Hare on the Reaction of the Essential Oils
the sulphurous acid either enters into an intimate combination
with the oil, or acquires oxygen sufficient to convert it into
sulphuric or hyposulphuric acid.
   Those essential oils which contain oxygen, are most affected
by the action of sulphurous acid.
   Both the oils of cloves and cinnamon, after admixture with
sulphurous ether and subsequent distillation, gave, on ana
lysis, precipitates of sulphate of barytes. In the case of
cloves, the precipitate amounted to one-seventh of the whole
weight.
   By distilling camphor with alcohol and sulphuric acid, I
obtained a yellow liquid, which, by washing with ammonia
and evaporation, in order to get rid of the sulphurous ether,
yielded an oil. The oil, by standing, separated into two
portions, one solid, the other liquid. The solid portion re
sembled camphor somewhat in smell, but differed from it by
melting at a much lower temperature, becoming completely
fluid at 175°.
   I found that the essential oils of cinnamon and cloves pos
sessed an antiseptic power, quite equal to that of kreosote,
and that their aqueous solutions, when sulphated, were even
superior to similar solutions of that agent.
   One part of milk mingled with four parts of a saturated
aqueous solution of the sulphated oil of cloves, remained after
five days sweet and liquid, while another portion of the same
milk became curdled and sour within twenty-four hours.
Having on the 2nd day of July added two drops of oil of cin
namon to an ounce measure of fresh milk, it remained liquid
on the llth; and, though it finally coagulated, it continued
free from bad taste or smell till September, although other
portions of the same milk had become putrid. A half ounce
of milk, to which a drop of sulphurous oil of turpentine had
been added, remained free from coagulation at the end of two
days, while another portion, containing five drops of pure oil
of turpentine, became curdled and sour on the next day.
   A number of pieces of meat were exposed in small wine
glasses, with water impregnated with solutions of the various
essential oils. Their antiseptic power seemed to be in the
ratio of their acridity. The milder oils seemed to have com
paratively little antiseptic power, unless associated with
the sulphurous acid, which has long been known as an anti
septic.
   In cutaneous diseases, and, perhaps, in the case of some
ulcers, the employment of the sulphurous sulphated oils may
be advantageous.
   A respectable physician was of opinion that the sulphurous

                   with Sulphurous Acid, fyc.                  3I
sulphate of turpentine had a beneficial influence in the case
of an obstinate tetter.
    Possibly the presence of sulphurous acid may increase the
power of oil of turpentine as an anthelmintic.
    Pieces of corned meat hung up, after being bathed with an
alcoholic solution of the sulphurous sulphated oil of turpen
tine, or with solutions of the sulphated oils of cloves or cin
namon, remained free from putridity at the end of several
months. That imbued with cinnamon had a slight odour and
taste of the oil.
    I am led, therefore, to the impression that the antiseptic
power is not peculiar to kreosote, but belongs to other acrid
oils and principles, and especially to the oils of cinnamon and
cloves.
    The union of sulphuric acid with these oils appears to ren
der them more soluble in water : whether any important
change is effected in their medical qualities by the presence
of the acid may be a question worthy of attention.
    I have stated my reasons for considering the ammoniacal
liquid, resulting from the ablution of the ethereal sulphurous
sulphate of etherine with ammonia, as partially composed of
hyposulphuric acid. By adding to this ammoniacal liquid a
quantity of sulphuric acid, sufficient to produce a strong
odour of sulphurous acid, and then a portion of any of the
essential oils ; a combination ensued, as already described,
 between the oils and the sulphurous acid liberated by the sul
phuric acid, so as to render them yellow and suffocating.
The habitudes of cinnamon oil from cassia under these cir
cumstances were peculiar. A quantity of it was dissolved,
 communicating to the liquid a reddish hue. The solution
 being evaporated, a gummy translucent reddish mass was
obtained, which, by solution in alcohol, precipitated a quan
 tity of salt, and being boiled nearly to dryness, redissolved
 in water and again evaporated, was resolved into a mass
having the friability, consistency, and translucency of common
 rosin ; but with a higher and more lively reddish colour. Its
odour recalls, but faintly, that of cinnamon ; its taste is bitter
 and disagreeable, yet recalling that of the oil from which it
 is derived. Its aqueous solution does not redden litmus ; nor,
 when acidulated with nitric acid, does it yield a precipitate
 with nitrate of barytes.
     Of this substance ten grains were exposed to the process
 above mentioned, for the detection of sulphuric acid, and
 were found to yield a precipitate of 6'5 grains of sulphate of
  barytes.
     It may be worth while to mention, that in boiling the sul

32 Mr. C. Holtzapffel on a Scale ofGeometrical Equivalents
phated oils with nitric acid, compounds are formed finally,
which resist the further action of the acid, and are only to be
decomposed by the assistance of a nitrate and deflagration.
I conjecture that these compounds will be found to merit
classification as others formed by an oxacid of nitrogen.
    One of my pupils, in examining one of the compounds
thus generated, was, as he conceived, seriously affected by it,
suffering next day as from an over dose of opium. He also
conceived that a cat, to which a small quantity was given,
was affected in like manner.
    I had prepared an apparatus with the view of analysing
accurately the various compounds above described or alluded
to, by burning them in oxygen gas; when, by an enduring
illness of my assistant, and subsequently my own indisposi
tion, I was prevented from executing my intentions.
VIII. On a Scale of Geometrical Equivalentsfor Engineering
    and other Purposes. By Mr. CHARLES HOLTZAPFFEL,
    Associate of the Institution of Civil Engineers;
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       GENTLEMEN,
r|^HE scale of geometrical equivalents is a particular com-
 -*- bination of several of the scales of equal parts, which
I have recently contrived and explained*: by means of this
instrument, with the aid of a little arithmetic, a great variety
of tedious calculations in constructive science generally, but
more especially in engineering, may be performed with con
siderable correctness, by the simple inspection of scales, pro
portionals to the quantities under observation.
    As regards drawing, the scales are shown to be only an
extension and generalization of the common application of
reduced scales of 1, 2, 3, &c. inches to the foot; and in their
application to numbers or quantity, they are laid side by side
with their zeros in contact, after the manner of thermometer
scales, two of which are frequently engraved on the same in
strument for comparison, so that we may read the height of
the mercury either by the centigrade scale, freezing being
called zero, and boiling 100; or by the Fahrenheit scale in
common use in this country, the same space being divided
into 180 degrees, freezing being then marked 32. We may
thus transpose the French reading of the instrument into the
English, or the reverse.
    I have extended this latter application of scales to many
       • A new System of Scales of Equal Parts, by C. Holtzapfl'el.

               for Engineering and other Purposes.            33
kinds of quantity, amongst others to the various measures
and weights, as the linear measures, the cubic measures and
measures of capacity, the superficial measures, and the weights
of all denominations and all countries, any two of a kind ad
mitting of comparison after the manner explained with the
thermometer. The scales intended for drawing are gradu
ated on separate slips of card, in order that they may be im
mediately applied to the drawing and to curves without the
intervention of compasses, and at the same time the confusion
arising from crowding together several lines of graduations
on the same slip of wood or metal to avoid expense, is got
rid of.
   Card has been selected as the material from its economy,
its flexibility, the distinctness of the black lines (ruled upon
them in my new dividing engine,), the facility of writing or
printing upon the card the titles and explanations, &c., but
principally from the identity of material of the paper scales,
and of the drawing paper, they are in consequence affected
in the like degree by atmospheric influence, which has been
experimentally proved*. The different series are ruled on
cards of light colours for distinction.
   The purpose of the present instrument, however, being dif
ferent, the card is glued on a thin mahogany board six inches
wide, so as to contain on one or both sides several lines of
graduations, beginning from one line or zero; and any two of
the scales may be readily compared, or the correspondence
                       if
                  INDEX
                       wB. CUBIC FEET
                         T7 C.COBIC INCHES
            50 000. ' ./y
                  rrrrrW D. SPHERICAL IKS.
                • A New System, &c., pp. 1—9, and 43.
   Phil. Mag. S.3. Vol. 13. No. 79. July 1838.         D

34    Mr. C. Holtzapffel on a Scale of Geometrical Equivalent
of the whole series may be observed at one view, by the as
sistance of a particular kind of square represented in the
wood-cut It consists of two slips of card, connected at the
upper and lower edges by two slips of wood glued between
them, so as to make a kind of slider or ferrule.
    The first idea was to cut the edge of the card square; but
a better mode subsequently suggested itself, namely, to draw
a line across the index, and then to serrate the edge, so that
the several parts of the line might serve for the more accurate
appreciation and subdivision of the graduations by the eye.
 At the same time, the card index receives the titles of the
 scales A, B, C, &c. and there is therefore no necessity to dis
 tress the eye by running continually to the end of the instru
ment to ascertain the same, as the index gives all the parti
culars called for, in immediate contiguity.
    The 20 lines of graduations selected for one side of the
 present instrument are arranged as follows :
             A. Cubic yards
             B. Cubic feet                 , , , measures.
                                        \ -Cubic
             C. Cubic inches
             D. Spherical inches
             E.  Superficial yards         Areas and columns,
             F.  Superficial feet
                                              one foot high
             G.  Superficial inches           or deep.
             H.  Circular inches
             I.  Imperial gallons
             J.  Bushels                   Measures of
              K.  Barrels                     capacity.
              L. Tuns
              M.  Pounds troy
              N.  Pounds avoirdupois       Weights estimated
              O.  Cwts.                          in water.
              P.  Tuns
              Q. French lineal metres "|
              R. French cubic metres I French metrical
              S. French super1 metres [ system.
              T. French kilogrammes. J
     All these scales are graduated to one common standard,
   namely, the unit described in the pamphlet*, one tenth of an
   inch English representing one cubic foot English : all the
   others are multiples and submultiples, proportionate to the
   values of the several measures.
                              * P. 31.

                for Engineering and other Purposes.                      35
    The line B, therefore, the basis of the instrument, is a line
of inches and tenths, marked 10, 20, 30, &c. Now as the
cubic yard contains 27 cubic feet, the unit of the line A is
B x 27 or 2'7 inches decimally subdivided.
    The line C for cubic inches is so proportioned that 1728
of its nominal divisions, (the number of cubic inches con
tained in one cubic foot,) are equivalent to one tenth of an
inch ; but as we could not graduate such a scale, nor employ
it when done, our purpose is equally well served by the nu
merals annexed to the divisions.
   Ten inches denotes 100 cubic feet on B, that space must
also denote 1728x100 or 172,800 cubic inches on C, 10
inches is therefore divided into 17 great divisions, numbered
respectively 10,000, 2, 3, 4, 50,000, 6, 7,8, 9, 100,000, and
so on, each fifth numerical being the true number of cubic
inches, the ciphers being omitted in the intermediate places to
avoid confusion.
   The line D for spherical inches is C multiplied by '5236
the constant multiplier for giving the value of the sphere en
closed in any given cube, or as expressed at the end of the
scale itself C x '5236 = 3'030. In this simple manner all the
values are worked out and graduated, the formula for 'con
structing each being marked at the terminations of the several
lines.
   It only remains to observe that the group for superficial
measures is calculated for areas and columns of the common
height of one foot; the group for weights, which refer to
water, from the cubic foot of water weighing 62-5 pounds
avoirdupois, therefore 10 inches represents 6250 pounds avoir
dupois; the group for measures of capacity, from the gallon
being equivalent to 1 0 pounds of water, and so on.
   The scales of the instrument being therefore proportionals as explained,
we may read off in groups the value of any one measure in any other:
it is desired, for example, to know all the equivalent values of 33 cubic
feet, expressed upon the scale, (see diagram). Set the index to 33 on B.
cubic feet, and at one view the several answers appear, namely, on A.
1-22 cubic yards, on B. 33 cubic feet, on C. 57,000 cubic inches, (the
cube root of which from the tables or 38 to 39 will be the side in inches
of an equal cube,) on D. we rend 109,000 spherical inches, (the cube root
of which 48 nearly is the diameter in inches of a sphere containing 33
cubic feet,) on E. 3-67 square yards, on F. 33 square feet, on G. 4750
square inches, (each area being supposed to be the base of a column one
foot high, and the square root of any of these will give the side of an
equal square column of the came height); on H. we read 6050 circular
inches, the square root of which is the diameter in inches of a circular
column or cylinder one foot high, (also containing 33 cubic feet) on I. 206
gallons, on J. 25'75 bushels, on K. :'. , ! barrels, on L. -sis liquid tuns,
on M. 2500 pounds troy, that being the weight of 33 cubic feet of water,
                                    D 2

  36 Mr. C. Holtzapffel on a Scale of Geometrical Equivalents
 on N. 2060 pounds avoirdupois, (multiplying either of these by the spe
  cific gravity of any substance, gives the weight of each, or it may be done
  by inspection of the scales provided for that purpose p. 24—30.) on O. we
 read 18-4 cwts., on P. -92 tuns, on R. -932 cubic metres, on S. 3'06 super
  ficial .«. //•,.•;, as before extending to the height of one foot, and finally on
  T. 932 kUogrammet, as the weight of 33 English cubic feet of water.
      It is not at all likely that the whole of these comparative
 values would be wanted in any one inquiry, but all the mea
 sures are of frequent occurrence in calculations. To render
 the reading as simple as possible the numerals denote the
 true values throughout, so that no reductions nor changes
 have to be made, unless it be the calling 1, either 10,100,1000,
 &c. which is common to all decimal scales : it need scarcely
 be said that when the value of any one scale is thus altered,
 the same must be done with all employed at the same time.
 It will be found the most convenient first to take down the
 numbers denoted on the scale, and then to seek the true place
 for the decimal point.
     The results given in the general example show the varied
 nature of the transpositions which the scale effects : these need
 not be extended by way of illustration; but we may also read
 and resolve decimals, and perform many of the calculations
in engineering, &c. which would otherwise require the employ
ment of two or more constant multipliers.
    Required the value of the decimal -231 ofa cubic foot, in cubic inches.
Employ B. and C. The answer is 399-2 inches.
    Convert the decimal -987 of a pound troy into the decimal of a kilo
gramme. Employ N. and T. The answer is -3685.
    What fraction of a liquid tun of water is 7£ cwts. of the same ? Employ
0. and L. Answer -322.
    The diameter ofa sphere of water containing 500 gallons? Seek 500 in
1. and take the cube root of the number obtained in D (from the tables).
Answer 263,900, the cube root of which is 64 inches nearly.
    Required the side of an equal cube. Read 64 the diameter of the given
sphere in D, and the answer 33-5 will be found in C ; the two lines C.
and D. performing the multiplication and division by -5236.
    And in the like manner the lines G. and H. effect the multiplication
and division by '7854. Required the diameter of a column 45 feet high to
contain 790 gallons. Divide the quantity by the height in feet for the
contents of one foot, for which height the scales are calculated ; answer
1 7'55 gallons : seek that number in Land take the square root of the
number found in H., namely, 515-4, as the answer, or squared, 23 inches
nearly, as the diameter of the column.
    Required the contents ofa cooling floor for a brewery 19 yards long by
20 yards wide, covered to the depth of 9 inches, in cubic feet, barrels, and
tuns avoirdupois. By arithmetic 19x20 = 380, the area of the floor in
square yards ; deduct -Jin, 9 inches being fths of 1 foot, for which depth
the scales are calculated, 380 less £th = 285.
    Seek 285 in E. and read the answers in B. 2565 cubic feet, in K. 445'2
barrels, and in P. 71'56 tans.
    Required further how many times this quantity would be required to

                for Engineering and other Purposes.                        37
fill a vat 30 feet diameter and 40 feet high, and also the pressurei gainst
the side of the vat at the bottom, and 10, 20, and 30 feet below the sur
face. To find the contents of the vat square the diameter, and multiply
it by the depth, (by arithmetic) 30x30x40 = 36,000. Seek 36,000 in
H. and the contents will appear 28,280 in G. (Thus the scales G. and
H. although representing inches in the general scheme, have given the
product of 36,000x7854 = 28,280 cubic feet.) Seek 28,280 in B. the
proper scale for cubic feet, and the answers 4910 barrels will be found in
K. and 701 liquid tuns in L.
    It only remains to divide the entire contents of the vat 28,280 by
the contents of the floor 2565, the quotient 1 1 nearly will be seen on
inspection as the number of brewings required.
   To find the pressure against the bottom of the vat, &c. seek the depths
40, 30, 20, and 10, in G, and the pressures will be read respectively in M.
17'4, 13-1, 87, 4-35 pounds avoirdupois.
     The scales on the other side of the instrument are for the
quadratic and cubic relations of quantities.                           ,
     Scales are made up of two parts, the spaces which are geo
metrical quantities or extents, and the numerals which are
arithmetical quantities. So likewise do they admit of two
modes of application, first to the measurement of spaces by
means of their spaces, as in making reduced and enlarged
drawings, proportional spaces being then marked by equal
numerals;—and secondly, to the measurement of numbers, as
in the slide rule, the thermometer scales, &c., proportional
numbers in this case being marked by equal spaces.
     This will be rendered very clear by an example. Required
J of a line A B, and f of the number 8. Select two scales in
the proportion of the terms of the fraction, namely,
                        012345078
           8           AI    I    I     is
                                         !     I     I    !      I       I
The spaces of the three scale are each three tenths of an inch,
and those in the four scale four tenths.
    The line A B equals 3 spaces of the denominator scale, but
the three spaces of the numerator scale Ab are only | of
A B, A B being divided into 4 parts on the three scale ;
therefore in drawing, we measure the object with the denomi
nator scale, and we draw from corresponding numbers on the
numerator. But if we desire to know |ths of 8, we find that
as regards the numerals on the scales matters are reversed,
the greater spaces require fewer figures in the same extent, or
they are numerically of smaller value ; therefore to read £ of
8 by the above scales, we seek the given number in the nu
merator, and we find the reply 6 over against it on the de
nominator scale.

38    Mr. C. Holtzapffel on a Scale of Geometrical Equivalents
   The above application of scales is true of all ratios ex
pressed as vulgar fractions, decimal or others, as f, .y-, -£
we:
T-|T!i  T-lrf' '' being essential the scales should be 7 and 8,
      11 and 9,      23 and 4      2-236 and 1-414 times any
unit, and that they are employed as explained. The three
first fractions are comprehended in the scales prepared for
lines or drawings, which are 1, 2, 3, 4 to 25 inches long, si
milarly divided and figured*. As we obtain from them all
the distinct proportions that may be expressed as vulgar
fractions in terms not exceeding 25, (which are given in the
pamphlet both as fractions and decimals, and arranged in the
order of magnitude) they offer great facility for making re
duced or enlarged copies of drawings, models, &c. after va
rious manners, many examples being given, and they likewise
serve for working numerical ratios of simple proportion. The
two latter or the decimal fractions would result from the em
ployment, after the same manner, of two other series of scales
for the areas of superficies and the contents of solids, the units
of which are respectively the square and cube roots of the
numbers 1 to 10.
   These may need a little more explanation. Required $ths
the size of a given area A B C D.
   " The parallelogram A B C D is divided into 9 equal and
proportional parallelograms, by the        .           ,.       )t
division of each of its sides into
three parts. If, however, we only
reckon two parts each way, we find
them to include but four out of the
                                                    m
nine equal areas. The square root
of 4 is 2, and the square root of 9 is
3, therefore the areas being as 4 to 9, the sides are as 2 or 3,
or as the square roots of the former, which was to be shown.
This would be equally true if the scales were applied in the
inverse order, and of any two ; also if the figures were com
plex ; for a semicircle, or equilateral triangle on A B, would
have for the new diameter or side A E, and so with every
part of which the figure might be made up."
   The scales for solids admit of the same explanation.
   There are 24 lines of graduations on the other face of the
scale, (or it is somewhat more convenient to have them as
two distinct instruments,) namely, the scales for areas T'c, 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 100, and the same number for
solids. The first and last are for those cases in which the
ratio of enlargement or diminution cannot be expressed in
fractions not exceeding 10 in either term, which will be re
ferred to hereafter.
                     • A New System, &c. pp. 16—23.

                 for Engineerifig and other Purposes.                  .99
      From the name selected for the instrument, namely, the
  scale for geometrical equivalents, it may be seen it is princi
 pally designed for the alteration of known forms and quan
 tities ; it therefore remains to show this application to any
 solid of known contents, in any ratio, and in any prescribed
 manner.
     1. When one dimension only is altered, it will be in the
 direct proportion of the ratio, the original figure being con
 sidered as unity.
     2. When two dimensions are altered, it will be in the du
 plicate ratio of the two, or as the square root of the ratio.
     3. When all three dimensions are altered, it will be in the
 triplicate ratio of the sides, or as the cube root of the ratio.
    For example, a given vessel measures 6 feet long, 4 feet wide, and
 3 deep, its contents are therefore 6 X 4 x 3 = 72 cubic
 feet. Required the dimensions of other vessels to con
 tain 180 cubic feet, according to each of the modes. The
 new vessels will be to the original or unity as ISO to 72
 or i^p times the size, which reduced to its lowest terms
is £ or 24 times as great.
    1. To enlarge the one dimension only, say the depthf multiply it by
the ratio £, 3x£ = 7J, the measure of the new depth,          ^ "
 and 6x4x7-5 •= 180, the new contents.
    2. A new vessel to be of the same depth, but to have
its area enlarged -,'i times. The new sides will be found
by multiplying the given sides by the square root of the
ratio, or v' | or ££^| ; this by any of the modes of
arithmetic, or by logarithms, would take some time;
whereas by the scales, the 5 quadratic scale having for
its unit 2-236 inches, and the 2 scale 1-4142 inches,
(the square roots of 5 and 2,) they represent the above fraction, and the
application is precisely the same as seeking £ths of 8 already explained :
set the index to 6, the given side on the numerator scale 5, and the new
side is found in the denominator scale 2, namely, 9-48 ; and do the same
for the other side 4 feet, which comes out 6-32.
1 have never taken the trouble to obtain these
quantities otherwise, and the multiplication of
the 3 sides one into the other gives the new con
tent*, 179-74, whereas it ought really to be 180,
so that the error only amounts to, about the
720th part of the whole quantity.
   3. The vessel to contam ','.1 times as much as
the given one 6x4x3, enlarged in each of its di
mensions, will be found by multiplying each of the sides by the cube root
of the ratio, or V £. Therefore, seek 6, 5, 3 in
the 5 cubic scale, and the new sides will appear
respectively over against them in the denomina
tor scale 2, namely, 8-16, 5-43, 4-08, which multi
plied into one another for the new contents give
180-779, about the 240th part too much, a result
sufficiently near for most practical cases.
    Of course, what is true of the two scales em-

40 Mr. C. Holtzapffel on a Scale of Geometrical Equivalents
ployed, will be true of any two, and the method is applicable to all solid?,
of all forms and sections. It is desired to increase the contents of a pan
or vessel 2J times, the same as explained for the cu
bical vessel. Draw several ordinates across the figure.
   1. The vessel being altered in height only, the
diameters remaining constant, increase the distance
between the ordinates 2% times, whence the second
form immediately beneath would result.
    2. The figure being altered in diameter, the depth
remaining constant, the lengths of the ordinates must
be increased V % times by the quadratic scales : the
new figure would be of
 this form.
    3. The three dimen
sions being altered, the
space between the ordi
nates, as well as their
lengths, must be multiplied by V$ by means of the
cubic scales 5 and 2 ; this new figure would be produced, or a copy of the
 original in the same proportions as to height and
 diameter as the original : and further, should it
be desired to mix the two modes, that is to alter
both the general contents, and one of the mea
 sures in any defined ratio, for example, to make
 a new vessel as before containing 2J times as
 much, but of only half the height, we must thus
 learn the ratio. Half the height with the same diameters would give half
 the contents ; the increase of the
 diameters by the quadratic scales
 must therefore be doubled by
 employing the quadratic scale f, ^ X £ being equal to £ the ratio re
 quired for the new contents.
     We have therefore complete command over the capacity of
 all vessels, under all proportions of general contents, and
 specific variations of form. The truth of this method admits
 of rigid demonstration, if we consider the ordinates to divide
 the figure into so many zones, or as regards the section into
 trapezoids and rectangles, and that the curved line running
 through them is superseded by short right lines. Of course,
 the more ordinates that are used the more nearly true will
 be the result. . The circle would by this treatment become
 an ellipse, which may be taken as a further proof of the cor
 rectness of the result, as to find the area of an ellipse the two
 diameters are multiplied into each other, and the product by
 .7854-
     When vessels of complex form are constructed as retorts,
boilers, pans, stills, tanks, &c. it would be desirable to retain
 drawings of them, with the several measures written upon
them, and also a memorandum of the cubic contents obtained
 either by calculation or experiment, as by means of the scales
these data mny be employed for obtaining the new contents,

               jar Engineering and other Purposes.                         41
and dimensions of similar vessels, under all varieties of size
and form with considerable accuracy, whereas the complexity
of such calculations often cause them to be neglected, leaving
the results to the unassisted judgement, or in other words to
be guessed at.
   The scale of geometric equivalents being, as before ad
verted to, rather an instrument for transposition, than calcu
lation in the strict sense of the word, it will be found desi
rable to estimate the dimensions of certain known forms of
given areas for reference ; a few have been tabulated.
                                              Contaimng   Contaimng
                                                  100         1000
                                              Superficial Superficial
                                                 Feet.       Feet.
            Diameter of a circle               11-284      35-682
            Side of a square                   10-         31-623
            Side of a hexagon                   6-204      19-619
            Side of an octagon                  4-551      14-392
            Side of a decagon. .                3-605      11-400
            Side of a dodecagon                 2-989       9-451
   They would be employed in the following manner:
   Required the diameter of a circular gasometer to contain 60,000 cubic
feet when filled to the height of 20 feet. 1000 cubic feet would be con
tained in a circle 35-68 feet diameter, 1 foot high ; the height being 20 feet,
would necessarily contain 20,000 feet, therefore the proportion would be
tftUM or *f f ' seek 35-68, the given diameter in the 3 quadratic scale,
and the new quantity 61-9 will be found in the denominator scale.
   Required the side of a hexagonal tank to contain 3600 cubic feet when
filled 5 feet high. The side of a hexagon containing 100 feet is 6-2, the
ratio is therefore *•£§•§ or tyi x 6'2 = 16-45 : this quantity obtained from
the quadratic scales 7 and 1 would be one 35th too small, and might be
corrected to that amount by a second process if required ; and if in the like
manner it were required to multiply any quantity by the factor ^7, we
might arrive at the result at twice as ^X^ = ^ , and so on.
    It will, however, be found in general the most convenient
to bring the ratio within the series of fractions expressed by
the numbers 1 to 10, beginning with T\ith, and ending with
 y, or ten times, which are tabulated ; but we may take cog
nizance of ratios very much larger and smaller after the fol
lowing manner.
    "We may employ any two terms indifferently provided they
 are in the same proportion ; for example, the terms 1 and
2,—2 and 4,—3 and G,— 4 and 8, are each as one to two : their
squares are 1 and 4,—4; and 16,— 9 and 36,— 16 and 64, or
 as 1 to 4 throughout; it follows therefore that T\i being the
 tenth part of 1, the 20th part of 2, the 30th of 3, and so on,

 42 Mr. C. Holt/apffel on a Scale of Geometrical Equivalents
  we obtain the proportion 10, 20, 30, 40 times, or .i'ii, ^iyi
  yVi A'1'1 Part 'liv the joint employment of the ('i-,ih and the
  1, 2, 3, 4 scales, &c.
      Again, the square root of 100 is 10, of 200, 14-142, of
  300, 17'320, or ten times the square roots of 1, 2, 3; we may
  therefore call these scales 100, 200, 300, by simply multi
  plying the numerals by 10, so that to obtain ^SL°S. of any
  quantity, seek it in 9, and the answer in 7, which, supposing
  it to be 5'314, must be read 53-14; and lastly, T'5 being the
  thousandth part of 100, by employing the -i\ith line on the
  one hand, and the 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 lines, (multiplied by 10,) on
  the other, we obtain the '-QJiO, vo£°, yfay, and so on: these
  matters are, however, of great simplicity to those at all ac
  customed to the employment of decimals.
      An example will better explain the utility of this arrange
  ment.
     A mine 650 feet deep has to be drained by means of a pump 17 inches
 diameter : required first the total contents of the entire column of water in
 cubic feet, gallons and tuns weight, and also the pressure on each square
 inch of the column ; and the requisite diameter of a steam cylinder, work
 ing under the effective pressure of 12 pounds on the inch which shall ba
 lance the column in the mine.
     17 the diameter of the pump or column squared and multiplied by the
 depth or 17'x650= 187850, seek that number in G. (square inches) and
 read in B. 1304 cubic feet, in I. 8140 gallons, and in L. 3231 tons avoir-
 du|Kiis, as the contents of the entire column.
    For the pressure on each square inch of the pump, seek the depth 650
feet in G, and against it 282-5 will be found in VI . The pressure per inch
on the pump cylinder being 282-5 pounds, and the proposed effective press
ure of the steam being 12 pounds per inch, the ratio in which the cylinder
should be altered is
    The required result, and the others presented at the same view, are ex
tracted in three columns : the first column shows the real titles of the
quadratic scales,—the second the assumed titles, or the former multiplied
by 3(300 being nearest to 282'5,); and the third column the diameters of
the equivalent cylinders under each different pressure, the given diameter
of the pump having* been sought in the 300 column.
    Scales     100, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,                          10.
    Pressures 300, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 27,                     30.
    Diameters 17, 170, 121, 98, 85, 76, 70, 64, 60, 57,                 54.
The nearest whole numbers having been taken. The truth of this will be
apparent 17'xSOO being 86700, and 852x 12 being likewise 86700.
     But as a comprehensive example, suppose it is desired to
enlarge the drawings of a steam-engine, the new one to be as
5 to 4.
    The contents of all the vessels, as the cylinder, condenser,
air-pump, &c. will be increased by the cubic scales 5 and 4.
     The areas of the valves, passages, pipes, and the compli-

               for Engineering and other Purposes.              43
caled surface of the internal flues or fire surface of the boiler,
by the quadratic scales 5 and 4.
    The new and old cylinders being in simple height as 15 to
1 4, the lengths of the beam, rods, arms, &c. would be ex
tended by the scales for lines 15 and 14, and so on. If the
proportions of the vessels were altered, the application of the
scales would be modified as already shown by the diagrams.
    This paper might have been easily extended bv other ex
amples of many kinds, but I trust that enough has been said
to explain the principle and general method employed, that
alone being required in this place.
    The scale of geometrical equivalents in some respects re
sembles the slide rule, but it possesses certain advantages.
    1st. It is easier to graduate scales of equal parts than those
in which the divisions are unequal.
    2nd. It is easier to subdivide equal divisions by the eye than
unequal ones, and they admit of the employment of the ver
nier if required.
    3rd. The results are obtained in groups, whereas each se
parate question requires a distinct setting with the slide rule.
    4th. In using the slide rule we are subject to two sources
of error, imperfect setting as to the gauge-point, and imper
fect reading off in the quantities. From the construction of
the scale of equivalents, as the scales all begin from one com
mon line, the setting can never be disturbed. It is therefore
only liable to the single error of reading oif, the settings being
constant.
    5th. In order to obtain the most accurate results it is occa
sionally desirable to double or halve the quantities, so as to
get as far from the zero of the scales as possible, whereby the
error of reading will be proportionably diminished. The
very nature of the slide rule limits this application, as some
times only a third part or less of the scales remain in contact.
    6th. But the most serious drawback to the slide rule is the
 constant practice that is required for using it with facility,
 arising principally from the difficulty of assigning the true
 value to the answers, whether units, tens, hundreds, thousands,
 &c., and the constant reference to the tables of the gauge-
 points.
    Now, as in all cases the true values are expressed upon the
 scales of the new instrument, and their particular names de
 note at the same time the functions and relationships of the
  several scales, both inconveniences are in a great degree, if
  not entirely, obviated.
     7th. It is true, the slide rule may be employed for any arbi
  trary setting, whereas the present instrument is in a measure

44-      Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity.
limited to certain constant multipliers ; but the combined re
sult of some three or four of these are sometimes concerned
in giving a single solution on the scale of geometric equiva
lents, and that in a novel and curious manner.
    The multipliers selected possess an extensive range, and
include the elements of most of the calculations likely to be
called for ; the mode to be pursued can scarcely be mistaken,
as the simple names of the functions serve to indicate the
proceeding in each case; and when a little arithmetic and
the tables of squares and cubes are brought in to assist, the
powers of the contrivance are exceedingly increased. We
exchange the tediousness of calculation and the errors which
creep in, notwithstanding every care, for the certainty of the
relations of the lines ; subject however to the error of read
ing, which will not in general be found an inadmissible quan
tity; it rarely equals ihe one hundredth part of the totals,
and is sometimes within the thousandth part of the same.
The answers given in this paper were obtained from the
 instrument alone: their proof by calculation, (in which the
formule on the scales will assist,) will show the degree of
reliance that may be placed on the method.
    Of course such scales might be adapted to a variety of other
investigations, and they would be made to any given data.
    In order to lessen the expense of the present instrument, I
propose to graduate the scales on copper-plate* and to print
from them. I should therefore feel obliged by any suggestions
calculated to improve the arrangement proposed previously
to so doing.
                I remain, Sir, your most obedient servant,
  64, Charing Cross, London,                      C. HoLTZAPFFEL.
        June 6th 1838.
IX.     On the primary Forces of Electricity.             By RICHARD
                    LAMING, Esq., M.R.C.S.
                        [Continued from p. 498.]
32. VXT'E may now apply the principle of compensation to
       * * some of the leading phenomena attendant on the ac
cumulation of free electricity in rarified air. As the quantities
susceptible of being accumulated in conductors under atmo
spheric compensation have been shown, both theoretically
and experimentally, to vary in the simple ratio of the density
of the air, the quantity that is communicable from one body
  •As explained in the pamphlet, the error of contraction after printing is
immaterial with the proportional scales; it is only inadmissible in such as
demand tiu agreement with the standard measure, pp. 6 and 7.

       Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity.           45
in plenum, to another supposed to be insulated in an absolute
vacuum, is equal to nothing.
   33. From this it evidently follows, first, that when a con
ductor containing a plus charge be partly inclosed in a re
ceiver, and the air within the latter is gradually withdrawn,
the free electricity will progressively recede to those parts of
the conductor which are external to the receiver; for by the
theory the several parts of a conductor can never differ in
intensity (28.); which in this case they would do unless the
charge requiring compensation, and the air by which it is
compensated (both within the receiver) diminished in the same
ratio.
   3*. In the second place we learn that by reducing the
density of the air when a charged conductor is insulated
"wholly within the receiver, we virtually increase the quantity
of electricity to be compensated by an assumed unit of air;
thus causing the force of attraction between that electricity
and its compensator to be increased. Now the intensities
being as the square of the quantities directly, and the quan
tities virtually as the densities of the air directly, the electrical
intensity of any given charge is as the square of the atmo
spherical density inversely ; and this is the conclusion Mr.
Harris has arrived at by experimenting in various ways*.
   35. We are thus enabled to understand why a conducting
body highly charged and insulated under a receiver gradually
becomes discharged as the vacuum becomes more perfect ; a
fact which has been long known, but until now never ex
plained. It is usual to ascribe it to diminished resistance by
the atmospheric air ; but the phenomenon may be made to
take place equally when the pressure remains undiminished ;
which has been proved by first abstracting part of the air
from a receiver and then heating the residuum ; under such
circumstances it was found that, however the temperature,
and with it of course the pressure, might be changed, so long
as the quantity of free electricity remained constant, its inten
sity varied as the square of the density or quantity of the air,
inversely-]-.
   36. The phenomena which characterize the deflection of
 the pith-balls, straws, gold-leaves, or other moveable parts of
 diverging electroscopes, are rendered intelligible by the ap
 plication of our principles. Suppose the compensation of a
 plus body B, free to move, to devolve entirely on two other
 uninsulated fixed bodies, A A', placed on either side and at
 equal distances from it ; B will have an equal tendency to
                     • Phil. Trans. 1834, part ii.
                     t Ibid., p. 228.

 46     Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity.
move in two directions, and consequently remain stationary ;
 now if B be divided into two parts in a plane at right angles
 to a right line passing through the axis of A A', the two parts
 will instantly separate.
    37. Just so it is in experiment ; two balls, for instance,
charged with free electricity and in contact, are virtually
one conductor; compensated, when freely insulated in the
atmosphere, solely by the air. While the two balls are in
contact the compensating atmosphere of neither can be per
fect spheres; and hence it must extend to a greater distance
from the surface than if it wholly surrounded each of the
bodies individually; and as by Coulomb's law the force of
attraction is much greater as the distance is less, the distant
particles of compensating air will be brought near to the at
tracting surfaces, and thus by intervening between the balls
separate them from each other.
    38. Coulomb has ascertained by experiment that the force
with which two bodies equally charged, thus apparently repel
one another, varies as the square of the distance inversely;
which is quite in accordance with the principles we are ex
amining ; for before two bodies can come together the inter
vening air must be removed, and this we have shown to be
held against each body with a force varying as the square of
the distance inversely ; hence the apparent repulsion of two
such bodies will be equal to the sum of the individual forces
in each body, but this addition leaves the ratio unaffected.
   39. In the preceding case the charges of the two balls be
ing equal their compensating atmospheres were of the same
extent ; but we may so dispose the free electricity on two balls
that their charges shall be unequal, and then the radii of their
compensating atmospheres will differ also. Under such cir
cumstances of course the law of Coulomb will not express the
apparent repulsion at all the distances ; this theoretical conclu
sion Mr. Harris has arrived at by the induction of a series of
nice experiments made with his very ingenious bifile balance*.
   40. But the influence of the major attraction in causing
the divergence of an electroscope has always to encounter a
retarding force in the reaction of the instrument ; and however
minute this latter force may be, it must occasion the two com
pensating atmospheres in some measure to intersect one an
other ; with this in recollection we shall easily perceive that
one of two charged balls may have so much of its free elec
tricity abstracted as to enter itself within the compensating
atmosphere of its associate, in which event of course instead
                  * Phil. Trans. 1836, p. 430 el scq.

       Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity.          47
of receding from each other, the two balls will, as shown by
Mr. Harris, be brought together*.
   41. We may next inquire into the sufficiency of the new
theory to explain the various circumstances under which dis
charges of free electricity may be made to take place between
plus conductors and their compensating bodies.
   As action and re-action are in all cases equal, it is evident
that the minus common matter in a negatively electrical body
must as forcibly attract the free electricity in a plus body as
it is itself attracted by it ; and therefore were the cases parallel
in other respects also, the phenomena of electrical attraction
and electrical discharges would at all times be simultaneous.
   42. In the case of electrical attractions we certainly have
a retarding force in the gravity of one or both of the at
tracted bodies, and frequently in the gravity of materials to
 which they are attached; and this retarding force may be
sufficiently great to overcome the attractive force at any di
 stance, however small. On the other hand, either one or
 both of the attracted bodies may be so free to move as to op
 pose a retarding force indefinitely minute ; and then they will
 be brought together through a distance almost, though never
 quite, so great as that through which under the circumstances
 their compensating influence extends.
    43. Now unless there were a retarding force to electrical
discharges, these would occur at the extreme distance at which
the major attraction acts, or in other words, at which com
pensation becomes established ; and thus the discharging di
stances being greater than the distances at which visible at
traction is effected, the latter phainomenon never could take
place. It is obvious therefore that electrical discharges are
restrained by some retarding force ; and this is supplied in
the minor attraction acting between the free electricity in the
plus body, and the electrical equivalent which is natural
to it.
    44. Since then the minor electrical attraction in every plus
conductor is a retarding force to the discharge of its free
electricity, it will act with less effect upon any particular elec
trical atom as it is further removed from the general mass ;
and therefore a plus charge may be drawn off with a less
amount of major attraction, and consequently at greater di
stances, from projecting points and angles than from any
other surfaces. Hence the great freedom with which elec
tricity issues from a point to its compensating atmosphere ;
and hence also the escape of the electrical spark towards a
conductor, at greater distances through the compensating at-
                       • Phil. Trans. 1836, p. 431.

48      Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity.
mosphere as the part of the charged body to which the con
ductor is presented is smaller and more prominent.
   45. The form of the conductor, or of that part of a con
ductor from which the plus charge is to be abstracted, being
given, then if an unit of quantity of free electricity be re
tarded in it by an unit of minor force, two units of quantity
should be retarded by two units offeree, three quantities by
three units of force; the retarding force thus continually in
creasing in the simple ratio of the quantities of free electri
city. Consequently the discharging distances from any given
surface should vary in the same ratio; for, as we have already
seen, ( 1 0) the intensity of abstracting, or major force being
constant, the distances at which it acts vary in this ratio.
   That this is the ratio observed by electrical discharges un
der all circumstances may be proved by an appeal to facts ;
and I think the proof will be received as an additional evi
dence of the minor electrical force.
   46. Electrical discharges, as they occur between conductors
compensated in the open atmosphere, have been examined
by Mr. Harris ; whose experiments on the subject decide most
unequivocably, that under such circumstances at least, and
whether the conductors be connected with Leyden surfaces
or not, " the quantities of electricity requisite to produce a
discharge vary with the distances directly*."
   47. Mr. Harris has also ascertained with his usual accuracy,
that in a rarified atmosphere " the distances through which a
given accumulationcould discharge,varied in an inverse simple
ratio of the density of the air. Thus in air of one half the
density the discharge occurred at twice the distance f." Now
by reducing the density of a compensating atmosphere to one
half, we virtually double the charge to be compensated by the
residuum ; in this case also we therefore see that the dis
charging distances are as the quantities of free electricity.
   48. The same acute philosopher has further proved, by a
very ingenious and exact mode of experimenting, that pro
vided the densities or quantities of air in a receiver remain
unchanged, the temperatures may take a very wide range with
out affecting the discharging distance of a given accumulation
of free electricity; in this case again the discharging distances
are therefore as the quantities of free electricity.
   49. The very great distances at which electrical discharges
may be made to take place in vessels nearly exhausted of air
has induced a general belief that, in the language of Dr. Ure,
" electricity is confined to the surface of bodies by a species
        * Phil. Trans. 1834, p. 225.      f Ibid., p. 229.

        Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity.            49
  of mechanical pressure which air exercises." In the valuable
  magazine of facts to which I have found occasion so frequently
  to refer, there is enough said to carry with it a conviction
  that Mr. Harris is by no means satisfied of the truth of the
  supposition; indeed he has in one place actually proved that
  the resistance to electrical discharges does not vary as the
  atmospheric pressure ; it would appear however that he is
  unconscious of his achievement ; for in other places we find
  him insisting on the opposite conclusion as the legitimate in
  duction of his experiments generally.
    50. The proof to which I allude is furnished by a series of
 experiments, in which the temperature of a given quantity of
 air inclosed in a receiver was made to vary between 50 and
  300 degrees of Fahrenheit, without " in the least " affecting
 the discharging distances of the electrical accumulations ;
 notwithstanding the atmospheric pressure at different times
 of course differed enormously*. In these experiments, as in
 all the preceding, the discharging distances were as the quan
 tities of compensating air, and therefore by our principles as
 the quantities of free electricity ; that is to say, as the abstract
 ing force minus the retarding force of the minor electrical
 attraction.
     51. I have made many experiments on the discharging di
 stances of free electricity in receivers filled with rarified air,
 without finding anything which offers the least evidence of
 electricity being retained on the surface of bodies by reason of
 atmospheric pressure ; but on the contrary every evidence
 which the investigation was capable of affording has been ob
 tained in favour of the principles generally on which this theory
 is based. For instance, let the density of the air, or its press
 ure, have been what it may, the discharging distances have
 invariably increased in the simple ratio of the quantities, until
 the sides of the receiver and the external air have by their
 comparative proximity interfered with the ratio by assuming
 part of the compensation of the charge.
    In the following experiments, which are adduced as ex
amples of such an interference, the quantities of electricity
were estimated by the unit jar; the discharges were made
between two brass balls l^ths of an inch in diameter, placed
in the axis of a receiver, more or less exhausted, about -\,\
inches in diameter and 13 inches high ; and the balls commu
nicated, respectively, with the opposite conductors of a Ley-
den jar exposing about two square feet of coating.
                  * Phil. Trans. 1834, p. 229, 230.
    fkil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 79. July 1838.            E

50       Mr. Laming on theprimary Forces of Electricity.
                               Table F.
      Discharging             Comparative       Same by Cal
   Distances in Inches.        Quantities.         culation.
            }                       35
            •                       70               70
                                   106              105
            4                      140              140
                        ,....      174              175
            6            ....      199              210
                •
                               Table G.
      Discharging             Comparative       Same by Cal
   Distances in Inches.       Quantities.         culation.
            4                       12
                                    24               24
                                    36               36
            *                       48               48
            j|6 .                   60                60
                                    71               72
            |                       77               84
          1                         81               96
          H                         86              108
          If                        92              120
          if                        99              132
          14             ....      107              144
          if             ....      115              156
          1|                       118              168
          11             ....      125              180
         2                         126              192
         2*                        140              204
         3                         141              216
         4                         144              228
                                Table H.
     Discharging               Comparative      Same by Cal
Distances in Inches.            Quantities.       culation.
          1                         42
          2                         56               84
          3                         60              126
          *                         66              168
    52. In these experiments the true ratio may be observed
until the distance between the balls bears a certain relation to
 their distance from the external and denser atmosphere ; after
 which, as appears by table G, the quantities of electricity re

         Mr. Laming on the primary Forces of Electricity.                  51
  quired by that ratio become less by certain decrements, in
  creasing for some distance nearly in arithmetical progres
  sion.
     53. That the comparative contiguity of the sides of the re
  ceiver really produced the apparent discrepancies, was verified
  in two different manners ; first, by substituting for the balls
  between which the discharges were taken others of smaller
  size, by which the true ratio was extended to a greater di
 stance; and secondly, by replacing the receiver by others,
 first of greater, and then of lesser dimensions, in which case
 the extension of the true ratio became also greater and less
 respectively.
     54. It would appear from this that in the discharge ofa Ley-
 den jar through long tubes of glass filled with rarified air, al
 though the charge emanating from the ball connected with
 the positive coating really enters the ball proceeding from
  the negative coating, the free electricity is first attracted and
  passed onward, by induction, by the more contiguous bodies ;
 and this view of the case not only explains the sensible passage
 of electricity along the surface of the glass, as frequently ob
 served in experiments of this kind, but it makes clear also
 certain other phenomena of a similar nature which otherwise
 would not be well understood.
     55. For example, a quantity of free electricity, which under
 ordinary circumstances may be discharged through the sub
 stance of a conducting body, perhaps heating it to redness,
 or even fusing it, will if the experiment be made in rarified
 air pass only along its surface * ; a phenomenon which we
 may refer to the inadequate resistance by the minor force
 in the conductor to the intensity of the major force acting
 in the opposite direction, and now made very great by reason
 of the reduced quantity of its contiguous compensating at
 mosphere.
     56. Let us in the next place examine our principles with
 reference to the phenomena which ensue when both the plus
 and the compensating conductors are in a state of insulation.
Already it has been explained, that such bodies may compen
sate free electricity, by becoming themselves positively elec
trical (12.); and we have had abundant opportunity of con
templating such an induced electrical condition as we find it
impressed on the insulating atmosphere in which experiments
for the most part are conducted : we shall do well to consider
also the same condition as it may be induced in insulated
solids.
    » Phil. Trans. 1834, p. 242, and Singer's Elementi of Electricity, p. 63.
                                      E2

52       Mr. Laming on the primary Forces ofElectricity.
   57. Imagine a plane surface A, to be insulated and charged
with free electricity ; its compensator will be the contiguous
atmosphere, this being an insulator acquiring in consequence
a plus condition. Suppose now a second similar plane B,
also insulated, to be placed parallel to A, and within its com
pensating atmosphere; it will in part assume the compensa
tion of the plus charge, becoming in consequence itself posi
tively electrical by the retention of its own equivalent of elec
tricity, and thus be in its turn compensated by a stratum of
atmosphere, whose electrical condition also will for a similar
cause be positive.
   58. Under these circumstances the intensity of electrical
attraction in B as measured by an electrometer will be greater
as its distance from A is less, and less at any particular distance
as its atmospheric or other compensation is more perfect.
   59. But the compensation and the distance being given, the
intensity induced in B will vary as the square of the quan
tities of free electricity in A directly (8.).
   60. Let P and N, fig. 2, be insulated conductors charged
to an equal extent, the first positively and the other nega
tively ; each being compensated by the surrounding portions
of atmosphere n n' a.ndppt. Let C, a cylindrical conductor,
                               Fig. 2.
be so interposed midway between P and N, that one of its
ends shall by becoming negative assume part of the compen
sation of P; and its other end by becoming positive assume
a corresponding part of the compensation of N. Thus si
tuated, if the force of major attraction be great enough to
overcome the minor attraction, all that portion of free elec
tricity in P which is not compensated by the inner spherical
stratum of air »' (at a less distance) will pass into the near
end of the conductor; at the same time that the plus charge
of its other end will pass into N, leaving the latter still nega
tive to the amount of its plus compensation by the inner stra
tum, of air //. In either of the electrified bodies a residuum

          Mr. Laming on the primary Forces ofElectricity.            S3
   of its former charge will then remain, until by their increased
   contiguity to the conductor C it is enabled again to assume
   the compensation.
       61. Again, let P N be charged as before, and the conductor
   C, now terminated by points, be introduced as shown in the
   figure; the free electricity of its plus extremity^' will be re
   tarded with less force than in the previous case, when its ends
   were blunt; and the minus common matter of its point n1
  will, in consequence of its reduced size, sustain the compen
  sation of a much larger comparative quantity of free electricity
  in P, and accordingly exert a corresponding intensity of
  major force.
      62. Such an insulated conductor of given figure as Cou
  lomb has called a proofplane applied successively to different
  parts of the surface of a plus conductor of irregular figure,
  will during each contact sustain an amount of atmospheric
  compensation proportionate to that of the part against
  which it is applied ; and hence become charged with a quan
  tity of free electricity proportional to the quantity accumu
  lated on that part. But on removal from the charged sur
  face it will in all the cases acquire the same amount of atmo
  spheric compensation ; and consequently in each case an in
  tensity of charge varying as the square of its quantity of free
 electricity.
      63. The preceding deductions of the theory embrace all
  the most important cases of what is ordinarily called elec
  trical action, that is to say, of the action of free electricity
 accumulated on the surface of conductors. Their experi
 mental illustrations are too obvious to need, and in so short a
 paper too multitudinous to admit of, being specified. The
 accordance of theory and fact may not in all cases appear at
 first sight, especially if any of the steps in the argument
 brought forward have been treated in a cursory manner; but
 if they be attentively considered in series, they will, I appre
 hend, bear the strictest criticism.
     64. In concluding this part of the theory it becomes neces
 sary to add an important observation or two. Without having
 entered into the question of the cause of Coulomb's law, we
 have hitherto confined ourselves to the facts embraced by it in
 order to show their perfect consistency with the doctrine of
 compensation, which we have shown to be a function of the
 major electrical force and necessarily proceeding from its de-
//;,/.' nature. I cannot but believe that in doing this I have suc
 ceeded in proving that the repulsive force supposed to be in
 herent in electricity, or in electrified bodies, is superfluous ; and
 that all the phenomena which are commonly ascribed to such

5*                  Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
an influence admit of an easy solution on the sole principle of
attraction. On this part of the subject there is, however, one
seeming difficulty, which may have suggested itself, in as much
as it may be thought to be an inevitable consequence of the
minor electrical attraction that the electrical atoms be brought
together by it into indissoluble union. In reply, I am pre
pared to show, that neither such an effect, nor any other
which is inconsistent with facts, would follow, if we were en
tirely to expunge repulsion, as a principle of action, from our
systems of physics.
    65. But what I have more particularly to state here is, that
it will be seen in the pages which are immediately to follow,
that although the law of Coulomb accurately expresses the
sensible effects of the action of electricity on common matter
in general, we have not on record a single instance of that
action that may not be minutely and circumstantially traced
to matter at insensible distances*. In the same place we shall
be able to explain also the particular action by which the
electrical state of one body may become compensated by the
opposite electrical state induced in some other body at a
sensible distance, and which was purposely passed over in an
early article as being premature (?.).
  London, April 17, 1838.
X. On some ofthe Phenomena and Laws of Action ofVoltais
   Electricity, and on the Construction of Voltaic Batteries,
   S-c. By CHRISTOPHER BINKS. A second Communication,
   addressed to J. F. Daniell, Esq. F.R.S., fyc. Professor of
   Chemistry in King's College, London. Part the First, t
                   Section I.—Subjects of Inquiry.
       MY DEAR SrR,                          Edinburgh, April 9th, 1838.
   1. 'T'HE paper which I now have the honour to submit
             to your attention is occupied with the details of an
experimental inquiry into subjects which have had their origin
as follows:
   2. You will remember that in my last paper $ I stated as
the results of certain experiments that any voltaic arrange-
  * Since these pages have been in the hands of the printer, I have been
favoured by a sight of the forthcoming [Eleventh] series of Dr. Faraday's
admirable " Researches ;" in which that assiduous and successful philo
sopher labours to prove by experiment that electrical induction is trans
mitted to distant bodies by intervening matter. How well this experience
accords with the new theory, will more fully appear in the ensuing part
of this paper.
  f Communicated by Professor Daniell.
  t Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., July 1837.

                          Voltaic Batteries, Sfc.                 55
   ment, whether simple or compound, whose elements were
   zinc, copper, and dilute sulphuric acid, appeared to be placed
   in the best circumstances for the exercise of its full power
   when under either of these two conditions;—first, when the
  extent of the copper surface was sixteen times greater than
  that of the zinc ; or, secondly, when the surface of the zinc was
  made the greater of the two in the proportion of about seven
  to one of copper.
       S. To state these results more definitely, let the zinc plate
  first used have an area, on each surface, of one square inch,
  and let its associated copper plate be of the same size. The
  voltaic action resulting from this arrangement being ascer
  tained and taken as unity, and as a standard ofcomparison, let
  the zinc and all other conditions remain as at first, but let the
  copper plate be displaced by others, successively, whose areas
  increase in a regular progression ; when it will be found that
  with a copper plate of two square inches on each surface, or
  twice the size of the first, the action will be equal to 1'3 ;
  with one of four square inches, equal to 1 '6 ; and so on, by a
 certain progressive rate of increase til! we reach to an area of
  1 6 square inches, when the action will be found to have ar
 rived at its maximum, and to be, in numbers, equal to .!..<;.
      4. Beyond this point the action will be augmented by BO
 further addition whatever to the size of the copper plate ; but,
 on the contrary, such further additions cause as remarkable a
 progressive decrease.
      5. And, on the other hand, when we retain the copper
 plate of one square inch first used, but substitute for the small
 zinc one others of zinc in succession, progressively larger, a
 corresponding progressive increase of action will likewise fol
low till the zinc plate becomes of an area of about 7 square
inches, at which point the greatest amount of voltaic action
will be obtained, being in numbers equal to about 3 compared
with the standard amount of 1 ; and this amount will suffer
neither increase nor diminution by any subsequent addition
whatever to the dimensions of the zinc plate.
    6. The relative proportions of the two plates at which the
maximum effect took place as thus determined, were obtained
when both surfaces of the zinc, as well as both surfaces of the
copper plate, were exposed to the action of the exciting acid ;
thus making, in the case in which the copper is the larger, a
total area of 2 square inches of the zinc and 32 square inches
of the copper, and constituting a ratio of 1 to 16.
     7. But subsequent experiment (see section 8th) has deter
mined that this same extent of copper surface is needed as
well when only one, as when both surfaces of the zinc are

66                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
engaged in the operation ; provided that if one surface only
of zinc be so employed, it be that surface which is directly
opposite to the copper. It has been determined that the con
trary surface of the zinc serves merely to increase the inten
sity of action, that is, the quantity in a given time, and in no
respect to influence the required area of the copper plate,
that being determined solely by the area of that surface of the
zinc plate which is opposite to it. These phenomena are
more fully entered upon in a subsequent stage of the experi
ments in this paper; but it is proper to remark here, that the
relative proportions of the two plates may be determined un
der either of the above conditions, either when both surfaces
of the generating plate or when only one is employed ; esta
blishing in the former case a ratio of 1 to 16, and in the latter
of 1 to 32; but as the latter is the ultimate condition of the
experiment, it is that which, in a theoretical point of view,
will be considered the more important.
   8. Besides some important theoretical considerations which
attach to these results, they were immediately serviceable in
reconciling the conflicting statements which had previously
prevailed respecting the best relative proportions of the two
metals; and in showing how, at the will of the inventor, any
voltaic battery could be brought to exercise a maximum ef
fect, though different in degree, by having either the zinc or
copper plates the larger of the two throughout the series ; and
also (wherever the same elements are employed) in showing,
numerically, the comparative amount of action which can be
obtained under any conditions whatever of the proportions of
the two metals, and of the strength of the exciting acid.
   9. The correctness of these former experiments, so far as
they were then carried, is now abundantly confirmed by other
experiments differently conducted ; and their results will be
found ultimately to be deducible from a general law, which
will be endeavoured to be established towards the conclusion
of this paper.
   10. The particular laws formerly arrived at were obtained
equally for compound as for single arrangements, and for
acid solutions of every strength, or for every degree of activity
of the generating agents. But they were sought for under
one condition only as regarded the distance of the elementary
plates from one another. It was then distinctly stated *, that
to preserve uniformity in this respect, the plates were main
tained exactly one inch apart throughout the whole inquiry ;
so that any modification of the results of experiments that
                  « Page 71, Phil. Mag., July, 1837.

                      Voltaic Batteries, Sfc.                 57
might have occurred by having the mass of interposed fluid
of variable dimensions was thus avoided. In only one instance
was this deviated from, when the plates were removed from the
distance of one inch to that of two inches, which alteration,
as will presently appear, was too small materially to affect the
results of the experiments as they were then conducted.
   11. My first object then is to examine these phacnomena
(already determined for one such case) when in connexion
with every possible condition as regards the distance of the
elementary plates from one another ; or as they are modified
by having the mass of interposed fluid of variable dimensions.
   12. Such an inquiry necessarily includes a repetition of
my former experiments, since it becomes requisite to find the
area of that plate which at any given distance yields the max
imum effect, as well as to find the effects abstractedly of dif
ferences in the distance, and the influence of acid solutions
of different degrees of strength.
   13. Until recently, the magnetic needle has usually been
employed to detect and estimate comparative quantities of
voltaic electricity evolved by ordinary arrangements. When
the results brought out by the preceding inquiry had been
satisfactorily ascertained, it was made apparent that between
them and others previously determined and admitted as cor
rect, there existed a singular disagreement. It became de
sirable, therefore, to endeavour to reconcile the two methods
of observation ; and with this view the experiments which oc
cupy the second part of this paper were undertaken ; having
for their object to determine the relation between the deflec
tions of the magnetic needle and the quantity of zinc and
other elements expended in producing those deflections; or,
in other words (if the principle of observation here employed
be correct), to determine the relation between the quantity of
electricity and the deflections it produces.
   14. Chemistry has determined the kind of changes which
occur among the elements here employed to evolve voltaic
electricity; but we know not whether its development be due
to the influence of one or more, or all these changes. We
have first the resolution of the water into its constituent
parts ; the appropriation of the oxygen by the zinc, and the
appearance of the hydrogen, as gas, upon the copper; the
 formation of the oxide of zinc, and, subsequently, of the sul
phate, and the solution of that salt in the water. The present
 doctrines of chemistry require that these changes should fol
low consecutively, but, as far as we can perceive, they are si
 multaneous.
    15. Let some of the attendant phenomena be examined on

 58                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
 the hypothesis, that the development of the electricity, in the
 present case, is due to the occurrence of a physical change in
 the condition of the water itself; water is a compound of two
 measures of hydrogen and one of oxygen. The oxygen being
 distributed over the whole surface of the zinc, and there com
 bining, it might be presumed that the hydrogen would appear
 on an extent of surface corresponding to its combining volume,
 or on a surface of twice the area of that occupied by the other.
 Or the presumption might be, that the surfaces required would
 correspond to the difference between the bulks of the metallic
 zinc expended, and of the liberated hydrogen; or between
 the bulks of the oxide of zinc produced and of the hydrogen ;
 which latter differences are immense, though not beyond the
 reach of experiment.
    16. But an appeal to experiment at once decides the ques
tion, and shows that the relation is none of those just pre
sumed, nor of any other that could have been determined by
any d priori reasoning. It is found that the relation between
the two surfaces upon which the constituents of the water re
spectively operate or appear, is as one to thirty-two ; or di
rectly as the volumes of one quantity by weight of oxygen,
and two quantities by weight of hydrogen.
    17. So soon as this unexpected relation had been found by
actual experiment, it became a matter of interest to inquire
whether or not it were an instance of the operation of some
general law hitherto unknown, or a mere accidental coinci
dence. It would have been premature to anticipate the na
ture of that law on the indications of one instance merely ;
and it has consequently become the object of the experiments
contained in the third part of this paper to examine into as
many instances of voltaic action, in connection with the phy
sical and chemical characters of the products resulting from
that action, as may be necessary to determine the nature and
extent of that law thus suspected to exist.
   18. And respecting this part of the present inquiry I may
be permitted to add, that whether it be considered with regard
to its immediate object, or to the novelty and range of the ex
periments to which it necessarily leads, to the number of cu
rious relations it serves to detect, or to its bearing upon some
others of the collateral sciences, particularly upon chemistry,
I know of few others connected with electricity in which an
experimentalist can feel a greater interest.
   19. The following experiments were begun in the pursuit
of these three general objects; but it is almost needless to re
mark that others have arisen as the inquiry has proceeded,
but which will best appear in the order of their occurrence.

                        Voltaic Batteries, #c.                  59
The arrangement of the experiments which is here adopted is
very nearly the same in the order of succession as that in
which they were made, and differs from that order only so far
as has appeared desirable, in order the more clearly to show
the results actually arrived at, and at the same time to indi
cate progressively the evidence for other results anticipated,
but the completion of which can be reached only at a more
advanced stage, or at the conclusion of the whole inquiry.
You will permit me also to refer to the circumstance, that
occasionally throughout the statements which follow I have
thought it desirable to make explicit and repeated references
to many minute and well-known details involved in researches
of this nature, which in writing to one with whom the subject
is so familiar, and to whom each particular would be sug
gested by the matter in immediate connexion, may appear to
be somewhat unnecessary. But as I am aware that my paper
may not be confined to your own perusal, I have preferred to
aid any demonstrations it may attempt by a recurrence to
such details, made explicitly and wherever they might appear
useful, rather than, for the sake of inserting only that which
is perfectly novel, to omit them, and thus lose the advan
tage of as much clearness in description as the nature of
the subject itself might otherwise admit of.
           Section II.— The Principle of Investigation.
   20. The principle employed throughout the following in
vestigation to detect and estimate effects, has arisen out of
the discovery of Faraday of the definite character of voltaic
action.
   21. The experiments which served chiefly, in the hands of
its discoverer, to establish this great principle, were those in
which a current of electricity, evolved by a compound arrange
ment, was passed through water, when it was found, first, that
the water which such a current decomposed, bore, in its quan
tity, a definite relation to the quantity of the elements by whose
mutual action that current was produced ; and, secondly, that
the quantity of any other body than water, which the same
current decomposed, was likewise definite, and bore a fixed
relation both to the quantity of water first decomposed and
to the quantity of elements expended in any one cell of the
generating battery itself. And the relations thus presented
were found to be exactly the same as the relations between
the different respective chemical equivalent numbers of the
bodies engaged in the operations. So that, for example, in
the instances of the zinc expended in any one cell of the bat

  6O                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
  tery, and of the water or of the muriatic acid which such bat
  tery decomposed, the quantities were, for the first, 32, for the
  second, 9, and for the last 37, or exactly as their equivalent
  numbers.
     22. The distinguished author of this discovery subsequently
  extended this principle into an inquiry as to the origin and
  nature of this voltaic action—into an estimate of the absolute
  quantity of electricity associated with the particles of matter,
  and also into an estimate of the comparative quantities of
  electricity evolved by different agencies, &c.; but the general
  results which I have more particularly in view at this moment
 are those from which it was deduced that chemical and elec
  trical action, if not identical, are co-existent, and equal in
 quantity and effect.
     23. The application which I make of this principle to the
 present investigation is exceedingly simple and obvious in its
 nature : the elements engaged in the phenomena now exa
 mined are, water, sulphuric acid, zinc, and copper. Since the
 last remains unchanged, or subserves its purpose best when
 unchanged, it may be considered as a mere instrument en
 gaged in aiding the chemical and physical changes which take
 place among the others, through whose mutual action the
 electricity itself seems to be evolved. To ascertain the quan
 tity of electricity so evolved, it is only necessary to ascertain
 (on the principle just stated) the quantity of matter employed
 in its production; and this can be done by finding the quan
 tity of zinc expended or of sulphuric acid, or of water decom
 posed, or the quantity of hydrogen evolved, or of sulphate of
 zinc finally produced. But as chemistry has already deter
 mined the relations of these substances one to another, it is
 only necessary to find the quantity of any one of them, to know
 the quantity of every other. In the present instance it is most
 expedient to find the quantity of the zinc so expended by
 weighing the zinc plate both before and after the operation,
or to measure the quantity of the evolved hydrogen; or, if it
be the effect of the power of a compound battery which is to
be found, then, to measure the quantity of both the gases
produced by its action, a contrivance adapted to the last pur
pose constituting one of the forms of the voltameter of
Faraday.
    24% The phenomena examined into in the first part of the
present paper, are those resulting solely from the action of
single voltaic arrangements. Let such an elementary arrange
ment, having its plates of a certain size, and placed at a cer
tain relative distance, be acted on by an acid mixture of a
certain degree of strength. The amount of action which will

                       Voltaic Batteries, Sfc.                61
 take place in such an arrangement, under such circumstances,
 will be altered if the plates be made larger or smaller, or if
the strength of the acid or the distance of the plates from one
 another De altered. But the action resulting from any of
 these three modifying causes is still of the same kind though
different in degree ; and it is with the finding of the amount
of these differences in degree, in connexion with the circum
stances which cause them, that the first part of this paper is
chiefly occupied.
    25. These degrees of action may either be considered as
degrees of chemical or of electrical action. The operations
themselves are chemical ; and the quantity of chemical action
 is determined by the quantity of matter which has been em
ployed in it. But this chemical action is induced by a voltaic
arrangement ; and on the principle stated above, that if not
identical, these two kinds of action are co-existent and equal
in quantity and effect, the quantities now determined by ex
periment may be considered as quantities either of chemical
or of voltaic action: by whichsoever name they may be called,
the experimental results themselves remain unaffected.
    26. These explanations are called for to show the connex
ion which the method I here employ has with the principle
discovered by Faraday ; and to show also in what respects
its results may be wholly dis-associated from any of the mere
theoretical considerations which have followed that discovery.
The details which follow are confined solely to the progress
and results of experiment ; or to such general conclusions
only as seem to be warranted by a sufficiency of incontestable
evidence.
    27. The preceding remarks apply equally to the method
used in the 2nd and 3rd parts of the following paper, though
the ultimate object in each is different.
    28. The particular objects of the 1st and 2nd parts have
perhaps been already sufficiently adverted to, but this seems
to be the proper place, immediately after the preceding re
marks, to define the precise object more particularly aimed
at in the third.
    29. The researches of Faraday have proved that in one
great class of its phenomena the action of electricity is defi
nite ; and in another class (more particularly examined in
the 3rd part of this paper), but entirely different from any ex
amined by Faraday, it will subsequently be shown that the
same principle prevails. In the former case the phenomena
so examined related chiefly to the influence of quantity of
electricity both as regarded its production and its effects. In
the latter case the examinations do not regard the production

62                 Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
or effects of electricity abstractedly, but relate chiefly to some
of the physical conditions under which its operations take
place, and more particularly to the relative spaces occupied
by the agents engaged in its operations. The law deduced
 by Faraday was, that the influence of electricity over bodies
 subjected to its action was directly as its quantity, and as the
equivalent numbers of the bodies themselves. The results
 which will be attempted here to be established (but of which
 one instance only has as yet been adduced, in paragraph 16)
are, first, that the superficial areas of the spaces within which
this electrical action takes place, have a definite relation to
the kind of bodies occupied with that action ; or, more speci
fically, that the superficial areas of the electrodes have a de
finite relation to the kinds of bodies which, by the force of
voltaic action, are determined to those electrodes ; and second,
that the law which expresses these relations is, that the rela
tion between the areas of the two electrodes is inversely as the
relation between the specific gravities of the bodies respectively
determined to those electrodes, each area being multiplied by
the comparative number of volumes of the body determined
toil.
   30. So that in the instance already referred to (16), where
in the bodies so determined are hydrogen and oxygen gases,
we have their relative specific gravities as 1 and 16; but these
bodies have resulted from the binary compound water, in
which their volumes are not equal, but as two to one. So
that when the numbers expressing the specific gravities are
used inversely to represent the areas of the two electrodes, we
have those areas as 16 and 1 ; that is, the area of that electrode
at which the hydrogen appears being inversely as the sp. gr.
of the hydrogen, is equal to 16, and that of the oxygen equal
to I ; which numbers, being multiplied respectively by the
number of volumes in which these two bodies occur in this
case, give 16 (area) x 2 (vol.) = 32 for the area of the hydro
gen electrode; and 1 (area) x 1 (vol.) = 1 for that of the
oxygen ; which proportions are exactly those of the copper
and zinc plates as found by actual experiment, the surface ofthe
copper plates yielding the maximum effect in any such arrange
ment requiring to be 32 times greater than that of the zinc.
   31. Or, in another view, the expression of the same law
may be, that the relative areas of the two electrodes are di
rectly as the relative bulks of equal weights, multiplied by the
number of volumes of the two bodies respectively determined
to those electrodes : so that in the same instance as above, in
which the elements determined to each electrode are hydrogen
and oxygen gases, we have the comparative bulks of equal

                      Voltaic Batteries, 8fc.                  63
weights of each as 1 6 to 1 ; but there are two volumes of hy
drogen and one of oxygen, so that the bulk of the equal weight
of hydrogen, being multiplied by its number of combining
volumes,gives 16 x 2 = 32, and the oxygen gives 1 x 1 =1,
which is precisely the relation between tlie areas of the two
electrodes which is found to obtain when the question is sub
mitted to experiment.
    32. And it also follows, that if these relations have been
determined for the superficies of any such arrangement, they
have been determined likewise for every other geometrical re
lation peculiar to it ; and again, that if they have been ascer
tained for the electrodes, and the bodies determined to the
electrodes, they have also been determined for the compound
from which these bodies have been derived, or, in other words,
for the electrolyte—so that the expressions of the law just
stated may be varied so as to include any or all of these re
lations.
    33. The expressions of this law as just stated are framed in
accordance with the present theoretical notions of equivalent
numbers, volumes, &c., but it is easy to foresee how investi
gations of the kind now spoken of, when they shall come to
be conducted with sufficient nicety, may be used either to con
firm or modify the theories at present entertained on some
of those points.
    34. This general law will not include all the phenomena
attendant upon the operations now referred to ; but a series
of subordinate laws will be needed to express what have already
been distinguished as primary and secondary effects :—but not
further to anticipate these results, the preceding remarks will
perhaps sufficiently indicate the precise nature of the subject
with which the third part of this paper is intended to be
occupied.
    35. It appears, therefore, that the definite character of vol
 taic action may be proved to extend into other classes of its
phenomena, besides that in which its discoverer first detected
 it; and it seems unquestionable that the same principle prevails
 throughout all its operations, and that in the end every class
 of its phenomena will be found to be governed by a law pecu
 liar to itself. The general law of Faraday, and that just
 stated, are in perfect harmony with the previously well-known
 physical and chemical properties of the bodies engaged in the
 phenomena from which they have been deduced ; and these
 two laws themselves will undoubtedly be found in the end
equally to harmonize with each other. It seems not to be an
 unwarranted probability that if the laws peculiar to every such
class of voltaic action were accurately determined, we should

 64                  Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
 then have furnished to us a collection of data more valuable
 in themselves, and better calculated perhaps than any yet ob
 tained to enable us to approach to the discovery, if not actually
  to reveal the real nature of this peculiar but still mysterious
  agent.
  Section III.— T/te Method of Investigation and preliminary
                             Experiments.
     36. After some preliminary trials the following method was
  selected for conducting these experiments. A wooden trough,
 made water-tight by cement, and measuring 50 inches long,
  7 wide, and 7 deep, had its upper horizontal edge marked off
  from one end to the other into divisions of inches and fourths
  of inches. At the end from which this graduation began, was
  fixed the zinc-plate to be experimented with, and the first di
  vision, marked 1, was exactly one inch from the surface of the
  plate itself, and the plate was about one inch from the extreme
  end of the trough, which consequently was divided, beginning
  from the zinc-plate, into 48 inches and fourths of inches, or
  in all into 192 parts. At the zinc end was fixed the cup, hold-
. ing mercury, in which the connexion between the two experi
  mental plates was to be completed. The zinc plate was con
  nected with a short wire, always of the same kind and length,
  and each copper plate was soldered to a wire 5 feet in length ;
  so that at whatever position the copper plate might be placed
  within the trough, whether at the distance of ^th of an inch
  from the zinc, or at 48 inches, or at any position intermediate,
  the wire completing the circuit was always of the same length;
  these experimental plates were retained at any required posi
  tion simply by bending their connecting wires twice or thrice
  at right angles and thus fixing them over the sides of the
  trough. It being intended to weigh the zinc-plate before and
  after each experiment, or to collect the gas evolved from the
  copper plate during the experiment, the former had its con
  necting wire so short as not to interfere with its being readily
  weighed and replaced ; and the gas from the latter was col
  lected in a funnel-shaped meter having its open base so large
   as to gather the whole of the gas sent off from the copper plate
   of whatever size that might be. The long tubular part of
   this meter was divided into tenths and fiftieths of a cubic
   inch, and its entire capacity was about 1£ of a cubic inch.
   The simple contrivance of a couple of strong glass rods, bent
   twice at right angles, supported by the sides of the trough
   and stretching across it, served as supporters for the meter,
   moveable at pleasure, and by which it could be suspended at
   any required position above the copper plate. The meter was

                        Voltaic Batteries, Sfc.                 65
  readily refilled with liquid by immersion in the trough itself.
  Another trough and meter of larger dimensions were also pro
  vided for such experiments as required the use of larger plates
  than such as could be introduced into the smaller trough.
     37. The zinc used throughout the experiments was always
  of the same kind and always amalgamated. Its equivalent
  number was 34J'5, requiring in consequence of impurities con
  tained in it 34'5 grains, instead of 32, to yield 1 grain of hy
  drogen. The connecting wires both of the zinc and copper
  plates were partly covered, but to the same extent in each,
  with bee's wax, so as to protect them from the action of the
  acid, so far as they were at any time immersed in it, and to
 confine the voltaic action entirely to the surfaces of the plates
  which were the subject of experiment. The circumstance
  that the surfaces of the wires, protected by the wax, were of
  uniform extent in every case, will need afterwards to be re
  membered.
     38. These precautions against error, by preserving uniform
  ity in the kind of metal used, in the kind and lengths of the
  connecting wires, and in the extent of surfaces to be acted
  upon, are independent of other precautions requiring equally
  to be observed. A variety of modifying causes are incessantly
 operating in experiments of this nature, and producing effects
 of a most perplexing kind, each of which needs to be fully
 appreciated and guarded against, or as fully as possible cor
 rected, in order to ensure any satisfactory degree of accuracy
 in the results of experiment.
     39. I. It has been shown by yourself*, that immediately
 after the first immersion of a zinc plate under voltaic arrange
 ment, its amount of action is greatly impeded by an accumu
 lation upon its surface of minute air-bubbles, which adhering
 to it interpose a surface of air between the plate and the ex
 isting acid; thus preventing the full voltaic action so long as
 they continue to be attached to the plate. By my own ex
periments I found that a zinc plate, after such accumulation
had taken place, yielded a certain measure of gas in 240 se
conds, but by repeatedly clearing its surface from these bub
bles, by agitating it or otherwise, the same measure of gas was
produced in two-thirds the time, or in 160 seconds. When,
however, the copper plate is at its maximum size in any ar
rangement little or no such accumulation occurs.
    40. II. The gas arising from the copper plate will do so
more rapidly if the water be agitated than if it remain tran
quil during the action : an arrangement yielded voltaic action
                       * Phil. Trans. 1836.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 79. July 1838.            F

66                 Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
 equal to one measure of gas in 80 seconds, during the agita
 tion of the water occasioned by refilling the meter ; but after
 it had become again tranquil the same measure was produced
 in 95 seconds, or in a length of time greater by about one-
 fifth. It is almost needless to remark that this increased
 action is due solely to the mechanical effect of the water when
 in motion displacing the air-bubbles as rapidly as formed, and
 more rapidly than they would otherwise be displaced by rea
 son merely of their superior levity.
    41. III. Another mechanical effect of a similar kind, but
 operating to a much greater extent than in either of the pre
 ceding instances, is induced by the mere position of the plate
 from which the gas is evolved : if the surface of a copper
plate be placed in a horizontal plane, the gas which is gene
 rated on its under side will remain continually attached to the
 plate ; and should that be the only surface operating, the vol
 taic action of such an arrangement would be almost com
 pletely impeded; but, on the contrary, if it be placed and
 used in a vertical plane, then the only causes likely to obstruct
the ready dismissal of the gas from the surface are the com
paratively minute ones just referred to in II.
    42. IV. A copper wire which had been stretched in order
to straighten it, previously to its being attached to a plate,
was found to give a voltaic effect about one-fifth less than
another, in all other respects the similar, but which had not
been so extended ; but the conducting power of the former
was again restored by exposing it to heat. And, again, two
wires, in all other respects alike, but which had accidentally
been heated in different degrees, gave a marked difference in
amount of action ; but had their uniformity of conducting
power restored upon exposure to an equal temperature.
    43. V. The same remarks apply equally to plates as to
wires ; but there is another cause of variation in the action of
plates not previously recognised. In an extensive course of
experiments connected with the subject of this paper, in which
I had completed about IS tables of results, each table con
taining, on an average, about 10 observations, I was sur
prised, on looking these tables over, to observe that there was
presented invariably (under whatever conditions the experi
ments might have been performed) a remarkably increased
amount of action opposite to a number representing one par
ticular copper plate. Since no probable cause could be as
signed for this recurrence, except that of some property pecu
liar to the plate itself, another plate was substituted for it,
when it was found that throughout the whole inquiry the
plate in question had been giving nearly double its amount of

                        Voltaic Batteries, #c.                67
action. It was now remembered that this particular plate
had been cut from a piece of copper which had been employed
in some former experiments, during which it had been partly
amalgamated, and had had one of its sides covered with bee's
wax, to remove which and the mercury previously to adopting it
to its present use, it had been thrown on the surface ofa bright
fire, and afterwards, whilst nearly red hot, had been plunged
in a trough containing dilute sulphuric acid. The same plate
was the agent in another curious phenomenon, to be men
tioned subsequently. (See Section VIII.) But confining my
self to my present purpose, and without further alluding to
this circumstance, or to the suggestion it affords of a means
of increasing the power of voltaic arrangements, by some such
treatment of the plates, it is necessary here to remark that so
soon as this condition of the plate was detected, both the whole
of the plates, and the results of the experiments in which they
had been engaged, were dismissed as uncertain, and the whole
repeated with the use of new plates prepared with every pos
sible regard to uniformity in their condition in every par
ticular.
   44. VI. The copper plate of any voltaic arrangement very
speedily has its surface so affected as to be greatly diminished
in its amount of action ; an effect arising in some case from a
partial action upon the copper itself, but caused more fre
quently by a deposition of matter upon its surface, derived
from the solution it is acting in ; and consequently differing
in kind and degree according to the nature of that solution,
and to the intensity of the voltaic action itself. If a copper
plate be so used through a period of 30 minutes, and its
amount of action be examined during every five minutes of
that time, it will be found that this diminishing in effect will
proceed much more rapidly during the latter than the former
portions of that time, as is shown in the following table :
                                No. 1.
Periodsoftimeof 5 minutes! ]st 2m] ^ ^                  ^ ^
   each.                        f
Measures of gas in 50ths of |
   a cubic inch yielded in > 35. 33. 29. 24. 17. 9.
   each time.                    J
And when at the end of these periods the surface of the cop
per was again brightened, its action was restored to the first
amount, or to 3d measures in the same time.
   4-5. This table is not unimportant, inasmuch as it might
have occurred that the accelerated action which takes place
                                   F2

68                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
by continued immersion upon the zinc plate might be com
pensated for by the retarded action occurring upon its asso
ciated copper plate. But the rates at which the one is acce
lerated and the other diminished are different, as this table
serves to show, and consequently any method of correcting
such irregularities of action founded upon these opposite
properties of the two plates would be futile.
   46. VII. The kind of polish also of the copper plate, and
the cleanliness of its surface, have likewise a material influence
upon its action, and consequently upon the results of experi
ments conducted with any measure of accuracy. The plate
becomes soiled by frequent handling, and particles of the wax
from the adjacent wires are liable to be transferred to its sur
face, and in the end, by their accumulation, almost Ltotally to
obstruct its further action.
   47. VIII. Again, the action of any voltaic arrangement is
greatly affected by the condition of the surface of the zinc
plate, as regards its roughness or smoothness. An irregular
rough surface of zinc will give a greater amount of action in
a given time than one which has a fine polish.
   48. IX. And, on the other hand, an exceedingly irregular
or rough surface of zinc, over which a profusion of mercury
has been spread, will exhibit a less amount of action than
another surface which is perfectly smooth, and over which
only so much mercury has adhered as has been required to
produce a perfect amalgam. These apparently contrary
effects under like circumstances are easily explained : —the
plate of zinc which is rough and full of cavities, on being suf
fused with mercury, presents but here and there a point of
zinc amalgam to the action of the acid, the other parts of its
surface being pure mercury ; whereas, in the other case, in '
which the surface is smoother and its cavities consequently of
less extent, a greater number of amalgamated zinc points are
exposed to the action of the acid, and the effect of the plate
is consequently greater in proportion to the evenness of its
surface.
   49. These different conditions of the zinc surface, however,
are very different in their effects if the zinc be not amalga
mated; for in that case nn entirely different principle of action
is introduced; but as it is amalgamated zinc alone which is
used in these experiments, this particular need not be further
alluded to.
   50. X. The insoluble impurities contained in common zinc
accumulate upon the surface of a plate which has been long
used, and unless removed from time to time will also serve in
the end, and in addition to those causes already mentioned,

                       Voltaic Batteries, 8fC.                  69
to influence the action of such an arrangement. The conse
quences of this accumulation become strikingly obvious after
a plate has been for some hours in use, and without having
had its surface cleansed in the interval.
   51. XI. The particular position of the zinc plate whilst in
action is needed as equally to be attended to as the position of
the copper-plate (III.), though the necessity for this has a very
different origin in the two cases. A zinc plate whose surfaces
are placed in an horizontal plane will have the dissolved sul
phate of zinc resting upon its upper side, and hence inter
posing a stratum of comparatively inactive matter in the place
of the existing acid. But when the plate is used in a vertical
position, the dissolved sulphate continually subsides, by its
superior gravity, from the surface of the plate; thus occa
sioning a perpetually renewed contact to take place between it
and the fresh exciting acid. This effect may be rendered vi
sible when a glass vessel, holding an arrangement so suspended,
is interposed between the eye and a strong light, when the
varying refractions caused by the commingling of the two
fluids of different densities, viz. the dissolved sulphate and the
acid mixture, will show that a stream of the dissolved salt falls
continuously from the bottom edge of the plate, and is finally
diffused through the mass of surrounding liquid.
   52. XII. But the continually accelerating action occurring
upon the zinc during immersion is the cause of a more fre
quent and variable kind of interference in these experiments
than almost any other. A zinc plate whose surface is per
fectly smooth and truly amalgamated (such as are invariably
employed in the subsequent experiments), will give a greater
amount of action during a second time of immersion than
during the first, as appears by the following table :
                               No. 2.
Equal times of immersion!             2nJ ^ ^ ^ 6^
   01 10 mmutes each . .J
Measures of gas in 50ths"|
   of a cubic inch yielded \- 34. 36. 38. 42. 50. 59.
   in each time . . . .}
   "Whatever may be the strength of the acid used, or, in other
words, whatever may be the total length of time needed to
produce the same measure of gas, yet, when the plate has been
affected to the same extent, whether that may have taken place
in a longer or a shorter time, the difference between the rates
of action in the first and last portions of the total time will
be the same as exhibited by this table.
   53. XIII. Again, the acid solution becomes weakened by

70                 Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
 continued use, and deteriorated by the sulphate of zinc dis
 solved in it ; so that the results of any set of comparative ex
 periments will be untrue, unless this source of variation and
 error shall have been completely avoided by the constant re
 newal of the acid, or completely provided against by some
 system of correction adapted to its varied effects.
    54. XIV. A voltaic arrangement, at the commencement of
 a set of experiments, when the apartment in which they were
 conducted was comparatively of a low temperature, viz. at
 58° Fahr., gave y'^th of a cubic inch of hydrogen in 45 se
 conds. But on the room becoming warmer, by means of the
 fire and lights used in it, the action of the arrangement was
 as progressively increased, and when arrived at the tempera
 ture of 60° the same measure of gas was produced in 30 se
 conds. Attempts were made to alter this activity of the ar
 rangement by altering the surface of the zinc, by re-amalga
 mating it and immersing the plates in cold water, but without
 effect; and the original amount of action was restored only
after a free admission into the room of a current of a colder
atmosphere, during a few hours, had reduced it to the original
temperature. It is worthy of remark here, that whilst the
atmosphere in the apartment suffered a change equal to 7 de
grees of temperature, the liquid the plates were acting in did
not alter by more than two degrees ; and I have since had
occasion constantly to observe that the changes in question,
induced by temperature, in the activity of the arrangements,
may be brought about equally when the surrounding atmo
sphere alone (that is, independently of any alteration in the
temperature of the plates or the liquid) is the body which has
undergone any perceptible change.
    55. These effects of the influence of atmospheric tempera
ture, though ascertained by a different method and independ
ently, are in exact accordance, in general character, with
those detailed by yourself, and respecting which you remark
that " it is now, however, apparent that in the exact measures
of different effects which an invariable current of electricity
will enable experimentalists to undertake, the variations of
atmospheric temperature even must not be neglected*."
   56. XV. There is yet another influence affecting the action
of voltaic arrangements which has not, that I am aware of,
been previously recognised; namely, the mechanical effects
of the pressure of the column of liquid resting upon the plates.
If in a trough, holding dilute acid and about 12 inches deep,
a small zinc plate be fixed at half its depth or at 6 inches,
and the associated copper plate of the same size be fixed, first
                  • Philosophical Transactions, 1837.

                        Voltaic Batteries, #c.                  71
 at the depth of one inch from the surface of the liquid, and
 afterwards at the bottom or at the depth of 12 inches, but
 still at the same lateral distance from the zinc, the quantity of
 voltaic action obtained at each of these positions will be found
 widely different, as will be seen by the following table, in
 which the copper plate is moved through the same vertical
plane to the different depths successively :
                               No. 3.
Depth in inches of"]
    the copper plate I
    from the surface f L        2'    fc    6'    8'    10' 12'
    of the liquid .J
Time, in seconds,"
    needed at each
    depth to yield
    an equal mea i'132" 135" 142" 143" H7" 154" 159"
    sure of hydro
    gen ... J
    57. When the plate is near the surface of the liquid the
hydrogen arises from it in a regular stream of exceedingly
minute bubbles ; but when at a greater depth they are dis
missed from the plate irregularly and of a much greater size,
having apparently adhered to it longer and with greater te
nacity than when nearer the surface. It is easy to conceive
that previously to the dismissal of these larger bubbles from
the surface of the plate, they will have prevented the direct
contact of the acid and the copper by an interposed stratum
of air, proportionate to the size of their bases, and hence have
impeded the voltaic action itself. That these differences are
due solely to the influence of pressure, in the present case,
will be more distinctly shown subsequently (section 7th), when
the precise relative positions of the two plates in these trials
will need to be remembered.
   58. We perceive in the foregoing enumeration a variety of
minute influences and effects, incessantly obtruding themselves
into examinations of the nature of this present inquiry; all of
which, with the utmost care, need to be provided against, or
as far as possible to be corrected, to ensure any degree of ac
curacy in the results of experiments.
   59. For the sake of a compendious reference to the methods
by which these sources of error are obviated, or their effects
otherwise guarded against throughout this inquiry, they may
be classified as follows :
   60. 1st. Circumstances merely mechanical, affecting the

72                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
action of any arrangement, as position of the plates, agitation
of the liquid, adherence of the gas to the plates, pressure of
the column of liquid, &c., including the particulars stated in
Nos. I., II., III., XI. and XV. of the above enumeration.
   2nd. Circumstances of a mixed chemical and mechanical
kind, affecting the surfaces of the copper plate, as its polish,
cleanliness, &c., and stated in Nos. VI. and VII.
   3rd. Circumstances of the same kind, affecting the surface
of the zinc, and included in Nos. VIII. IX. and X.
   4th. The temper, or conducting power of the wires and
plates, as explained in Nos. IV. and V.
   5th. The influence of the general temperature under which
the experiments are performed, as in No. XIV.
   6th. The effects of the weakening and deterioration of the
acid mixture in No. XIII.
   7th. The accelerated action occurring upon the zinc in
No. XII.
   61. To provide against each and all of these interferences,
I adopt the following plans throughout the whole inquiry,
and which being once distinctly pointed out, need not again
be referred to in the course of the subsequent details upon
other points.
   62. The zinc plate is removed from the trough at the end
of each single experiment, and its surface cleansed by a linen
cloth. The copper plate is polished with fine glass paper
after each single experiment, washed with a solution of caustic
potash, and then well rinsed in acidulated water before its re
turn for the next experiment. The observations of the mea-
'sure of gas generated in any given time, is not taken till the
water has again become tranquil after the motion occasioned
by replacing the plates and refilling the meter; nor till after
the complete suspension of the local action which generally
takes place upon the first immersion of the zinc. (See 39.)
   The operating plates (unless where it is distinctly stated to
the contrary,) have their central points always in one straight
line, passing horizontally through the centre of the mass of
liquid" they are acting in, that in each set of comparative ex
periments the pressure upon the plates may be maintained
uniform, and the plates themselves be preserved in a vertical
position. The plates of either kind, which are here employed,
are cut from the same sheet of metal, the wires from the same
coil; and the whole, after being adjusted, are exposed for some
time to a like temperature, so that the temper and conducting
power, as far as that depends upon the texture of the metal,
may be the same in each. The temperature of the liquid and
of the apartment in which the experiments are conducted is

                      Voltaic Batteries, #c.                   73
maintained as nearly as possible the same during the per
formance of any one set of experiments.
   63. These regulations sufficiently provide against every
contingency that can affect the correctness of the experiments,
except those of the gradually diminishing activity of the acid
mixture through continued use, and the accelerated action
upon the zinc which occurs during its continued immersion.
   64. Against the effects of these last, especial provision is
made as follows: I prepare ten or a dozen of the kind of zinc
plates which are the subject of present experiment, and bring
each of those by previous management to yield the same
amount of action in a given time. This is accomplished by
taking one of them as a standard, and by polishing or roughen
ing as mny be needed the surfaces of the others, thus bringing
each into precisely the same condition ; and a little practice
makes this to be done with considerable facility.
   65. After any one of such a set has been used twice or thrice,
its place is supplied with a fresh plate; and after the whole
number may have been so employed, the set is repolished and
re-adjusted before their application to any new set of experi
ments. The extreme nicety which this plan introduces into
experiments of this kind will be obvious if it be considered
that each plate is employed to produce but at most five-tenths
of a cubic inch of hydrogen before it is renewed, and conse
quently will have expended in that effort but little more than
three-tenths of a grain of its entire weight; a quantity much
 too small to affect the action of the plate in any way likely
 to interfere with that degree of nicety which these experi
 ments require. And with respect to the effect which so small
 a quantity of zinc will have upon the acid mixture, either by
 abstracting its active acid, or by impregnating it with the dis
 solved sulphate, if it be considered that the quantity of acid
 mixture here employed is seldom less than eight or ten gal
 lons, and that this too is frequently renewed, it will be obvious
 that the dissolving in it of even many such minute quantities
 of zinc will have no effect whatever upon the results of expe
riment.
    66. It will subsequently be seen how essential it is that each
and all of the above particulars should be strictly attended
 to; and preparations being thus made and observed through
 out, I know ot no other circumstances that can affect the ex
 periments or interfere with their accurate performance ; and
 the whole thus arranged admit of being performed with con
 siderable ease and expedition.
    67. It has been thought better to place all these particulars
 under one view, at an early stage of this paper, as well to

74              Mr. C. Binks on Electricity, Sfc.
show the precautions which have been observed to ensure ac
curacy, as to avoid the necessity for a continual reference to
such details afterwards.
   68. The effects now to be sought for, are estimated gene
rally by the length of time needed to produce a certain mea
sure of gas, or for the expenditure of a certain weight of zinc.
But it has been shown in some former experiments that the
quantities of zinc expended and of hydrogen produced by it,
 (under certain conditions of voltaic action,) are not always
equivalents of one another. In my former paper* a case of
this kind is noticed, in which a small battery when used to de
compose water, lost zinc, in quantity one third greater than
the equivalent of the hydrogen evolved. In the investigation
that now follows no uncertainty will be permitted to remain
upon this point; and the labour occasioned by such exami
nations will be found to have been not altogether without use.
(See section 9th.) The measure of gas most commonly used
is one tenth of a cubic inch, and the time is taken in seconds.
With small plates, this measure will be yielded in a length of
time ranging between 3O" and 900" according to the strength
of the acid or the distance of the plates. The moment at
which this measure is completed by the meter, may be deter
mined with certainty within two or three seconds of the real
time. A closer approximation than this is seldom attempted
in the following experiments, nor is it in any respect neces
sary. The difference between 30 seconds and 900 seconds is
an extreme one, and but seldom occurs : most commonly the
difference is much less marked, and in some instances is so
minute, that no other method, that I am aware of, than that
now proposed is adequate to its detection.
   69. The capability of this method to detect minute differ
ences in quantity will be apparent upon a little consideration
from what has been already said; but the following compari
son between it and that afforded by an ordinary magnetic
galvanometer, will serve to mark that capability more clearly.
   70. The galvanometer here used, though of the common
construction, was an exceedingly good one, by Newman ;
and such an instrument in all respects as would have been
employed in the kind of experiments now made had the indi
cations afforded by the needle been desired.
   71. The instance selected is an average one of the effects
to be estimated. A small arrangement was used at first with
its plates one fourth of an inch apart, and afterwards at the
distance of thirty-eight inches. At the first position the
                   • Phil. Mag., p. 88, July 1837.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                          75
tenth cubic inch of hydrogen was yielded in 45", at the second
position in 210". Testing the same phenomenon by die
needle, the first position gave a permanent deflection of 60°,
and the second of 45°. By the first method the difference
detected was equal to the value of the difference between 45
and 210, or 165. By the second, the difference was equal to
that between 60 and 45, or 15. Had the divisions of the
needle galvanometer been in seconds, or in thirds, or even in
tenths of degrees, its indications would still have been inferior
in delicacy to those which the watch and meter thus afforded,
with the utmost precision and facility.
   72. It will appear subsequently that this superior precision,
readiness and certainty, do not constitute the only advantages
presented over the magnetic needle, and are not the only rea
sons why this particular method of experimenting should be
preferred.
           XI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                           THE HERSCHEL DINNER.
WE deem it proper to record briefly in this Journal the circum
        stances attendant on the recent festival in honour of Sir John
F. W. Herschel, and in commemoration of his return from Southern
Africa, after having executed a minute astronomical survey of the
Southern Hemisphere, in accordance with the intention and in fur
therance of the design of his illustrious father. A meeting of the
leading men of science and officers of various scientific institutions
in the metropolis having taken place in the apartments of the Geolo
gical Society, at a time when the arrival of Sir J. Herschel in his
native land was daily expected, to consider and arrange the best
means of giving him that welcome with which every lover of know
ledge was eager to greet him, it was resolved that a public dinner
should be held on the occasion, to which he should be invited, and
a vase of silver, to be purchased by the subscriptions of the friends
of science, presented to him. Forty-six Stewards were appointed,
including several noblemen distinguished by their patronage of
science, or their connexion with scientific institutions ; His Royal
Highness the Duke of Sussex, K.G., P.R.S., having consented
to take the Chair, and R. I. Murchison, Esq., F.R.S., V.P.G.S.,
was appointed Honorary Secretary. The following is a list of the
Stewards :
            H. R. H. THE DUKE OF SUSSEX, K.O., P.R.S., in the Chair.
                                      STEWARDS.
               His Grace the Duke of Northumberland, K.O., F.R.S.
               The Marquess of Lansdowne, K.G., F.R.S.
               The Marquess of Northampton, V.P.R.S., F.G.S.
               The Earl Fitiwilliam, F.R.S..F.S.A.
               The Earl of Burlington, V.F.R.S.. Chancellor of the Univ. Lond.
               The Bishop of Norwich, P.L.S., F.G.S.
     Airv, G. B., F.R.S., Astron. Royal.     | Bailjr, F., Treas. R.S., P.R.A.S.
     Babbagc, C, F.R.S., Luc. Prof. Camb. I Beaufort, Capt., K.N.,F.R.S..F.K.A.S.

 76                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      Brodcrip, W. J., F.R.S., F.G.S.           Jones, Rev. R.. Prof. King's Coll. Lond.
      Ilrodic, Sir B. Bart., F.B.S., P.R.C.S.   Konig, C, K.H.. F.R.S./F.L.S.
      Brown, R., F.R.S., V.P.L.S.               Lemon, Sir C, Bart.. M.P., F.R.S.
      Buckland, Prof., D.D.. F.R.S.. F.O.S.     Lubbock, J. W, F.R.S., F.R.A.S.
      Children. J. G., V.P.R.S., F.S.A.         Lycll, C, F.R.S., V.P.G.S.
      Christie, S. rL. Sec. R.S.                lVtacLcay, W. S., F.L.S.
      Colby. Col. H.E.,F.R.S..Dir.Trig.Surv.    Murchison, R. I., F.R.S., V.P.G.S. .
      Cole, Viscount, M.P., F.R.S., F.O.S.      Peacock, Prof., F.R.S., F.R.A.S.
      Daniell, Prof.,F.R.S.                     Powell, Prof., F.R.S.
      DeMorgan, A., Prof., Sec. R. A.S.         Rinnie, G., F.R.S., F.G.S. '
      Egcrton,SlrP.,Bart.,M.P..F.R.S.,F.G.S.    Rigaud, Prof., V.P.R.S.
      Faraday, Prof.. D.C.L.. F.R.S.            Uoget, P. M., M.D.. Sec. R.S..F.R.A.S.
      Filton, W. H., M.D., F.R.S., V.P.G.S.     Sedgwick, Prof., F.lt.S., F.G.S.
      Gompcrtz, B., F.R.S., P.M.S.              Smith, Joseph, F.R.S., F.L.S.
      Grecnough, O. B., F.R.S., F.O.S.          Smyth, Dipt., R.N.,K.S.F..For.SecR.S.
      Gilbert, Davies, V.P.R.S., F.R. A.S.      Somerville. W., M.D. F.R.S.. F.I-S.
      Halfonl, Sir H., Bart., F.R.S.. P.lt.C.P. Tavlor, John, F.R.S., Trcas. G.S.
      Hamilton. W.. F.R.S., P.R.Geogr.Soc.      Walker. J., F.R.S., P. Civ. Fng.
      Holland, H., M.D., F.R.S.                 Whcwell, Rev. W., F.R.S., P.G.S.
    The Hcrschel Dinner took place accordingly on Friday the 15th
instant, when upwards of four hundred noblemen and gentlemen
were assembled, including a large proportion of the most eminent
 cultivators of science, in all its departments, and of literature and the
 fine arts, from all parts of the kingdom. Their distinguished guest
 was seated on the right of the President, who was supported on his
 left by the Marquess of Lansdowne and Earl Fitzwilliam. After
 dinner His Royal Highness addressed the company on the,occasion
 of the festival, and presented Sir John Herschel with the vase, which
had been placed on the table by Mr. Murchison, and in which were
deposited several sheets of paper containing the autograph signatures
of the persons present. Sir John Herschel returned thanks in a most
 interesting address delivered with deep feeling and replete with ap
propriate reflections. Speeches were afterwards made by Professor
 Sedgwick, Sir Thomas M. Brisbane, Admiral C. Adam, the Marquess
of Lansdowne, Professor Kigaud, the Earl of Burlington, Sir Wil
liam R. Hamilton, the Rev. W. Whewell, P.G.S., the Marquess of
Northampton, the Earl Fitzwilliam, and R. I. Murchison, Esq., Hon.
 Sec. The last speaker in returning thanks for the stewards, assigned
as the reason why he, a geologist, had taken so active a share in the
 arrangements for this festival, that the distinguished astronomer, in
honour of whom it was held, himself claimed the character of a
geologist ; and he concluded by saying : " May it ever be the pride
of our hearts to repeat, ' I was one of those who welcomed Herschel
to his native land.' "
    Of the Noblemen included in the list of Stewards His Grace
the Duke of Northumberland only was absent, and his absence we
regret to learn was occasioned by a severe attack of illness. We have,
however, great pleasure in adding, that the cost of reducing Sir
John Hcrschel's observations in the Southern Hemisphere will be
defrayed by the princely munificence of this nobleman.
   The Vase is a splendid copy of the Warwick Vase, in silver,
placed upon a pedestal of black marble, on each side of which will
appear an inscription in silver relief. That proposed for the prin
cipal place, from the pen of H. Gaily Knight, Esq., M.P., is as fol
lows :
                         " Herschel juniori ab Afris rccluci
                            Ca'lis australibus exploratis."

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               77
   In every point of view, whether as regards the just claims of Sir
John Herschel on the regard of every lover of science, or the claims
of science itself on the estimation of the public, the Herschel Dinner
must be considered as one of the most interesting and successful
meetings ever held to promote the triumphs of intellect and social
virtue. It is with great satisfaction that we have understood that
the rank of a Baronet of the United Kingdom has since been con
ferred upon the illustrious object of this festival.
         ACTION OF LIGHT ON SOLUTION OF CYANOGEN.
   MM. Pelouze and Richardson have read a memoir on this subject
to the Institute, in which they observe that the knowledge which
chemistry possesses on the above-named subject is very incomplete.
M. Vauquelin was occupied with it in 1818, and showed, that besides
ammonia and a peculiar black substance, there were formed by the
action of cyanogen upon the elements of water, three distinct acids,
namely, carbonic and hydrocyanic acids, and another which he con
sidered as composed of cyanogen and oxygen. His opinion as to the
nature of this last substance was entirely founded on theoretic views,
for he had not separated his new acid, nor studied any of its combi
nations. . The experiments of MM. Pelouze and Richardson show
that M. Vauquelin was in error in announcing the formation of
cyanic acid by the decomposition of cyanogen in water, and the
substance which he supposed to be cyanate of ammonia was a mix
ture of urea and oxalate of ammonia.
   An aqueous solution of cyanogen, prepared in the usual manner,
was exposed to the action of light, until the odour of cyanogen ceased.
The solution had a strong smell of hydrocyanic acid ; its colour was
slightly yellowish, and it was neutral. In the lower part of it a
light, black, flocky substance was separated. It was collected in a
filter, and freed by distilled water from foreign soluble matter. After
this purification it was but slightly soluble in water and in alcohol,
insoluble in ether, but on the contrary dissolved by acetic acid and
the caustic alkalis, and with bases it formed true salts.
   The authors had not so much of this substance to subject to
analysis as they could have wished, but they are of opinion that its
true composition is expressed by the formula Az8 C8 H> O4*.
   Part of the liquor was submitted to ebullition, and the vapour dis
engaged was passed into lime-water. An abundant precipitate of
carbonate of lime was formed, which left no doubt as to the formation
 of carbonic acid during the decomposition of cyanogen in water.
 The remainder of the liquor yielded during concentration a very
 sensible quantity of ammonia and hydrocyanic acid. The dried
 residue had a distinct yellow tint, and a sharp saline taste. Put
 into alcohol it was divided into nearly equal portions ; the soluble
 portion possessed all the characters of urea ; the residue insoluble in
 alcohol was oxalate of ammonia.
   The authors state that the analysis and minute examination of
            * In this notice the original formule are preserved.

 78            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
these two substances leave no doubt in their mmd as to their pro
duction during the spontaneous decomposition of cyanogen when
dissolved in water. If M. Vauquelin had pursued the examination
which he had commenced in the products of this reaction, he would
perhaps have first made the admirable discovery, which was effected
fifteen years afterward by M. Woehler, of the artificial production of
animal matter.
    It is extremely curious to observe a substance of comparatively
simple composition, such as cyanogen, give rise to so many different
products by its reaction on water.
    Admitting Azs C8 H> Os [O ' ?] , as its composition the decompo
sition of cyanogen in water may be explained by the following equa
tion :
           1 atom of Urea                       Az4 C* H8 O2.
           3 do. Hydrocyanic Acid .... Az6 C° HB.
           4 do. Carbonic Acid                        C*          O8.
           1 do. Ammonia                        Az2         H6.
           1 do. Oxalate of Ammonia . . Az2 Ca H9 O4.
           1 do. Black Substance..            . Az<' C8 H8 O4.
                                                Azsa C28 H36 O'8.
                                                  L'InstiM, March 1838.
         BICHROMATE OF PERCHLORIDE OF CHROMIUM.*
    This remarkable compound was discovered by Berzelius ; it was
at first called perchloride of chromium, because when put into contact
with water it was changed into chromic and hydrochloric acids. Its
true composition was ascertained by M. Heinrich Rose.
    M. P. Walter gives the following process for preparing this com
pound : put into a tubulated glass retort an intimate and finely
powdered mixture of 100 parts of fused common salt, and 168 parts
of neutral chromate of potash ; an S tube is to be put into the tubulure
of the retort, through which there are gradually poured 300 parts
of concentrated sulphuric acid. The action is rapid from the com
mencement ; intense red vapours, accompanied by much chlorine, are
disengaged. The receiver is to be kept cold to condense the vapour.
The acid must be gradually added, or otherwise a loss of the red
vapours will take place, and besides this the contents of the retort
rise and pass into the receiver. As soon as the acid is added, the
retort is to be gently heated, and the heat is to be increased until
yellow vapours begin to arise ; the operation is then finished. In
the receiver there is found a liquid of an intense red colour, and a
solid substance, which, according to M. Dumas, is a compound of
this substance with chlorine. By decantation they may be sepa
rated, and the liquor when rectified, so as not to obtain the whole of
it, yields a compound, the boiling point of which is constant.
   The liquid thus obtained is of a magnificent blood-red colour ; it is
volatile, and yields fumes abundantly ; when put into a quantity of
              * See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. xii. p. 83.

                         Meteorological Society.                        79
water it falls to the bottom in drops of an oily appearance, and is con
verted into chromic and hydrochloric acids. Its boiling point is 244°
Fahr., and its specific gravity is T71 ; it acts rapidly on mercury ; it
is decomposed by sulphur, detonates with phosphorus, dissolves chlo
rine and iodine, and combines with ammonia with the disengagement
of li^ht. A small quantity mixed with concentrated alcohol com
bines with it with violent explosion, and the inflamed alcohol is pro
jected with force. This unexpected action had nearly deprived M.
 Walter of his eyesight, and burnt him horribly.
    The analysis of this substance by M. Walter agrees with that of
M. Rose, namely,
                         Oxygen                19"28
                         Chlorine              45-14
                         Chromium              35-58      100-
                                Ann. de Chitnie. et de Physique, GG-391.
    It appears to me that it would be more simple to consider this
compound as an oxichloride of chromium, than a bichromate of per-
chloride of chromium. It might then be regarded as composed of
                 Two equivs. of Oxygen. ... 16 or 20
                 One equiv. of Chlorine . . 36 — 45
                 One equiv. of Chromium. .28 — 35
                                                80      100        R. P.
          METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR MAY 1838.
    Ckiruick.—May 1. Fine: rain: fine at night. 2,3. Very fine. 4. Dry
 haze. 5. Thunder : fine. 6. Slight haze : very fine. 7. 8. Very fine.
 9. Hot and very dry. 10. Cold and dry. 11,12. Fine. 13. Hazy: fine.
 H. Cloudy and cold.      15— 18. Fine.    19. Overcast. 20. Slight rain.
 21. Cloudy. 22,23. Cloudy: rain. 24. Overcast.              25—27. Fine.
 28. Rain. 29,30. Fine. 31. Very fine: heavy thunder-showers at night.
    Boston.— May 1. Cloudy: heavy rain r.M. 2. Cloudy. 3. Cloudy :
 thunder, lightning, and rain early a.m. 4, 5. Fine. 6. Cloudy. 7—12.
 Fine. 13. Cloudy : rain early a.m. : rain p.m. 14. Cloudy: rain early a.m.
 15—17. Fine. 18— 19. Cloudy. 20. Cloudy : rain p.m. 21. Cloudy.
 "2. Cloudy : rain a.m. 23. Rain. 24, 25. Cloudy. 26, 27. Fine. 28.
 Kine: rain p.m. 29. Cloudy. 30. Cloudy: rain p.m. 31. Cloudy.
    Applegarth Manse, Dumfriesshire.—May 1. Sun shone: hoar frost a.m. :
 cold p.m. 2. Sun shone : genial rain afternoon.     3. Sun shone, showery
 a.m. 4. Sun shone : moist and mild : genial. 5. Sun shone : a beautiful
 day. 6. Sun shone : very dry and parching. 7. Sun shone : warm and
 genial.       8. Sun shone : very warm and clear.       9. Sun shone : the
 same. 10. Easterly wind : cool. 11. Sun shone: milder than preceding
 day.     12. Sun shone: a few drops of rain p.m.          13. Sun shone:
 withering day. 14. Sun shone: cold, with hail showers. 15. Sun shone:
 clear and coid. 16. Sun shone : heavy hail showers.         17. Sun shone:
 cold and showery. 18. Sun shone: cold and withering.          19. Cold and
 very wet.     20. Heavy rain all day. 21. Sun shone : showery and mild.
  22." Mild and very wet. 23. Sun shone: moist: rather cold. 24. Sun
  shone : clear growing day. 25. Sun shone : mild and clear. 26. Sun
  shone : clear and warm. 27. Dull and withering. 28. Sun shone : clear
  and warmish. 29. Soft air : wet all day. 30. Sun shone : warm and
  growing. 31. Sun shone : mild with showers.

            .i'le                                r-oo
QS.                                              coco
                                                                                       oo
                                                                                       «
                                                                         .     ..00. cO
                                                                         : : ::   r :o
                                                     . cO -- VO C4 C* C* . . U5 —  . , /  -.
            *'!M3                                    1909900 ; ; o c< ; ;<p!g^
             I F=                                                                          3 ri
                                                             9 '??            "9T9 ' W f-
                                                              s        «
                   S . .SUSSSS .SSJ . .SSSM- .S6.SE .g^SSS
                     * * *        "        * *      5*              s      " K
                              S g SiS « .^ S S S ! Si g - - H *S £ ^ » S * i
             4a
                               — S^qpipor^7fqpcpr~ip'p9'?5'9C>!i
B                         666666
                         ooo o oo o o
     Londo Roy.
           S 9a.m.
  i o oi M
  !a™«                         o

                              THE
              LONDON and EDINBURGH
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                              AND
          JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                      [THIRD SERIES.]
                     AUGUST 1838.
XII. On the Conditions of Equilibrium of a Homogeneous
   Planet in a Fluid State. By James Ivory, K.H., F.R.S.,
    Sfc. 4rc*
r I "'HIS problem is treated in the Traiti de Mecanique of
 ¦*¦ Poisson, a work which is in everybody's hands ; and, in
order to abridge, I shall take the differential equation of a
level surface from that work (Equat. (b), p. 536, vol. ii. edit.
2nd,) viz.
         Xdx + Y dy + Zdz + o?(xdx + ydy) = 0:
here x,y, z are the rectangular coordinates of a point in the
level surface, z being parallel to the axis of rotation : X, Y,
 Z, are the attractions of the whole mass upon the particle, in
the respective directions of x,y, z: and « is the angular velo
city of rotation about the axis. By integrating the foregoing
equation we obtain,
  Const. = f(Xdx + Ydy + Zdz)+ "^ (x*+y*) ... (1.)
     The whole mass being divided into two parts by the level
 surface, I shall put P, Q, R, for the attractive forces parallel
 to x,y,z, which the matter within the level surface exerts
 upon the particle in that surface ; and P, Q', R' for the like
 attractions of the matter without the level surface : so that we
 shall have
            X = P + P, Y = Q + Q', Z = R + R';
 and the equation of the level surface will be
                    • Communicated by the Author.
     Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 80. Aug. 1838.         G

82        Mr. Ivory on the Equilibrium ofajluid Planet.
         Const. = T(Pdx + Qdy + Edz) + -^-
    Now the least attention to the nature of this equation will
 show that the attraction of the matter without the level sur
 face is entirely independent of the rest of the equation. As
 there is no definite relation between P, Q, R and P', Q', R',
 these functions denoting the attractive forces of different
 quantities of matter, a level surface will have no determinate
figure, unless we divide its equation into two separate parts
containing the unrelated quantities, viz.
  Const. = f(Pdx+Q dy+Rdx) + ^(*2*/) ...... (2.)
  Const. =(P'dx + Gydy + 'R'dz) ........................ (3.)
    Such are the equations of equilibrium of a homogeneous
planet supposed fluid : but it will be more convenient to use
the two following, of which equation (1.) is the sum of (2.)
and (3.),
  Const. = T(Xdx + Ydy+Zdz) + -|- (*'+y) ... (1.)
  Const. =        (P'dx + Q'dy + R'dz)               .................. (3.)
    Now these two equations are the same with those given in
a paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1824, and in
two subsequent papers written for the purpose of obviating
some objections (I had almost said, frivolous objections) of
 M. Poisson*. The foregoing very simple investigation proves
the justness of the solution of the problem in the papers
cited; and at the same time shows the insufficiency and in
correctness of making the figure of equilibrium depend on
one equation. (Poisson, Mecanique, p. 550, vol. ii., edit. 2nd.)
    What is said is sufficient for the present purpose : but the
subject deserves a more extended discussion ; because, by the
procedure here followed, the greatest simplicity and clear
ness are introduced in one of the most perplexed and imper
fect theories, that occur in the system of the universe.
   July 10, 1838.                                        JAMES IVORY.
   • See Phil. Mag., First Series, vol. Ixiii. p. 339; vol. Ixv. p. 241 ; vol.
Ixvi. p. 429; vol. Ixvii. p. 31, 82, 439.—EDIT.

                                [  83   ]
 XIII. On a Property of the Conic Sections. By J. W. LUB-
                              BOCK, Esq.*.
 TF any hexagon be circumscribed about any conic section,
 -•- and the opposite angles be joined, the three diagonals
 have, a common intersection!.
    This remarkable theorem was first given by M. Brianchon
 in the 13th cahier of the Journal de FEcole Polytechnique,
 p. 301 . It was deduced by M. Brianchon through Pascal's
 celebrated property of the inscribed hexagon, but it seems
 desirable to obtain a direct proof of this curious theorem,
 and in so doing I have found an equation of condition be
 tween the coordinates of the angles of the circumscribed
 hexagon, upon which the property in question may be said to
 depend.
    Let the angles of the circumscribed hexagon be denoted by
 the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, as in the annexed diagram. The
 lines 1 4, 3 6 and 2 5 have a common intersection.
                                      9
    Let «, (3 be the coordinates of the intersection of the line
 1 4 with 2 5 then, x,,yl being the coordinate of the point
and if a, /3 are also the coordinates of the intersection of the
lines 1 4 and 3 6, so that the lines 1 4, 2 5, and 3 6 have
a common intersection,
   • Communicated by the Author.
   f On this subject see also a paper by Mr. Davies, Phil. Mag., First
Series, vol. Ixviii. p. 337.—Emx.
                                  G2

84       Mr. Lubbock on a Property of the Conic Sections.
Equating these values of a, we obtain the following equation
of condition, upon which the truth of the theorem in question
depends,
    G/i —Jfc) { (*8-*e) (*6 Jfe-3
        = o.
    It remains to prove 'that this equation does hold good, in
consequence of the relations which exist between the quan
tities contained in it.
    We may make .r, =0, j-2 = 0 without limiting the gene
rality of the theorem, the direction of the coordinate axis y
being any whatever ; this amounts to taking for the origin the
 point in which the line 1 2 touches the parabola. In this
case the points 5 and 4, 6 and 3, 1 and 2 are symmetrical
 and similarly involved, and the preceding equation of con
 dition becomes
    The equation to the tangent of the parabola^2 = p x pass
ing through the points (z,y) («, /3) is
                                              -&* = 0       B.
    If x, y coincide with the point 2, so that a-2 = 0, and if
 a, /3 coincide with the point 3,
 Similarly             X6
    Again, if in the equation B the point (x,y) coincide with
the point 3, the two values of ——-g correspond to the direc
tions of the lines 3 2 and 3 4.
                                 P
 Making a = a;2 = 0, |3 = yt , and taking the upper sign
                                   a/before.
                        P

        Mr. Lubbock on a Property of the Conic Sections.       85
    Taking the lower sign and making a, /3 coincide with the
 point K
                    ~
                                  P
 Similarly, because the points (5, 4), (6, 3) and (1, 2) are sym
 metrical,
                     ~
                                 P
    Again, by equation B,
if the upper sign refer to the direction of the line 4 5, the
 lower refers to the direction of the line 4 3.
                                  P
 Equating this value of xb to that found above,
    Hence 3/4-3/3 + j/2 is equal to y5-y6 + y,, or to y6-yt .
Employing the values of x3, x4, x& and x6 which have been
found, and the remarkable equation of condition
it is easy to verify the truth of the equation A, p. 84.
   This equation may now be put in the form
putting for y«—y5 its valuey3—y4+y,—yg, the quantity be
tween the brackets becomes
                                    g-yJ +y\ (yi—

86          Mr. D. Waldie's Experimental Researches
 + (y3—ye) {yi ( yi-y3) +ys (y3-y«) + ( y4-y3 +y2) ( y«-y0 }
 = (yi-y4) (y3-ye) (ya-y\) + (y3-ye) (y\-y*> (yi-yj
 = 0 , which proves the truth of the theorem in question.
    if y4-y3 + y* = ye-y\
       ys-y6 + yi = y3-y2
       x4 = xb , y4 = ys , the pomts 4 and         5 comcide, and by
 reference to the figure it will easily be seen that it is useless
to coincide this case.
    The equation of condition
                 yi-y« + y3-y4 + y^-ye = o
has been found upon the supposition, that ..•, = 0, x3 = 0,
which simplifies the expressions. But it is easy to show by
the transformation of coordinates that if the above equation
be true, with such limitations, it is also true in the more ge
neral case, the only limitation required being, that the axis x
be parallel to the axis of the parabola ; and then, however
the circumscribed hexagon be situated
                  i-z.s-4s-6                        -
    In the Phil. Mag. and Annals, N.S., 1829, vol. vi. p. 249, 1
gave a direct proof from the equation to the parabola ys =; p x
of Pascal's celebrated property of the inscribed hexagon,
and I showed that the proof might be extended to the general
equation of the conic sections y* = p' x + q a?, by substi
tuting for the coordinates x and y of any point
                     *£-
                   —.—*.>- and p+qx
                   p+q'x             . , respectively.
                                                 l
    By such substitutions all the preceding expressions which
are true for the parabola yl = p x may be extended to the
conic sections generally, which are included under the equa
tion y1 = ff x + q1 x3. Thus the equation of condition
            yi-y« + ya—yt + y&~ye = 0 becomes
XIV. Experimental Researches on Combustion and Flame.
                      By DAVID WALDIE*.
                       [Illustrated by Plate I.]
T^HE subject of combustion has long engaged the attention
 -*. of the most distinguished chemists, and the results of
their inquiries are incorporated more or less in the various
                   • Communicated by the Author.

                     on Combustion and Flame.                  87
 treatises on chemistry ; an excellent account of them may be
 found in Ure's Chemical Dictionary, under the article Com
 bustion. The subject however is not exhausted, and there
 are still some questions which by a new method of investiga
 tion may I think now be decided, and several phenomena
 hitherto unaccounted for which may now be explained.
    The principal or essential circumstance in combustion is
 the fact of combination between two substances of opposite
 electrical energies. One of these, as being the apparent source
 of the heat and light, is called the combustible; the other, as
 absolutely necessary to the phenomena, the supporter of
 combustion. This has given rise to the division of bodies
 into these two classes, supposed by some to be remarkably
 distinguished from each other by their part in the process as
 they are in their place on the electro-chemical scale. Others
 again have contended that there is no essential distinction be
 tween the two classes of bodies with respect to this pheno-
 menon ; that in fact both are equally entitled to the name of
 combustible, and that the heat and light evolved are simply
 indications of energetic chemical action between any two sub
 stances : in proofof this various instances have been adduced,
 such as the combustion which takes place between iron or
copper filings and sulphur, between potassium and cyanogen
 or sulphuretted hydrogen, between vapour of anhydrous sul
 phuric acid and dry baryta, as noticed by Bussy, magnesia and
sulphuric acid, &c. in all of which we have all the pheno-
 mena of combustion, without the presence of any of those
 substances exclusively called supporters of combustion, or
 in some of these cases without either combustibles or sup
porters.
    The latter explanation seems now to be admitted so far by
chemists in general, but yet it occurred to me that its truth
was susceptible of still better demonstration, and that instead
of searching for particular instances of combustion it might
be supported by a much more general proposition : that in
fact if this were the true explanation, it should follow as a ge
neral rule, that if what is commonly called a combustible burn
in a supporter, a supporter ought also to burn in a com
bustible. This accordingly on trial I found to be the case.
   The apparatus employed for these experiments consisted
of a wide-mouthed flask (about 8 or 9 inches long) having
cemented to it a cap of tinned iron, pierced with four holes :
to two of these two brass sockets were soldered, made to fit
the ends of two flexible tubes proceeding from two gas
holders ; to the two other holes were attached small pieces
of tube, over one of which a piece of sheet caoutchouc was

88          Mr. D. Waldie's Experimental Researches
tied, through which a slender platinum or iron wire could be
passed to try the temperature of different parts of the flame,
and to the other was fixed a bladder in order to allow of ex
pansion. The flask was filled by being immersed in a trough
of water; the water was then displaced by inserting one of the
flexible tubes into one of the sockets, and causing gas to flow
into it from a connected gas-holder, the water escaping by
the other socket ; the tube was then removed, corks inserted
in the sockets, and the flask placed on a retort stand, with its
mouth downwards and the bladder hanging flaccid : the tube
was then replaced in the socket so as to supply more gas if
necessary. Now when the flask was filled with one of the
common supporters, such as oxygen, and one of the common
combustible gases was to be burnt in it, the method requires
no explanation. When again the oxygen was to be burnt in
hydrogen the cork was removed from the socket, and the gas
 set fire to, being made to flow gently from the flask, in order
to prevent the combustion from getting inwards ; the oxygen
 then being made to flow with a proper degree of force from
 a small brass jet fixed on the end of another flexible tube,
 communicating with another gas-holder containing oxygen,
 was passed steadily through the burning hydrogen into the
 flask, and the end of the flexible tube pushed home into the
 socket; the hydrogen burning outside the flask was now ex
 tinguished, and the oxygen found burning within.
    When again the gas was not confinable in a common gas
 holder with water, such as nitrous acid vapour, it was pre
 pared in a wide-mouthed flask ; and when this was believed
 to be full, a jet of hydrogen burning from a brass nozzle
 fixed to the turned-up extremity of a glass tube connected
 with a flexible tube was let down into it : or, for instance
 with chlorine, a jar was filled with this gas over the water-
 trough, and a jet let down as before, a tin plate being fixed to
 the tube so as to cover the jar and allow the jet to descend
 to near the bottom. If again these gases were to be burnt the
 materials were placed in a small flask, to which was fixed a
 tube having a brass piece to fit the socket of the flask, and a
jet placed on its extremity.
    By means of such apparatus oxygen was made to burn in
 atmospheres of hydrogen, olefiant gas, coal gas, sulphuretted
 hydrogen and carbonic oxide; nitrous oxide was burnt in
 hydrogen and coal gas ; nitrous acid vapour in hydrogen ;
 chlorine in hydrogen, and mixtures of these with nitrogen or
 carbonic acid, common air for instance, in the same gases.
     By these experiments, oxygen, atmospheric air, nitrous
  oxide, nitrous acid and chlorine are shown to be not only

                    on Combustion and Flame.                  89
really but also apparently as much combustibles as hydrogen
or coal gas, and these again are exhibited in the form of sup
porters of combustion. In fact this distinction arises simply
from the accidental circumstance of oxygen being contained
in our atmosphere, and of hydro-carbonaceous substances
being emitted from other bodies into it: there is really no
distinction between the two, the phenomena of combustion
proceeding from the act of combination of the two oppositely
electrical substances.
   I did not succeed in making iodine vapour burn in hydro
gen, nor the reverse ; the affinity for each other seems not
sufficiently strong. Nitric oxide does not burn in hydrogen,
nor vice versa ; a circumstance remarkable enough, as the two
constituents of this gas are in respect to their density in pre .
cisely similar circumstances to a simple mixture of the two ;
no more however than might have been expected from the
circumstance that a mixture of the two does not detonate but
burns with flame in contact with the air. It is said in some
works on chemistry, that the products of this combustion are
water and pure nitrogen : this I suppose must have been a
conclusion made beforehand, on the supposition that the nitric
oxide is decomposed completely : it would appear rather that
the oxygen for the combustion of the hydrogen is supplied
from the air, and that the nitric oxide is either not decom
posed, or at least only partially, as I find copious nitrous acid
fumes produced, whether the experiment is performed by
burning them together in a jar even with excess of hydrogen,
 or by burning the mixture from ajet either in oxygen, or oxy
 gen in it.
    I had made but very few of these experiments until I per
 ceived that there was a great variety in the appearance of the
 flames. The jet of hydrogen for instance, in passing from air
 to oxygen was observed to shrink in size, and become brighter
 and denser ; the jet of oxygen in hydrogen was observed
 also to be much smaller than that of hydrogen in oxygen.
 The flame of hydrogen in chlorine, nitrous oxide, or nitrous
 acid was much larger than in air; the flame of these gases in
 hydrogen again was small and concentrated. In all these
 cases the gases were made to issue from the same jet, with
 as nearly as possible equal degrees of velocity.
    Before making any observations on the causes of these dif
 ferences, it will be necessary to take some notice of the struc
 ture of flame. This has been studied chiefly in the flame of
 a common candle or jet of coal gas. It consists then, accord
 ing to observations already made, of, 1st, a dark central por
 tion consisting of unmixed, unconsumed gas ; 2ndly, a dense

  90         Mr. D. Wddie's Experimental Researches
  very luminous white portion surmounting the dark portion
  which penetrates further up its centre than its circumference ;
  this consists of solid particles of charcoal burning at a white
  heat; 3rdly, a blue cap arising from the bottom and sur
  rounding the dark portion, extending moreover some way up
  the sides of the white part, this being supposed to be com
  posed of the gas burning in an undecomposed state ; 4thly, an
  envelope of a light blue colour, ofa pinkish or lilac shade, con
  sisting of the proper combustible mixture, this being the
 hottest part of the flame: this part is thinnest at the bottom,
 increasing in thickness to the top where, of course, the heat
 is most intense; and, Sthly, another envelope of a yellowish
  brown colour, chiefly covering the upper part, and consisting
 of unconsumed matter or products of combustion. These
 two latter are not well seen in the flame of coal gas, on ac
 count of the great size and brightness of the luminous white
 portion.
     The explanation of these appearances is obvious enough :
 the gas issuing from the jet spreads out into the atmosphere,
 all it mixes with a sufficient quantity of oxygen to form a
 combustible mixture; as it ascends, however, it becomes
 strongly heated by the surrounding flame, deposits solid
 charcoal, the combustion of which forms the white part of
 the flame.
     When a jet of coal gas or olefiant gas burns in oxygen the
 parts of the flame are all the same, but differing considerably
 in appearance; the dark portion, the white portion, and the
 blue cap 1, b, a, (Plate I.) fig. 1, are greatly diminished in
 size, looking as it were compressed, the white being how
 ever more brilliant. The light blue portion again, 2, is
greatly enlarged, the shell of flame becoming much thicker,
and the heat is much greater, easily fusing a small platinum
wire. The yellow tail, 3, also is now perfectly visible. The
whole flame is also much smaller than in air. These changes
are due simply to the more perfect combustion produced by
the oxygen being undiluted, so that the greater part of the
gas at once undergoes perfect combustion; the diminution of
size of this as well as of flames in general, in oxygen com
pared with air, arising from the circumstance, that in the latter
the gas requires to penetrate or diffuse itself over a much
larger space before it meets with a sufficient quantity of air
to produce full combination.
    In flame again, where there is no solid matter deposited, as
in that of hydrogen, the appearances are much simpler ; in this
case (burning in oxygen) it consists of a dark central por
tion of unmixed gas, 1, of a light lilac blue envelope of ex

                   on Combustion and Flame.                  91
plosive mixture, 2, and of the external envelope and tail of
unconsumed matter or products of combustion, 3, often of a
greenish colour.
   Olefiant gas issuing with the same degree of force and
from the same jet as hydrogen burns with a much larger
flame: this is easily explained, as it requires 15 times its
volume of air to burn it, whereas hydrogen requires only 2j
times. This shows the influence of quantity on the size of
flames. But hydrogen requires only its own bulk of chlorine '
or of nitrous oxide for combustion, yet its flame in these
gases is much larger than it is in air; these burn on the other
hand with a very small flame in hydrogen. The only cause
to which this can be attributed appears to me to be the dif
ference of their diffusibility. From Mr. Graham's researches
we now know the law of the diffusibiiity of gases,—that it
varies inversely as the square root of their density ; so that
hydrogen,a light gas, diffuses itself much more rapidly through
chlorine, than chlorine, a heavy gas, does through hydrogen.
   These then are the two causes by which I would explain
the different appearances of different flames, and they are
confirmed by all the experiments I have made. Probably
they are not the only causes, but they are the primary ones,
particularly with the simple gases. A great number of experi
ments were made to ascertain, if possible, the exact propor
tional effect of these two causes, but with the apparatus I was
in possession of, it was a hopeless task. The only way in
which I could regulate the jet of gas was by the degree of
opening of the stop-cock by which the water was supplied to
the gas-holder, a very imperfect method where accuracy is
required. With some of the gases produced in the method
already described there was not even this resource. The
peculiarities of size, &c. which I notice here, are, however, so
great and decided, as to leave no doubt about them, allowing
freely for inaccuracy of the apparatus.
   A few examples may be given in illustration of these re
marks. The diffusibility of oxygen to hydrogen is as 1 to I ,
or the inverse of the square root of their respective specific
gravities (sp. gr. of hydrogen = 1). The difference of size
however of their flames is not so great as might be supposed
from this compared with chlorine : to account for this it is
to be kept in mind that the oxygen requires twice its volume
of hydrogen for combustion, so that it must spread further
through the hydrogen than it would otherwise require to do,
and thus make its flame larger ; the flame of hydrogen in
 oxygen being smaller than it otherwise would be from the
 same reason. Let us suppose it set down in this way :

92         Mr. D. Waldie's Experimental Researches
                                        Diffusi- Inverse of
    Vols.    Sp. gr.                     bility. quantity.
       1       16- oxygen                     1 x 2 = 2.
       2         1- hydrogen                 4 x 1=4.
   Now let carbonic oxide be treated in the same way.
     Vols.   Sp. gr.                    Diffus. Inv. of quant.
       1       16- oxygen                 3'75 x 2 = 7-5
       2       14'12 carbonic oxide 4-           x 1 = 4-
   In this case the flame of oxygen should be larger than that
of carbonic oxide (that is, when burning in each other), be
cause their diffusibility is nearly equal, and the larger quantity
of carbonic oxide is required. On trial I found that it was
so in fact; the only instance I have seen with unmixed gases
where the oxygen flame is larger than that of the other sub
stance. In the same way the flames of oxygen and sulphu
retted hydrogen approximate to each other in size.
   The flames of chlorine and hydrogen in each other ought
to depend on their diffusibility alone, as their combining pro
portion is equal volumes. Not having the chlorine in the
gas-holder I could not ascertain its size well ; but from the
trials I have made it is very small, similar to that of oxygen.
So also is that of nitrous oxide, and nitrous acid has also a
small flame. The flame of hydrogen in these gases is very
large, of a greenish or yellowish colour, darkish in centre, 1,
(fig. 2) brightest and hottest about the middle of the outer
part, 2, but very diffused in its appearance.
   The flame of oxygen in hydrogen consists of a dark un
mixed central narrow portion, 1, (fig. 3) surrounded by a
lilac blue flame of small size, 2, and then by a dark yellowish
envelope and tail, 3. The heat is concentrated in the blue
portion, where the platinum wire fuses and sparkles brilliantly,
the heat being compressed into so small a space.
   iThe flame of oxygen in olefiant gas is a very beautiful and
instructive example. It is necessary to premise, that as the
oxygen is the least diffusible of the two gases, and as it re
quires only one third of its volume of olefiant gas to form a
proper combustible mixture, both of these circumstances con
spire to make its flame small. In this, therefore, we have a
small light blue flame, darkish in centre ; in this blue flame is
the strongest heat which fuses the platinum wire, 1 and 2,
fig. 4 ; surrounding this and stretching far above it was a
dull strong yellow flame, b, red at the edges and dark in the
centre, 3, evidently consisting of solid red hot charcoal, a
very large quantity of which was separated as smoke, and
adhered to the sides of the flask.

                     on Combustion and Flame.                 93
    Gases were also mixed with nitrogen and carbonic acid.
When a pure gas was burnt in such a mixture it had its
flame much enlarged, as it had to expand itself further till it
met with a sufficient supply of the other, on account of its di
lution. Thus hydrogen, as already noted, burns with a larger
flame in air than in oxygen, and oxygen with a very large
flame in hydrogen diluted with twice its bulk of nitrogen or
carbonic acid. When mixed with the gas which was to issue
from the jet an opposite effect was produced ; thus the mix
ture of nitrogen or carbonic acid with hydrogen burnt with
a smaller flame in oxygen than pure hydrogen did, and air
burnt with a much smaller flame in hydrogen than oxygen did
—there being less gas issuing—and of course sooner meet
ing with a sufficiency of hydrogen. In this case the flame of
air was such as represented in fig. 5, burning from a wide
hole in a piece of a tobacco pipe : 1, dark ; 2, blue very di
stinct; 3, dark reddish tail ; 4, greenish envelope.
    Carbonic acid was employed in these experiments, in order
that its effects might be compared with those of nitrogen, on
the supposition that, on account of its greater density, a jet of
gas burning in it would be expanded or diffused to a greater
degree than in a similar mixture of nitrogen ; this accordingly
 was found to be the case. The greater degree of contrac
tion which should be supposed to take place when the mixed
 gases were made to issue from the jet was not demonstrated
 so clearly by the experiments ; in some instances it seemed
 sufficiently apparent, in others it was doubtful. Experiments
with more accurate apparatus would be necessary to establish
 the proportional effect of such mixtures.
     These experiments were made on the idea that from them
 we should get an explanation of the fact, that carbonic acid
 is more deleterious to combustion than nitrogen, or " exerts
 a positive influence in checking combustion, as appears from
 the fact, that a candle cannot burn in a gaseous mixture com
 posed of four measures of atmospheric air and one of carbonic
 acid." (Turner's Elements, sixth edit.). On examining the
 effect of nitrogen on the combustion of a jet of coal gas, it
 was found that by successive additions of it to air the flame
 became more and more expanded, the tube of flame becoming
 wider and longer, and the white part diminishing or disap
 pearing altogether when the nitrogen was in considerable
 excess ; when beyond a certain proportion, it would not burn
 at all, obviously from the cooling [effect produced by excess
 ive diffusion. It was therefore concluded, that this effect
 depended on the density of the gases, and accordingly on
  trial the following results were obtained.

94         Mr. D. Waldie's Experimental Researches
   Combustion of coal gas in mixtures of
                                                      Sp. gr.
                  Permitted.    Prevented.             Hydrog.= l.
        1 Oxygen... 7              8 Nitrogen            14-12
        1    Do. ... 3             4 Muriatic acid ... 18-42
       1     Do. ... 2^            3 Carb. acid          22-12
        1    Do. ... 2             2£ Fluosilic acid ... 52'72
   Now we observe that their power of preventing combustion
is just in the order of their density. Sulphurous acid was
also tried, but it was found to hold about the same place that
muriatic acid did, which it should not do, as it is denser than
carbonic acid, itssp.gr. being 32-1 (hydrog. = 1). It ap
pears, however, that it is decomposed when there is more
than a certain proportion of oxygen present to invigorate the
combustion ; as on inspecting the flame the external blue shell
of flame, where the principal combustion takes place, was
found to be enlarged and considerably .stronger in colour,
and a red streaky appearance was also observed in the flame,
precisely similar to that observed in the flame of sulphuretted
hydrogen, from separation, I believe, of particles of sulphur;
this being in accordance with the fact, that hydrogen and
carbon at a temperature of ignition decompose sulphurous
acid.
   Sir Humphry Davy tried the effect of various mixtures of
gases in preventing the explosion of oxygen and hydrogen,
a table of which he has given. To many of these this ex
planation does not apply, as the greater part of those he em
ployed were combustible gases ; and there is most probably
in that circumstance other causes affecting the result, only to
be avoided by employing incombustible gases. He has
noticed, however, that a wax taper is extinguished in air con
taining j'o1'1 of silico-fluoric and £th muriatic acid gas; also
that a larger quantity of steam is necessary to prevent the ex
plosion of oxygen and hydrogen than of nitrogen. This
latter fact is usually connected by chemical writers with the
heat necessary to maintain steam in the state of gas, but
it appears rather to be one instance among the others fol
lowing the general law ; that, of incombustible gases vikick
remain undecomposed the power of preventing combustion is in
the order of their density: what the exact ratio is I cannot at
present say, but beginning with steam, which has a sp. gr.
= 9. (Hydrog. = 1), we have the gases increasing in this
power in the order already given in the table, namely, nitro
gen, muriatic acid, carbonic acid, and fluosilicic acid. The
vapour of anhydrous sulphuric acid, sp. gr. = 40'1, should
stand between the carbonic and fluosilicic acids, if no decom

                    on Combustion and Flame.                    95
position takes place ; this I have not yet tried. This effect of
density in cooling the Jlame depends on the excessive diffusion
ofthejlame in the denser gas.
    The effect of diffusibility on a flame burning in another
gas is obvious enough, for it is visible ; but when the gases
are mixed together in one vessel its influence is not so easily
perceived. It appears to me, however, that in this case it
operates in a similar manner: in passing an electric spark
through an explosive mixture, or applying a heated body to
it, the combination and combustion take place amongst the
particles immediately in contact with the exciting cause, and
are thence propagated to the rest of the mixture; when the
gases are pure, this takes place so rapidly as to appear in
stantaneous ; but if they be diluted with another gas, the pro
gress of the flame may be easily seen. In a mixture which
does not explode by the electric spark, I conceive that the
particles of the combustible mixture immediately subject to
the influence of the spark do combine, but that being diffused
to too great a degree, either from excessive dilution or from
excessive diffusibility in a denser gas, the temperature is re
duced so much that it does not cause combination of the rest
of the mixture. This idea seems to be confirmed by the fact
(Turner's Elements, sixth edit., p. 252), that " An explosive
mixture diluted with air to too great a degree to explode by
electricity, is made to unite silently by a succession of electric
sparks," namely, from new particles of the mixture coming to
be subjected immediately to the action of the spark. This view
is likewise supported by other considerations.
    In the table I have given fluosilicic acid does not seem to
be so powerful as it should be, but this probably depends on
impurity. These experiments would require to be repeated
on a larger scale, as mine were performed with a jar capable
of containing only about 4 oz. of water, and a still smaller
trough, with 6 or 7lbs. of mercury.
   These researches throw complete lighten the action of the
blowpipe: the jet of air thrown into the central cool part of
the flame is in precisely the same circumstances, and has ex
actly the same appearance as a jet of air burning in the flask
containing a carburetted hydrogen gas, except of course in
being surrounded by a hot external flame, and therefore im
proved by this circumstance. In this case we see the two
phenomena at once, the vapour burning in the air, and the
air burning in the vapour. Hence also the reason why the
flame of the blowpipe is so distinct when thrown through this

96          Mr. D. Waldie on Combustion and Flame.
part of the flame, and so different when projected on the upper
part, where the gas being already mixed with air it can act
only as a mechanical agent.
    This may be seen very well with sulphur. A crucible of
moderate size was filled to about one third with sulphur, and
placed on a charcoal fire till it boiled. A jet of oxygen flow
ing with a certain force was introduced within the upper part
of the cavity of the crucible, entirely within the blue burning
flame of the sulphur outside; a strong yellowish tapering flame
was observed, darkish in centre, and red at edges and tail, of
about one inch in length. The same experiment was repeated
with the same circumstances, substituting air for oxygen; a
very slender jet of blue flame was observed darkish at centre,
and red at the tail, greatly smaller than that of the oxygen.
 These flames are of course expanded by the heat of the va
pour to double their volume, but their relative size is in ac
cordance with the principles already laid down.
    The influence of quantity is also well seen when diluted
 gases are burnt from a jet. Thus 1 oxygen and 8 nitrogen
 or carbonic acid will not burn in the flask filled with hydro
 gen from the brass jet commonly used, nor even from the to
 bacco pipe, but will do so from the mouth of the flexible tube
 about one-fifth inch diameter, forming a thin blue hollow cone
 of flame, fig. 6 ; sometimes this cone was deficient at the top,
 and was extinguished when the gas was made to flow with
 greater velocity.
    In these cases when the diluted gas issues from a small
 orifice the heat produced from the combustible mixture of the
 gases is so little that it is cooled by the velocity of the cur
 rent ; from a larger orifice it comes more slowly, and the small
 quantity of combustible mixture formed constitutes the thin
 shell of flame observed.
     These then seem to be the primary causes regulating the
 size and appearance of flames, hitherto, so far as I am aware,
 unobserved or undescribed. Probably, however, these are
 not the only causes, particularly with compound gases. I
 have made a few observations on these, and have observed
 some peculiarities, in nitrous oxide for instance; to these
 however I shall not advert until they have been examined
 more particularly. One peculiarity in the flame of hydro
 gen must have been frequently observed, namely, a green
 jet inside of the usual dark central portion ; and when the
 flame is full, a dark central part even in this. Having
 only unsupported conjecture to offer in explanation of this,
  I shall refrain from saying anything at present. There are

             Professor Forbes's Researches on Heat.                   97
 also peculiarities of colour and appearance of the external
 envelopes and tails so often referred to, which might be worth
 examining.
     These remarks have, I trust, thrown some additional light
 on the nature of gaseous combustion and the influences affect
 ing it. The inquiry seems to be worth the prosecuting, in
 order to obtain accurate results. For this purpose superior
 apparatus is required : one most essential instrument is a gas
 reservoir, from which gas can be expelled with any de
gree of force that may be required, and with considerable
 accuracy. The flask I may also remark, though it may do
 very well for most flames, does not suit well those which re
 quire a large and free supply of the atmospheric gas ; thus
olefiant gas will scarcely burn in the flask full of air: it
shakes violently as if seeking for air, and then goes out ; and
 this cannot be remedied by forcing in air, as the agitation
 thereby produced blows out the flame. By pursuing the in
 vestigation with greater accuracy, results may probably be
 obtained that may assist in elucidating the nature and af
 fections of gaseous bodies. In the mean time I shall prosecute
 the inquiry as much as lies in my power, Vith the view of
 giving greater accuracy to the results already obtained, or
 making new observations connected with the subject.
    Linlithgow,June2, 1838.
 XV. Researches on Heat. Third Series. § 1. On the un
    equally Polarizable Nature of different Kinds of Heat.
    § 2. On the Depolarization of Heat. §3. On the Refran-
    gibility of Heat. By JAMES D. FORBEs, Esq., F.R.SS.
    L. 3f E., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University
    ofEdinburgh.*
                    [Illustrated by Plates II. & IV.]
  § 1 . On the unequally Polarizable Nature ofdifferent Kinds
                                of Heat.
 ¥T has been my anxious wish to preserve these papers pure
     from even the appearance of controversy, and those who
have paid attention to the recent history of our present sub
ject must be aware that without, making direct allusion to the
doubts which have at different' times been thrown upon my
experiments, I have contented myself with adducing new facts
and more convincing reasonings; and I have had the satis
faction to see that the general result of this course has been
   * Read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh 16th of April 1838 :
abridged by the Author from the Transactions of that Society, vol. xiv. ;
and communicated by him.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 80. Aug. 1838.              H

98             Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
the gradual abandonment of such doubts, and the entire
adoption of my conclusions.
   I believe that only a single exception remains to this state
ment. I expressed my belief in myfo-st paper that heat was
differently polarizable, according to the source whence it was
derived. M. Melloni* failed to verify this result,' and the
opposite conclusion, namely, that all kinds of heat are equally
polarized by a given pile of mica, was prominently put forth
by himself and M. Biot as an important discoveryf. With
out any undue confidence in my first, confessedly imperfect,
researches, I proceeded in my second paper | to give what
I considered ample proofs of the correctness of the state
ment, though the great dissimilarity of the numbers arrived
at from those of my first paper, showed that the latter were
worthy of very little confidence on the ground of numerical
exactness, which, indeed, I never claimed for them. The
later experiments, however, were made with a view to accu
rate results, and I stated certain forms of the experiment
which I had devised on purpose to meet the objections of
M. Melloni, although I avoided mentioning his name.
   It seems, however, that M. Melloni, returning to the subject
with his accustomed diligence, after receiving my second
paper, still confirmed his former results, and he has attempted
to show, in a very long paper, published in the Annales de
 Chimie for May 1837 (which only appeared in October), that
his results must be exact, and the probable source of my
errors. I contented myself with giving a very brief answer
to this paper in the Philosophical Magazine for December
 1837, admitting the improbability that so experienced an
operator as M. Melloni should be wrong in his numerical re
sults, but stating convincing grounds for believing that his
 explanation of my conclusion, founded on experimental errors,
was inapplicable. The inquiry which I have since been led
to make, and the entirely satisfactory explanation at which I
 have arrived of a difference so puzzling, terminating in a con
 firmation of my original statement, I now proceed to detail.
    I have not the remotest intention of examining and critici
 sing M. Melloni's paper in the Annales de Chimie for May
 1837, as respects trifling or personal matters, which I readily
 confide to the impartiality of those best qualified to judge:
 but it is quite necessary to state the facts which I had ob
 served, and M. Melloni's mode of accounting for them.
    With two polarizing mica bundles of great tenuity, pre-
   * Cmnptet Rendus dc I' Academic des Sciences, ii. 140.  f Ibid. p. 194.
   ; Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. xii. p. 549 el teq.

            Tliird Series.—-Variable Polarizability ofHeat.              99
pared in the method described *, marked I and K, I found
that, with heat from an Argand lamp, 72 to 74 per cent, of
the incident rays were polarized, that is,—of 100 rays trans
mitted when the plates were parallel, 72 to 74. were stopped
when one was crossed or its plane of refraction turned through
90°. With heat from boiling water, but 44 per cent, were
polarized, and heat from sources of intermediate intensities
gave intermediate results.
     M. Melloni ingeniously argued that this appearance might
arise from the circumstance that the mica bundles becoming
most heated by those kinds of heat which they absorbed most
readily, or transmitted least easily (viz. heat of low tempera
ture), the pile was continually receiving a supply of heat by
 secondary radiation from the mica, which, having no relation
to the parallel or crossed positions of the plates I and K, of
 course tended to diminish the apparent polarization of the
 heat, or to equalize the effect in the two positions.
     The supposed effect of secondary radiation from plates had
 been so often urged against my experiments, that, though as
 often proved to be insignificant or insensible, it gave me no
 surprise to see it started afresh, and in so plausible a manner.
 M. Melloni was probably not aware that the screen for inter
 cepting the heat was placed bclween the source of heat and the
 polarizing plate K, (as shown in PI. II. fig. 2,) so that the mica
  plates were only absorbing heat during the exceedingly short
  time (10 seconds) of one swing or dynamical impulse of the
  needle, otherwise I do not think he would have urged so in-
  finitesmal an objection t- I endeavoured, however, to meet
  it directly in this way. I took two mica bundles, G and H,
  and placed them parallel, as shown in fig. 3. But instead of
  placing the pile at P, where it receives at once the directly
  transmitted heat from S (the screen being removed), and the
  supposed secondary radiation of the surface ab of the mica
  plate, I placed it at p, identically situated with respect to the
  surface a b, but wholly removed from the influence of direct
   radiation from S. When this experiment was performed with
   dark heat (which, according to Melloni, ought to give the
   greatest effect) not the slightest movement of the galvanometer-
   needle was observable on removing the screen, during a far
   longer space of time than is ever in practice allowed for the
   absorption of heat. This experiment ought to be considered
   quite conclusive.
      • I. mid. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. xii. p. £50.
      f I might add, too, that, had he been aware of the extreme tenuity of
   the mica plates employed (of which more hereafter), he must have been
   led as a necessary consequence of his own reasonings to admit that the
   effect must be insignificant.—Ann. dc Cfiimie, Mai 1837, p. 13, note.
                                     H2

100            Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
    M. Melloni had hinted that the different dimensions of the
sources of heat, and the various angles under which the rays
fell on the mica plates must materially affect the results ; and,
as I was quite convinced that operating with parallel rays was
 the most correct method, I proceeded to repeat my experiments
 on his plan, with a salt lens placed in front of the source of
heat so as to render the rays parallel ; I also removed the
 polarizing and analysing plates to a considerable distance
 from the pile, and afterwards varied their distance in order
to see whether any adequate explanation of the discrepancy
could thus be obtained.
    The apparatus was arranged in the following way:— A
 rock-salt lens was placed between the source and screen
 (fig. 2 above) so that the heat was refracted into a nearly
parallel beam before incidence upon I and K, which were
 removed to a distance of more than a foot from the pile; the
distance of the source being 2 feet.
    The apparent polarization was somewhat increased, as
 I had anticipated, from the rays falling more nearly at a con
stant angle when previously rendered parallel ; but the dif
ferent polarizability of the different kinds of heat was even
more distinctly marked than ever ; whilst the distance of the
mica plates from the pile was now such as to reduce to insig
nificance any effect of secondary radiation, had such before
been sensible.
    In prosecuting these experiments, most of which were re
peated many times under various circumstances, I remarked
more distinctly than formerly the influence of particular states
of combustion of the source of heat upon the index of po
larization, and the accidental variations to which this gives
rise on different days, and even during the progress of an
experiment. Heat from brass about 700° I have generally
found the most uniform on different days, though there occa
sionally occurs in a series of experiments, considerable devia
tions from the mean. The Locatelli lamp seems subject to
greater variations, and the Argand still more ; indeed, I have
found it so impossible to maintain an Argand lamp in a uni
form state of combustion, even for a quarter of an hour, that
I have lately abandoned the use of it. But the quality of
the heat from incandescent platinum varies between the widest
limits. Nor is this wonderful ; it is composed of heat from
two very different sources combined in uncertain proportions,
that from the incandescent coil of wire, and that from the
alcohol flame which heats it. The intensity of incandescence,
too, varies exceedingly. On one occasion, when the incan
descence was unusually bright, and the alcohol flame very

          Third Series.—Variable Polarizability of Heat.            101
low, I obtained a higher degree of polarization than 1 have
ever done before or since. The ordinary proportion between
the indications with I and K parallel and crossed, is with in
candescent platinum 100 to 26 or 27. In this case it was
100 : 20 ; and when the heat was lifted by an interposed plate
of thin glass, it rose as high as 100: 13.
   The general results obtained in the way above described
are stated in the following table, in which I have included the
numbers for mercury heated to 410°, and for boiling water
taken from the second series* ; those experiments not having
been repeated because the use of a lens is in those cases of
little avail.
                     Polarizing Plates I and K.
         Source of heat.                      Rays out of 100 polarized.
      Argand lamp                                             78
       Locatelli lamp                                         75 to 77
       Incandescent platinum (usually)                        74 to 76
      Incandescent platinum, with glass #06 inchl
         thick, interposed, 6 to 7 per cent more, or J
      Alcohol flame                                           78
      Brass heated to about 700°                             66'6
      Ditto, with a plate of mica -016 inch thick 1
         interposed, (between [K and B)                    J
      Mercury in a crucible at 410°                          48
      Boiling water                                          44
   I presume that it will be conceded, that the experiments
now cited, incontrovertibly establish the unequal polarizability
of heat from different sources. Yet, I confess, I should have
felt uneasy, could I have thrown no light upon the cause of
the discrepancy between M. Melloni's results and my own.
This I believe, that I am able completely and satisfactorily
to do, allowing him every credit for the perfect exactitude of
his experiments. For the sake of clearness, I will state the
course by which I myself arrived at this result.
   It occurred to me, that it would be satisfactory for the
further and independent confirmation of the conclusions just
given (which were then only partially obtained), to examine
the index of polarization (by which I mean the per centage
of the heat stopped in the crossed position of the polarizing
and analysing plates) deducible for different sorts of heat,
from a series of experiments made wholly without reference
to this question, I mean those on depolarization, considered
in another section of this paper, and which, it will be seen by
                          • vol. xii. p. 551.

102               Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
a reference to the mode of reduction there employed, required
to be recomputed in order to give the index of polarization.
   I at first imagined, that the experiments made with each of
the three kinds of heat then employed (Argand lamp, incan
descent platinum, and dark hot brass) would give throughout
the same result for the same kind of heat. This was far from
being the case ; the interposition of the depolarizing plate of
mica between the polarising and analysing plate, acting simply
by transmitting only certain rays of heat, had modified the
index of polarization, and that more or less, as the thickness
of the interposed mica was more or less considerable. Such
a result might have been anticipated, as in exact conformity
with the discovery I had formerly made; but I was misled
by a false notion, which I had heedlessly adopted, and suf
 fered to remain unquestioned, that, in order to affect the in
 dex of polarization, the heat must have been modified by
transmission previous to its falling upon the first or polarizing
 plate, whilst, in the experiments referred to, the modification
 took place between polarization and analysation *. Of course,
 when I perceived this oversight, the confirmation of my views
 was greater, because it was unforeseen.
    But the most material result of the examination of those
 experiments was this. By a reference to the section on de
polarization, it will be seen that five different thicknesses of
 mica (varying from three to sixteen thousandths of an inch)
 were interposed successively, and the index of polarization
 determined for each of the three kinds of heat. Now, upon
 examining the result of these fifteen experiments, I clearly
 perceived (amongst occasional irregularities) this law to pre
 vail, —that whilst afilm ofmica '003 inch thick scarcely altered
 the characteristic properties of heat from different sources, as
shown by their variable indices ofpolarization, an increased
 thickness of mica had almost no sensible effect upon the heal
from the Argand lamp, but it increased the index ofpolariza
 tion of dark heat sofast, that, "with a thickness of mica of-Q\G
 inch interposed, the apparent index of polarization for heat
from the Argand lamp, incandescent platinum, and dark hot
 brass, was almost the same.
     When I had fully seized this conclusion, the explanation
    * Lest this confusion should, by possibility, occur to any one, as it did
 to myself, I will observe that the position of the sifting or modifying plate,
 absorbing the least refrangible rays, is quite immaterial, provided it occur
 between the source and the indicator of heat ;for whether the rays in ques
 tion are absorbed before or after polarization, those which ultimately
 escape and reach the pile are the only ones of which the index of polari
 zation is measured.

          Third Series.— Variable Polarisability of Heat.               1 03
of M. Melloni's results was easy and complete. It appears
from the account of his experiments, that he still employs
piles of mica of the form I at first used, consisting of distinct
lamine separated by a knife, then laid together and united at
the edges, up to the number of 30, 60, and even more*. On
the other hand, the piles 1 and K, which for two years and a
half I have employed, are of a degree of tenuity really sur
prising. The mode of their construction I mentioned briefly
in my last paper, art. 20, and it is so very superior to any
other, that it is probably from inadvertence that it has not
been generally employed. The piles laminated by the action
of violent heat, afford a multiplicity of parallel surfaces in a
given thickness of mica, which no mechanical method can
approach. The actual thickness of mica which they contain,
I am unable accurately to estimate. The plates marked G
and H are much thicker, perhaps twice as thick as those
marked I and K, which I commonly use; yet the former, as
I roughly estimate by the tint they give in polarized light,
are only about one thousandth of an inch in thickness. At
the utmost, the plates I and K can be but one fifteen hun
dredth of an inch; and yet it appears that their polarizing
power (depending solely on the number of surfaces they con
tain) is equal to M. Melloni's pile of ten distinct plates placed
at the same angle (35° to the incident rays). The mean
thickness of the elementary plates can, therefore, be only one
fifteen thousandth of an inch; and they reflect abundantly
 the colours of Newton's rings.
    Now, 1 have found by the depolarization experiments, that
it requires a much greater thickness of mica than that tra
versed by the heat in passing through the plates I and K
(even allowing for the obliquity) to affect materially the index
of polarization of heat from different sources, such as from
 brass at 700°, and incandescent platinum. It is, therefore, a
   * Annales dc Chimie, Mai 183J. At p. 17, &e. M. Melloni has given a
minute account of that method of constructing the piles, which, " amongst
several different ways, he considers the preferable one." No one could
doubt from his language that he is describing a new and improved form
 of the apparatus. I regret for a moment to descend to notice an apparent
 want of justice and courtesy towards myself; but it is impossible for me to
 not to observe, that the procedure he so exactly details, is, to almost the
 minutest particular, identical with that which I myself used in June 1 835,
in constructing, in M. Melloni's presence, the first pair of piles used for
polarizing heat which existed in France, at a time when M. Melloni ex
pressed his unqualified scepticism as to the polarization of heat generally ;
which piles I left, at his desire, where I presume they now are,— in his own
 possession. This mode of construction I soon after abandoned, for the
 improved one alluded to in the text.

  104       ,       Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
  necessary consequence of the construction, that the heat passes
  through such piles as I use unaltered, or nearly unaltered,
  in its character, whilst in passing through bundles of de
  tached plates laid together, the thickness of mica to be tra
  versed is sufficient to modify the heat by absorption, in such a
  way that the difference of quality has vanished, whatever be the
  source, in the very act of transmission. It it hardly likely, con
  sidering the size of M. Melloni's mica plates (4 inches long
  and 2 wide), that they could be less than one fifteen hundredth
  of an inch thick each ; a pile of ten would then be ten times
  as thick as my pile of equal energy, and at an incidence of 55°
  the thickness traversed would not be much shorter than that
 of the mica plate alluded to in art. 20, which we have there
  seen to be sufficient to obliterate all distinctive character as
 to polarizability between an Argand lamp and dark heat.
      Being now fully aware of the importance of the construc
 tion of piles of mica which I had adopted, I thought it worth
 while to examine the proportions of heat from different
 sources, which these very delicate lamine were capable of
 transmitting, which, I presumed*, would be found far less
 variable than when plates of the usual thickness are employed.
 My expectations were more than realized, as is seen in the
 following table, the second column of which shows the pro
portion, to the whole incident heat, of that transmitted by the
two mica piles I and K placed parallel to each other; by far
the greater proportion of the loss being that due to the obli
 quity of reflection and the number of surfaces f. By way of
 contrast, I have placed in the third column the proportion
 of the whole incident heat transmitted at a vertical incidence
 by a plate of mica -016 inch thick.
                                       Rays out of 100 transmitted by
         Source of Heat.             Plates I and K           Mica plate -016
                                         parallel.              inch thick.
     Locatelli lamp        . ... 18-8                              57
     Ditto, with plate of glass -06 1 , „.„                        _„
        inch thick interposed . ./
     Incandescent platinum . . 1 7'6                               50
     Dark hot brass (700°) . . 15'5                                15
     Heat from boiling water .10-                                   8
     It is very evident that, for the first four sources of heat at
least, the transmissive power of the plates I and K varied
   * I do not state this as a new idea ; it has been repeatedly remarked
by M. Melloni, that, in proportion as substances are thiuner, they possess
a more equable diathermancy for heat of different qualities.
   •j The part of the effect due to reflection, I had previously established to
be nearly the same fcr different kinds of heat.

          Tliird Series.— Variable Polarizability of Heat.     105
little, and in no sort of proportion to the characteristic action
of mica even in moderate thicknesses. This will be more
evident, if we compare the ratios of the heat from different
sources transmitted in the two cases, taking the heat from
the lamp sifted by glass as the standard for each column.
                                Plates I and K.     Mica -016 inch.
       Locatelli with glass . . 100                    100
       Locatelli                     116                79
       Incandescent platinum . 108                      70
       Brass at 700° ....             96                21
       Heat of 212° ....              62                11
   I need hardly add, that so remarkable a result as that the
heat sifted by glass should be less readily transmitted by the
thin mica lamine, than the direct heat from a lamp, was care
fully verified.
   Since, then, the first four kinds of heat are transmitted
without any great difference of proportion, by the piles I and
K, and since, especially, the heat from a lamp sifted by glass
and that from dark brass possess almost exactly similar cha
racters in this respect, it is very clear that we have a new
ground for rejecting as untenable M. Melloni's supposition,
that the apparent differences of polarization in my experi
ments, arose from the unequal proportions of heat absorbed
by the mica piles when the source varied.
   Admitting, then, the fact of the variable index of polariza
tion exhibited by heat of different qualities similarly treated,
we are tempted to inquire what explanation can be offered
of it. This question, inferring for its answer a knowledge
of the nature of heat, we are not prepared to answer with
confidence. My former suspicion of its being due solely to
the difference of the refractive index of mica for heat of dif
ferent kinds, I am disposed to retract as inadequate, or at least
to suspend my judgement respecting it. I at one time thought,
that, supposing the mica bundles unequally permeable to heat
from different sources, a difference of ratio in the total heat
reaching the pile with the plates I and K. parallel and crossed
might be accounted for. But a careful analysis of the cir
cumstances convinced me, that the absorptive action, if as
sumed the same for common and polarized heat, could pro
duce no such effect. One of the most plausible suppositions
which occurred to me was this,—that, supposing the reflec
tion of luminous heat to take place more copiously at the
mica surface than that of dark heat, and supposing the angle
of incidence to be that of total polarization, since the refracted
ray contains as much heat (if heat be like light) polarized
perpendicular to the plane of incidence, as is reflected and

106              Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
polarized /'// the plane of incidence, the ratio of the polarized
to the total heat transmitted would be greatest in the heat of
highest temperature. Unfortunately for this theory, careful
experiments assured me that heat from different sources un
derwent the same, or nearly the same, intensity, of reflection
under the same circumstances.
     We are, therefore, led to regard this character of unequal
polarizability, as probably indicating a difference of character
ofa fundamental kind between heat and light ; at least a super-
added quality or peculiarity of vibration, which becomes more
and more sensible as heat is removed in its character from
light, or has (as we shall hereafter see), generally speaking, a
lower degree ofrefrangibiiity. A sensible undulation, normal
to the surface of the wave, would of course satisfy this condi
tion. I am far from saying that my experiments warrant such
a conclusion. I am aware that it is inconsistent with the ideas
entertained by some ingenious speculators upon the nature
of heat * ; but this very circumstance has led me to bestow
the greater pains upon establishing the phenomenon in an
incontrovertible manner.
                § 2. On the Depolarization of Heat.
     In the first series of these researches, § 4, I entered pretty
fully into the subject of depolarization. The establishment
of the fact was of the highest importance, since there is little
probability of proving in any more direct manner the doubly
refractive energy of crystals with respect to heat. But, be
sides the demonstration of the fact, I pointed out in that
paper the important numerical determinations to which it
might lead; determinations of the first consequence to the
theory of heat, and the discrimination of heat from light. The
measure of depolarization in the case of light, or the quantity
of light which has become polarized in a new plane by passing
through a doubly refracting plate, such as mica, depends,
 1 . upon the length of a wave of light ; and, 2. upon the retar
 dation which one of the doubly refracted pencils of light suf
fers, upon the other, in passing through the mica, which re
 tardation differs with the material of the plate, varies directly
as its thickness, and may also vary with the quality of the inci
 dent ray.
     Hence, as a little reflection clearly shows, if the quantity of
light (or, by analogy, of heat) depolarized by a plate of given
thickness be numerically estimated, we may, if the length of
the wave be given, determine the retardation, or energy of
                    • KeUand on Heat, art. 166.

             Third Series.-—Depolarization of Heat.                107
double refraction ; or, if the latter be assumed or known, we
may find the length of a wave. Considering the latter ele
ment as the more important, and not being then in possession
of any more direct mode of determining it numerically, I
proposed to assume the retardation due to double refraction
as the same for heat as in the case of light, (considering heat
as but less refrangible light), and to determine the length of
a wave in the way which I fully explained in the First Series,
art. 68-75*.
    Two circumstances require notice by way of precaution.
The first is, that, for the very reason that we have periodical
colours in the case of light, there are different thicknesses of
mica and different measures of retardation, which, for the
same length of a wave, will give the same measure of depo
larization ; these dubious cases (which the formula of depo
larization completely expresses) must be distinguished. The
 second remark is, that all our sources of heat furnishing he
 terogeneous rays, each has its own period of maximum and
 minimum intensity, just as in the case of solar light, and
 since our means of numerical estimation embraces the sum
 of all the effects of heterogeneous rays, we cannot expect re
 sults which shall rigorously satisfy a formula, in which homo
 geneity (or constancy of A, the length of a wave), is assumed,
 but consider the approximate result as representing the mean
 or predominating character of the heat employed.
    Recalling, then, Fresnel's formula, quoted in art. 70 of the
 First Seriesf, we have
 where F* is the intensity of the whole incident polarized ray ;
  E2 the intensity of that portion which, after transmission
 through the depolarizing plate, is capable of being analysed
 in a perpendicular plane. These two quantities being deter
  mined from observation, the first side of this equation, or
  their ratio, becomes known. On the second side we have
  two quantities, either of which may be assumed, and the
  other becomes known, viz o— e the retardation of the one
  doubly refracted ray upon the other within the crystal, and
  A the length of a wave. Now, it is obvious from the form of
                                                              0 ~~ C
  the expression, that an infinite number of values of - will
                                                                A
  satisfy the equation; in light there can be little ambiguity
  arising from this cause, because the phenomena of periodic
  colours at once afford the means of selecting the true solu-
     • Lond. & Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vi. p. 366. t U>td.t p. 367.

    108            Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
    tion. In the case of heat, we must proceed with more cau-
                        f) ' P
    tion, the value of         being wholly unknown ; we only as
    sume (as we are entitled to do) that this quantity increases
    uniformly with the thickness of the plate, which it necessarily
   must, since the retardation is- as the thickness, and A is inde
   pendent of it. By a very simple process, the true value was
   easily selected.
       Five depolarizing mica plates, of different thicknesses, of
   exactly the same quality, and each as uniform as possible,
   were provided. They were cut to the same size, and of such
   a form that each could at once be placed with its neutral axis
   (aline in the plane passing through the two axes of double re
   fraction) vertical, or inclined 45° at pleasure. Their thickness
   was next to be determined. The examination of the colours
   shown by polarized light was the most obvious method, but not
   susceptible of the exactness which was required. It was, how
   ever, used as a check.
      The following were the results of actual measurement,
  made by means of a pair of callipers constructed for such
  purposes by Troughton. These results are the mean of ten
  measures each, which were rendered difficult by the elastic
  and fissile nature of the substance.
                                                Thickness in parts
                                                    of an inch.
             No. 1.                                   -0026
             No. 2                                    '0044
             No. 3                                   -0074
             No. 4                                   -0060
             No. 5                                   -0157
     With these mica plates in succession, employed for depo
 larizing, I proceeded to determine the ratio -^j- (p. 107) for
 the most part exactly in the way described and illustrated by
 an example in art. 71, First Series, which I found preferable
 to any other. This laborious investigation I performed for
 heat from three sources; (1.), an Argand lamp with glass
 chimney; ('_'.), incandescent platinum; and, (3.), brass heated
 (not to visible redness) by an alcohol flame. The thickness
of the plates No. 3. and No. 4. being very nearly the same
(and giving, as they ought to do, almost exactly the same
measure of depolarization), I preferred using the united thick
ness of Nos. 2. and 3. as an interpolation between Nos. 3.
and 5. The swings of the needle, or dynamical effects, vol. xii.
p. 547, were always observed, and are alone given. The po
larizing and analysing plates were the same marked I and K,
"Before fully described (vol. xii. p. 550), and a plate is said to

                Third Series.—Depolarization of Heat.                        109
be at 0° or at 90° as its plane of refraction is vertical or
horizontal. With these explanations, and a reference to art.
71, First Series, the following specimens of observations will,
it is hoped, be intelligible.
    Argand lamp: 16 inches from centre of pile, depolarizing
mica plate No. 3.
   Position of Polar.     Position of   Galvanometer.  Total Po.   Depolariza
   izing Plate K (I     Neutral Section   Dynamical     larization     tion
  being always at 0°).     of Mica.          Effect.                   E2.
        At0°                At0°          11-9 ^       8-45
        At 90°                              3-45 <                  + 535
                            At 45°          8-8 ^
         At 0°                              6-75^                   -5-35
                            At0°          121 <"        8-35
         At 90°                             3-75 Z                  + 5-05
                            At 45°          8-8 '
         At0°                               6-7 ^                   -5'35
                            At0°          1205 <        8-35
         At 90°                             37 ?
                                               Means     8-38           527
     The following experiment was made with heat wholly un
 accompanied by light, and with the same mica plate.
     Dark hot brass : 14 inches from pile, depolarizing mica No. 3.
    Position of Polar      Position of  Galvanometer.  Total Po    Depolariza
     izing Plate K (I     Neutral Sec     Dynamical    larization      tion
   being always at 0°).  tion of Mica.       Eflect.       F2.          £2.
           At0°              At0°          5-25    >   [3-25] •
           At 90°                          20      <
                                           5-75     y                + 3-75
                             At 45°
          At0°                             2-15     v
                                                                    —3-8
                             At0°          5-95    <
                                                          4-0
          At 90°                           1-95     <*
                                          5-75      S                + 3-8
                             At 45°
          At0°                             2-6      N                -3-3
                             At0°,         59        <
                                                          3-95
          At 90°                           1-95      <
                                           5-65      y               + 3-7
                             At 45°
          At0°                             23
                                                                     -3-5
                             At 0°         5-8      >
                                           1-8      >     40
          At 90°
                                                Mean      3-98          364
    * Omitted in the mean as manifestly too small, arising from the lamp
 being just lighted, and the brass not fully heated.

1 1Q            Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
    It now remains to explain how these observations have
been discussed. The ratio          E" is at once obtained by divi
                               '. -™-
ding the second mean result by the first, and I have purposely
quoted these observations, to show how very nearly the plane
of polarization was thrown at right angles by the action of
this particular thickness of mica, especially in the case of dark
heat, which appears to be owing to its greater homogeneity,
as we shall presently have reason to infer.
     We have seen above (art. 32) that
                      E*
                     -p = sm2 180'
 And therefore,
                                   sin-
                         o—e
                           A           180°
 Since the radical has an ambiguous sign, the equation will be
 satisfied by a value of          equal to a fractional number a, or
             *'                A
 by 1 — a, orl+a, or 2— a, or 2 + a, or 3—a, &c. In the
 case of the two examples given above, we have for the Argand
                       5-27      .„„„.. /|!= + .793
                —* = -29 or .?1 or 1-29 or 1-71, &c.
                  A
     For the dark heat
                         , ^ = —J- = -915; \/ -^ = + -957.
     And                   -^- = -41 or '59 or 1'41 or 1-59, &c.
                             A
  The true value must be such, that, when a number of plates
                    Q—~C
  are employed, —— must increase uniformly with the thick-
                      A
  ness of the plates.
      Clearly to mark this, and at the same time to combine the
  results by graphical interpolation, I projected the numbers
  obtained as above in the way shown in Plate II. fig. 1 . On
  a horizontal line spaces representing the thickness of the plates
  were set off as abscisse, and a few of the ambiguous values of
  -^— as ordinates, which are marked by dots.             It was then
     A
   easy to select those points thus set off, through which a
   straight line could most nearly be drawn, representing the

            Third Series.—Depolarization of Heat.              Ill
linear relation between the thickness of the plnte and the
           Q    £
quantity           , (both vanishing when the thickness = 0,) and
              A
inspection of the figure will show that no doubt can attach to
the choice of the ambiguous numbers,and also that the straight
line represents in general remarkably closely the course of
those points.
    There is one' exception to this statement, and it is an im
portant one. It will be observed that the interpolating line,
instead of passing through any of the dots set off for the mica
plate No. 3, bisects exactly two dots. These dots are nearest
to one another in the case of dark heat,—wider apart with
incandescent platinum, and widest of all in the case of the
 Argand lamp. The explanation is complete and satisfactory.
 The interpolating line in all these cases gives a value of
     - = £, which gives a value of -^ = 1 ; in other words,
   A                                    I.
 infers a total polarization of the heat in the horizontal plane
 (or in the case of light total darkness, when the polarizing
 and analysing plates are parallel) which we know can only
 occur when the heat is absolutely homogeneous. The want
 of mathematical coincidence in this case infers the admitted
 physical condition of want of homogeneity in the incident
 rays. Hence, we infer that dark heat is most homogeneous ;
 next, that from incandescent platinum; and, least of all, that
 from the Argand.
     The proportions give numerical results almost identical for
  the three sources of heat; a result so far contrary to what I
  expected, that it shows that by this method we cannot hope
  to discriminate the different lengths of waves of these kinds
  of heat, as I had formerly supposed, and shows that the varia
  tion of A. must be very small, or else (what is improbable) that
 it is constantly proportional to the variation of the retarda
  tion o— e.
     In all the three cases we have as nearly as possible a value of
           f) "^ C
  \ .* for          at a thickness of depolarizing mica, equal to
              A
  .020 inch, or '07 for a thickness of -001 inch. Let us com
  pare this with the case of light. The sum of the retardations
  for the various mica plates, as given in art. 33, amounts to
  .000199 inch ; the sum of the thickness in the next article is
  .0361 inch, consequently the mean value of the retardation or
  o — c is -0000055 for a thickness of mica of one thousandth
  of an inch. But the length of A. for extreme red is -0000266,

 112            Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
 for extreme violet, '000167 inch. Hence for a plate of mica
                                 Q ~~ &
 .001 inch thick the values of - are
                                   A
                                             55 = -207
             For extreme red light ...... —-
             For extreme violet light ... ^—- = '329
             For heat .....................       ='07.
     If we assume the retardation, or o— e, to be the same for
 all lengths of waves, and for heat as for light, we imme
diately deduce the value of A, or the length of a wave of heat.
                                            O   C
 For since for a plate '001 inch thick, - = -07i as above,
                                              A
 o— e = -0000055, we have
                          o—e      -00055            _ . ,
                     A = -—- = —— = -000079 mch,
 about three times as long as a wave of red light, and four and
 a half times that of violet. But it is always to be remembered,
 that this proceeds on the supposition of the retardation being
 invariable.
     I have taken the trouble to calculate and project in a similar
manner my original observations on depolarization given in
the First Series of these researches, art. 74, in order that,
though probably less accurate, they might form a check upon
the results just given. The plates then employed, and marked
No. 1 and No. 2, (which are not to be confounded with those
so designated in this paper) had thicknesses (deduced from
the retardation) of -0072 and -0036 inch. I have the gratifi
cation to find that the computed results agree almost pre
cisely with those just obtained, although from the accidental
thicknesses of the two plates employed the observations with
these alone do not enable us to select the appropriate value of
f\    f'
-, there being at least two values which still remain am-
   A
biguous ; but when taken in conjunction with the observations
of art. 41, the ambiguity is at once removed, and the nu
merical value of A comes out almost exactly as stated above,
for incandescent platinum and dark heat, and somewhat
smaller for that of the Argand lamp.
    I desire it to be recollected, that, in speaking of these
somewhat startling lengths of waves of heat, I am using the
language of only one of the two hypotheses which serve to
interpret the results of this section ; for, if the variation be in
o—e, or the difference of the velocities of the doubly reflected

                   Dr. Apjohn on a new Compound.                           113
rays in mica, the result would be the same. The experiments
in a subsequent part of this paper may serve to guide us in
our choice. Meanwhile, I would observe, that, supposing
the above results to be explained on the supposition that «—'t
is smaller, instead of A. greater for heat than for light, it is
equivalent to supposing the doubly refracting energy weaker,
or a greater thickness of a crystal required to produce a given
effect. Our suggestion respecting the existence of sensible
vibrations normal to the wave surface (art. 28) will not avail
us here. For, by the mode of reducing the experiments on
depolarization, the unpolarized part of the heat does not enter
into consideration at all * ; consequently those parts of the
total effect which are due to transverse vibrations alone, are
not modified by double refraction as so much light would be.
                              [To be continued.]
XVI. On a new Compound, consisting ofIodide of Potassium,
    Iodine, and the Essential Oil of Cinnamon. By JAMES
    APJOHN, M.D., M.R.I.A., Professor of Chemistry in the
    Royal College ofSurgeons, Ireland.^
            compound which is the subject of the present com-
       munication owes its origin to an unchemical medical pre
scription. A solution of iodine and iodide of potassium in
cinnamon water having been directed by a physician of this
 city in the winter of 1837, his patient found that during the
prevalence of very cold weather, the solution, which had been
previously turbid, became quite clear, and nearly insipid,
 and upon examining the bottle closely he observed deposited
in the bottom a small quantity of minute capillary cry
stals. These crystals were brought to Mr. Moore of Anne-
 street, the apothecary in whose establishment the prescrip
 tion was made up, and by him to me for chemical exami
 nation and analysis. Before detailing the means which I
 have employed for determining the exact constitution of this
 substance it will be proper to give the process by which it
 is best procured, and enumerate its leading properties ; points,
 both of which were investigated by Mr. Moore and myself
 conjointly.
    * 1 do not mean to offer any opinion on the nature of light in a partially
 pol arized ray generally ; but, as in the present case, the angle ofincidence is
 that of complete polarization nearly, I presume that the transmitted ray
 is undoubtedly composed partly of light polarized perpendicularly to the
 plane of incidence, and partly of common light.
     I Communicated by the Author.
 PhiLMag. S.3. Vol. 13. No. 80. Aug. 1838.                            I

        Dr. Apjohn on a new Compound of Iodide of Potassium,
    To a gallon of cinnnmon water*, first reduced nearly to
 32°, add four ounces of iodide of potassium and forty grains of
iodine previously dissolved in a minimum of cold water. Upon
the instant of admixture the solution becomes quite turbid,
owing to the production of a yellowish sediment, and this in
less than a minute becomes crystalline, and then gradually
subsides. The supernatant solution, which appears almost
entirely deprived of iodine and oil of cinnamon, is now drawn
off with a siphon, and the crystals and residual fluid thrown
upon a single filter, which, when sufficiently drained, is en
veloped in several folds of blotting-paper, and transferred to a
chalkstone, where, by the absorbent powers of the latter and
the occurrence of spontaneous evaporation, the product is
rendered perfectly dry and pure. With the quantities stated
above 60 grains of the compound are obtained. A tempera
ture at or very close to 32° is necessary to the success of
this process. At 40° the brown powder already noticed is
alone produced, and in much diminished quantity. This
brown sediment, however, is identical with the crystalline
product, for it may be converted into crystals simply by re
duction of temperature, and I have even found it to undergo
the same change when collected on a single filter, and set to
dry on a bibulous stone at the temperature of 45°.
    The crystals are capillary quadrilateral prisms, without
pyramidal terminations. They are of a beautiful brown or
bronze colour, and have a strong metallic lustre. Their taste
is extremely hot and pungent, resembling closely that of oil of
cassia, but partaking also of that of iodine. In alcohol and
aether they are readily dissolved, and from these solvents they
are again deposited with their original appearance upon the
occurrence of spontaneous evaporation. They are decom
posed by water, which extracts from them iodide of potassium,
and causes the separation ofoily drops of a dark colour, which
are either a mechanical mixture or a peculiar compound of
iodine and the oil of cinnamon. This action of water, how
ever, is greatly diminished when it is close to the freezing
point, and appears altogether prevented when a certain amount
of iodide of potassium is present.
    When heated to 82° the crystals melt into a dark liquid,
from which upon cooling the original substance is reproduced.
When heated beyond its melting point iodine and a vapour
smelling strongly of oil of cinnamon sublime, and iodide of
potassium is left behind, mixed usually with a little carbon
resulting from the decomposition of a portion of the oil.
   * This water should be prepared by introducing into a still one pound
of cassia bark and two gallons of water, and drawing off one gallon.

             Iodine, and the Essential Oil of Cinnamon.       115
  Starch would appear to decompose this substance, for with
  even its alcoholic or ethereal solution it forms the well-known
  blue compound. When agitated with water and zinc or
 iron filings, an iodide of these metals is produced, and the
 oil is set free. With mercury the result is the same, and in
 each instance for water alcohol or sether may be substituted.
 Potash also at once developes the oil, forming, as in the case
 of free iodine, iodide of potassium, and iodate of potash.
     From these facts it seems legitimate to infer that it is the
 oil, and not any modification of it corresponding to the ben-
 zoyle of chemists, which is associated with the iodine and
 iodide of potassium, and that they are all held together by an
 extremely feeble affinity, in as much as not only is the iodide
of potassium separated by water, as has been stated, but
 the iodine is affected by a solution of potash just as if it
were free. To test the truth of this opinion, a little of the
compound was decomposed in a small glass retort by the ex
act equivalent of a very dilute caustic alkali, and, a receiver
being applied, about half an ounce of a liquid having the
appearance and obvious properties of cinnamon water was
drawn off by distillation. From it, however, I could not,
though every precaution was employed, procure a particle of
the original crystalline compound. The properties, indeed,
of the distilled liquid were not, upon an accurate examination,
identical with those of cinnamon water. Its odour, for ex
ample, was slightly different, and it reddened litmus, a cir
cumstance from which it may be inferred to contain cinnamic
acid. It is therefore not unlikely that the oil may have ab
sorbed oxygen or have been otherwise altered during the
distillation; and as a confirmation of this opinion I may men
tion that the oil of cassia which is found in the market, is
chiefly cinnamic acid, and that a cinnamon water prepared
from it by a process directed in some of the pharmacopoeie
yields but a very minute proportion of the substance which
is the subject of the present paper.
    With a view to the analysis of this compound the first
point to determine was the proportion of iodide of potassium
which it included. To accomplish this a known weight of it
was heated in a small porcelain capsule, by which iodine and
oil of cinnamon were expelled in the vaporous state, and there
remained a mixture of iodide of potassium with a little carbon
resulting from the decomposition of a portion of the oil. The
iodide of potassium was separated from the carbon by solu
tion in water, and the use of a single filter which had been
previously deprived of all soluble matter by the action first
of a dilute acid, and subsequently of distilled water. The
                              12

116 Dr.Apjohn on a new Compound, of Iodide ofPotassium,
filter being well washed, the solution was evaporated to dry-
ness in a carefully counterpoised capsule, and then accurately
weighed. The following are the results of three experiments
thus conducted.
                                       IK                IK
                                                      (per cent.)
           3-37 grains gave          0'43               12-75
           8-00                       1-03              12-87
           9-40                       1-13              12-02
    The mean therefore of the numbers in the third column,
or 12-55* is the quantity of iodide of potassium as obtained
 by me in 100 grains of the compound.
    The next step was to investigate the iodine associated not
with the potassium but with the oil, and to effect this the fol
lowing was the course first pursued.
    A known weight of the compound was decomposed by a
 slight excess of an alcoholic solution of potash, and the whole
was evaporated to dryness, by which the oil was partly vola
tilized and partly decomposed. Heat was now cautiously ap
plied, so as to reduce the iodate, which I have already stated
 to be always formed in such experiment, to the state of iodide
 of potassium, but not to volatilize any of the latter salt. The
 residue, first permitted to cool, was treated with distilled
 water, and passed through a filter to separate the carbon.
 The filter was well washed, and the solution, having been re
 duced to a small bulk by evaporation, was precipitated by
 nitrate of silver, and the iodide of silver, first edulcorated
 three or four times with cold distilled water containing a few
 drops of ammonia, was finally dried, melted and weighed.
    In an experiment in which 10' 33 grains of the compound
 were employed, the iodide of silver amounted to 7"41 grains,
 equivalent to 3-95 of iodine, or 38'24 for 1 00 grains of the
 compound. Now, if from this we subtract 9-58, the iodine in
 the 12'55 grains of iodide of potassium which we have already
 found to exist in 100 of the compound, we shall get for the
 per centage of iodine in union with the oil the number 28'66.
    Fearing that the heat applied in reducing the iodate of
 potash to iodide of potassium, might have either been insuffi
 cient for the purpose or have volatilized some of the latter
 salt, I recommenced the estimation of the amount of free
 iodine, or rather of that united to the oil, by a somewhat dif
 ferent process.
    A known weight of the substance was introduced into a
 test tube with water and zinc filings, and the other end being
                • This contains 9'58 grains of iodine.

           Iodine, and the Essential Oil of Cinnamon.         117
drawn out at the spirit lamp, it was hermetically sealed so as
effectually to prevent the volatilization of iodine. Agitation
was now resorted to, and a gentle heat at the same time ap
plied, which caused the separation of the oil, the iodine pre
viously combined with it having entered into union with the
zinc and formed with it a salt dissolved by the water. The tube
was now broken, and its contents having been thrown upon a
single filter previously deprived of all soluble matter, distilled
water was poured on until the entire quantity of the iodide of
zinc was carried through. The washings were concentrated,
suffered to cool, and then treated with the equivalent quantity
of nitrate of silver, and the resulting precipitate (iodide of
silver) having been, as in the previous experiment, sparingly
washed with cold water containing a little ammonia, was dried
and weighed. From this the total quantity of iodine in the
compound, both that combined with the potassium and with
the oil, was collected. But the quantity in the former state
having been already ascertained, the difference is the quantity
of iodine associated with the oil.
   In an experiment thus conducted 6'55 grains of the sub-
stance yielded of iodide of silver 4-52 grains, equivalent to
37'20 grains of iodine for 100 of the compound. Subtracting
from this 9'58, the iodine of the iodide of potassium, we ob
tain, as the representative of the amount of this element asso
ciated with the oil, the number 27-62.      Hence —
                                                          2t
 = 28-14 is the mean amount of the iodine in the latter state
of combination as derivable from both experiments. But
—— = 2-93, or 9-6 = 3. We thus arrive at the conclusion
  y-58
that for every atom of iodide of potassium in the substance
under consideration there are three atoms of iodine in combi
nation with the oil of cinnamon.
    Before leaving this branch of the analysis, I may observe
that the iodine of the oil may be directly obtained by decom
posing the compound in a glass tube at a red heat in contact
with lime, and acting upon the residue with water which dis
solves the iodide of calcium, and along with it a little lime.
The latter being separated in the usual manner by carbonic
acid and boiling, the former may be precipitated by oxalate of
ammonia, and the iodine estimated from the amount of carbo
nate of lime afforded by the oxalale when calcined at an ob
scure red heat.
    The experiment made upon this plan did not give a very
 satisfactory result ; and, when I considered the great dispro

118 Dr. Apjohn on a new Compound of Iodide of Potassium,
portion between the atomic weights of iodine and of lime I did
not feel disposed to repeat the process.
   The iodine may also be taken out of the compound by filings
of iron as well as those of zinc, in the form of iodide of the
metal; and, though the theoretical objection just stated to the
process by lime is equally applicable to this method, a single
experiment, whose particulars I subjoin, thus conducted led
to a conclusion corresponding very closely with that already
obtained.
   8 grains of the compound gave 0-72 of peroxide of iron.
But this amount of peroxide corresponds to 2-27 of iodine.
Hence
             8 : 2-27 : : 100 : 28-41 - the
percentage of iodine associated with the oil, and which ex
ceeds the result, 28'14, obtained by the other methods by a
quantity so small that it may be viewed as affording a corro-
boration of the correctness of the previous determination.
   Having determined the iodide of potassium and the iodine
in union with the oil, we can now state the composition of the
compound, assuming the residue to be oil of cinnamon.
              Iodide of potassium              12-55
              Iodine                           28'14
              Oil of cinnamon                  59-30
                                               99-99
   That it is the oil itself, and no oxidized or other modifica
tion of it, which exists in this compound, I have already as
signed reasons for believing ; and as, by the application of
such heat as will fuse the compound, no water is set free, it
becomes highly probable that the statement above made is a
correct representation of its constitution. But the oil of cin
namon has been analysed, and through the researches of Du
mas we are acquainted with its real composition, which he has
shown to be represented by the formula Cls H8 O2. If then
the view numerically expressed above be the true one, the
59-30 parts of oil must correspond to some integer or at least
simple number of atoms. And, reciprocally, if we find such
to be the case, we shall be fortified in the conclusion which
we have drawn.
   With a view to this method of verification let the numbers
which represent the iodide of potassium and iodine, and thai
which is supposed to represent the oil, be divided by their re
spective atomic weights, and let the quotients be reduced to
others in the same ratio, nd so that the iodide of potassium

             Iodine, and the Essential Oil of Cinnamon.              119
  may be represented by unity. When these arithmetical ope
 rations are performed we obtain the numbers in the second
 and third columns of the following table, the former being the
 quotients themselves, and the latter other numbers bearing to
 each other the same proportion.
                                       00          (2.)         (3.)
       Iodide of potassium ... 12-55             0-075        1-000
       Iodine                      28-14         0-223        2-973
       Oil of cinnamon             59-30         0-442        5-893
    The numbers, it will be seen, in the last column approxi
 mate so closely to the integers 1, 3, and 6, as to leave little
 doubt that the true empirical formula is
                          IK.+ IgH- Cin6*,
 a conclusion which is strikingly confirmed by the following
 statement of the composition of our substance in 100 parts
 calculated upon this hypothesis.
               Iodide of potassium                    12-26
               Iodine                                 28-08
               Oil of cinnamon                        59'66
                                                     100-00
   To apply, however, to this conclusion the most decisive
test, it remained to burn the substance with oxide of copper,
and see whether the carbonic acid and water thus obtained
would correspond with the amount of oil of cinnamon ascribed
to the compound.
   7'08 grains, Liebig's apparatus for potash being employed,
yielded of carbonic acid 12-70 grains, and of water 2-60,
equivalent to 3-513 carbon and 0-288 hydrogen. But, adopt
ing for a moment the empirical formula already arrived at,
the 7'08 grains of the substance would contain 4-223 of oil of
cinnamon. If, therefore, from this we deduct the carbon and
hydrogen, we obtain the oxygen, and find the constituents of
the oil to be as follows :
                     Carbon                    3-513
                     Hydrogen.....             0-288
                     Oxygen         '.         0-420
If these be divided by the atomic weights, and if also we sub
stitute for the quotients numbers in the same ratio with them,
that for carbon being assumed 1 8, we obtain the following :
                     Carbon                    18-00
                     Hydrogen                   8'82
                    Oxygen                      1-60
          • Gin is assumed as the symbol for the oil of cinnamon.

120 Dr. Apjohn on a nem Compound of Iodide of Potassium.
As the conjoint result, therefore, of our analysis and our hypo
thesis we find the formula for oil of cinnamon to be C,8 H8-K
O[ a,. Now this is so close to the formula of Dumas, viz. C18 H8
Oi, particularly when we consider that owing to the fusibility
of the compound, and the facility with which it is decomposed,
heat could not be applied in drying the contents of the tube
before the commencement of the combustion, and that conse
quently the hydrogen must have been too high and the oxygen
too low,—considering this, I say, the accordance is so close
as to leave no doubt that the empirical formula already given
correctly represents the constitution of the compound submitted
to analysis. It is scarcely necessary to say that the most pro
bable rational formula is that here subjoined :
                       IK + 3 (I 4- Cin2).
    From the analysis which I first performed, and of which I
gave a brief account in the Chemical Section at the Liverpool
Meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science, the formula deduced was
                      IK + 2 (I, + Cin3),
which differs from the preceding merely in containing one
more atom of iodine.
   This compound appears interesting under many points of
view. In the first place it is one of considerable complexity,
is decomposed with an extreme facility, and is nevertheless
perfectly definite in its composition, and even beautifully cry
stallized.
    In the second place it is a kind of double salt, composed of
two haloid salts, in one of which the oil performs the very
unusual function of an electro-positive or basic metal,—a cir
cumstance the more singular, as Dumas has shown that it
unites also to the muriatic and nitric acids, forming with them
binary compounds, the latter of which very readily crystal
lizes. The oil in fact thus appears to act the part of a metal
as well as of an oxide.
    Lastly, I may observe that the method by which our com
pound was first accidentally formed, and is still best made,
presents an instance of incompatibility which had not been pre
viously suspected, and will no doubt suggest to chemists ex
periments which will eventuate in the production of a series
of similar substances. In reference, however, to this latter
point I should add that Mr. Moore has applied to the other
aromatic waters the very process which succeeds with cinna
mon water, but without obtaining a trace of any new product.
 It is possible, however, that new results might be obtained
 by substituting other metals for the potassium, and replacing

        Mr. T. Ri chardson upon the Composition of Coal.                121
 the iodine by bromine or even chlorine; and I have indeed
myself commenced some experiments with a view to this re
 search.
 XVII. Researches upon the Composition of Coal.                    By Mr.
                        THOMAS RICHARDSON.*
                          [Illustrated by Plate III.]
          are at present in possession of various analyses of coal,
         but at the itime when these were made the method of
 analysis was too imperfect to enable any chemist to obtain ac
 curate results. This fact, with the great and important use
made of coal in manufactures, induced me to undertake the
present researches. They have been conducted with every
possible care and attention, and throughout I have been in
debted to the kind instruction and advice of Professor Liebig.
 In the first part of the present memoir the various methods
 employed in determining the different constituents will be
shortly described ; and in the second part, the analyses of the
various coals, &c.
   I. METHODS EMPLOYED TN DETERMINING THE DIFFERENT
                             CONSTITUENTS.
                       Hygrometric Moisture, SfC.
    The first object was to determine the amount of water which
the coal contained, and whether this water was chemically
combined, or merely hygromfitrical. With this view the fol
 lowing experiments were made :
    1 . A certain quantity of coal, finely powdered, was dried at
 100° C by means of Professor Liebig's apparatus, and the loss
amounted to 1-23 per cent. 2. .854 grm.f coal, as finely
pounded as the preceding, was dried in a chloride of zinc bath
at the temperature of 185° C when it sustained a loss of '0105
or 1-229 per cent.
    It may, therefore, be concluded that if coal contains water,
it must exist in a state of the most intimate chemical combi
nation.
                                   Ashes.
    The determination of the ashes was very simple. A weighed
quantity of coal was heated to redness in a small platina cru
cible, till the whole of the carbon was oxidized, and the resi
due constituted the amount of ashes contained in the specimen.
   • From the Transactions of the Natural History Society of Newcastle-
upon-Tyne, vol. ii. p. 401.
   t The mea sure of quanti ty used in these analyses is the French gramme '
                1 gramme French = 15'433 grains English.

 122            Mr. T. Richardson's Researt ties
These ashes, treated with muriatic acid, afforded not the
slightest perceptible trace of carbonic acid. When they were
boiled with carbonate of soda, the clear filtered solution of
the same, saturated by nitric acid, produced, not the smallest
milkiness with a salt of barytes.
                     Carbon and Hydrogen.
   The estimation of the carbon and hydrogen was partially
made by means of oxide of copper, but generally with melted
chromate of lead. The apparatus was perfectly the same as
that employed by Professor Liebig, the only difference being
in the use of the above salt. A more 'exact account of the
employment of this substance will be found in another me
moir.
                             Azote.
   With respect to the method employed in the determination
of the azote, it will be necessary to eniter more minutely into
particulars (though perhaps a digression from the proper sub
ject of the present memoir,) to show tlnat no exertions on my
part have been wanting to obtain an exact result. Five or six
analyses were made with the appnratus which Professor Lie-
big has already described for the absolute estimation of azote.
The azote in all the analyses amounted to nearly 4 per cent.
When it is remembered what a small quantity of sal ammo
niac is obtained in every gas manufactory, this amount will at
once appear much too great.
   The method of determining the azote by means of its rela
tion to the carbonic acid was then resorted to, but it was
found impossible to measure the volume of the azote. I could
only in this way guess at the true quantity of azote, and it
appeared to be as 1 H : 100 C()2.
   At the suggestion of Professor Liebig, the following plan
was then pursued: —The apparatus, as per diagram, (Plate
III.) consisted of an ordinary tube of combustion a, about 20
inches long, and from -4 to -5 inch diameter, connected with
a tube b, having 2 balls, and about 10 inches long and -4 inch
in diameter. A small thermometer tube c was united to the
other part of the apparatus by means of a piece of caoutchouc,
and conducted the gas into a receiver d, which was partially
filled with mercury. A part of the tube c remained always
above the level of the mercury in the receiver d.
   The tube of combustion a contained in the hermetically
sealed end from 2 to 2j inches of hydrate of lime, then one
inch oxide of copper, afterwards the mixture of the substance

                   upon the Composition of Coal.                    128
with oxide of copper, washings* of the same, a further quan
tity of oxide of copper, and lastly slips of metallic copper.
The shaded part of the tube b was filled with hydrate of
potash.
    The whole apparatus being arranged, the receiver d was
raised a little, and if the mercury retained its new level, the
apparatus was considered air-tight. The air in the receiver d
was now measured, the temperature and barometer beiug noted
at the same. The combustion was conducted in the usual
way, the water and carbonic acid were absorbed by the pot
ash, while the azote forced the receiver to rise. When the
combustion was finished, the hydrate of lime was heated slowly
to redness, and the aqueous vapour thus formed drove out all
carbonic acid into the tube of absorption. The apparatus was
now allowed to cool, while the aqueous vapour condensed, and
the increase of volume in the receiver denoted the quantity of
azote in the substance submitted to analysis.
    The precautions necessary to be taken are the following :—
The mixture of the substance with the oxide of copper must
be most intimately made, and the combustion proceeded with
as slowly as possible; the pressure of the gas in the receiver
must also be quite equable, otherwise the tube: of combustion
will be either increased or diminished in size, and consequently
an incorrect resul t obtained ; the heating of the hydrate of lime
must be gradually performed; and care must he taken on the
cooling of the apparatus that the condensed vapour which
flows back be retained in the first ball of the t ube of absorp
tion, which is blown for this purpose.
    By this method the following results were ol )tained :
    .2768 grm.   Uric acid were submitted to anaJysis.
     27°5        Barometer at the time of the experiment.
     12°         Thermometer at the time of the experiment.
     46-0 cc ... Air in the receiver before commencement.
    120'0 cc...  Mixture of gas and air after cooling.
     76'0 cc ... Azote.
76 cc azote reduced to 0° thermometer, and '.28° barometer,
give 70'4 cc which is equal to 32'24. per cent. From the ana
lysis of Liebig, this acid contains 33'36 per cent., so that there
is a loss of 1-12 per cent.
    The analysis was repeated, but the loss w as nearly the
same.
   • By washings I mean the oxide of copper employed in cleaning out the
mortar wherein the mixture of the substance hat been made.

124               Mr. T. Richardson's Researches
.3244 grm. Anhydrous amygdaline were submitted to analysis.
 27°7         Barometer at the time of experiment.
 12°6         Thermometer at the time of experiment.
 IS'O cc ... Air before commencement.
 20°5 cc ... Gas and air after cooling.
   5'5 cc ... Azote.
5'5 cc Azote reduced to 0° thermometer and 28° barometer
give 5'19cc, equivalent to2-03 per cent., which is, according
to Liebig, 1 per cent, less than the true quantity.
   From these experiments there appears to be a constant error
of 1 per cent. This error was supposed at first to arise from
a diminution of the oxygen in the air of the tube of combus
tion, destroyed in oxidizing the carbon and hydrogen. With
the view to obviate this cause of failure, carbonate of copper
was mixed with the oxide of copper, so that before the com
mencement of the decomposition of the organic body, the
heat expelled tihe carbonic acid of the COa, Cu O, and drove
out all air in the tube of combustion.
   With this modification—
 .3566 grm. A mygdaline were submitted to analysis.
  27°6         Barometer.
  11°4         Thermometer.
    14 cc ... Air in the receiver before commencing.
    £\j CC ..,•<,if Gas and
    on                   i- air at the close of the experiment after
                 |~ coolmg.
     6 cc ... Azote.
6 cc Azote recTuced to 0° thermometer and 28° barometer give
5'65 cc which equals 2'01 per cent. The loss here amounts
again to 1 per cent.
     .2456 grm. Crystallized asparagin.
       27°4 ... Barometer.
       12°7 ... Thermometer.
         43 cc ... Air at the commencement in the receiver.
         81 cc ... Air and gas when finished.
         38 cc .,.. Azote.
38 cc Azote reiduced to 0° thermometer and 28° barometer give
35'49 cc which equals 18'32 per cent. The loss here amounts
to '64 per cent.
   Oxide of copper having the property of absorbing carbonic
acid from the: air, which is expelled by the heat in the tube of
combustion, and its place occupied by the mixture of azote
and air in the end of the experiment, it was supposed that

                     upon the Composition of Coal.                     125
this might be the cause of the error. Bichromate of potash
and dichromate of lead were then successively employed in
stead of oxide of copper, but it was found impossible to avoid
the formation of deutoxide of azote with these substances, in
such quantities as to be reduced by the copper. Oxide of
lead was also used, but the combustion was quite imperfect,
and the quantity of ammonia formed, very great. Oxide of
copper strongly heated, was at last employed, but the error
remained the same.
    The method remains thus at the present time, but I hope,
by further investigation, to discover the cause of the error*.
The error being thus confined to 1 per cent., two analyses of
coal were made, in order to obtain some idea respecting the
amount of the azote. These coals will afterwards be more
minutely described.
    I. '283 grm. Coal from the neighbourhood of Edinburgh.
        27°7           Barometer.
        13°4           Thermometer.
         11'8 cc ... Air in the receiver.
         12-7 cc ... Gas and air after the experiment.
            .9 cc ... Azote.
 .9 cc Azote reduced to 0° thermometer and 28° barometer give
 .84 cc which equals -38 per cent.
    II. '300 grm. Coal from Garesfield near Newcastle-on-
 Tyne, produced no gas, but there appeared to be a diminu
 tion of -30 cc.
     From the above experiments it clearly appears, that the
 coal cannot contain more than 2 per cent, of azote, but with
 the present means of analysis at our disposal it is impossible
 to determine the true amount.
                    II. ANALYSES OF THE COALs, &C.
     The arrangement of the various coals, proposed by Dr.
 Thomson, has been for the present adopted in the following
 account. Two specimens of each of these varieties from dif
 ferent localities have been analysed. There are four varieties,
 viz., Splint, Cannel, Cherry, and Caking.
                         I. VARIETY—SPLINT COAL.
                     1. Specimenfrom Wylam Banks.
     This coal is not at present worked ; it is a thin bed very
 low down in the Newcastle coal series, and appears in this spot
    * Since the above was first printed, it has occurred to me that the error
 arises from the absorption of the oxygen gas of the air in the apparatus,
 by the reduced oxide of copper, after the analytit isjinuhed and during the
  cooling of the tube of comiuttion.

 126              Mr. T. Richardson's Researches
 by the river Tyne cutting through it. Colour black ; lustre
 glimmering ; difficultly frangible ; principal fracture imperfect
 conchoidal; cross fracture uneven and splintery; specific gra
 vity 1-302.
    The determination of the ashes, as already described, was
        I. 1-2S4 grm. coal left as residue       '1715grm.
      II. '0864 grm                              -0122 grm.
          1-3204                                 -1837
 which amounts to I3'912 per cent.
    Burnt in the usual way with oxide of copper :
  I. -270 grm. coal gave -732 grm. COg and -1 52 grm. H2 O
II. -252grm                 -678 grm. COS and -1385 grm. H2O
    Burnt with chromate of lead in the manner to be described:
III. -3414grm. coal gave -927 grm. CO2 and -1922 grm. H2O
 IV. -395Sgrm               l-0703grm.COaand -2176grm.HaO
    These results give in 100 parts :
                         I.         II.         III.        IV.
  Carbon              74-961      74-381      75-071      74-878
  Hydrogen             6'254       6-111       6'243       6-114
  Azote and oxygen 4-873           5-596       4-774       5'096
  Ashes               13-912      13-912      13-912      13'912
                     100-000     100-000     100-000     100-000
   The relation of the carbon and hydrogen is clearly as 1 : 1.
                    2. Specimenfrom Glasgow.
    The splint coal occurs associated with cherry coal in the
Glasgow coal field. The fifth bed is almost entirely consti
tuted of this species. It is very highly esteemed for manu
facturing and household purposes. Colour is black, with a
little brown ; lustre glimmering ; difficultly frangible ; frac
ture uneven and splintery ; specific gravity 1-307.
   Ashes determined in the usual way gave—
          I. -214 grm. coal left as residue '0024 grm.
         II. -238 grm                        -0027 grm.
             .452                            -0051
which amounts to 1-128 per cent.
   Burnt with chromate of lead as usual—
  I. -2798grm. coal gave -838grm. CO2 and -1401grm. HgO
 II. -2596 grm              -7818grm. CO2and-1272grm.H2O
III. -2378grm               -71l5grm.COsand-ll71grm.HgO
which yields in 100 parts.

                     . upon Hie Composition of Coal.             1 27
                                 I.         II.          III.
       Carbon ............ 82-818 ...... 83-230 ...... 82-730
       Hydrogen .......... 6-562 ...... 5'442 ...... 5'469
       Azote and o xygen 10-497 ...... 10-200...... 10-673
       Ashes ............ 1-138 ...... 1-128 ...... 1-128
                             100-000 100-000 100-000
   The relation ( if the carbon to the hydrogen in this speci
men is as 1-231 ; 1-000 or S : 4.
                   ; II. VARIETY.—CANNEL COAL.
                  1 . Specimen from Lancashire.
   The locality o f this specimen is Wigan, where it has for a
long time been w orked. From its capability of receiving a
fine polish, it is naade into toys, &c.
   Its colour is greyish black ; the lustre is highly glistening ;
fracture is large conchoidal. It is not so hard as the splint
coal and is sectile. (Specific gravity 1-319.
   The ashes determined in the usual way were :
       I. '1706 grm. coal left as residue... -0043 grm.
      II. '1825 grm......................... -0047 grm.
          .3531                                  -0090
which amounts to 2-548 per cent.
    Burnt with chromate of lead in the usual way :
   I. -2937 grm. coal gave -890 grm. COa
  II. -3178 grm.......... -962 grm. COS and -1624 grm. HSO
III. -2819 grm.......... -8545 grm. COa and -1432 grm. H2O
or in 100 parts
                                I.          II.             III.
   Carbon ............ 83-789 ... 83-698 ... 83-808
    Hydrogen .................. 5-677 ... 5-643
    Azote and oxygen          .........      8-077 ••. 8-001
   Ashes ............... 2-548 ... 2-548 ...
                              ......      100-000         100-000
The relation of the carbon to the hydrogen is in this coal as
 1-207 : 1-000 or 6: 5.
                    2. Specimenfrom Edinburgh.
    This cos.l is called in Scotland Parrot coal, because its
particles, when heated, fly off from one another with a crack
ling noise. It occurs in many of the series in the Edinburgh
coal field. It splits easily, and throughout its substance se

 128              Mr. T. Richardson's Researc hes
veral well-defined impressions of Stigmariaji, wides are found.
 Colour is black with gray; lustre approache-s that of glisten
ing; fracture, imperfect conchoidal; sectile: and frangible;
specific gravity, 1-318.
    The determination of the ashes was as follows :
       I. '2007 grm. coal left as residue         -0295 grm.
      II. -1858 grm                               -0268 grm.
           .3865                                  -0563
    This amounts to 14'566 per cent.
      Burnt with chromate of lead:
  I. -3022 grm. coal gave -737 grm. CO2and . 1468 grm. H2O
II. -294 grm.               '7205 grm. CO2 and- 1434 grm. H2O
Expressed in 100 parts.                 I.           II.
         Carbon                      67-434  ....   C7'760
         Hydrogen                     5-394. ...     5-416
         Azote and oxygen            12-606  ...    12-258
         Ashes                       14-566  ...    14-566
                                    100-000        100-000
    The relation of the carbon to the hyd rogen is in this speci
men as 1-020 : 1000 or 1 : 1. This dilTers from the cannel
coal from Lancashire, but agrees with the splint coal of Wy-
lam Banks, near Newcastle. Between the splJnt and cannel
coals there is at all times much similarity, and rhis is counte
nanced again by the above results.
                  III. VARIETY.—CHERUY COAL.
            1. Specimenfrom Jarrow, near Newcastle.
   This species of coal occurs more or less in every coal field,
often forming thin beds or layers in the midst of other coals.
The specimen submitted to analysis was obtained from a thin
seam passed through while sinking the shaft of the mine
deeper. Colour, beautiful jet black ; lustre, resinous, splen
dent; principal fracture, straight, uneven; cross fracture,
conchoidal; not very hard and easily frangible; specific
gravity, 1-266.
   The determination of the ashes was as follows :
        I. -2567 grm. coal left as residue -004.5 grm.
       II. -3457 grm                          -0056 grm.
           .6024                              -0101
amounting to 1 -676 per cent.
     Burnt with chromate of lead.

                    upon the Composition of Coal.                   129
  I. '4164 grm. coal gave 1-2755 grm. COS and '1895 grra.H2O
 II. -3in-grm                '9573 grm. CO2an<M414grm. H2O
expressed in 1 00 parts :
                                         I.                II.
         Carbon                       84'694 ... 84-998
         Hydrogen                       5-054 ... 5'043
         Azote and oxygen               8-576 ...        8-283
         Ashes                          1-676 ...        1-676
                                     100-000          100-000
The relation of the carbon to the hydrogen in this specimen
is as 1-370 : 1-000 or 4-110 : 3-000.
                     2. Specimenfrom Glasgow.
    The greater portion of the coal obtained from Glasgow
consists of this species ; it constitutes the chief part of the
four uppermost beds.
    Colour, jet black ; lustre, not so splendent as that of Jarrow.
In its other characters it is quite the same as the preceding
specimen. Specific gravity 1-268.
   The determination of the ashes was as follows :
         I. -2410 grm. coal left as residue -0035 grm.
        II. .ISlOgrm                               -0025 grm.
             .4220                                 -0060
which is equal to 1-421 per cent.
    Burnt with chromate of lead :
   I. -278 grm. coal gave -8 148 grm. CO2 and -1379 grm. HiO
  II. -308 grm               -9073 grm. CO2 and -1494 grm. H2O
III. -2721 grm               -7983 grm. CO3and-1338 grm. H2O
which produces in 100 parts :
                                I.             II.            HI.
    Carbon                  81-041 ... 81-450 ... 81-121
    Hydrogen                  5-509 ... 5-387 ... 5-461
   Azote and oxygen 12-029 ... 11-742 ... 11-997
   Ashes                      1-421 ...       1-421 ...        1-421
                           100-000          100-000         100-000
The relation of the carbon to the hydrogen in this coal is as
1-216 : 1-000 or 6 : 5. This relation differs from that of the
preceding specimen of this species.
                   IV. VARIETY     CAKING COAL.
          1. Specimenfrom Garesfield, near Newcastle.
   This specimen was obtained from one of the lowest seams
Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 80. Aug. 1838.                 K

I3O             Mr. T. Richardson's Researches
in the Newcastle coal field. This coal is of a rich bituminous
nature, caking or melting when heated; it is from this pro
perty that it receives its name.
    Colour, black; lustre, shining, resinous ; principal fracture,
straight ; cross fracture, uneven and cross-grained ; the frag
ments have more or less a cubical shape ; soft and very easily
frangible ; sectile. Specific gravity 1 -280.
   The estimation of the ashes was as follows :
      I. -2080 grm. coal left as residue         -0039 grm.
     II. -2800 grm                                -0029 grm.
          .4880                                  -0068
which amounts to 1-393 per cent.
    Burnt with chromate of lead :
 I. -2977 grm. coal gave -94.54.grm. COa and -1 383 grm. HSO
II. -3149 grm              1 -0035 grm. CO2 and -1509 grm. H2O
or in 100 parts:
                                       I.
          Carbon                     87-809 ...
          Hydrogen                    5-159 ...
          Azote and oxygen            5'639
          Ashes                       1-393 ...
                                    100-000        100-000.
The relation between the carbon and hydrogen in this speci
men is as 1'377 : 1-000 or 4 : 3.
                 2. Specimenfrom South Helton.
    This coal occurs in the county of Durham, and is worked
through the magnesian limestone. It is regarded as one of
the best coals. Its characters perfectly correspond with
those of the preceding specimens. Specific gravity 1-274.
   The ashes determined in the usual way were as follows :
        I. -2400 grm. coal left as residue ... -0060 grm.
      II. -2604 grm                               -0066 grm.
            .5004                                -0126
which amounts to 2-519 per cent.
      Burnt with chromate of lead :
  I. -2929 grm. coal gave .8855grm.CO',and'13S8grm.H5O
II. -2705 grm                -8116grm.CO2and'1265grm.H2O
expressed in 100 parts:

                           upon the Composition of Coal.                                  131
                                                      I.
                Carbon                           83-588 ...
                Hydrogen                           5'150 ...
               Azote and oxygen                    8-74<3 ...
               Ashes                               2-519 ...
                                               100-000               100-000
The relation in this specimen is the same as in the former,
viz., 1-315C : 1'OOOH or 4 : 3.
    For the sake of convenience and comparison, the following
table contains the mean of the various analyses of each speci
men.
                                        TABLE I.
   Sptcies of Coal.        Locality.         Carbon.     Hydrogen. Aiote    and
                                                                       Oxygen.     Aches.
                      Wylam                  74-823        6-180        5-085     13-912
                      Glasgow                82-924        5-191       10-457       1-128
   Cannel             Lancashire             83-753        5-660        8-039      2-548
                      Edinburgh .            67-597        5-405       12-432     14-566
   Cherry             Newcastle              84-846        5-048        8-430       1-676
                      Glasgow ...            81-304        5-452       11-923       1-421
   Caking             Newcastle              87-952        5-239        5-416       1-393
                      Durham .. .            83-274        5-171        9-036      2-519
                                          TABLE II.
                                 Quantity of Oxygen        Relative quantity Ri'htivc quantity
                               necessary to the perfect  of heat given out of heat given out
 Specie! of      Locality.     combustion of 100 parts   by the Mime weight by the same vo
    Coal.                     of coal, subtracting the   or coal.              lume of coal.
                               Oxygen contained In        Edinb ro'= 100-00. Edinbro' = 100-00.
                              the coal.
 Splint        Wylam...                240-1                  110-34             108-99
               Glasgow                 250-5                  115-12             114-15
 Cannel        Lancashire              256-4                  117-83             117-91
               Edinburgh              21?6                    100-00             100-00
 Cherry        Newcastle              253-9                   118-68             112-07
               Gl&sgow                244-0                   112-12             107'78
  Caking       Newcastle              266-7                   122-56             119-03
               Durham...              250-2                   114-98             111-31
   The first table requires no explanation. The second table
contains in the first column, that quantity of oxygen which 100
parts of the different coals abstract from the air for perfect
combustion. This quantity of oxygen expresses the relative
heating power of the different coals, in admitting that the
quantity of heat evolved by a combustible substance is pro
portional to the quantity of oxygen which is consumed in its

 132            Mr. J. J. Griffin's Arithmetical Analysis of
 perfect combustion. This relation, according to weight and
 volume, is given in the second and third columns.
     For example, 100 volumes being taken, the Lancashire
 coal gives out more heat than the same volume of Edinburgh
 coal by a quantity expressed by 17'91: and 100 parts by
 weight being taken, the former coal surpasses the latter in
 the heat evolved by the quantity expressed by 17'83.
 XVIII. Arithmetical Analysis ofmixed Salts of Potassium and
     Sodium. By JOHN JOSEPH GRIFFIN, Author of" Chemical
     Recreations."*
                           Analysis ofChlorides.
                                 METHOD.
 a. TITEIGH the chlorides.
 b.      ^ Dissolve the chlorides, precipitate with nitrate of
        silver, and weigh the chloride of silver.
 c. Multiply the weight of the mixed alkaline chlorides a,
        by 1-92404..
 d. Subtract the product of the multiplication c, from the
        weight of the chloride of silver b.
 c. Divide the residue of the subtraction d, by 0-52201.
f. The product of the division e, is the weight of the chloride
        of sodium contained in the mixture a.
g. The difference between the weight of the mixed chlorides
        a, and that of the chloride of sodium^/J is the weight of
        the chloride of potassium.
     Explanation.—The quantity of chloride of silver producible
 by chloride of sodium above the quantity producible by chlo
 ride of potassium, is 0-52201 for every unit of the given chlo
 ride of sodium. For,
     1 of chloride of sodium produces of chloride "1 n.tinnf
           of silver                                        "^
     1 of chloride of potassium produces of chlo-'
            . |
           ride       -i
                 otr saver
                            The excess being              = 0-52201
     Consequently, in any quantity of chloride of silver pro
 duced by a. mixture of chloride of sodium and chloride of
 potassium, we have
     First, as much chloride of silver as is producible by a quan
 tity of chloride of potassium of equal weight to the given
 mixture of chlorides; and
     Secondly, as much more chloride of silver as is equal to
    • Communicated by the Author : a paper on indirect chemical analysis,
 by Dr. G. Bird, will be found in vol. xn, p. 229.

              mixed Salts ofPotassium and Sodium.           1 33
 the quantity producible by chloride of sodium above the
quantity producible by chloride of potassium ; this additional
 quantity of chloride of silver being equal to 0-52201 multi
plied by every unit of chloride of sodium present in the
mixture.
    Wherefore,
    In Operation c, we multiply the mixed chlorides by 1 -92404
to find the quantity of chloride of silver producible by the
given weight of chloride of potassium alone.
    In Operation d, we subtract this quantity from that of the
chloride of silver actually produced in experiment b, by the
mixed alkaline chlorides ; and thus determine the amount of
the excess produced by the chloride of sodium.
    In Operation e, we divide this excess by 0'52201 to ascer
tain the number of units, or the weight, of the chloride of
sodium contained in the mixture.
    Tables of Data.— 1. To find the weight of the components
and equivalents of any quantity of chloride of sodium, multi
ply it,
       by 0-39656 for the sodium it contains.        •
           0-60344 for the chlorine.
           0-53289 for its equivalent of soda.
 And by 2-44605 for the quantity of chloride of silver which
                   it produces by precipitation.
    2. To find the weight of the components and equivalents
of any quantity of chloride of potassium, multiply it
by         0'52534 for the potassium it contains.
           0-47466 for the chlorine.
           0-63257 for its equivalent of potash.
And by 1-92404 for the quantity of chloride of silver which
                   it produces by precipitation.
   These tables explain the reason why a greater quantity of
chloride of silver is produced by chloride of sodium than by
chloride of potassium. The reason is that chloride of sodium
contains 60 per cent, of chlorine, while chloride of potassium
contains little beyond 47 per cent. I point out this fact, be
cause it shows the sort of differences upon which all indirect
analyses must befounded.
   Example.—In the analysis of a mineral that contains both
potassium and sodium we have proceeded so far as to have
nothing to separate but these two metals, which are present
in the condition of chlorides.
a. The mixture of chlorides weighs 5 grains.
 b. It produces by precipitation 11-18623 grains of chloride
       of silver.

   134 Analysis ofmixed Salts of Potassium and Sodium.
   c. The weight of the mixture a, 5 grains, multiplied by
         1-92404 gives 9-62020.
   d. 9-62020 subtracted from 11-18623 gives 1-56603.
   e. 1-56603 divided by 0-52201 gives 3.
f f. The weight of the chloride of sodium in the mixture a is
         3 grains.
   g. The weight of the chloride of potassium is 2 grains.
      The quantity of sodium equivalent to the chloride of so
         dium is                                 3 x 0-39656
      The quantity of soda is                    3 x 0-53289
      The quantity of potassium equivalent to the chloride of
         potassium is                             2 x 0-52534
      The quantity of potash is                  2 x 0'63257
                        Analysis ofSulphates.
                              METHOD.
   a. Weigh the mixed sulphates.
   b. Dissolve the sulphates, precipitate with chloride of barium,
         and weigh the sulphate of barytes.
   c. Multiply the weight of the mixed alkaline sulphates a, by
         1-33633.
   d. Subtract the product of the multiplication c from the
         weight of the sulphate of barytes b.
   e. Divide the residue of the subtraction d by 0'29814.
  f. The product of the division e is the weight of the sulphate
        of soda contained in the mixture a.
   g. The difference between the weight of the mixed sulphates
        a, and that of the sulphate of soda^ is the weight of the
        sulphate of potash.
      Explanation.—The quantity of sulphate of barytes pro
   ducible by sulphate of soda above the quantity producible by
   sulphate of potash, is 0-29814 for every unit of the given sul
   phate of soda. For
   1 of sulphate of soda produces of sulphate of barytes 1-63447
   1 of sulphate of potash produces ofsulphate of barytes 1'33633
                                    The excess being = 0-29814
      The further explanation of this method is the same as the
   explanation of the analysis of the alkaline chlorides.
                           Tables of Data.
      1. To find the weight of the components and equivalents
    of any quantity of sulphate of soda, multiply it by
            0-326095 for the sodium it contains.
             0-673905 for the sulphur and oxygen.
             0-43819 for the soda.
            0'56181 for the sulphuric acid.

                   Mr. C. Binks on Electricity.                  1 35
  And by 1-63447 for the quantity of sulphate of barytes
                       which it produces by precipitation.
     2. To find the weight of the components and equivalents
 of any quantity of sulphate of potash, multiply it
 by        0-449019 for the potassium it contains.
           0-550981 for the sulphur and oxygen.
           0-54067 for the potash.
           0'45933 for the sulphuric acid.
 And by 1-33633 for the quantity of sulphate of barytes
                       which it produces by precipitation.
    Example.—In the analysis ofa sample of commercial alum,
  we have proceeded so far as to have nothing to separate but
 sulphate of potash from sulphate of soda, both of which
 alkalies have been detected by previous testing.
 a. The mixture of sulphates weighs 7 grains.
 b. It produces by precipitation 10'54687 grains of sulphate
       of barytes.
 c. The weight of the mixture a, 7 grains, multiplied by
        1-33633 gives 9'35431.
 d. 9'35431 subtracted from 10'54687 gives 1'19256.
 e. 1'19256 divided by 0-29814 gives 4.
f. The weight of the sulphate of soda in the mixture a is 4
       grains.
 g. The weight of the sulphate of potash is 3 grains.
 The quantity of sodium equivalent to the sulphate of soda,
       is                                            4 xO-326095
 The equivalent of soda, is                , . . . 4x0'43819
 The quantity of potassium equivalent to the sulphate of
       potash, is                                    3x0'449019
 The equivalent of potash, is                        3 x 0-54067
    The atomic weights employed in these calculations are
 those of Berzelius.
   Glasgow, March 19, 1838.
 XIX. On some ofthe Phenomena andLaws ofAction of Voltaic
    Electricity, and on the Construction of Voltaic Batteries,
    $c. By CHRISTOPHER BINKS. A second Communication,
    addressed to J. F. Daniell, Esq. F.R.S., fyc., Professor of
    Chemistry in Kings College, London. Part the Second.
                     [Continued from Part i. p. 75-]
                             Section IV.
 73. TTHE ultimate object of the following experiments is to
       -*. determine on the most advantageous construction of
 the voltaic battery ; that is, such a construction as shall com

136                      Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
maud its greatest effects, of any kind, with the least expendi
ture of materials.
   The process by which this fend is attempted to be reached,
is by first determining the laws of action affecting the opera
tions of single arrangements ; and afterwards, when this is
completed, extending the examination into thephenomenaof
compound ones.
   74. These examinations are, in the first instance, restricted
to the phenomena of arrangements in which sulphuric acid,
diluted, is employed as the exciting agent. It is then sought
to determine, by extending the inquiry into the less familiar
operations of other kinds of arrangement, such, for example,
as include the sulphate of copper as an element, whether the
same results can be obtained under these as under the former
conditions, or in what respects they differ ; the chief object
through all being the application of the principles, thus sought
to be established, to the construction of the battery.
   To determine the comparative amount of voltaic action in
duced in any single arrangement by acid solutions of different
degrees of strength.
   75. The plates of the voltaic couple here used were of an
equal size, each presenting an entire surface of four square
inches to the action of the acid mixture ; they were separated
from one another by a distance of half an inch : this, as well
as every other attendant condition, being, of course, main
tained exactly alike in every trial. The acid mixture was
composed, in the first instance, of one part by measure of
common sulphuric acid, and 100 parts of water; and after
wards of larger proportions of acid, as shown in the sub
joined table, in which the column of densities represents the
actual strength of the mixture with the greater nicety. The
amount of action in each case is estimated by the weight of
zinc lost in a given equal time.
   76. Table of the effects of acid mixtures of different de
       grees of strength.                 (No. 4.)
    Parts by measure of  Specific gravity of Quantity of Zinc in    Effects compared
     Sulph. ac'ul in 100  the mixtures at    grains lost in a given   with the first
          of water.      Temp. 66° Fahr.     time, or 10 minutes.        Result.
               1               1-013                  1-6           =      1
              3                1-034                 3-6            =      1-6
              6                1-063                 3-1            =      1-9
               9               1-090                 3-9            =     2-4
             12                1-117                 4-8            =      4-0
             15                1-137                 5-1            =      4-4
             18                1-164                 4-7            =      2-9
             21                1-190                 4-5            =      2-8
             24                1-213                 3-9            =      2-4

                      Voltaic Batteries, fyc.                 137
   77. The comparative effects of these different acid solutions
were then sought for under two distinct modifications of the
experiments as just stated : first, when the elementary plates
of the couple used were of a different size from those by which
the results in the above table had been obtained ; and secondly,
when the two plates of the couple were placed at a different
distance from one another than that stated above ; but whilst
every other attendant circumstance, in either case, was main
tained precisely the same as at first.
   78. For the former purpose a smaller couple was taken
and immersed in the different acid mixtures successively, as
before ; when the weight of zinc lost, in the same time, was
of course less in the aggregate than when the larger couple
was employed ; but the difference between the amount of loss
occasioned by the different acid mixtures was precisely after
the same rate as had been previously determined for the.'other
couple, and as that rate is stated in the fourth column of the
above table.
   79. And when a couple was employed of the same size as
the first (75.), but with its plates placed at a greater distance
from one another than in either of the previous instances, in
like manner to the last, the action in the aggregate was re
duced by reason of the greater distance, but the comparative
rate at which each acid mixture acted upon this couple was
precisely the same as had already been found in the two pre
vious instances.
   80. It appears, therefore, that the comparative effects of
these different acid solutions are the same whatever may be
the size of the voltaic couple, or whatever may be the distance
between its elementary plates ; and the above table, therefore,
represents the comparative rate in which dilute sulphuric
acid of different degrees of strength acts upon any voltaic
arrangement.
   81. A review of this table shows, 1st, that the greatest
amount of action induced in any arrangement by dilute sul
phuric acid takes place when the mixture is in the proportion
of about 15 parts by measure of ordinary acid, and 100 of
water; or of the average specific gravity of 1'140: 2ndly,
that the rate of increase of action is neither the same as the
rate of increased proportions of the acid, nor of the specific
gravity of the mixture, but occurs in some other simple rate,
bearing however no very obvious relation to any apparent at
 tendant circumstances.
   82. The acid mixtures which will subsequently be employed
in these experiments are the first four of the above table.

 138                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
                              Section V.
    To determine the comparative amount of action in any
 single voltaic arrangement when its plates are placed at dif
 ferent distances from one another.
    83. The two plates of a voltaic couple may be either of an
 equal size, or unequal, and the difference in size which may
 exist between the two is unlimited.
    The couple itself, considered as a couple, may either be
 large or small also, to an unlimited extent.
    The distance between the two plates of any couple, what
 ever its size, or whatever the relative proportions of the plates,
 may also be varied without limitation.
    The acid mixtures also, in which any voltaic couple is made
 to operate, may be of any required degree of strength.
    si. The immediate object in hand is to determine the ef
 fects of distance ; but these must be sought for under every
possible condition of the arrangements as regards the size of
 the couple used, the relative proportions of its plates, and
 the strength of the exciting acid.
    To determine the law of distance when the two elementary
plates are of an equal size.
    85. (a). A voltaic couple having on each plate an entire
surface of 6 square inches, had its plates placed successively
at the distance from one another of ^ of an inch, 4 inches,
and 24, and the quantity of hydrogen by measure, yielded in a
given time at each of these positions, was respectively equal to
    86. (f1). Another couple, exactly one half the size of the
last, yielded under precisely the same conditions the respect
ive measures of
               46. 31 and2lf in,50ths?fa
                                   \ cubic mch.
   87. (c.) Another couple, one fourth the size of the first
one, and placed under the same circumstances, yielded the
numbers
               or ic        ^ i o 5 m 1'ke measures of
                '         '      ' \ hydrogen in the same time.
   88. These experiments determine that whatever may be
the size of the couple itself, its elementary plates being
equal, the influence of distance upon its action is the same.
   89. The total amount of action under condition a, at what
ever position it is taken, greatly exceeds the total amount of
action under b or c ; but the ratio of the difference between

                          Voltaic Batteries, #e.                 1 39
  the amount of action obtained at any of the three different
  positions in a is the same as the ratio found for these positions
  respectively in b and c.
     90. 12 : 26 (in c) : : 21 : 45'5 (in b) being as near an ap
  proach to 46, the real number, as could be looked for in ac
  tual experiment ; and the same ratios are maintained with no
  material alteration throughout.
     91. These preliminary trials show, therefore, that I may
  select any-sized couple which may appear most convenient
  for the following more extended experiments upon the effects
  of distance ; and that the results obtained by the couple now
  to be used will be true equally for this one condition and for
  every other as regards the dimensions of the couple em
  ployed.
     92. To facilitate references to positions and numbers in
  the following experiments, let the mass of liquid in which
  they are conducted be represented by the following diagram,
  in which the horizontal line is supposed to pass through the
  centre of the mass contained in the graduated trough already
  described (36. p. 64), and the vertical line, also passing through
  the centre, to represent its depth.
                                  Fig. 1.
         H  '. 1  1  i  '   1  '  1  1  1  1  I   1-
      1   834    5   6  7    8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 IB 17 18
D
      93. The position of the faxed zinc plate is at Z, whence
   the graduation commences ; the first division being a quarter
   of an inch from the zinc, and the amount of voltaic action
   obtained at this first position is used throughout as the
   standard of comparison of the effects of distance. The plates
   used in these experiments, whether of zinc or copper, are each
   one inch square, and only that surface of the zinc plate which
   is opposite to the copper presents a clear amalgamated sur
   face; the contrary surface, as well as the connecting wire,
   being well covered with wax to preclude the contact of the
   acid, and to restrict its action to the clear amalgamated sur
   face alone. But both surfaces of the copper are clear, and
   consequently brought into operation.
       94. The experiments are first gone through with an acid
   mixture composed of 1 part by measure of sulphuric acid, and
    100 of water, its specific gravity being 1-01 3; and are after

 140                     Mr. C. Sinks on Electricity,
 wards repeated with other acid mixtures of the strength
 stated in the subjoined table. The copper plate being move-
 able at pleasure, is fixed, first, at the nearest position to the
 zinc, and afterwards in succession at each succeeding position
marked upon the horizontal line. All other particulars af
fecting such experiments have already been sufficiently ad
verted to throughout section 3rd, and the observances there
stated as necessary being fully discussed in that section, will
in no instance be restated or again referred to in the course
of the details that now follow. The amount of voltaic action
obtained at each position, is estimated by the length of time
in seconds required for the production of -i-'^th of a cubic
inch of the hydrogen which is evolved from the copper plate.
     95. Table showing the effects of distance, (No. 5.), in
which the comparative amount of voltaic action is estimated
by the length of time in seconds required for the production
of one measure of gas.
   Distance, in          Proportions by measure of the acid and water,
  inches, of the          and specific gravity of the mixtures. Tempera
   two plates                        ture 55° Fahrenheit.
    iruiii i'ii,.
     another.        1 part acid,     3 parts nrnl, 6 part* acid,   9 parts acid,
                     100 water.        100 water.     100 water.      100 water.
'        v        ' Sp. gr. 1-013.   Sp.gr. 1-034.   Sp. gr. 1-OH3. Sp. gr. 1-090.
                        Time.            Time.           Time.          Time.
          ^.            180"               85"            60"            45"
          1             245              135             110             95
          2             370              170             120            120
          4             375              155*            125            125
          6             345*             170             120.           125
          8             400              170             130            125
         10             460              170             130            140
         12             485              185             130            145
         14             515              200             145            145
         16             530              205             145            145
         18            545               215             165            130*
         20            590               220            165             145
         22            640               230            165             145
         24            655               235             165            145
         26            «60               265            190             145
         28            680               295            190             145
         30            690               290             190            170
         32            790               300            190            200
         34            805               310            220            210
         36            825               360            220             170
         38            885               365            200            170
         40            900               370            230            170
         42            910               370            240            170
         44            920               370            240            170
    96. The results which are registered in this table were

                        Voltaic Batteries, $c.                141
  those which were obtained the latest of all from the experi
  ments gone through to determine the law of distance. No
  reliance was placed upon the first attempts made to deter
  mine this question, nor upon any, till by innumerable repe
  titions of experiments, and a perfect familiarity with the pre
  cautions necessary to be observed in their course, I had be
  come assured that the whole were accurately performed, and
  that by the regulations adopted every possible or probable
  source of error likely to arise from the method here employed
  was precluded. The above results may therefore be con
  sidered to show correctly the peculiar pha^nomena attendant
  upon voltaic action, in the kind of arrangement here brought
 into action.
    97. The first consideration which naturally follows a re
 view of the above table, is that of the singular difference in
 the effects of distance upon voltaic action ; as those effects
 are determined by this method of experimenting, and those
 already deduced by the indications of the magnetic needle.
 Referring to the nearest authority at hand, I find that the law
 of distance as determined by the needle is as follows:
    98. " The deflection produced by a pair of plates in an
 acid solution of uniform strength varies inversely as the square
 root of the distance between them, a law previously established
 by Gumming. Thus, if a plate of zinc be placed successively
 at 1, 4 and 9 inches from a plate of copper, the deflecting
 powers will be in the ratio of 3, 2, and 1 ; that is, only twice
 as great at 1 inch as at 4, and only three times as great at
 1 inch as at 9*."
    99. As the magnetic galvanometer, of whatever construc
tion, is employed as a measurer only of comparative quantities
of electricity, and not of the absolute quantity evolved by
any arrangement, it is in this relation merely that the indica
tions of that instrument are now brought into comparison
with those afforded by the method here used for the same
purpose. When the quantities of electricity evolved at the
several distances are estimated by the indications of the
needle (that is, by their power to deflect the needle, in op
position to the power of the earth's magnetism, or to any other
power substituted for it, as in the torsion galvanometer) then
those quantities differ from one another by the rate just stated ;
but when estimated directly by the quantities of matter ex
pended in producing them (on which principle the plan now
used is founded), then they differ from one another at these
several distances by a rate totally different from that de-
                              • Dr. Ritchie.

142                  Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
termined by the indications of the needle ; thus placing the
results of these two methods of estimating such effects com
pletely at variance.
    100. On referring to the above table it will be seen that
no such law, nor any making the most remote approach to it,
can be deduced from the results obtained by the present me
thod of testing such phenomena.
   101. The difference between the degrees of voltaic action
obtained at the first position, and at the last, in the first co
lumn of this table, amounts only to the difference between
5 and 1, nearly; the voltaic action yielded at the first or
nearest position being about five times greater than that
yielded at the most remote. The distance from one another
of the two plates at the first position is \ of an inch, and at
the last is 44 inches, and these distances comparatively
are as 1 and 44 x 4 or 176 ; the distance of the two plates
from one another being 1 76 times greater at the last than at
the first position.
   102. Now had the law of distance found by the method
here employed been the same as that determined by the mag
netic galvanometer, we should have had the amount of action
at the first position greater than that at the last, by the square
root of the difference in their distances, or by the square
root of 176; but in actual experiment it is only 5 times
greater instead of about 1 3 times, in round numbers.
   103. This discrepancy in the results obtained by these two
methods, in neither of which there is reason to doubt the
correctness of the observations, leads to the suspicion that
either the one or the other of them is an incorrect measure
of comparative quantities of voltaic electricity, or that both
are unfit to be applied to that purpose; or at least are im
perfect in their indications; a conjecture which has given
rise to the inquiry contained in the second part of this paper
as already mentioned (13.). A comparison between these
two methods will then be instituted, when it will be shown
that there is reason to conclude that the needle does not take
cognizance of the -whole effects resulting from voltaic action,
but only of a part of its attendant phenomena; and when
also an attempt will be made, experimentally, to distinguish
between the two kinds of action induced by such voltaic ar
rangements, of which each method is suspected to be respect
ively the measurer. But not further to anticipate that inquiry
at this moment, I proceed to examine some other results
afforded by this table.
   104. The difference between the amount of action obtained
at the first and last positions has been seen to be as 5 to 1

                       Voltaic Batteries, $c.                 143
 with the acid mixture of the first strength; but it will be ol>-
 served that this difference is progressively less as the mixture
increases in strength. With the second mixture the differ
ence is about •! ! to I : with the third it is 4 to 1 ; and with
the fourth it is 3-f- to one nearly—showing that the stronger
 the acid, or the greater its density, or the greater the activity
of the generating agents, the less marked are the effects, in
decreased action, caused by the difference in the relative di
stance of the two plates.
    105. Again, it is observable that the decrease in action oc
 casioned by increased distance does not proceed at a rate cor
responding to that increase in distance, as the copper plate is
removed successively to each position from end to end. The
greatest effects of this removal through an equal distance oc
cur in the first two or three positions in every column; after
which the effects of removal are much less marked through
out.
   106. At those positions distinguished by an asterisk, there
occurs a slight increase of action compared with the amount
immediately preceding it, instead of a decrease as might have
been expected. A similar anomaly, though not to the same
extent, presents itself at several successive positions through
out every column, where the voltaic action appears to al
ternate, or to be suspended between increase and decrease
in its amount, compared with the amounts obtained at the ad
jacent positions. Taking the first column by way of example,
it will be seen that scarcely in any two instances does the re
moval of the plate through an equal distance produce an equal
effect in the resulting action. The difference in effect caused
by removing the plate from 8 inches to 10 amounts to 60",
whilst that yielded by the change from 10 to 12 amounts only
to25". The following table, derived from the first column above,
will serve to show the nature and extent of this alternation
more clearly. The first line contains the successive distances
to which the plate is removed ; the second, the difference be
tween the amount of decrease obtained at each position and
the one preceding it.
                          Table (No. 6.)
   107. (Distance of the two plates from one another, by suc
cessive equal steps of two inches each).
10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40,
                               42, 44.
   (Amount of decrease resulting from increased distance, ob
tained at each position, compared with the decrease at that
immediately preceding).

144               Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
60", 25", 35", 15", 15", 45", 50", 15", 5", 20', 10", 100", 15",
                     20", 60", 15", 10", 10".
   108. This peculiar result is equally, or even more, obvious
in the remaining columns of the former table, No. 5 ; and it
is observable that the particular positions at which the alter
nation occurs are different in each. In the latter columns,
in which (by reason of the greater activity of the action, the
time over which each experiment extends is progressively
shorter), the difference in many instances is so little, if any,
as to be scarcely discernible ; and they consequently present
at several positions a series of numbers equal in amount and
following each other in succession.
   109. It was first attempted to arrive at the law of distance,
by the results afforded at fewer and more remote positions of
the plates, than those given in the above tables ; for instance,
the positions were taken at ,j- of an inch, 1 inch, 4, 12 and 24
inches ; and the amounts of action obtained at these presented a
very regular decrease corresponding to the increase in distance.
But some occasions arose, in which it became necessary to
test the action of the plates at other positions intermediate to
those already tried, when the results obtained were occasion
ally so greatly at variance with any anticipated by the former
trials, that it became necessary to carry the copper plates
through shorter successive positions from end to end, to de
termine whether or not those which had thus been accidentally
detected were merely the result of accident, or of some error
in the method of observation, or were in fact part of the gene
ral phaenomena attendant upon the voltaic action, as it takes
place in the kind of arrangements here brought into opera
tion. Hence the long columns of observations contained in
the former table No. 5, in the place of which it might have
been presumed beforehand, that a very few experiments com
paratively would have been equally competent to decide the
point in question, viz. the effects ot distance.
   110. I should have continued, as at first, to attribute these
unlocked for results to some accidental circumstance, had not
their invariable recurrence under like conditions of experiment,
shown that they had some connexion, whatever that might
be, with the general phenomena attending these operations,
and were due neither to inaccuracy nor to accident.
   111. It might be suspected, among other attempts to ac
count for it, that the plan here resorted to (see 64") of chan
ging the zinc plate after every two or three immersions, might
have some share in producing this apparent alternation in
effect. But the same results follow precisely if one plate only

                         Voltaic Batteries, Sfc.
   be used throughout. Or, again, that it might arise in part from
   the practice of determining themeasure ofhydrogen, sometimes
   by a division near the top of the long tubular meter here used,
  and sometimes at the bottom of it; under which different
  circumstances, the volume of an equal measure of gas would
  be alittle different by reason of the varying strain upon its elas
  ticity. But the trifling variation that might have arisen from
  this cause, was also avoided by invariably refilling the meter
  after each single experiment, so that the -rVth of a cubic inch
  of gas was always under a uniform pressure. But in short,
  after the utmost attention to the subject, I could discover no
 peculiarity attending this particular method of experimenting
 to which this effect could be attributed, with the most remote
  appearance of probability.
     112. Such alternation then must be considered as apart
 of the general phenomena attending operations of this kind,
 however unexpected or inexplicable it may be in the present
 state of our acquaintance with the subject generally.
     113. I was unwilling in the first instance to register the re
 sults as they stand above, expecting that every succeeding re
 petition of experiment would show a greater regularity in the
 operation of the arrangements; or such a regularity as, by
 preconceived notions, derived chiefly from the law above quo
 ted (98), I had been led to anticipate. It is obvious however,
 that the operations brought into exercise by voltaic arrange
 ments of this description at least, are of a mixed and compli
 cated kind, influenced in some parts by causes as yet unde
 tected, and are certainly such as cannot be fully included in
 any law similar to that just alluded to. The removing of the
 plates further from one another does not affect their action,
merely by decreasing its amount, much less does that decrease
occur in the ratio stated in that law.
    1 14. Perceiving at this stage of the inquiry no satisfactory
or probable way of accounting for this peculiar result, I pro
ceed on to the further experiments, in which it will be seen
that other indications of the same phenomenon can be de
tected in every direction, whether or not the results finally
obtained may be considered in every respect as contributing
satisfactorily to its explanation.
                            [To be continued.]
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 80. Aug. 1838.

             X X . Proceedings of Learned Societ ics.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY.
                     [Continued from vol. xii. p. 433.]
April 26, A Paper was read, entitled, " An Account of a line of
           •**. Levels carried across Northern Syria, from the Me
diterranean Sea to the River Euphrates." By William Taylor Thom
son, Esq., with Geological and Botanical Notes, by William Ains-
worth, Esq. Communicated by Captain Beaufort, R.N., F.R.S., &c.
   The operation of carrying a line of levels across Northern Syria,
from the Mediterranean sea to the river Euphrates, was undertaken
by Colonel Chesney, at the time he commanded the expedition sent
to that river in the year 1835, chiefly with a view to determine the
capabilities of the intervening country for the establishment of com
munications by roads, railways, or canals ; but it was expected also
that the examination would afford information of much historical
and geographical interest. It was commenced in August of the
same year, by Lieutenant Murphy and Mr. Thomson, assisted by
Sergeant Lyne, R.E., Gunner Waddell, and some Maltese: but
most of the party being disabled by sickness, and their numbers re
duced by deaths and removals, the levelling was at length conduct
 ed principally by Mr. Thomson, with the assistance, in the latter
 part of the work, of Mr. Elliott, commonly called Dervish Ali. The
 result of this great labour was to determine the bed of the Euphrates
 to be G28 feet above the level of the Mediterranean.
    The whole of the district over which the line of levels was carried
 naturally divides itself into four regions, each of which is character
 ized by its relative elevation, its peculiar geological structure, its
 vegetation, and the manners and habits of its population.
    The first region, commencing from the Euphrates, comprises the
 country of the upper chalk and conide limestones, which averages
 an elevation of 1300 feet, and is but slightly undulated. The soil
 is light, somewhat stony, and of no great depth, and is highly pro
 ductive in crops of corn and cotton. These uplands are inhabited by
 stationary Turcomans and Arabs, who are a mixed race of Fellahs.
 The large plains of this region are studded over in every direction
 with numerous mounds, of a more or less circular form, called by
 the Arabs Teti, and by the Turcomans Heuks, the origin of which
 appears to be partly natural and partly artificial. A village is found
 at the foot of almost every one of these monticules.
    The second region comprises the country of ostracite limestone
  and feldspath pyroxenic rocks, in the valley of Ghuidaries and the
  Aphrean, having a mean elevation of 450 feet. This district is ex
  tremely fertile, for the most part cultivated, and inhabited by agri
 cultural Kurds.
    The third region is the lacustrine plain of Umk, elevated about
  305 feet above the Mediterranean, and covered, for the most part,
  with the gramineous plants which feed the flocks of the pastoral and
  nomadic Turcomans.

               Prof. Faraday's Researches in Electricity.           147
     The fourth region, formed by the valley of Antioch, is rocky,
  irregular, and varying from elevations of 220 to 440 feet. It com
  prises also the alluvial plain of the Orontes, which gradually sinks
  to the level of the Mediterranean. This latter district is covered
  with shrubs, which are chiefly evergreens ; and inhabited by a few
  families of Syrians, who, in these picturesque solitudes, chiefly fol
 low mysterious rites, presenting a mixture of Mahomedanism and
 Christianity.
     It appears, from the examination of this line of country, that
  there here exist two distinct regions, the one low and already fur
 nished with the means of water transport ; and the other elevated,
 where the waters, which are lost in the valley of Aleppo, might be
 turned with facility into an artificial channel. Both regions are re
 markably level, and present, when separately viewed, very few diffi
 culties to be overcome for the construction of artificial roads.
    May 3.—A paper was read, entitled, " Supplementary Note to
 the Eleventh Series of Experimental Researches in Electricity."
 By Michael Faraday, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., &c.*
    The author describes, in this supplementary note, experiments
 made with the view of determining the specific inductive capacities
 of dielectries, by means of an apparatus of the following form. Three
 circular brass plates were mounted, side by side, on insulated pillars;
 the middle one was fixed, but the two outer plates were moveable on
slides, so that all three could be brought with their sides almost into
 contact, or separated to any required distance. Two gold leaves
were suspended in a glass jar from insulated wires, connecting each
of the leaves respectively with the adjacent outer plate. The amount
of disturbance in the electric equilibrium of the outer plates pro
duced by interposing a plate of the dielectric substance to be tried,
after charging the middle plate, was taken as a measure of the spe
cific inductive capacity of that dielectric. By varying the size and
distances of the plates, and also the distance of the gold leaves from
one another, new conditions are supplied for the more exact deter
mination of the relative inductive powers of dielectries of every de
scription ; and by sufficiently reducing the dimensions of the instru
ment, it may be rendered applicable to comparatively small masses
of dielectries, such as crystals, and even diamonds. An instrument
capable of such universal application the author proposes to desig
nate by the name of Differential Inductometer.
    Also read, a Letter addressed to P. M. Roget, M.D., Secretary
to the Royal Society, by James Ivory, Esq., F.R.S., accompanying
a paper on Astronomical Refractions. Communicated by Dr. Roget.
    The author adverts in this letter to the attempts made by New
ton to solve the problem of atmospherical refractions, which were
baffled by the experience that the observed quantities fall far short
of the theoretical deductions ; whence he justly inferred that some
new cause must be sought for capable of effecting that change in
   ' An abstract of Prof. Faraday's Eleventh Series of Researches was
given in Lond, and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. xii. p. 358.—EDIT.
                                    L2

148                          Royal Society.
the density of the lower part of the atmosphere which is required for
reconciling theory with observation. It becomes necessary, in pur- "
ticular, to investigate the law according to which the temperature
diminishes as the height increases. The initial value of the rate of
diminution has to be determined by experiment ; and the introduc
tion of this new element into the equation of an atmosphere in equi
librium must be an approach to the true solution of the problem of
the refractions, and is indispensable if arbitrary assumptions are to
be avoided. The author proceeds to notice Laplace's solution,
which, though highly ingenious, is nevertheless hypothetical ; and
he adverts to the want of precision exhibited in Biot's dissertation
on the influence which the presence of aqueous vapour in the air
has on the refractions : but refers to the paper which accompanies
his letter for the further explanation of his views on this subject.
   A paper was also in part read, entitled, " On the Theory of the
Astronomical Refractions," by James Ivory, Esq., K.H., M.A.,
F.R.S..&C.
   May 10.—The reading of Mr. Ivory's paper " On the Theory of
the Astronomical Refractions," was resumed.
   May 24.—The reading of the paper by Mr. Ivory, " On the
Theory of the Astronomical Refractions," was concluded.
   In this communication, the author, after stating that the mean
refractions are the object of investigation, and fully denning what
he understands by this term, gives an historical review of what has
been done up to the present time on this very important subject.
Having stated that the foundation of the theory of astronomical re
fractions was laid by Dominique Cassini, he deduces on Cassini's
hypothesis (that of an homogeneous atmosphere) a formula for the
refraction, which agrees exactly with that of La Place, employed in
computing the first part of the table of mean refractions, published
by the French Board of Longitude.
   The labours of our immortal countryman Newton, in this vast
field of inquiry, are next reviewed. As the density of the atmo
sphere in ascending decreases gradually, the path described by a ray
from a star, in its passage through the atmosphere, is not a straight
line, as it would be on Cassini's hypothesis, but is a curve more and
more inflected towards the earth's centre. In the Principia there is
found whatever is necessary for determining the nature of this curve,
and, consequently, for solving the problem of the astronomical re
fractions, which consists in ascertaining the difference between the
direction of light when it enters the atmosphere, and its ultimate
direction when it arrives at the earth's surface.
    On the principles established in the second section of the Prin
cipia, the author deduces equations requisite for the solution of the
problem of astronomical refractions, and remarks that these equations
are perfectly general, and will apply in any constitution of the at
mosphere that may be adopted. In this investigation, in preference
to employing functions with peculiar properties to express the mole
cular action, the manner in which the forces act has been consider
 ed. When the light, in passing through the atmosphere, arrives at

    Mr. Ivory on the Theory ofthe Astronomical Refractions. 149
  a surface of increased density, it receives an impulse which may be
  considered as instantaneous; and this impulse being distributed over
  the breadth of a stratum of uniform density, ascertains the centripetal
  force tending to the earth's centre, by the action of which the tra
  jectory is described.
     It appears, that Newton himself was the first to apply this new
  method to the problem of the astronomical refractions. In his first
  attempt he assumes that the densities decrease in ascending, in the
  same proportion as the distances from the earth's centre increase.
  On this supposition the author investigates a formula, which M. Biot
  has also obtained, and which is equivalent to the construction com
 municated by Newton to Flamsteed. On this basis a table was
 computed and communicated to Flamsteed; but Newton subsequent
 ly informed Flamsteed that he did not intend to publish it, in con
 sequence of a serious objection to the supposed scale of densities.
 Adopting the principles in the twenty-second proposition of the
 second book of his Principia, Newton, it appears, succeeded at length
 in computing a second table of refractions, which he likewise com
 municated to Flamsteed, and which, there is every reason to think,
 is the s; i mi' which he gave to Halley, and which was inserted by that
 astronomer in the Philosophical Transactions for 1721. As the de
 termining whether the two tables are identical is a question of much
 interest, the author enters very fully into it, and, from the results
 of elaborate calculations, concludes that Halley's table is no other
 than the one which Newton calculated on the supposition that the
 densities in the atmosphere are proportional to the pressures. He
 remarks that, as far as the mathematies are concerned, the problem
 of the astronomical refractions was fully mastered by Newton.
    After referring to the labours of Brook Taylor, Kramp, and Thomas
 Simpson, the author again adverts to Newton's views, remarking
 that, in assigning the rarefaction of the lower region of the atmo
sphere by heat as the cause why the calculated refractions near the
horizon so much exceeded the observed, as was found to be the case,
Newton had assigned the true cause; but that he had no clear con
ception of the manner in which the density in the lower region is
altered by the agency of heat; and he considers that nearly the same
ignorance in that respect still prevails.
    The two atmospheres, with densities decreasing in arithmetical
and geometrical progression, which, it now appears, were imagined
by Newton, and which have been discussed by Thomas Simpson and
other geometers, are found, when the same elements are employed,
to bring out horizontal refractions on opposite sides of the observed
quantities. La Place conjectured that an intermediate atmosphere
which should partake of the nature of both, and should agree with
observation in the horizontal refraction, would approach nearly to
the true atmosphere. If recourse be had to the algebraical expres
sions of La Place, it will be found that the atmosphere he proposes
is one of which the density is the product of two terms, the one
taken from an arithmetical, the other from a geometrical series; the
effect of which combination is to introduce a supernumerary con

ISO                           Royal Society.
slant, by means of which the horizontal refraction is made to agree
with the true quantity. The author considers, with Dr. Brinkley,
that the French table, founded on La Place's investigation, is only a
little less empirical than the other tables, and that the hypothesis of
La Place does not appear to possess any superiority over other sup
posed constitutions of the atmosphere in leading to a better and less
exceptionable theory.
    After eulogizing Bessel's tables of mean refractions, published in
his Tabulte Regiomontarue, the author refers to his own paper in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1823 *. In this paper the refractions
are deduced entirely from the very simple formula,—
in which ft stands for the dilatation of air or gas by heat, r' and r"
for the temperature at the earth's surface, and at any height above
it, and c~" for the density of the air at that height in parts of its
 density at the surface. If this formula be verified at the earth's sur
 face in any invariable atmosphere, by giving a proper value to the
 constant/, it will still hold, at least with a very small deviation from
exactness, at a great elevation; and this is immediately shown.
    This manner of arriving at the constitution of the atmosphere is
 contrasted with the procedure of M. Biot of transforming an alge
 braical formula, for the express purpose of bringing out a given re
 sult. As the problem in the M6canique Celeste is solved by mean:
 of an interpolated atmosphere between two others; as in Mr. Ivory's
 paper of 1823, there is no allusion to such an atmosphere; and as
 the table in that paper is essentially different from all the tables
 computed by other methods, he contends that all these must be suf
 ficient to stamp an appropriate character on his solution of the pro
 blem. But if ingenuity could trace some relation, in respect of the
 algebraic expression, between the paper of 1823 and La Place's cal
 culations, he considers that it is not difficult to find, between the
 same paper and the view of the problem taken by the author of the
 Principia in 1696, an analogy much more simple and striking.
 Newton having solved the problem, on the eupposition that the den
 sity of the air is produced solely by pressure, and having found that
 the refractions thus obtained greatly exceeded the observed quantities
 near the horizon, inferred, in the true spirit of research, that there
 must be some cause not taken into account, such as the agency of
 heat, which should produce, in the lower part of the atmosphere, the
 proper degree of rarefaction necessary to reconcile the theoretical
 with the observed refractions. The author's sole intention, in intro
 ducing the quantity /in his formula, is to cause the heat at the
 earth's surface to decrease in ascending, at the same rate that ac
 tually obtains in nature, not before noticed by any geometer, but
 which evidently haa the effect of supplying the desideratum of
 Newton.
    • Mr. Ivory gave an account of the theory of refractions enunciated in
 his paper of 1823, in the Phil. Mag. First Series, vol. Ixiii. p. 420.— EDIT.

    Mr. Ivory on the Theory ofthe Astronomical Refractions. 151
     The author considers, that the comparison of the table in the pa
  per of 1823, with the best observations that could be procured at the
  time of publication, was satisfactory ; and after the publication of
  the Tabulae Regiomontaiue, he found that the table agreed with
  Bessel's observed refractions to the distance of 88° from the zenith,
  with such small discrepancies as may be supposed to exist in the
  observations themselves.
     The paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1823, however,
  takes into account only the rate at which the densities, in a mean
  atmosphere, vary at the surface of the earth ; but, in the present
  communication, the author proposes to effect the complete solution
  of the problem, by estimating the effect of all the quantities on which
  the density at any height depends. For this purpose, he finds it ne
 cessary to employ functions of a particular kind ; and then gives a
 formula, one part of which consists of a series of these functions, for
  the complete expression of the temperature of an atmosphere in
 equilibrium ; the intention of assuming this formula being to ex
 press the temperature in terms of such a form as will produce, in the
 refraction, independent parts that decrease rapidly. By this means
 he proceeds in the analytical investigation of the problem in its more
 comprehensive form, and deduces two equations on which its solu
 tion depends.
    The first of these contains the law according to which the heat
 decreases as the height above the earth's surface increases ; and the
 second determines the perpendicular ascent, when the difference of
 the pressures and of the temperatures at its upper and lower extre
 mity have been found. If the latter, with a slight transformation,
 be multiplied by the proper factor, representing the variable force of
 gravity in different latitudes, it becomes identical with the usual
barometric formula, all its minutest corrections included ; and it has
this advantage ; that, whereas the usual formula is investigated on
the arbitrary assumption, that the temperature is constant at all the
points of an elevation, and equal to the mean of the temperatures at
the two extremities, this formula is strictly deduced from the gene
ral properties of an atmosphere in equilibrium.
    Having determined, from experimental results, the values of cer
tain constants in these formule,—first, in an atmosphere of dry air,
and, secondly, in an atmosphere of air mixed with aqueous vapour,
the author remarks, that the analytical theory agrees in every re
spect with the real properties of the atmosphere, as far as these have
been ascertained.
    The object of Mr. Ivory's further investigation is to show, that
the same theory represents the astronomical refractions with a
fidelity that can be deemed imperfect only as far as the values of
particular constants, which can only be determined by experiment,
are liable to the charge of inaccuracy. He therefore proceeds to
determine, from the formulas previously deduced, the refraction of a
star in terms of its apparent zenith distance. For this purpose, the
differential equations are transformed by the introduction of new
symbols ; the limits of certain terms are determined previously to

152                       Royal Society.
their being neglected ; and the equation is finally reduced to a form,
in which the remaining operations consist in investigating the inte
grals of four expressions, and in subsequently assigning their nume
rical values. Great skill is displayed in conducting these intricate
investigations ; and after going through the most laborious calcula
tions and computations, the author exhibits a table of theoretical re
fractions, deduced solely from the phenomena of the atmosphere,
for zenith distances, extending from 10° to 89%°. These refractions
are compared with those in Bessel's table, in the Tabula Kegiomon-
tana, and also with those in the table in the Connaissance des Temps,
From this comparison, it appears, that the three tables agree within
less than 1", as far as 80° from the zenith : from 80° to 88° of zenith
distance, the numbers in the French table exceed those in Bessel's,
the excess being 2" at 84°, and 4" at 88° ; and with a single excep
tion at 88°, (probably, judging from the character of the adjacent
number, arising from an error of computation,) the refractions in
the new table are nearer to Bessel's than those in the French table ;
but when the zenith distance is greater than 80°, the author con
siders the accuracy of the French table questionable, both on account
of the hypothetical law of the densities, and because the quantity
assumed for the horizontal refraction is uncertain.
   After giving a few examples, illustrative of the use of the new
table, the author inquires how far the refractions are likely to be
affected by the term which it was found necessary to leave out, be
cause the present state of our knowledge of the phenomena of the
atmosphere made it impossible to determine the coefficient by which
it is multiplied. For this purpose, the variable part of that term
has been computed for every half degree, from 85° to 88°, and the
results are exhibited in a table. From this it appears, that tlu's co
efficient, although considerably less than that of the preceding term,
may still have some influence on the refractions at very low alti
tudes. The mean refraction in Bessel's table, and in the new table,
can hardly be supposed to differ 2" from the true quantity, which
would limit the coefficient in question to be less than one-tenth. It
is a matter of some importance to obtain a near value of this coeffi
cient ; and it is probable that this can be accomplished in no other
way, than by searching out such values of the two coefficients as will
 best represent many good observed refractions at altitudes less than
5°. If such values were found, our knowledge of the decrease of heat
in ascending in the atmosphere would be improved, and the measure
 ment of heights by the barometer would be made more perfect.
    At the end of the paper is given a table of mean refractions for
the temperature 50° Fahr. and barometric pressure 30 inches, at
 every degree from 0° to 70° zenith distance, and at every 10' from
 70° to the horizon ; and tables of the corrections requisite for va
riations of the thermometer and barometer are subjoined.

                               [  153 ]
         XXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
          CAUSE OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE CHARA.
M       DONNE states that he thinks he has discovered the cause
      • of circulation in plants, of which the Chara is a remarkable
example. Contrary to the opinion of several authors who have attri
buted this circulation to physical agents, M. Donne" supposed that its
cause might be found in an organic disposition, and with this view
entered into an examination, the result of which he thus states :—
   " After having carefully taken off the outer coating of a tube of
Chara hispida, and deprived it of the carbonate of lime, which inter
feres with its transparency, I submit it under the microscope to a
methodical and graduated pressure, by the aid of M. Purkinje's
press. This pressure immediately detaches a great number of
granules. Little strings, formed of 5, 6, or more granules, are then
seen to put themselves in motion, turn round, and then stop if they
are not carried away by the current of the fluid ; other granules are
completely detached from one another, and free from all adhesion ;
amongst these are seen some which have a rotary movement, more
or less rapid, independent of the movement of general circulation ;
some turn, round on themselves without changing place ; others are
carried along by the current, but still preserving their spontaneous
rotary movement.
    " These small bodies are therefore endowed with a peculiar power,
which they obey when they are free, but which react on the liquid
in which they are immersed when they are fixed.
    " The rotary motion I speak of, is independent of that of the
liquid in circulation ; it is often very rapid indeed in comparison
 with the motion of circulation, and takes place when the circulation
is slowest or has even ceased : it is not a rare case to see two gra
nules near one another moving in a contrary direction ; the follow
ing experiment will show this fact in a decisive manner.
    " By pressing out the sap from a tube of Chara upon a piece of
 glass, and submitting this drop of liquid to inspection under the
microscope, it is found to be composed, not only of the fluid and
 of white particles which were in circulation, but of a certain quan
 tity of green granules, which the pressure has detached from the
 sides of the tube ; the greater number of these granules are strung
 together, and no motion is to be discovered in them, nor in the free
 isolated granules spread over the surface of the glass. This is not
 the case with the large oily or albuminous drops which the interior
 fluid of the Chara forms upon diffusing itself : it is seldom that in
 some of these drops, the transparency of which is unfortunately
  troubled by a number of small grains, one or several green granules
 are not found endowed with the same spontaneous rotary motion
  which takes place in the interior of the tube itself ; these granules
  being in their natural fluid have preserved all their properties, whilst
  the others may be considered as dead.

  154          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
     " It is impossible," continues M. DonnS, " not to remark the
  striking analogy which these facts establish between the corpuscles
  ranged in regular and fixed series on the internal sides of all vege
  table cells where the double circulation of a fluid has been observed,
 and the vibratile organs of animals, to which attention has been
 directed since the work of MM. Purkinje and Valentine : this
 analogy is the more complete, as the vibratile organs of the mu
 cous membranes separate themselves, as I have shown, into parti
 cles, when the motion may be observed to continue often for more
 than twenty-four hours.
     " I examined if there existed vibratory hairs on the surface of
 the granules endowed with the spontaneous movement which I have
 just described, but was not able to discover any, although I employed
 a power of 500 diameters with a good light. I thought I saw a
 brilliant circle round the granules, but cannot affirm any thing more
 on this point.
     " I must add that all the agents which stop the circulation of the
 Chara, also destroy the rotary motion of the granules,"—L'lnstitut,
 April 1838.
     ACTION OF PLANTS ON THE AZOTE OF THE ATMOSPHERE.
    M. Boussingault has entered into an investigation in order to as
certain whether plants absorb the azote of the atmosphere. In
these researches he has employed analysis, and compared the com
position of the seeds with the composition of the results of their
growth, obtained at the expense only of water and air. Although
these experiments were undertaken specially with a view to examine
into the question as to azote, they also determine with precision the
elements lost or gained by clover seed and wheat, during their ger
mination and vegetation. These plants were vegetated in air con
tinually renewed, and well washed to deprive it of all dust, watered
with distilled water, and cultivated in a siliceous sand. The follow
ing are the results of this investigation.
    1. That clover seed and wheat during germination neither gain
nor lose azote.
    '2. That these seeds lose carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and that
the quantity of each of these elements varies at different periods of
their germination.
    3. That during the culture of clover seed in a soil absolutely free
from manure and only under the influence of water and air, this
plant takes up carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and an appreciable
quantity of azote.
    4. That wheat cultivated under precisely the same 'circum
stances also takes from the water and the air, hydrogen and oxy
gen ; but after a culture of three months not the slightest gain or
loss of azote could be detected by analysis.
    The following is the result of M. Payen's examination on azote
contained in plants.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             155
    That the radicals of all plants contain an azotic substance in suf
ficient abundance to give out upon distillation free or carbonated
ammonia.
    That every organ in a state of growth or in the course of deve
lopment contains an abundance of an azotized substance ; that as
the organ becomes developed, the azotized substance decreases in
quantity in comparison to the non-azotized substance, which latter
becomes by degrees altogether predominant. From a number of
examinations he concludes this fact to be general ;—that the cam
bium contains this azotized substance in abundance, and that the
gap is also charged with it.
    M. Payen found in passing a quantity of water through a recently
cut stick of elder that the wood was deprived of all the azotized
matter, which the water separated ; from this he is led to explain
the action of all the substances employed to preserve wood which
have the effects of acting upon the azotized substance, coagulating
it, and rendering it insoluble in water.— L'Institut, February 1838.
No. 224.
   PROPORTIONS OF ANIMAL AND EARTHY MATTER IN HUMAN
                                  BONES.
    Dr. G. O. Rees read a paper on the above subject, on the 8th of
 May, at a meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society.
    The author, after alluding to the precautions necessary to be ob
 served in the analysis of bone, proceeded to recount the results of
 his examinations. The solid parts of the femur, tibia, fibula, hu-
 merus, radius, and ulna were chosen for analysis ; also the squa-
 mous portion of the temporal bone, the arch of a dorsal vertebra,
 the external crust of a rib and of the clavicle, the coracoid process
 of the scapula, a portion of the ilium near the crest of the bone, the
 metatarsal bone of the great toe, and a part of the middle portion
 of the sternum. These bones had been similarly prepared, and were
 quite free from fat, periosteum, and cartilage, and perfectly dry.
 The long bones of the extremities were found to contain from 63'02
 to 60'01 per cent, of earthy matter, and the bones of the trunk from
 58'79 to 54'51 per cent. The author then mentioned the general
 conclusions to which his experiments had led him. They were as
 follows :—
     1st. The long bones of the extremities contain more earthy mat
 ter than those of the trunk.
     2nd. The bones of the upper extremity contain somewhat more
 earthy matter than the corresponding bones of the lower extremity ;
 thus the humerus more than the femur, and the radius and ulna more
 than the tibia and fibula.
     3rd. The humerus contains more earthy matter than the radius
  and ulna, and the femur more than the tibia and fibula.
     4th. The tibia and fibula contain, as nearly as possible, the same
 proportions of earthy matter, and the radius and ulna may be con
  sidered as alike in constitution.
     5th. The vertebra, rib, and clavicle are nearly identical as re

   156           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   gards the proportion of earthy matter, the ilium containing some
  what more of earths, the scapula and sternum somewhat less, the
   sternum containing more earths than the scapula.
      6th. The bones of the head contain more earthy matter than the
, tones of the trunk, as observed by Dr. J. Davy ; but the humerus
   and other long bones approach very near in their proportion of
   earths.
      7th. The metatarsal bones may probably be ranked with those of
   the trunk in proportional constitution.
      The cancellated structure of bone is shown by the author to con
   tain less earthy matter than the more solid parts of the same bone ;
   the cancelli of a rib contained 4 per cent, less of earths than the solid
   external crust.
      Several of the laws of relative proportion observed in the adult
  skeleton were shown to hold good in the foetal bones*. Thus, the
   bones of the upper contain more earthy matter than those of the
  lower extremity.
      The humerus contains more earthy matter than the radius and
   ulna, and the femur more than the tibia and fibula.
      The ilium contains more, and the scapula less earthy matter than
  the clavicle or rib.
      The great difference observable in the proportional constitution
   of the adult and foetal bones, consists in the fact that the long bones
   and the bones of the head do not contain the excess of earths ob
  served in the adult skeleton.
      The author concludes, by showing that the bones of the trunk,
  in the foetus, contain as large a proportion of earthy matter as those
  of the adult.
   ON THE AMMONIACAL AND OTHER BASIC COMPOUNDS OF THE
       COPPER AND SILVER FAMILIES. BY IMIOFESSOR KANE.f
      Having verified Berzelius' formula for the ammoniacal sulphate of
  copper cu so3 + 2 NHS + HO., Dr. Kane pointed out, that, from the
  circumstances of its formation, and others, the real formula must be
  (NH3HO + so2) + NH3.cuo; and that by heat it loses NH3.HO. and
  leaves a compound NH3.CU o + so3. ; by still more heat there re
  mains 2 so3 + 2 cu o + NH3 or cuo.so3. + (uHi.cu o) so3. and by
  water there is formed the ordinary basic sulphate cao.so3 + 3 cuo
  + 4 HO.
     Dr. Kane describes likewise a new basic sulphate as so3 + 8 cu
  o -f- 12 BO. and he arranges these two salts as
                    1 = cu o.so3 cu o + 2 (cu o 4- 2 HO').
                   2 = cu o.so3. cu o + 6 (cu o + 2 HO).
  and seeks to establish an analogy with the ordinary salts of the same
  family, as
             zno. so , HO + 6. HO and cu o.so3.cu o -f- 6 cu o.
     * The foetal bones examined by the author were deprived of fat, peri
  osteum, and epiphysis, and were perfectly dry.
     f Prom the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy for May 28, 1838;
  with corrections by the author.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               157
   Dr. Kane found the ammoniacal chloride of copper to be cu cl +
2 NH3 + HO. or correctly, NH3. H cl + NH3. ca o. By heat NH3HO
is lost, and there remains MI .. H cu cl. By water there is generated
a new basic chloride of copper, having the formula ca cl + 4 c'u o
+ 6 HO. The common Brunswick green cu cl + 3 cu o + 4 HO.
Dr. Kane has obtained with 6 HO in place of 4 no. and these oxy-
chlorides he considers as formed on the type of the ordinary chlo
rides, combined with water, or with metallic oxides in other groups.
                 1 — cu. cl + cu o + 2 (cu o + 2 HO)
                 2 — cu cl +           3 (cu o + 2 HO)
                 3 — cu cl + ca o + 3 (cu o + 2 HO).
   Dr. Kane has obtained another new oxychloride composed of cu
cl + 2 ca o ; taking one atom of water, it remains brown, but with
more it forms a green powder,—the first replacing the third of cu o
in the common oxychloride.
   When No. 2 is heated, it loses all water, but if then put into con
tact with water, it regains 4 HO, and becomes perfect Brunswick
green No. 1 . ca cl. cu o + 2 (ca o + 2 HO).
   The second equivalent of oxide is, in these chlorine bodies, much
less forcibly held than in the sulphates, but that it is differently re
lated to the acid than the remaining equivalents of oxide or of water
is proved by a great variety of facts.
   The ammoniacal nitrate of copper has the formula cuo NO, -)-
2 NH3. or (NH3.HO.) NO3 + cu NHS. hence this body contains, united
with the copper, amidogen ; when heated it explodes, the copper and
amidogen burning in the nitrous oxyde yielded by the nitrate of am
monia. To obtain some analogical evidence regarding this body,
Dr. Kane re-examined the ammonia-sulphate and nitrate of silver,
and found George Mitscherlich's results good. Dr. Kane, however,
writes the formule
                     2 — ( Ml ..Jin) NOi -f AjF NHa.
This last salt, when heated, gives a beautiful decomposition ; the ni
trate of ammonia fuses readily, and at a temperature below that at
which it decomposes, the amide of silver is resolved into ammonia,
nitrogen, and metallic silver, which latter being deposited on the
sides of the glass, from the liquid nitrate of ammonia, gives a mirror
surface equal to that obtained by aldehyd.
   On analyzing the ammoniacal compounds of nickel. Dr. Kane
found the results of Erdman completely verified ; but from the in
ferior affinity with which the ammonia was retained, these com
pounds did not yield as positive results as to their influence on theory,
as those of the copper class.
    A new substance, discovered in the course of these researches,
may be termed a fulminating copper. It is a blue powder, decom
posed by heat into metallic copper, water, ammonia, and nitrogen.
Its formula is 3 cuo + 2 NH3. + 6 HO.
    The examination of the zinc compounds has led to the discovery

  1 58          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 of a considerable number of new bodies.        The ammoniacal sulphate
 of zinc crystallized is
                        1 — ZJIO.SOj + 2NH, + 3 HO
 exposed to the air it effloresces, losing ho, and becomes
                       2 — zrto.su ; + 2 (nHj.ho).
 which, if heated, gives at 212° F.
                       3 — zno.so, + (nh3.ho.)
 but at dull redness loses still kh,.ho and leaves zrto.su,.
     If No. 1 be exposed longer to a moderate heat it loses 2 ho. and
 there remains,
                       4 — zno so, + 2 nh, + ho.
 If this be heated to 300°, it loses (nh, ho) and there is
                       5 — zno.so, + NHj.
 which further gives by heat
                       6 — 2 (zno.so,) + NH,
from which the ammonia cannot be expelled without decomposition.
    Selecting from among these No. 2, for reduction to its rational
 formula, it becomes
                    (nHj.ho.) so, + zno. (nh,.ho).
Now the oxide of zinc from the sulphate being redissolved by pot
ash, there must be formed the similar compound
                             K.O.SO, + Zrtci.hu.
This cannot be obtained crystallized, for if the liquor be evaporated
there is deposited ko.so,, and zno.KO remains dissolved ; from this,
by exposure to the air, there are gradually deposited small crystals,
which Dr. Kane considers as being
                          ko.cOu + zn o.co^ 2 ho.
but by heat there is carbonic acid given off, and a powder insoluble
in water is produced, the composition of which, from Dr. Kane's exa
mination, appears to be
                        Kii.ni. + zno.co^, + 2 zno.
It will be recollected, that the bicarbonate of potash is
                             KO.COj + HO.CO.m
    By treating the ammonia sulphate No. 3 or 5 by water, there is
obtained a basic sulphate, having the formula
                         zno.so, + 6 zno +12 ho.
which, dried and exposed to the air, slakes, and gives
                         zno.so, + 6 zno + 3 ho.
This new salt has some remarkable relations to those already known.
    There are two ammonia chlorides of zinc.
    No. 1 , in pearly scales of a talcy lustre, consists of
                            zn c/ + 2 nh3 + HO,
and, when heated, gives off nh,.ho. leaving nh,.z» d. a white
powder.

                       Meteorological Obsetvations.                        159
   No. 2 is in fine quadrangular prisms, brilliant lustre, consisting
of 2 zn c/ + 2 nh3 + ho. or as Dr. Kane considers, zn.cl + (nh3.
hc/) + nh^.zho. which losing nh3.ho leaves z» c/ + nh3.z» c/. a
white mass, fusible, congealing into a mass like gum, and volati-
lizable. This gummy mass is likewise obtained by heating nii3z/i c/.
    There is generated by the action of water on these basic ammo-
niacal compounds, an oxychloride of zinc of a very remarkable cha
racter ; it is—
                            zn c/ + 6 zn o + 10 ho.
dried, it is reduced at 212° to 9 ho + and by 300° to G ho. By
500° all water is driven off, and there remains zn c/ + 6 zn o which
exposed to the air absorbed 3 ho. Hence the general expression is
              zn c/ + 6 zn o + 4 ho + 2 ho + 2 ho + 2 ho
and comparing some similar chlorides,, there is,
       1  cn.c/ +   6 ho crystallized chloride of calcium.
       2  zn c/ +   6 zn o — basic chloride of zinc dry.
       3  h c/ +   6 ho — strong muriatic acid.
       4 zncl +    6 zn o + 10 ho — hydrated oxychloride of zinc.
       5  h c/ +   6 ho + 10 ho — muriatic acid with a constant boil
                                            ing point.
    Another oxychloride, having the composition
                            zn c/ + 9 zn o + 15 ho
 which dried and exposed to air, absorbs 6 ho. Hence it may best
 be considered as
                 (zn c/ + G zn o + 12 h o) + 3 (zn o no),
 giving ultimately
                (zn c/ + 6 zn o + 3 ho) + 3 (zno + ho).
         METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR JUNE 1888.
    Cniswick.—June 1. Very fine: rain.       2,3. Cloudy and fine. 4. Fine:
 rain.    5. Hazy : very fine.     6. Slight haze : fine. 7. Fine. 8. Cold
 and dry. 9. Fine. 10. Cloudy and fine. 11. Hazy: rain.               12. Rain,
 with thunder.      13. Fine: heavy rain at night.      14, IS. Overcast: rain.
 16. Drizzly. 17. Cloudy.        18. Overcast: heavy thunder showers.       19.
 Cloudy and windy.         20. Cloudy: boisterous with rain at night.       21.
 Cloudy and windy. 22. Showery. 23,24. Very fine. 25. Fine; heavy
 rain.    26. Hazy : rain. 27. Overcast and fine.          28. Slight showers :
 very fine. 29. Fine : heavy rain. 30. Fine : rain.
    Botkm.—June 1. Rain. 2. Fine. 3. Fine: rain a.m. 4. Fine: rain,
 thunder, and lightning a.m. 5. Fine : heavy rain and hail, with thunder
 and lightning p.m. 6. Cloudy. 7. Cloudy: rain p.m. 8,9. Fine. 10.
 Cloudy. 11. Rain.        12. Fine. 13. Rain early a.m. 14. Cloudy. IS.
  Fine: rain p.m. 16. Fine. 17. Fine: rain early a.m. 18. Fine. 19.
  Cloudy: heavy rain early a.m. 20. Ruin. 21, 22. Cloudy.               23— 25.
 Fine.     26. Cloudy : rain a.m. and p.m.       27. Cloudy : rain p.m. 28.
 Fine. 29. Cloudy : rain early a.m. 30. Fine : rain p.m.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mean,
                                               Soc.
                                               Roy.
Dew- point Lond.: 9a.m.
                                                            ~56~ 55 55 54 54 52 51 42 48 50 53 54 53 54 55 54 60 62 58 60 58 57 56 59 61 60 59 58 57 56
                  fj11                                  Q
                  6O               1B                                                     19                                                                                         •                                                                                     2*6
       •                                                      •22 •04              •05          •21           •08                 •04          •19 •02               •11 •06              •39 ¦27                . . . . . . . . . . ¦31 •04 •37 ¦27
Rain                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        365
                                                                                                                           17                                       17                         05                                 72 01 .01                        07
               jl¦I 0 ¦27 •08 04                                                      .. ..                      .. ..            •47 •02 •56 •02             ¦02          •02    ¦25 ¦37             •01 •12             .. ..                              •20
                      London: Roy.     Soc.
                                                  9a.m.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sum.
                                                              •372 ¦644 •341 •055 •022
                                                                                                          . . . . . . . . •227 •533 •3b6 •100 •025 •013 •172 •022 •177 ¦283 •033 . •227 . .                                               •572 •019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          . . . . ¦169
                                            frios- shire.
                                          Bust.
                                                                 Kl.  calm calm           calm calm calm        HE.         calm calm                                 calm         calm                                              KW.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s. calm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           calm 'calm   E. Calmsw. calm
                                                                                                                                                         w.                   w.           w. sw. w. w. w. w.
 Wind.
                                                                                                  NX.                  s. s.                                                                                                  s.            ME.
                                                          u s.                sw.                                                         z. w. s. s. s. s. s. sw. sw. sw. sw.                                                                                       w.
                                                                       SW.          S.                                             I.                                                                                   8.          I.
                ft                                                                         w.           H. K.
                       London: Roy     .Soc.                                                                                                                                                                   sw.var.
                                                   9a.m.        KW. 5. S. S. SSW.                 aw. »».       »w. sw. s.          ME.           HW. S.        s. s. s.
                                                                                                                                                                                    ¦as.   s. sw. w.                     KW, 1. HSW.                     S. W.        s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N. SW.
                  Dumfries,                          9p.m
                                shire.
                                                      9a.m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          59'Sl1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          48-96J
                                                      Boo                                       54-5                                                  58-5                               615                                              62-5
                                                              50 56 (.I bl 61                         54 50 57 54 58 bO 53                                          65 66 69                   59 58 63 63 67 bb                                60 64 58 62
                                                                                                                                                             b2
  Thermometer.
                       wick.                         Mil,.   52 4V 49 40 45 43 40 35 43 51 49 49 47 52 49 58 58 54 63 67 51 4b 45 55 5b 53 64 49 44 52
                       Chis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 53-6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70-83
                                                     Max.
                                                             72 70 69 72 74 57 64 6b 68 bb 67 72 b9 67 73 76 75 76 72 64 72 71 77 83 79 68 b5 57-3                                                                                                    73 74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1            74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             54-3 52-0
                                                     Min. 527 52-5 51-3 636 50-4 51-0 50-6 44-2 47-0 60-5 52-3 52-4 50-8 512 54-0 54-8                                           610 54-7 56-2 59-0 53-6 617 54-8 bib 5b-o 67-0
                                                                                                                                                                          bo-3
                                                    Max.     70-3 70-3 660 66-6 70-5 69-3 587 643 70-3 64-2 630 60-8 62-8 63-0 645 65-6 70-4 71-5                                                    67-2 72-3 72-6 797 77-3 72-8 74-6 66-3 72-8 727                        68-6
                                                                                                                                                                                        7 6V3
                                                                                                                                                                                        VI
                                           Fahr. ga.ra. 60-8 693 69-6 61-5 68-6 52-7 .64-9 590 59-3 55-2                                                                                       -0 60-8 62-4 62-4 66-7 68-3 57-4 65-0 62-9 62-8 62-8                         60-5
                                                                                                             517                       557 56-8 59-8 607 61-8 635 68-3 63-8 61
                          Dumfries-shire.
                                                     9 p.m.
                                                      9a.m.                          g 0 «> a»
                                                                                                              er
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                            Jfsi                        S"5'5=
                                                                                                                                                                          23 >
                                                                                                                                                                    B? '$*|I^2§1 <
                                                                                                                                                                                                            w as & 3«
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3                        (*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a      1?
                               Boston. 84       a.m.          29-55 29-36 29-26 2921 2937 29-55 2972 29-82 29-24 29-36 2912 12          29- 29-22 29-20 29-25 29-23 29-26 2906 29-08 29-20 28-96 29-21 30099                       29-46 29962
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29-44 30-007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29-5530008                2942
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 993
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29-40 29           29401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29959  29-40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29-844    29-839
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29-33
  Barometer.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2I9-46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29-948
                                                             29886 29-770 29-652 29-743 29-903 30-085 30-157 30-247 30-021 29580 29-493 29-593 29-677 29-723 29-678 29-810 29-747 29562 29-849 29-583 29640 29-857
                                                      Mil).
                            Chlswick.
                                                                                                30- 30-264 30-322 30-290 29-850 29-590 29-677 29-750 29-800 29-844 29-850 29948 29678 29-905 29792 29701 29-984 30-212 30-115 30-142 30060 30090 30-
                                                              30032 29908 29-750 29-833 29-964 108                                                                                                                                                     100 30-050 30028      29921
                                                      Max.
                       : Roy.
                     London         Soc.                                                                                          1 29564 29-682 29-744 29-784 29-800 29888 29-682 29-826 29-736 29-590 29-860 30192 30052 30090 30000 30044 30050 29998 29974
                                                              29-974 29836 29-800 29-732 29-924 30052 30-212 30-304 30-240 29-798 8
                                                                                                                                  295                                                                                                                                        29-898
                                                 9a.m.
           Days
           of
                Month.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mean.
                                 1838. June.                   1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.                                  9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 415. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21.                                               23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29.
                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                              8.                                                                                            •22.                                                   J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30.

                                Zend-. & £<sUn J'AU Afo^ K-l .til/. //, /
       H
   St<y /
                                               /V?. /
                           r
                         A
   Hi
     .1
                                                  A.
                         Txf.J.
                                                 4
                                                >V-*
Structure.: of Flanues,- iUvistraiwe cf M-r Malrfiej
         jftejeatrjvis on CcmJni$lu/n <£ flame.


                                                    ZcruLA-PdiH. fk(J, May JM ,f7H St'..
*                    P;0                     Oi                    f.O                  /J,            Z
                      \                                \ ! >                              '        1 !
                      \\                                  If*
                                                   ra^L\^.'--J..
                        \                              1 !
                         \                I            M '
                            i
\                            i                            ii
  ^' iiT1Lj >• 1i V¦ i                              HT|! I
                                                            •
                                                                     "          1
                                                                            ¦.Titi
                          i \
                          1i \\                                                             ii
                                                          i
                  *                   l
             ?' t*         \ \\\                    i r j i
  t          ^ l          \\ jii_i_L_!—iJ                              U j- 1-4-
             ii '          i 1 i\l i                      i
           !i.                            \                                  1
  t          Si                 |            \                                      1
  1i       k-l
             -y                !i            \\
                                               i
               It          1 i                  I
    i             :"       '            ' i \                                                        S
    i         r»" 4 1 m! '                                                     J 4                   *
              tt : ._ml;T^              pmr                                      1141
                                                                                 '               hLs
             ^T                                 1 \
                                                ^+-                  -4— H-4-                      «-T
              i' : '
                                                   ~iv\                          j
                                                                                                    i^
                                                                                                     K
   j
   l-f        j ' . .j_^i. r-L-U
             nT                                ^At--                       -i-J.+.i-
                                                                           -4      _p i_ V          £
   r<        -v i                                   i \\ ii                      M
    I        !lf-                     ^^^|_|AJ
             ^ '\t                                          \
           i^     ^                                       j\
             Sj'4.                                  i         1                      !
             »'                                                r
               !                                                \
             N                   1         ' !                  !\      i
     ,       £1                                  '
             *                    :              '                  k\ ~
                                                                      \
                                                                       \
               ¦ T                                               i      l i
       ,   , , 'f . i , |                                                 \.          i          ! 1
                  <»           '                 | ;            !        A1           1        I
                                                                        !V
         i i                                                            j \
                i |                 !       i 1         , 1 !                \





   4   •
         .fia. /
,*   «
                 on, Ifeaf,

                                THE
             LONDON AND EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                       [THIRD SERIES.]
                  SEPTEMBER 1838.
XXII. Discussion of M. Fechner's Views of the Theory of
    Galvanism, with reference, particularly, to a circuit including
    Two Electrolytes, and to the relations of Inactive Iron. By
    Prof. SCHCENBEIN.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      GENTLEMEN,
 T N the letter I had the honour of addressing to you some
•*• months ago, I mentioned en passant that the chemical
theory of galvanism was about to be severely attacked by
some German philosophers. I now perceive by the 12th
number of PoggendorfPs Annalen for 1837, that M. Fech-
ner has laid before the scientific public his objections to this
theory, in a paper entitled " Justification of the Voltaic
Theory."* Having many reasons to suspect that the contro
versy respecting the source of voltaic electricity will before
long be resumed with more ardour than ever, and being be
sides almost sure that the results of my late researches re
garding the voltaic action of metallic peroxides will be made
use of as a piece of evidence in favour of Volta's views, I
think it not quite unseasonable to offer a remark or two upon
some of the objections brought forward by M. Fechner. As to
the assertions made by that philosopher with regard to some
fundamental experiments of De la Rive, I do not feel my
self called upon to refute them, as no doubt the distinguished
electrician of Geneva is himself best able to maintain the
points attacked. The remarks I am going to make will prin
cipally bear upon the conclusions which have been drawn by
M. Fechner from the results of the following experiment.
   * We commence in the present number, p. 205, a translation of M.
Fechner's paper here mentioned.
    PhiL Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 81. Sept. 1838.           M

162      Prof. Schoenbein's Discussion o/"M. Fechner"s
   Ten pairs of zinc and copper, in every respect as equal to
one another as possible, were arranged into a " couronne des
lasses" so that half of the said pairs produced a current op
posite in its direction to that which was originated by the
other half. The exciting fluid used was common water. Such
an arrangement being connected with the galvanometer, can,
according to either of the two principal theories of galvanism,
have no effect upon the needle, provided everything in the
two systems of cells be equal. Fechner, after having ob
tained current equilibrium in the manner described, put mu
riatic acid into one of the above-mentioned systems, and found
that in these circumstances the previous equilibrium was in
the first instance maintained, but that by degrees the current
of the water-cells got the ascendency over that of the acid
system. Fechner thinks these results to be quite irrecon
cilable to Faraday's theoretical views on galvanism, and is
inclined to consider his experiment as an " experimentum
crucis" against the very first principle of the chemical theory
of the voltaic phenomena. Before judging of the validity of
Fechner's conclusions, I must not omit to give an account of
some of the results which I lately obtained from a great many
experiments made upon the subject under discussion.
   1. Ten equal pairs consisting of zinc and copper were ar
ranged in the manner before mentioned, and the vessels hold
ing the former charged with common water. On closing the
circuit by the means of a most delicate galvanometer (pro
vided with 2000 coils), the needle deviated a little, but after
a very short time it returned to zero. Current equilibrium
being thus obtained, it was disturbed again by breaking and
re-establishing the circuit through the means of any pair of
either system. The deviation of the needle amounted to
about 20°, and was always such as to indicate the superiority
of that current which was produced by the set of pairs left
untouched. The equilibrium, however, was also in this case
 very soon re-established after the closing of the circuit.
   2. Equilibrium taking place in the arrangement just de
scribed, 1 added ^fa of common sulphuric acid to the water of
one set of the cells. On closing the circuit by means of the
galvanometer, the needle of the instrument was made to de
viate about 180° in such a direction as to show the ascend
ency of the current excited by the acidulated water. Leaving
the circuit closed for a few minutes, the needle however took
up its usual position. Opening and closing the arrangement
again by the means of any pair of plates belonging to the cells
charged with the acid fluid, or doing the same by the means
of the platina ends of the galvanometer-wire, had not the least

                  Views of the Tlieory of Galvanism.            163
   effect upon the needle; but on removing any pair of the water-
   cells from the circuit and replacing them there, the equili
   brium was disturbed in favour of the acid system. But what
   seems to me to be still more remarkable, is the fact, that the
   same effect, only on a smaller scale, was obtained by making
   any pair belonging to the water system alternately rise and
   sink a little without removing it entirely from the circuit.
   Another fact worthy of being stated is, that immediately after
   the equilibrium had been disturbed, opening and closing
   the circuit by the galvanometer, or by any pair of the acid
  system, causes a similar effect, that is to say, a perceptible in
  crease of the acid current. The arrangement left to itself
  closed regains, however, its previous condition within a very
  short space of time, i. e. assumes such a state of current equi
  librium as can only be changed again by breaking and re
  establishing the circuit by a pair belonging to the water system.
  It is also worthy of remark, that the magnitude of the differ
  ences of currents obtained by the means mentioned is variable.
  I have repeated the same experiment over and over again, and
  at each time I got a fresh result as to the number of degrees
  of the needle's deviation ; sometimes even, no deviation at all
  took place. On making use of an aqueous acid fluid con
  taining 1 part of sulphuric acid in one system of the cells,
  whilst there was common water in the other, I obtained a
 deviation in favour of the acid current which amounted to
 about 90° : in a very short time the needle, however, returned
 to zero. A fluid containing 1^, 2, 2i, 3, 3£, 4, 4£, 5 parts
 of acid did not affect the needle ; from 5^—8 parts produced a
 temporary deviation of about 40° in favour of the water cur
 rent ; from 9— 1 1 parts had no effect ; 1 5 parts caused a consi
 derable deviation in favour of the acid current, but lasted only
 for a few moments ; 20 parts caused no effect upon the needle.
    3. A liquid containing for 100 parts of water 1 —10 parts
 of common muriatic acid, and used in one system of the cells,
did not cau-e any deviation; 15 parts caused a deviation of
the needle of 40° in favour of the water current: after a short
 time the former returned to zero, but was again made to de
viate in the same manner as it was at first. This change of
equilibrium into difference of currents, and vice versd, took
place several times. From 20—25 parts of acid caused a devia
tion of about 4.5° in favour of the water current, which lasted
rather along time; 30 parts of acid made the needle turn
round its central point several times in such a direction as to
indicate the prevalence of the water current. The same ex
periment made another time showed no difference of cur
rents, the needle remaining at zero.
                                M2

164      Prof. Schoenbein's Discussion qfM. Fechner's
   4. Water containing for 100 parts 5 — 20 parts of com
mon nitric acid did not disturb the needle at all; 25 parts
produced a rather long continuing deviation of about 50° in
favour of the water current ; 30 parts had the same effect,
though the difference of currents was a little smaller. If in
the latter experiment the two systems of pairs were made to
change their cells, so that the set of pairs having previously
been in water were placed in the acid-cells, and vice versa,
a current equilibrium was obtained. In most of the fore-
mentioned cases, where the needle remained at rest, the pairs
of the water-cells could have their place supplied by platina
wires, without thereby disturbing the equilibrium ; and even if
 a deviation of the needle took place (immediately after having
 effected such a change), it was always very insignificant, and
 the equilibrium of currents was speedily re-established.
    From the results of the experiments described, it appears
 that only in a few instances the chemical difference of the ex
 citing fluids contained in the two systems of cells determines
 a difference of currents produced by the two sets of pairs, and
 that the general rule is the production of current equilibrium.
    Now, if I have correctly understood Fechner's statements,
 they imply the assertion, that on using water in one system
 and an acid liquid in the other system of cells as exciting
 fluids, and everything else being equal in the arrangement,
 the equilibrium which takes place in the first instance is al
 ways by degrees disturbed in favour of the water current.
 If such were the case, the fact, as it seems to me, would be
 entirely contradictory to the theory of Volta; for according
 to the views of this philosopher the current produced by the
 one set of pairs must be equal to that which is excited by
 the other set, and the addition of acid to one system of cells
 has no other effect than to increase the conducting power of
 the whole arrangement. I have already remarked, that in
 the circumstances mentioned current equilibrium is the rule,
 the contrary an exception to it, and that even if a difference
 of currents occurs, it is generally so insignificant as to be
 made only perceptible by the means of a most delicate gal
 vanometer. We may therefore consider the facts to be in
 perfect accordance with the theory of Volta. But does not
 the current equilibrium in question disagree with that theory
 which makes the production of current electricity dependent
 upon chemical action, and the quantity of the former upon
 the extent of the latter '{ I think it does not, and hope to be
 able to prove the correctness of my assertion by what 1 am
 about to say.
    On the first view of the case, it seems, indeed, as if the fact

                Views of the Theory of Galvanism.                  165
under discussion were not at all favourable to the chemical
theory, for undoubtedly the chemical action which takes place
in the acid cells is, as to extent [intensity?], infinitely superior to
that which is going on in the water cells. There should, there
fore, be a difference of currents proportionate to the difference
of the extent of the chemical actions taking place in the two
systems. Certainly, if we do not take into account the dif
ferent degree of resistance which is offered to the circulation
of the currents by the'two sets of cells, the equilibrium in
question must appear entirely at variance with the principles
of the chemical theory, and speak in favour of Volta's hypo
thesis; but by duly appreciating the circumstance alluded
to, the theoretical difficulty and the anomalous character of
the fact can easily be removed.
   According to the theory of the voltaic pile, such as it was
established some time ago by M. De la Rive, the electricities
which are set free by chemical action at the two ends of a
closed compound circle unite themselves by two ways; one of
which is the pile itself, the other the conductor placed be
tween the poles. The quantities of the electricities recom-
bining within each of the two conducting mediums depend,
according to the same theory, upon the peculiar degree of the
conducting power of each medium. Now let us at first con
sider only the acid cells as originating a current, and those
charged with water merely as a medium put between the
poles. It is manifest, that under such circumstances, by far
the larger portion of electricities being developed by the pile,
must reunite within the latter, and only a small quantity will
consequently pass through the galvanometer and the water
cells. If, as above stated, the latter are connected with one
another by the means of platina, no current whatever circu
lates through the galvanometer, however violent chemical ac
tion may be within the water cells ; but if pieces of copper or
of any other readily oxidable metal are made use of instead of
platina, there will pass a weak current from the acid system
into that of water. This result is easily accounted tor by the
well-known fact, that those metals offer much less resistance
to a current than platina does. From such being the case, it
follows, that we should always obtain a current of the descrip
tion mentioned, if the pairs of zinc and copper, by means of
which the water cells of our arrangement are connected with
one another, only acted the part ofconductors. We know, how
ever, that they also give rise to a weak current, which current,
on account of the peculiarity of the arrangement, must be, as
to direction, opposite to that excited by the acid cells. From
the fact that in most cases above stated equilibrium takes

 166      Prof. Schoenbein's Discussion o/"M. Fechner's
 place, we must infer that both currents in question are ge
 nerally equal to one another. The equality of the currents
 resulting from our two systems of cells is, no doubt, in some
 way or other connected with the fact, that two piles containing
 the same number of equal pairs, but being charged with dif
 ferent exciting fluids, exhibit in general no difference of ten
 sion at their insulated poles. As De la Rive has already dis
 cussed that point in his memoir entitled "Rccherches sur la
 Cause de CElectricite voltaique" I do not think it necessary
 to enlarge upon it any further.
    It appears to me that the preceding remarks are sufficient to
 demonstrate that the current equilibrium which results from
 the peculiar arrangement which has been mentioned of two
 compound circles (only differing from each other with regard
 to their respective exciting fluids) is by no means contradictory
 to the principles of the chemical theory, no more than, for
 instance, the fact is, that a pile consisting of ten voltaic pairs,
 half of them put into water cells, the other half into acid
 ones, and arranged in the usual way, produces a current much
 weaker than that which is obtained from five pairs alone
 placed within the acid fluid. For the same reasons which
 make Fechner consider the equilibrium in the first case as an
 evidence against the correctness of the chemical theory, he
 must draw similar conclusions from the results of the second
 case; for he may ask, why should the voltaic effect of ten
 pairs be smaller than that produced by only five pairs ? as
 there can be no doubt that the extent of the chemical action
 of the whole arrangement is greater than that of only a part
 of it. After what has already been said about the subject, it
would be quite superfluous to answer such a question.
   As to the differences of currents mentioned in the beginning
of this paper, those differences being sometimes in favour of
the water system, sometimes of that of the acid system, I am
inclined to think them connected with certain changes which
the pairs functioning in the pile undergo with regard to their
conducting powei . though I am not able as yet to assign the
ultimate cause of the modifications in question. There can,
however, hardly be entertained a doubt about the occurrence
of such changes ; and to prove the correctness of the assertion,
I have only to mention iron, which being in its peculiar con
dition, proves to be a very bad current-conductor, compared
to what it is in this respect when in its ordinary state.
   Dr. Faraday, in his comments upon myfirst letter addressed
to him, (L. & E. Phil. Mag., vol. ix. p. 60.) says that the voltaic
relation of inactive iron to platina afforded a decisive proof,
that contact of itself, independent of chemical action, is inca

                Views ofthe Theory of Galvanism.                167
 pable of producing current-electricity. I myself have drawn
 a similar conclusion from a series of facts, which I made known
 through the Phil. Mag. some time ago.
    Fechner now asserts that the phenomena alluded to do
 not prove the least thing in favour of the chemical theory.
 Although the results of my late researches have, indeed, shown
 (see L. & E. Phil. Mag., No. 74, 1 838,) that inactive iron, being
 voltaically associated with platina and put into nitric acid, pro
 duces a weak current, which, as it seems, is quite independent
 of any chemical action, I nevertheless maintain that Faraday
 and myself were fully entitled to draw the inference mentioned.
 Hereafter I shall give my reasons for doing so. In support of
 his sweeping assertion, Fechner says that he and Wetzlar had
satisfactorily proved, that the modification which iron under
goes in nitric acid renders that metal more negative than it is
in its natural state. The fact that a highly negative metal
neither precipitated copper from a solution of blue vitriol, nor
 was affected by nitric acid, nor produced a perceptible current
 when voltaically combined with platina, could not therefore
 be considered as irreconcilable with Volta's theory, &c. With
all deference to M. Fechner's great abilities and merits as a
philosopher, and particularly as an electrician, I cannot make
up my mind, as already stated, to submit myself to his judge
ment. As to Mr. Faraday, I do not know whether he is pre
pared to acknowledge the fallacy of his reasonings, but I
strongly doubt [whether] he is. The reasons which determine
me to insist upon my former opinions are as follows.
   The assertion of M. Fechner, according to which iron, by
assuming its peculiar condition, becomes a highly negative
body, has, if translated into the language of the chemical
theory, no other meaning than this ;—that iron becomes a metal
less oxidable than it is in its natural state. Fechner's view
of the case implies to a certain degree a hypothetical expla
nation of the non-oxidability of iron, whilst I confine myself
to stating facts, and the order in which certain phenomena
succeed to one another. But let us for a moment grant the
existence of electrical relations of bodies to one another, such
as supposed by the voltaists; and if we further admit that by
some means or other, for instance, by a peculiar action of
nitric acid, iron can be changed from an electro-positive metal
into a negative one, it is to be asked why such a change is ef
fected by making common iron the anode of a current. Ac
cording to my experiments, iron, whilst acting the part of the
positive electrode of a pile, does not throw down the smallest
particle of copper out of a solution of blue vitriol, and allows
oxygen to be disengaged just as platina does. Agreeably

 168      Prof. Schcenbein's Discussion of M. Fechner's
 to the same experiments, the circulation of the current has no
 sooner been interrupted than the iron is acted upon by the
 copper solution in the usual manner. On using any other
 aqueous solution of oxi-acids or oxi-salts, which in ordinary
 circumstances act chemically upon iron, we obtain the same re
 sults. Now in accordance with his views, Fechner is forced to
 admit, in order to account for the inactivity of the metal, that
 iron by acting as the positive pole of a pile is rendered an elec
 tro-negative body. I must confess it appears utterly impossible
 for me to conceive how the admission of such a state of things
 can be reconciled to the principles of Volta's theory, and the
 electro-chemical systems of our days. According to my hum
 ble opinion, the very reverse of what is really the case should
 take place, that is to say, iron performing the function of the
 positive pole of a pile, ought to become a metal more positive,
 or what comes to the same, more oxidable than it is in its
 usual condition. Is it possible that the same particles of a
 body are at the same time in two opposite electrical states, or
 can any substance at the same time attract and repel oxy
gen ? It is quite obvious that Fechner's assertion implies the
admission of such a state of things ; for the disengagement of
 oxygen from the iron must be considered, according to his
views, as the effect produced by two different causes : first by
 that metal being the positive electrode, and then by its (the
iron) being a highly electro-negative body. For my part, I
cannot adopt such an extraordinary opinion, and must conse
quently consider as erroneous Fechner's assertion, according
to which the peculiar condition of iron depends upon the me
tal having changed what is called its natural electro-chemical
relations.
    I certainly do not pretend to know in what manner a cur
 rent changes the natural qualities of iron ; but my ignorance
on this point does not force upon me a hypothesis so ill suited
to the principles of the chemical theory as the one spoken of
appears to be, with regard to the voltaic-electro-chemical sy
stem which is maintained by Fechner.
   Before passing to another subject, I have still a remark or
two to make respecting the matter in question. If a piece of
copper (in the shape of a wire,) and one of inactive iron are
connected on the one side wilh a galvanometer, and on the
other with a solution of blue vitriol, the needle will be made
to deviate in such a direction as to indicate a current passing
from the copper through the fluid into the iron. Such a state
of things lasts, however, only for a few seconds, the current
quickly changing its direction, and the iron becoming positive
with regard to copper. This change occurs at the very same

               Views of the Theory of Galvanism.             169
moment when the former metal ceases to be in its peculiar
state. Similar phenomena take place, if in the experiment,
instead of a solution of copper, nitric acid (not too strong) is
made use of; but no such results' are obtained, when, in place
of copper, a metal is substituted which is not chemically acted
upon by the fluids mentioned. It is certainly true, that inact
ive iron being put into a copper solution becomes of itself act
ive ; but if the peculiar condition of the metal has been called
forth by repeated immersions in nitric acid of 1 '35, by which
means the highest degree of stability of chemical inactivity is
excited, it can stand rather a considerable length of time
in such a solution before it becomes active ; whilst, as already
stated, the peculiar condition of iron is almost instantaneously
destroyed, if the metal be voltaically associated with copper or
any other of the more readily oxidable metallic substances.
It is hardly necessary to mention here, that copper is che
mically acted upon by solutions of the deut-salts of that
metal. Now if, according to M. Fechner's opinion, inactive
iron be a negative metal, now does it happen that in the cir
cumstances mentioned, the iron changes so suddenly its vol
taic character and turns positive again; and how comes it
that this change of state takes place only in case the metal,
which is voltaically combined with the iron, acts chemically
upon the fluid into which both metallic substances are plun
ging? I account for the change in question in the following
manner. My experiments have proved, that inactive iron by
being made the cathode of a current of a certain strength
loses its peculiar state, i. e. turns active. Now if such inact
ive iron be voltaically associated with copper for instance,
and both metals put into a solution of blue vitriol, the copper
will be oxidized, and by this means a current excited to which
the iron of the arrangement bears the relation of the cathode.
This current must, according to what I said before, destroy
the peculiar condition of the latter metal and throw it into
chemical action. This action being superior to that which
takes place at the copper, the current produced by the for
mer must also surpass in strength the current which is ex
cited by the latter action ; and hence it follows that iron must
become positive with regard to copper.
   As Fechner does not allow chemical action to be a source
of current electricity, he of course cannot take the least notice
of what is going on in the voltaic arrangement described in a
chemical respect, and he must find out some other cause in
order to account for the change of the voltaic relations of
both metals to one another. What this cause may be, I must
confess I have not the least idea of.
    There is another fact that bears upon our question and

   170     Prof. Schoenbein on the Theory of Galvanism.
  about which I must offer some remarks. If two pieces of iron
  wire, one of which is to be inactive, the other in its natural con
  dition, are connected with a galvanometer, and the free end
  of the former first put into common nitric acid, and afterwards
  the free end of the ordinary wire, it is well known from my
  former experiments that the latter piece of wire becomes in
  active, and that at the same time a current is produced which
  passes from that wire through the acid into the inactive one.
  The latter wire, therefore, is to the common one as platina is
  to zinc. Such a state of things, however, lasts only for a few
  moments, the voltaic difference of the two iron pieces disap
  pearing very quickly. If in the experiment described the or
 dinary iron wire be first plunged into the acid, the inactive
 one is thrown into chemical action, and a current excited, to
 which the latter wire acts the part of the cathode ; but no
 sooner has the passive iron been rendered active, than the cur
 rent ceases, or rather current-equilibrium is established. Now
 if chemical action has nothing to do with the production of cur
 rent electricity, why does the order in which our wires are
 plunged into the acid determine the results spoken of? Ac
 cording to Fechner's views, inactive iron ought to remain in
 its peculiar condition, whether it be put before or after the
 ordinary wire into the fluid ; and the more should this be the
 case, that the Saxon philosopher does not seem to admit of the
 existence of any causal connexion between a current and the
 inactivity of iron, making the latter depend upon a peculiar
 action of nitric acid or nitrate of silver on that metal. I
 scarcely need to mention, that the same principle made use of
 to account for the phenomena to which iron associated with
copper gives rise in a solution of blue vitriol, is perfectly ap
plicable to the facts just now stated ; and I should think that,
according to the present state of science, no other account of
them can be given. In the experiments described, chemical
actions and voltaic effects appear, indeed, so closely connected
with one another, that an unbiassed mind can hardly help
considering the first as the cause of the latter.
    I have perhaps enlarged too much upon my subject, and am
really afraid of being chargeable with prolixity ; but as the dis
cussion into which I have entered regards the very first prin
ciple of the chemical theory of galvanism, I thought I could
render some service to science by minutely appreciating the
value of the objections which have been brought forward
with the view of invalidating or rather overthrowing the che»
mical theory.
    Up to this present moment I have considered the definite
action of an electric current, and the fact, that the quantity of
the latter produced by an hydro-electric arrangement is deter

                 Mr. C. Binks on Voltaic Electricity.             171
 mined by the quantity of metal oxidized, as the most conclu
 sive proof of the dependence of current electricity upon che
 mical action; but to my great surprise, I am now given to
 understand that those important facts do not prove anything
 at all in favour of the chemical theory, though I have not yet
 been so happy as to meet with even the slightest attempt to
 explain them according to the principles of Volta's hypo
 thesis. Certainly, if Faraday's beautiful discovery is rejected
 as an evidence, we must despair of finding out another of
 more weight; and I am afraid any further discussion upon the
 subject with our antagonists will prove perfectly useless and
 a mere waste of time on our part.
                    I am, gentlemen, yours, &c.
    Bale, 14th June, 1838.                         C. F. ScHCENBElN.
 XXIII. On some of the Phenomena and Laws of Action of'
     Voltaic Electricity, and on the Construction of Voltaic Bat
    teries, 8fc. .By CHRISTOPHER BINKS. A Second Communi
    cation, addressed to J. F. Daniell, Esq., F.R.S., Sfc., Professor
    of Chemistry in King's College, London. Part the First*.
                          [Continued from p. 145.]
                               Section VI.
'T'O determine the comparative amount of voltaic action in-
 -*. duced in any single arrangement under different distances
of the two elementary plates from one another, continued.
    115. The preceding part of the inquiry relates to the in
fluence exercised by distance upon a voltaic arrangement, in
which the elementary plates are of an equal size relatively;
and it has been shown (84 to 92) that of whatever magnitude
the couple itself may be, so long as its two plates are equal in
size one to the other, the influence of distance is the same as
has been stated in the preceding section.
    1 16. It is now required to find the comparative effects of
distance in any arrangement, when the elementary plates are
of an unequal size relatively, but whilst all other conditions
of the experiment remain the same as before.
    117. The elementary plates may differ from one another in
size to any extent: the zinc plate may be a small one, and the
copper plate be made the larger, and that to an unlimited ex
tent; or, on the other hand, the copper plate may be made the
smaller of the two, and the zinc one be increased in size to an
unlimited extent.
   • This portion of Mr. Binks's Second Communication was by mistake
termed Pan the Second in our last.

  172                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
     118. But in the Instances that immediately follow, the ex
  periments will be restricted to that condition of the arrange
  ment in which the zinc plate is the smaller of the two.
      119. The plates used in the preceding experiments were
  each one inch square (93); but one side of the zinc being co
  vered with wax, was not brought into action, whilst both sides
  of the copper plate were exposed to the action of the acid
  throughout: the total area of the zinc surface was therefore
 equal to one square inch, and that of the copper to two square
 inches.
     120. The experiments to determine the further effects of
 distance are now to be varied by the use of larger copper
 plates, whilst the magnitude of the zinc plate remains precisely
 the same as before.
     121. The set of copper plates prepared for these and the
 subsequent experiments amounts in number to 1 3, beginning
 from the size of 2 square inches of total surface, as in the one
 above, and progressively increasing by the following rate : —
     1 22. Total superficial area in square inches of each copper
 plate.
           2. 4. 8. 12. 18. 24. 32. 40. 50. 60. 72. 98. 128.
     123. Each plate was attached to a wire 5 feet in length, in
 the same manner as before. The various precautions used in
 preparing this set of plates, and in adapting them to their
 present use, have already been fully explained (62).
    124. Now the immediate object of the inquiry is to ascer
 tain what influence is exercised by distance upon any arrange
 ment which may be composed of a zinc plate having a total
 superficial area of 1 square inch, and of a copper plate whose
 area is any of those just stated (122). The relative distances
contemplated range between £ of an inch and 48 inches ; and
to complete the investigation, the acid mixture should be va
ried in strength in the four different degrees used in the for
mer experiments.
    125. A little consideration will show how innumerable and
varied the experiments would need to be, in order to com
plete an investigation which should undertake to determine
the effects of distance under all the varied changes of the con
ditions of such arrangements of which they are capable.
   126. But it will perhaps be unnecessary to pursue the in
vestigation to so great a length. Such results as it may be
desirable to seek for will perhaps be obtained by a very few
observations comparatively ; and as most likely to contribute
to this abridgement, the order of the experiments as they now
follow was determined upon.
   127. The amount of action yielded by any voltaic arrange-

                     Voltaic Batteries, Sfc.                 178
ment will be increased by increasing the size of either plate
of the couple employed ; but the extent to which this increase
in amount of action can be carried is limited. The rate in
which this increase proceeds, and the influence upon that rate
by the different conditions of strength of acid mixture, and
relative distances of the plates, together with some other at
tendant phenomena, are examined in a succeeding section.
My present purpose is to state the fact of this increase, and
not to determine either its rate or its extent.
   128. In the investigation now on hand, the amount of vol
taic action obtained by a small couple of the same magnitude
as those used in the last section, and having its plates at the
relative distance of \ of an inch, is used as a standard of com
parison.
   129. The amount of action given by this couple being de
termined at this first position, in an acid mixture of uniform
strength and dimensions, its copper plate is then removed to
other and greater distances from the zinc, and the amounts
given at those positions likewise determined. But the rate
at which the amount decreases upon this increase in distance
has already been determined by the experiments in the last
section.
   130. It is now proposed at these several distances, to in
crease the size of the copper plates till the amount of action
obtained shall become equal to that yielded by the standard
couple at the first or standard position ; the immediate object
being to determine the relation between the sizes of the plates
required to produce this amount, and the distances at which
they are required.
   131. By way of illustration, let the distance to which the
small copper plate is removed from the zinc be supposed to
be 24 inches ; and that the amount of action yielded there is
(as under some conditions is the fact,) about three times less
than that obtained at the first or standard position. Then by
substituting larger copper plates in succession in the place of
the small one, let it be determined by what size the amount
becomes three times greater, or exactly equal to that given
by the small plate at the first distance of £ of an mc\\.
    132. But it is not yet proved that any addition whatever to
the size of the copper plate, at the supposed position of 24 inch
es, will give an amount of action three times greater, or an
amount equal to that required.
    133. Before proceeding by an appeal to experiment to de
termine this point, it might be presumed that each successive
addition to the size of the copper plate, whether at 24 inches
distance, or at whatever other position the trial might be made,

 174                  Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
 would be followed by a corresponding increase in the action
 of the whole arrangement; and it might be presumed also,
 that inasmuch as the amount of action given by the standard
 plate is reduced from 3 to 1 by the removal from -j- of an inch
 to 24 inches, but to a less extent in the intermediate positions,
 it would require a larger plate at 24 inches to restore the stand
 ard amount than at any of the intermediate positions, or in
 other words, that a copper plate progressively smaller would
 be required to restore that amount as we progressively ad
 vance to positions nearer to the zinc or standard position.
     1 34. It will be of some advantage at this stage, before pro
 ceeding on to the more specific details, to give a general out
 line of the kind of results which have been obtained by the
 experiments entered upon to determine the points just sug
gested ; only premising that the numbers and positions now-
 used must be considered as illustrative merely, and not as
 actual representations of any one particular instance of the
general phenomena and relations which have been thus de
tected ; the whole of which, it will be found subsequently, are
 influenced by a variety of circumstances which could scarcely
 have been anticipated, and which it becomes the particular
 business of the inquiry to detect and estimate as it proceeds.
    This general illustration is given in the hope that it may
serve to simplify and more clearly define the nature of the
somewhat complicated examinations upon which I am now
entering, the precise numerical results of which are immedi
ately to follow.
    135. Let it be supposed that the trials are made in a mass
of liquid contained in an oblong-shaped trough, similar to
that used in the experiments of the last section.
    136. Let the amount of action given at the distance of | of
an inch by small standard plates be supposed equal to 3,
and that obtained at 24 inches off equal to 1 ; then, whilst at
the latter position, let the small copper plate be removed, and
others progressively larger be substituted for it in succession ;
and it will be found that by no increase whatever to the size
of the copper plate, can the same amount of action be obtained
at 24 inches, that was l!iun<! by the small plate at the first or
standard position. A certain increase in amount will be ob
tained, perhaps equal to 2, but in no case to 3, the amount
required.
    But let the same trials be now repeated at other positions
nearer to the fixed zinc plate, say at the several positions
reached by successive steps of 2 inches each, when the follow
ing unexpected results will be presented: —It will be found
that neither can the required amount, 3, be obtained at any of

                       Voltaic Batteries, $c.                  175
  the several positions intermediate between the distance of 24
 inches and 12 from the zinc, but that at 12 inches a certain-
 sized plate will give the amount sought for.
    Proceeding on in the same manner still nearer to the zinc,
 the required amount will be obtained likewise at 1 0 inches and
 at 8, but only by plates larger than that yielding the same
 amount at 12; but at the distance of 6 inches again, as at 24,
 it cannot be obtained by any sized plate that the dimensions
 of the trough will allow to be tried; whilst at the remaining
 successive positions between 6 inches and the zinc or stand
 ard position, the required amount will be readily obtained by
 plates gradually diminishing in size, as the positions approach
 nearer to the zinc, till we again reach the first position of ^ of
 an inch, and consequently obtain the amount by a plate equal
 in size to that first employed.
    137. I proceed now to the details of the experiments by
 which these and the remaining results have been detected;
 and it will be borne in mind, that it is the relation between
 the magnitudes of the two copper-plates—the standard and
 the required plates—those by which the equal amount of
 action is given, and the distances at which they are respect
 ively required, which is the result immediately sought for.
    1 38. As a specific example of this kind of investigation, I
select the following average instance, the details of which
being given separately, will contribute to the better apprehen
sion of the kind of results which are to be more fully embodied
 in the succeeding tables.
    139. The small standard couple, with its copper plate at the
relative distance of-}- of an inch from the zinc, gives the usual
measure of r'(ith of a cubic inch of hydrogen in 85 seconds; but
removed to the distance of 10 inches, the time required is 160
seconds. Then, in the place of the smaller copper plate, and
at the distance of 10 inches, are substituted other copper plates
in succession, and progressively larger, when the time in which
each yields the measure of hydrogen is as follows.
                            Table (No. 7).
                         At} inch       At 10 inches distance.
                         distance.
    Total surface in^j
square inches of > 2.              2. 4. 8. 12. 18. 24-. 32. 40.
each copper-plate.J
    Time in seconds 1
in which each yields 1 „ , ,       160" 120" 1 10" 90" 85" 80"
the equal measure [
of hydrogen.           J
    1 40. Now it will be remer ibered always, that the fewer the

   176                 Mr. C. Sinks on Electricity,
   number of seconds required for the production of the measure
   of gas, the greater is the amount of voltaic action. In this in.
   stance we perceive that the amount is reduced from 85" to
   160" by the removal from^ of an inch to 10 inches, and then
   at the latter distance, that the amount is again gradually in
   creased by each addition to the size of the copper plate, till
  it again reaches to 85". It is still further increased by a
  further addition to the size of the plate; but I here purposely
  avoid carrying out the numbers beyond the one immediately
  sought for, namely, the required number, in this instance 85".
      So soon as that amount is given, I cease to register any
  further results obtained at that particular position ; for were
  the results pursued beyond this point, we should then be in
  troduced to '.another series of changes, the consideration of
  which must be reserved for another section.
      141. But besides that at some distances the action, by this
  addition to the plate, increases to and beyond the amount re
  quired, at others it never reaches that amount ; and when the
  latter is the cas.e, the trials by the larger plates are carried fully
  out to discover the number and the size making the nearest
 approach to the one required. And both the required num
  ber, when that is obtained, and where not obtained, that ma
 king the closest approach to it in amount, are distinguished
  by asterisks throughout the tables following.
     142. Now it is seen in this example, that the standard or
 required amount 85" is obtained (when the plates are 10 inch
 es apart,) by a copper plate having a total area of 18 square
 inches, whilst the same amount is given (at the distance of-}
 of an inch,) by one whose total area is only 2 square inches.
 It requires therefore, in this instance, that the copper plate of
 any couple should be nine times larger to produce at the di
 stance of 10 inches, the same amount of action which is pro
 duced at £ of an inch. But this example gives the amount
 obtained for one position only, and under only one general
 condition of the whole arrangement, though the conditions
 under which the arrangement may be placed are various.
     143. The first of the succeeding tables will contain the re
 sults obtained by testing the operations of an arrangement in
 this manner at each position, within the range of 12 inches
 from the zinc, whilst all its attendant conditions remain uni
form ; and such results being obtained fully for any one case,
it is then required to find whether, if the acid mixture be al
tered in strength, these results will be altered likewise—in
what manner and to what extent ; and also, if possible, to
discover whether there be any other causes influencing the
operations of such arrangements than those originating in

                             Voltaic Batteries,                            177
  the strength or density of the acid mixture, in the relative di
 stances, and the relative dimensions of the two plates.
       1 44. In accordance with this design, the second table will
 show the results of a like series of observations to the first,
 but made under a change in one of the conditions of the ge
 neral arrangement, viz. in the strength of the acid mixture ;
 whilst all other conditions remain the same as before.
                                  Table (No. 8).
      1 45. Showing the total superficial areas, in square inches, of
 the copper-plates ; and the time, in seconds, in which each yields
 the j'ijth of a cubic inch of hydrogen at the different distances.
     Area of zinc plate 1 square inch, specific gravity of acid
 mixture 1-013, the depth 6 inches. Trough the same as be
 fore. Temperature 55° F.
    Dimensions of"!
 the copper-plates ^2        48       12    18  24    32   40 50       60   72
 in square inches. J
  «§       n i ^     •170"     1
  2*          1—      235  *170
 '- 0 S
              1
                 I    365   280 230" 205" *170"               //
 .= 8.8       41      360   300 270  225   215 *205" 270" 245    245" 245" 220
  1 So        6 • " 356     340 3,15 285   275 300 450 •270      335 120 .325
  laJ         8h      390   320 300  285   275 *270 .185 345     335 135 335
  = -£       lo'.g    450   370 335 300   *345 385 675 460       450 400 425
 3 o'SJ 12      .- J  475   380 335 "300  *300 450 670 405       450 400 405
     146. It is shown by the results contained in this table, that
the plates of the small standard couple, on being separated
from one another through the several relative distances of \
of an inch and 1 2 inches, afford the same kind of results as
have already been exhibited in tables Nos. 5 and 6.
     147. These results are similar as regards the alternation in
amount of action occurring at one particular position within
that range, and in the progressive diminution of that action,
which takes place as the distances increase from the first to
the last position ; that amount is equal to 170" at the distance
of-j- of an inch, and to 475" at 12 inches. These results are
placed in the first perpendicular column of this table, under
neath the number 2, representing the total extent of surface
of the copper-plate by which they are yielded.
    148. Then, on substituting at each distance, larger copper
plates in succession in the place of the standard one, we have
the results thus afforded, shown in the horizontal lines of this
table.
    149. We see that at the distance of 1 inch, the standard
amount 1 70'' is obtained by a plate having a surface of 4 square
inches, or one twice the size of that needed at a ^ of an inch ;
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. SI. Sept. 1838.                  N

178                                          Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
and that at 2 inches distance, the amount goes on increasing
by each addition to the plate, till it reaches 170", which is
given by a plate of 18 square inches, or one about 9 times
larger than that needed at the first position, and 4 times larger
than that needed at the second.
          150. But beyond these distances, the amount is not ob
tained by any addition to the size of the plate. At 4 inches,
the next position, occurs the singular appearance of the great
est amount of action, 205", which occurs throughout the range
of plates at that distance, being produced by a plate small in
size compared with many employed in it. This is yielded by
a plate of 24 square inches, whilst others larger and ranging
between 24 and 72 square inches give a less amount.
          151. The same phenomenon occurs at the remaining di
stances, but to a different extent, and by different sized plates
in each. These particular numbers in each column, wherever
the amount sought for is not obtained, are considered as those
making the nearest approach to that amount ; and constituting
as they do valuable data for future reasoning, they are those
distinguished in the table by a star, and by the dotted lines in
the subjoined diagram.
                                                      Table (No. 9).
          1 52. The same as before in all respects, except the strength
of the acid mixture, which is 1'090 specific gravity.
            Surface of the")
  copper-plate in f.                            2   4    8   12   18  24 32    40 50     60 72
  square inches.
   inches
    istance of
  Din                             j
                                  i
                                        »" *55"
            fromcopper zthe
            the         incplatc.
                        fixed
                                        ^      100  60" *55"
                                      I §      130  80 75    65" 60" *55"
                                      4     , 135   90 85    70  75 65    60" *55"
                                    ' 6      ' 135 105 90    85  70 75    75 70    65" *60" 70"
                                      8 a'     135  95 75    60  65 *60   75 65    65 70    75
                                     10        150  85 80    75  75 75    85 *65   70 70    70
                                     12 i=L    155 100 90    85  70 *60   75 65    65 70    70
           153. We perceive that throughout this table the same ge
neral phenomena are presented as in the former one, differ
ing only in degree; an effect which must be attributed to the
difference in the strength of the acid mixture, that being the
only condition of the general arrangement in which any change
has been made.
           1 54. The standard amount of action 55", is here regained
at the 3 several positions 1, 2, and 4 inches distance; whereas
in the other case, it was regained only at the two first. And
the plates so required to reproduce this standard amount are
of a larger size comparatively, but appear to increase by a re
 gular progression, as in the former instance.

                                 Voltaic Batteries, Sfc.          179
           155. In the former case that progression is 2, 4, and 18 ;
     in the latter, 2, 8, 24, and 40. There is a sufficient degree
    of regularity in each of these rates of increase, without the ne
     cessity of making more than a reasonable allowance for the
     imperfections of actual experiment, to indicate that the phac-
    nomena in question are guided, as in every other class of vol
     taic action, by the influence of some fixed law, to which these
    numbers must be considered as making but a mere approxima
    tion.
           156. Beyond the distances at which the standard amount
    is required in this table, we see, as in the former one, that a
    certain maximum amount of action is obtained in each column,
    and by different sized plates in each. At 6 inches, the next
    position, a maximum amount of 60" is given by a plate of 60
    square inches, whereas at the position following, or at 8 in
    ches, the same amount is yielded by a plate of only 24 square
    inches, and so on ; the operations, after we have passed a par
    ticular position, suffering a series of peculiar changes or al
    ternations, exactly similar in their general character to those
    observed in the fifth table.
                                         Fig. 2.
                 a    • ! '•
      •                               a
z •-.'
 11 if1i       1    4          6    8
   c '
         *                        1 »
               6
                    b        i
           1.57. For the sake of still more clearly exhibiting the re
    sults which I have here more particularly in view, I will transfer
    them from the table to the annexed diagram (Fig. 2), in which
    the horizontal line A B represents the length of the mass of
    liquid in which the plntes are acting, being supposed to pass
    through its centre, and the perpendicular line C D its depth.
    At Z C are the standard plates at their first position, and the
    numbers 1, 2,4,&c.on the horizontal line, show the different di
    stances towhich the copper plates are successively removed and
    tried. The plain lines passing at right angles through this ho
    rizontal line, represent the particular copper-plates (in the ex
    act linear measure of their squares), which at each position
    yield the required amount of action ; and the dotted lines re
    present also the exact dimensions of those plates which yield,
    at the respective positions, the amount nearest to the one
    sought for, when that amount itself is not obtained. The
                                          N2

180               Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heal.
whole figure shows the exact relative proportions of the plates,
the exact distances and dimensions of the mass of liquid, on a
scale reduced from those actually employed.
   158. The lines a, a, a, represent the copper-plates found
by the experiments contained in the first table (No. 8), and
those marked b, b, b, the plates from the second table
(No. 9). It is almost needless to remark, that the plates,
though shown separately in the figure for the sake of the com
parison, must be considered as having occupied precisely the
same position in actual experiment.
                            [To be continued.]
XXIV. Researches on Heat. Third Series. § 1. On the un
   equally Polarizable Nature of different Kinds of Heat.
   § 2. On the Depolarization of Heat. § 3. On the Refran
   gibility of Heat. By JAMES D. FORBEs, Esq., F.R.SS.
   L. 8f E., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University
   of Edinburgh.
                 [Continued from p. 113 and concluded.]
                § 3. On the Refrangibility of Heat.
CINCE the admirable discovery by M. Mellon! of the
^ power of rock-salt to transmit and refract heat of every
kind, one of the most obvious and important questions(formerly
intractable) of which it seemed to offer the means of solution,
was the accurate determination of the refrangibility of heat
from various sources, luminous or non-luminous. Such a
determination is of the first consequence to the formation of
a just theory of heat, and a detection of the subtle bond by
which it is connected with the comparatively familiar modifi
cations of light.
   Such experiments have not been wanting. M. Melloni,
in his second memoir on radiant heat, in the Annales de Chimie
for April 1834, has described the apparatus which he em
ployed, and which is figured in Plate III. of that volume*. It
consists of a thermo-electric pile, constructed of a single ver
tical row of elements, so as to be exposed to a very narrow
beam of heat. It was made to move on a sector of a circle,
at whose centre was placed a prism, by which the beam of
heat was refracted from its primitive direction a b into that
cd, (see next page), and therefore produced a maximum
effect on the galvanometer when the pile was at d. The
other parts maintaining the same positions, it is evident that
the pile must be moved into the position </', if the source of
  [* A translation of Melloni's second memoir on radiant heat will be
found in the Scientific Memoirs, vol. i. p. 39.—EDIT.]

             Third Series.—Refrangibility of Heat.           181
heat be now one yielding rays of greater refrangibility. Al
though the radius of the circular arc was (if I understand the
          Fig. 1
account rightly) eleven inches, but little deviation of position
was required for heat from different sources ; and M. Melloni
admits that, whilst his experiment indicates the difference of
refrnngibility, it is inadequate to measure it.
   There are many reasons why such a form of apparatus
must be rejected for accurate observations. I will mention
only the impossibility of obtaining a beam of heat which shall
preserve the same breadth at different distances from its source
(of course, supposing the rays rendered as parallel as possible
by refraction through a rock-salt lens), arising, 1. from the
angular magnitude of the source; 2. from the scattered re
flection and refraction at the surfaces of the lens and prism;
3. from the want of homogeneity of the ray. On all these ac
counts, the beam must have acquired a very sensible breadth
at the distance of the pile, and consequently the effect of heat
must be perceptible, and even nearly uniform, through a cer
tain space. I may also add from experience, that the diffi
culty of varying the arrangement of an experiment, so as to
get a maximum heating effect at the pile, is so considerable,
that no delicate result can be deduced from the merely ten
tative procedure. Finally, the smallness of the variation of
refrangibility seems to require some more critical method of
ascertaining its measure. On all these grounds, it seemed to
me desirable to discover a method in some degree less open
 to objection.
    The phenomenon of total reflection, successfully employed
by Dr. Wollaston in the measurement of refractive indices in
the case of Iight*,:pi£se1&ts the advantage of being (theoretic
ally at least) abruplpii its action, the transition from partial
 to total reflection being (with the necessary exception arising
 from the want of Homogeneity) an instantaneous change,
 amounting in the case of light to many times the intensity of
                          * Phil. Trans. 1802.

182          Prof. Forbes's Researches OH Heat.
the smaller effect. It seemed reasonable to expect, that an
apparatus constructed on the principle of determining the
critical angle of total reflection of heat from different sources
within a prism, would afford much more definite information
as to the refrangibility of heat than any other method. After
much consideration, an apparatus of the following kind was
adopted.
    It is fundamentally composed of a jointed frame, resembling
a box exactly square, ten inches in the side, without top or
bottom, and having hinges at every angle, so that it may be
formed into a lozenge of any degree of obliquity. This is
seen in Plate IV. fig. i, and marked A B. By an arrange
ment presently to be described, the rays of heat are made to
pass parallel to the edge a c of one of the sides of the box,
and to fall upon the prism P, whence, after undergoing re
flection (total or partial) at the posterior surface of the prism,
they proceed parallel to the line a d, and fall upon the sen
tient extremity of the pile at p. Now, in order that this
course may be taken by the reflected rays, it is necessary that,
 supposing the prism to be an isosceles one, the posterior re
 flecting surface a' V, fig. 2, should form equal angles with the
incident and reflected rays c e and fd. It was to effect this
that the arrangement of the jointed lozenge was adopted.
The prism P (fig. 1.) rests on a column O, moveable round
the line ofjunction of the sides C and D of the lozenge. The
column O has connected with it a tail-piece of brass a E
passing through the diagonal of the frame, and preserved con
stantly in that position by a slit parallel to its length, through
which passes a clamping screw b, serving at once to maintain
this constancy of direction, to secure the form of the move-
able lo/enge, and by means of an index pointing to a gradu
ated scale of inches reckoned from a, along a E, to determine
the length of the diagonal a b at any moment, and consequently
the angles of the lozenge.
   A little consideration of this mechanical arrangement, will
show how it is adapted to the end in view. The rays from a
source of heat S, rendered parallel by the lens of rock-salt L,
fall upon the prism P, and after undergoing two refractions
and one reflection, they fall upon the sentient surface of the
pile p. This will always take place so long as the posterior
surface of the prism forms equal angles with the lines a c, ad,
which will be secured by making it truly perpendicular to the
tail-piece a E, by which it is guided, and whicli of course al
ways bisects the angle cad. Now, it is evident that, whilst
the angle end remains small, the reflection will continue
partial, but that as the diagonal a b is shortened, a point will

              Third Series.—Refrangibility of Heal,                  183
be reached when total reflection abruptly commences, which
ought to be indicated by a saltus in the movement of the gal
vanometer connected with the pile. This critical angle will
be soonest attained for rays of greatest refrangibility, and the
calculation of the refractive index of the prism is reduced to
a simply mathematical problem.
    The following is the problem to be solved, viz. : A ray of
light G D (fig. 2.)falls upon the surface A C of a prism, which
has the angles at A and B equal : it falls upon the surface
A B at the critical angle of total reflection; required the. index
of refraction (p) of the prism, the angle of incidence (a) being
given,
         Fig. 2.
    An investigation of little difficulty gives the following result.
                          /         /si
                  I* = V V 1 + (\ cos
    I had a rock-salt prism constructed, so that the incidence
on the first surface might be nearly vertical at the critical
angle of total reflection, so as to avoid as much as possible
 any error arising from imperfections of the surface, or want
 of absolute equality of the angles at A and B; and likewise,
 that within the limits of the experiment, the loss of heat by
 reflection at the two surfaces might be nearly unaltered, as it
 is believed to be almost constant at incidences tolerably nearly
 perpendicular*. This prism, constructed for me by Mr. John
 Adie, had two angles of 40° and one of 100°; and so accu
 rately was it made, that (satisfying myself with a careful mea
 surement by the common goniometer, extreme nicety being
 unimportant) the angles appeared to be true to those quantities
 within a few minutes of a degree.
     By a reference to Plate IV., fig. 1, it will now be under
 stood that the required arrangement is of this kind. The
 heat diverging from the source S, is converted into an ap-
    * See Mellon! on the Reflection of Heat, Annales de Chimie, Dec. 1835.

] 84           Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
proximately parallel beam by the lens L. It then passes
through a diaphragm T, placed on one or other side of the
prism (it does not much matter which, as the beam which
arrives at the pile is always much wider than the second dia
phragm t, placed there to admit only the central rays arriving
parallel to the line a c). The use of this diaphragm is, that
a narrow enough pencil of rays may be employed, to be in
dependent of the variable breadth under which the surface
of the prism is presented to the incident beam. The usual
dimension of this diaphragm was one inch in breadth and one
and a quarter in height, but in some instances its breadth was
reduced to three-eighths of an inch.
   The pile p has its funnel-shaped orifice closed by a screen
with a vertical slit, an inch wide, in the direction of its axis.
But there is a peculiarity in the arrangement of the pile very
essential to the success of these experiments, where the pile
itself is moveable, which I must not omit to mention. Its
exposure to currents of air would render the observations,
when the pile cannot be entirely inclosed by a box or screen,
very capricious in its action. I therefore adapted to the end,
bearing the conical reflector, an adjustable wooden tube r,
containing a rock-salt lens, which still further increased its
sensibility, and totally protected it from aerial currents.
   The abruptness of the effect of transition from partial to
total reflection is far from being so complete as might be
wished ; and this is easier accounted for than remedied. It
arises mainly from the magnitude of the source of heat, the
consequent want of parallelism of the refracted rays, the scat
tering of these rays in consequence of the imperfect polish of
the surfaces, the unequal intensity of the rays in different
parts of the section of the cylinder, and lastly, owing to the
want of homogeneity of the rays of heat from any source,
which the method would serve to measure, were the other
imperfections removed, just as in the course of the total re
flection of light, prismatic colours are successively presented.
   My first rude attempts showed all this very clearly. As the
diagonal a b of the lozenge (fig. 1 ) shortened, total reflection
obviously succeeded to partial, and the change was not only
very great, but near one point very rapid. '1 he point where
the most rapid increase took place, is obviously that where
the greater proportion of the incident rays underwent total
reflection, and might therefore be taken as a mean represent
ation of the quality of the heat. Still the change was too
gradual to enable one by mere inspection to determine this
point with accuracy, and 1 speedily resolved to take the sure
but laborious method of ascertaining at a number of points

            Third Series.—RefrangibilHy of Heat.              1 8S
intermediate between total and partial reflection the intensities
of the reflected heat, and by constructing a curve having
measures of the diagonal of the lozenge (a function of the
angle of incidence) for abscisse, and intensities for ordinates,
I endeavoured to discover graphically for what value of the
former the measure of the latter increased most rapidly, in
other words, where the tangent made the greatest angle with
the axis, or where was the point of contrary flexure of the
curve.
   Plate IV. fig. 2, may represent such a curve. I have
found that when the diagonal of the lozenge was 14'5 inches,
the reflection was in all cases nearly total, or the galvanome
ter was little affected by any increase of the angle of incidence.
This effect, measured by the vertical line A B, was denoted
by 100. When the diagonal was increased to 15'0, the effect
was reduced, we shall suppose, to 90, expounded by the line
CD, at 1.5'5 by E F, and so forth. An interpolating curve
drawn through the points so fixed, would have its greatest
inclination to the axis A X, when, for a given variation of
the diagonal, the decrement of the intensity was a maximum,
in other words, at the determining angle for the predominating
part of the heat used. Such a point of contrary flexure would
therefore determine the mean index of refraction of the given
kind of heat by the aid of the formula above investigated,
whilst the form of the curve would lead to some conjecture at
least, respecting the distribution of heat of the more or less
refrangible kinds in the given ray. Heat of low refrangibility
being the last to be totally reflected, would cause the curve to
droop fastest near the extremity B, the more refrangible rays
would be cut off at the other end I of the curve.
   I lost no time in verifying the general truth of the principle,
and also of the received doctrines respecting heat, by ex
amining the quality of the heat which reached the pile at dif
ferent stages of total reflection. If, as M. Melloni first ren
dered probable, heat of low temperature is least refrangible,
and vice versa; and further, if it be admitted that such heat
passes most difficultly through such substances as glass, it
follows, that alter total reflection has proceeded a certain
way, so that the more refrangible, and therefore more trans
missible, rays have suffered total reflection, whilst the remain
ing rays constituting the primitive beam continue to be re
fracted, the heat thus reflected will be more copiously trans
mitted by glass, than when it came direct from the source.
This conjecture was precisely verified.
    Subsequent experiment still more fully confirmed this result,
 and by showing that during the whole progress from partial

 186               Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
to total reflection, the specific quality of the heat changes, gave
countenance to the view that the gradation is in a great mea
sure owing to the want of homogeneity of the heat, and that
the figure of the curve becomes (as we have said) a real test
of the composition of a ray.
    At the inferior limit of the curve, or when partial reflection
takes place, all kinds of heat are equally reflected (in the case
of light, the light is white), just as at the superior limit, or
after total reflection is complete, the beam has exactly the
same relative composition as before. In the intermediate
stages the composition is perpetually varying. The first rays
totally reflected (and combming with the scattered and partially
reflected rays) are the more refrangible, or those more easily
transmitted by glass. At a certain point a maximum propor
tion of these enter into the reflected beam. As the angle of
 incidence becomes greater, more and more of the less re
 frangible rays enter into the composition of the reflected heat,
 which at last possesses the same qualities as at first. This is
 well illustrated by the following early experiment which I made
 on the proportion of the reflected rays transmitted by a plate
 of glass '06 inch thick, at different stages of reflection (7th
 February 18S8).
   Diagonal  Deviations of Galvanometer.
                                           Ratio.         REMARKS.
  in Inches.     GUn.       {  No Glut.
     14-5        8-3            13-75    60:100 Total reflection complete.
     15-0        7-85           12-65    62:100
     15-25       7-1         !  10-9     65: 100
     15-5        5-5         1    7-85   70:100
     15-75       3-4              5-1    67 : 100
     16-0        2-3              3-75   61:100
     16-5        1'45             2-3    63: 100 Partial reflection.
     In the following experiments on the law of the transition
 from partial to total reflection, the arrangement was that
 shown in Plate IV. fig. 1, and described (with the adjust
  ments) in pages 182— 1 84- ; the centre of the pile p was 1 3 inches
  from the prism P, and the distance of the source of heat S
  from P was 1 2 inches ; that a diaphragm T, whose aperture
  was 1 inch by 1^, was placed in the path of the ray usually
  between P and L near P ; the aperture of the pile was con
  tracted to a breadth of one inch, whose centre was exactly in
  the line a d ; and only that part of the prism was employed
  which was free from flaws capable of producing total reflection.
      The diagonal of the lozenge frame was varied from 1*'5
  inches up to 16'5 or 17'0, about eight observations of the in

               Third Series.—Refrangibility of Heat.                      187
tensity of reflected light being made at intervals. The series
was then frequently reversed, and the mean results of the
going and returning series taken to allow tor any change
which might have occurred in the intensity of the source. In
all cases an observation of verification was made and such
change allowed for. The dynamical effect on the galvano
meter was observed and noted.
   In reducing the observations the following plan was
adopted. The intensity corresponding to the diagonal 14-5
inches being assumed = 100, the other intensities were re
duced relatively to it, and projected, as explained in art. 60.
By this means different series of observations became at once
comparable with each other, and the beauty and regularity
of the curves thus formed, and the almost perfect identity of
those obtained on different days, and with different adjust
ments, give a degree of confidence in the results which is ex
tremely satisfactory. When from the nature of the heat the
effect was very small (as in the case of alum being interposed,
or the source being of low temperature), I have endeavoured
to supply the deficiency by multiplying observations, and the
uniformity of the curves thus obtained has been the test of
my success. Where this test has failed (as in the attempt to
work with heat of 212°), I have suppressed the results.
        Example.—Dark Hot Brass. March 31, 1838.
          Meuure of       Galvanometer. Needle.
         Diagonal at.                                   Ratio to Result
       Plate xni. Tig. 1.                        Execu.  with Diagonal
                          Stand* at , Swingito              = 14-5.
          in Inches.
                              o            o                            :
             14-5         A 0-1 , A     11-0    10-9    100     100
             15-0            0-0         9-3     9-3      85    100
             15-25           0-15        8-0     7-85     72    100
             15-5            0-15 |      6-2     6-05-1
                             03          6-3     6-0 /    55    100
             15-75           0-25         4-6    4-35     40    100
             16-0            0-15        3-15    3-0      28    100
             16-25           0-2         2-25    2-05     19    100
             16-5            0-15 '       1-0    1-75     16    100
             14-5            0-05 j    10-8     10-75
                                    (
    After the observations made as now described have been
projected in the form shown, Plate IV. fig. 2, the diagonal
corresponding to the maximum rate of decrease of the in
 tensity was determined, for the purpose of deducing the index
 of refraction. The following enumerations of the kinds of
 heat employed, and the results derived from the several pro

 188                 Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
jections, will give a just idea of the confidence due to the re
sults.
    Sources of Heat.—(1.) The direct rays of the Locatelli
lamp. A slightly concave reflector was employed. (2.) The
same lamp, with a reflector having the form of a portion of a
 sphere concentric with the wick ; the heat transmitted through
alum. (3.) Heat from the same source transmitted by tw'n-
 dow glass -06 inch thick. (4.) Heat from the same trans
 mitted by opake black glass (through which the disk of the
unclouded sun is just visible). (5.) Heat from the same trans
 mitted through dark coloured mica, by which direct sunlight
 is absolutely stopped. This singular substance I long sought
 for in vain, it is unknown to many practical mineralogists ; it
 transmits green light at small thicknesses, when thicker its
 colour is hair-brown. By reflected light its colour is between
 green and black. (6.) Heat from incandescent platinum.
 (7.) The same sifted by window-glass as above. (8.) The same
 sifted by opake mica. (9.) Heat from dark brass about 700°.
 This is obtained from a nearly cylindrical cover of smoked
 brass placed over the flame of a spirit-lamp, so as entirely to
 conceal it, and which gives remarkably good results, without
 increasing considerably the angular breadth of the source
 (which is greatly to be avoided when a lens is used). It is in
 fact not much greater in size than the helical coil of platinum
 wire used in (6). (10.) The same, sifted by clear mica -0044
 inch thick. (11.) Heat from a crucible of mercury about
 450°. The crucible was about 2 inches in the side, smoked
 externally, and healed by a spirit-lamp. The temperature of
 the mercury which it contained (covered with sand) was noted
 at each observation by means of an inserted thermometer.
    The results were the following :
                                    a ft, or diagonal     ."-. or Index of Refraction
         Source of Kent.          corresponding to the     for mean rays computed
                               point of contrary flexure. by the Formula, page 1S3.
                                          15-49                      1-571
                                          15-76                      1-598
                 . J     . i"             15-65                      1-587
               opake glass                15-71                      1-593
    .                  mica               1561                       1-583
    Incandescent platinum                 1550                       1-572
    Ditto with glass                      15-66                      1-588
          opake mica                      15-62                      1-584
    Brass at 700°                         15-45                      1-568
    Ditto with clear mica                 15-55                      1-577
    Mercury at 450°                        15-50                     1-572
    Mean luminous rays...                 15-8                       1-602

           Third Series.—Refrangibility of Heat.              189
   The preceding results give values of p. all too high ; that for
light is known by other methods to be only 1-53 or 1-54.
This arises from the increasing intensity of the partially re
flected light with the obliquity of the incident ray which makes
the apparent transition from partial to total reflection too ra
pid, and consequently gives the index too great. The true
indices may be approximately found by diminishing these
numbers by '07 ; but the relative results are the most im
portant.
   The results which we have obtained apply, it must be re^
collected, only to the predominant kind of heat in any source,
and that we have as yet got no information respecting the
composition of a ray and the amount of dispersion.
   It is very easy to see that were the mathematical conditions
of the experiment (p. 183) fulfilled, we should be led to an
exact analysis of heat, more perfect far than we have any
prospect of obtaining in the case of light, considering the dif
ficulty of applying the photometer to coloured light. Were
the curve in Plate IV. fig. 2, solely representative of the
progress of reflection due to the heterogeneity of the rays, the
increment of intensity between any diagonal E and another
C, or Dy would denote the proportion of the entire heat in
cident, which lies between the limits of refrangibility assigned
by the diagonal. Thus an entire ray would be decomposed
into parcels of known proportions, between given intervals of
refrangibility. The case is considerably different. Though
the points of contrary flexure agree remarkably well, as we
have seen, the curves are in some cases much more flattened
than in others, where the source of heat is the same; owing
probably to the greater parallelism of the rays at one time
than at another, depending on the distance of the source of
heat from the lens.
   We can, therefore, in this way form but an imperfect idea
of the comparative homogeneity of the different kinds of heat.
Such comparisons can only be made advantageously by com
paring the results obtained in immediate succession from one
and the same source with interposed screens of different qua
lities, as in the comparison which we instituted between heat
direct from Locatelli's lamp, and that transmitted by glass,
(p. 186).
    The facts respecting refrangibility, which may now be con
sidered as ascertained, serve to render our ideas much more
precise in several respects. For instance, (1.) the range
of mean refractive indices for heat is small, all the modifica
 tions which we have considered lying within a range of '04,
 or between 1-51 and 1-55 nearly, which is little more than

190           Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
the commonly assigned dispersion of light, which for rock-salt,
is between the limits 1'54 and 1-57 nearly. This, however,
is for extreme rays of light, which can hardly be said of heat;
the extremes of dispersion are certainly much wider apart
(2.) The mean refractive index of direct rays from different
sources varies surprisingly little. In fact the differences for
direct rays of heat from the Locatelli-lamp, incandescent
platinum, and from a crucible heated to 450°, seem almost
insensible, or within the limits of error of experiment. It is
to be recollected, however, that this is compatible with the
utmost variety in the composition of each. (3.) The effect of
interposed screens in modifying the transmitted heat is very
remarkable. These, so far as I have tried them, invariably
raise the index of refraction, (alum, glass, opake glass, and
opake mica for the Locatelli-lamp ; glass and opake mica for
incandescent platinum, and clear mica for dark heat). This
is the case even with those substances which suppress light
altogether, and which therefore cannot be considered to do
more than detach the heat of considerable refrangibility from
the light which usually accompanies it, not as stopping the
most refrangible rays and admitting the passage of those of
lower temperature. Probably no substance acts in this way,
though some (as black glass and mica, as the experiments of
Melloni indicate) may probably absorb the heat spectrum at
both extremities. It is probably to this source that we must
attribute the very small fraction of heat transmitted by the
black glass I used, being only that constituting the rays of
the higher degrees of refrangibility, all those of low and mean,
and also of the highest, degrees of refrangibility being pro
bably absorbed. (4.) With respect to the homogeneity of
different kinds of heat, we can deduce nothing certain from
the forms of the curves. They confirm, however, a view
which I have long entertained, that heat from non-luminous
sources is more homogeneous than any other. I argued this
partly on the ground stated in p. 1 1 1 of this volume, and still
more from the uniformity of results which I have in all classes
of experiments obtained from dark heat, which often more
than made up for the narrower range of the thermal effect, and
which showed that the discrepancies observed in other cases
were due not so much to errors of observation, as to unavoid
able changes in the character of the heat, (p. 100). This re
sult is the more probable from the size of the source of heat
necessarily used in the crucible experiments (p. 188), which
tends to render the passage from partial to total reflection
 more gradual, and thus to flatten the curve. To the same
 cause may also probably be attributed the somewhat greater

           Third Series,—Refrangibility ofHeat.                191
index of mean refraction obtained for beat from this source
than that of dark heat of higher temperature.
   The following method might perhaps be used with success
for obtaining more exact data respecting the refrangibility,
and especially the dispersion, of heat, than that just described
pretends to give. It must insure a beam of parallel rays of
heat of sufficient intensity and uniform in every part of its
section. A small point of heat placed behind a lens (or two
or three lenses to diminish aberration) is the most obvious
plan. But the intensity would be inadequate. I would,
therefore, propose a platinum wire, heated by one of Mr.
Daniell's constant voltaic batteries, placed behind a refracting
semicylinder of rock-salt*. The central rays should be alone
employed, and the prism for total reflection should be high
and narrow as well as the aperture of the pile. It is possible
that in this case the transition from partial to total reflection
would be so rapid as to make the error arising from the
varying intensity of partial reflection inconsiderable. By
changing the force of the battery, heat of all temperatures
might be employed in succession. The numerical analysis of
the heat spectrum would then take place as described in
p. 189.
   Conclusion.—My object in these, as in former researches,
has not been to group experiments of mere curiosity indiscri
minately selected, but to present a basis for a proper theory
of heat. Without some such end in view I should have
thought the time and labour spent on these experiments in
some degree misapplied. Mere numerical results, though
ultimately of the highest consequence to science, should never
form the exclusive object of the philosopher. I trust to have
shown that though many of the conclusions in this paper are
based upon quantitative results, these have not been the ulti
mate aim of the inquiry.
   The mutual bearing of the three sections of this paper, and
of all upon what (from analogy to physical optics) we may call
physical thermoties, is now evident. ( 1 .) In the first section we
have minutely discussed a point apparently perhaps of minor
importance, namely, the unequally polarizable nature of the
rays of heat. The importance of the doctrine lies in this :
that the common theory of undulation recognises no such
 variation, nor perhaps does it exist in the case of light (I
know, however, of no decisive experiments on this point), with
the exception of the small effect due to the difference of re-
frangibility. Now, having proved in the third section that
this difference of mean refrangibility is from most sources
                  * Such a one I have had executed.

 192            Prof. Forbes's Researches on Heat.
 very small, which yet differ widely in their polarizability, we
 infer that that explanation is probably inadequate, and that
 we must look for a mechanical theory of heat differing in
 some particulars from that of light.
    (2.) This latter conclusion is further confirmed by the re
 sults of the second section, in which is deduced, from the
singularly accordant results of wholly distinct series of experi
ments with heat from those distinct sources, that the phe-
nomena of depolarization differ surprisingly, numerically
speaking, from those of light, whilst in their general character
they are entirely similar. The results at which we have ar
rived oblige us to admit, either that the length of a wave of
heat is several times greater than that of a wave of light, or
that the velocities of the ordinary and extraordinary ray in
doubly refracting crystals are totally different from those of
light ; or else a combination of these hypotheses. Now, of the
two first alternatives, we are bound at present, I think, to
prefer the latter, since we know nothing of the phenomena of
double refraction but from this experiment; whilst the sub
sequent experiments on the refractive index, would, according
to the prevalent theory of dispersion, seem to show that the
mean length of a wave of heat cannot differ very materially
from one of light. This amounts to admitting that the doubly
refractive energy is more feeble for heat than for light; in
other words, that a greater thickness of a crystal is required
to produce a given effect. The second and third sections
also confirm one another in this respect, that the uniformity
ofthe results of depolarization with heat from different sources,
and also of the refrangibility, would both be highly impro
bable did the length of a wave materially differ in those in
stances.
    (3.) Of the results of the third section, I have already
spoken at sufficient length (p. 189). The mean index of re
fraction for all kinds of heat tried is less than for light; —it
ranges within narrow limits;—when the heat from different
sources is unmodified by transmission through diathermant
bodies, these limits are very narrow indeed ;—the measure
of dispersion is considerable but unascertained, and opens a
fair field for experiment; —dispersion is probably least for
sources of low temperature.
    Such are the chief data for speculation afforded by the ex
perimental results contained in this paper: — too imperfect
perhaps in themselves to form the basis of a mechanical theory
of heat, yet such I hope as may be considered to be fit con
tributions towards its construction at a future period.
   Edinburgh, April 16, 1838.

                               [ 193 ]
 XXV. Researches on Suppuration. By GEORGE GULLIVER,
    Esq., Assistant Surgeon to the Royal Regiment of Horse
    Guards.
    SECT. I.— On thefrequent presence and on the effects of Pus
 in the Blood, in diseases attended by Inflammation and Suppu
 ration.*
 IN the prosecution of an inquiry in which I have been long
 * engaged concerning Inflammation and Suppuration, I soon
 perceived the necessity of instituting a careful examination of
 the blood in these affections, and particularly in the different
forms ofinflammatory fever and hectic.
    The result has been the detection of pus in the blood in
almost every instance in which there was either extensive sup
puration, or great inflammatory swelling without a visible de
position of pus in any of the textures of the body : and the
contamination of the blood by pus appears to me to be the
proximate cause of the sympathetic inflammatory, sympathetic
typhoid, and hectic fevers. Since the writings of Dr. Lee, Mr.
Lawrence, Mr. Arnott, of MM. Velpeau, Dance, and others,
the profession has become familiar with cases in which pus has
been found in the veins, particularly after surgical operations
and in uterine phlebitis ; but although the humoral patho
logy has of late years begun to assume some of its ancient im
portance, I am not aware that any writer has attempted to
demonstrate the dependence of the fevers under consideration
on the presence of pus in the blood.
   Previous to a brief notice of some of the experiments and
observations from which the results have been drawn, it may
be proper to mention the means by which I have detected pus
in the blood. The examination was very simple,—partly
chemical, and partly by the aid of the microscope. Those
who are acquainted with the minute constitution of the animal .
fluids are aware of the rapid and energetic action of water on
the blood-corpuscles : now the globules of pus undergo no
change after having been long kept in water ; accordingly,
if the suspected blood be mixed with this fluid, the blood cor
puscles will soon become invisible, and any globules of pus
that may be present will subside to the bottom of the vessel,
and may be easily seen, and their characters determined, with
a good microscope. Ammonia instantly renders the blood-
corpuscle invisible, while that of pus is acted on but slowly
by the alkali; and the different action of acetic acid on pus
   * Read before the Royal Society, Juno 14, 1838 ; and now communicated
by the Author.
    PAH. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 81. Sept. 1838.                    O

 194    Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration. Sect. I.
 and blood is equally remarkable. Hence I have employed
 these agents advantageously in conjunction with the other
 means; and I have also seen pus-globules in the blood, though
 rarely, without any preparation. With water, however, the
 examination is most easy, simple, and satisfactory, if the ob
 server be thoroughly familiar with the microscopic characters
 of the fluids under examination. A good instrument, never
 theless, is necessary; and the admirable deep object glass of
 Mr. Ross is the one I have principally employed. It is hard
 ly necessary to add, that chyle-globules are not likely to be
 mistaken for those of pus, since, independently of other di
 stinctions, the medium diameter of the latter is at least ad'Jttha
 of an inch, which is above twice that of the former.
    Exp. 1. A weak solution of corrosive sublimate was in
jected into the subcutaneous cellular tissue of a dog's thigh ;
 great swelling of the limb took place, and he died forty-five
 hours after the injury. A good deal of serum mixed with
 fibrine was found in the cellular tissue of the thigh, but there
 was no purulent deposit.
    Several pus-globules were detected in some blood obtained
 from the right ventricle of this dog's heart.
    Exp. 2. A large dog had both his tibie injured by some
 operations connected with necrosis ; great swelling of the
 limbs, with violent fever, succeeded, and he died forty-three
 hours subsequently.
    A large quantity of fibrine was found effused into the cel
lular tissue of the extremities, mixed, in one of them, with a
very scanty proportion of purulent matter.
    In some blood, obtained from the vena cava, numerous glo
bules of pus were observed.
   Exp. 3. An irritating fluid was injected into the perito
neum of a dog ; he had great thirst, refused food, and died
the third day after the operation.
   A large quantity of coagulated lymph and sanguinolent se
rum with some pus was found in the belly.
   In some blood obtained from the inferior cava vein many
globules of pus were seen.
   Exp. 4. Two ounces of pus were injected into the left
pleura of a dog, and very carefully confined there ; he was
thirsty and feverish for fifty-five hours after the operation,
when he was killed.
   An ounce of fluid, almost entirely serum, was found in the
pleura, and some fibrinous exudation on the membrane.

   Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration. Sect. 1.     195
    Blood from the heart, as well as from the vena cava was
 examined, and found to contain several pus globules.
    Ej~p. 5. Four ounces and five drams of pus were injected
 into the peritoneum of a dog, and the wound carefully closed ;
he died thirty-seven hours after the injury.
    There were only nine drams of a sero-sanguinolent fluid
found in the peritoneum, and a considerable quantity of co
agulated lymph on the membrane.
    Pus was detected in the blood.
    Exp. 6. Haifa dram of pus, mixed with half an ounce of
water, was gradually injected into the crural vein of a dog.
    Some fever followed, and he refused solid food for two days,
but recovered at the end of a week.
    The same quantity of pus was soon afterwards injected into
the other crural vein, when similar symptoms were produced,
and he perfectly recovered in a few days.
    Exp. 7. Six drams of pus having been injected into the
crural vein of another dog, he was not much affected at first,
but in a few hours became very weak, was stupid, thirsty,
and refused his food. After thirty hours he took but little
notice of surrounding objects, his respiration was hurried, and
he died thirty-six hours after the operation. In the blood of
the inferior cava some pus globules were readily detected.
    Case I. A girl died of confluent small pox on the ninth
day of the disease. There was great swelling of the integu
ments.
    In the blood of the right ventricle numerous pus-globules
were found.
    Case 2. A woman had confluent small pox, uncomplicated
with erysipelas or inflammation of the viscera.
    On the eighth day of the disease some blood was drawn
from a vein in the arm : several pus-globules were found in
this blood.
    Case 3. A male child, et. 15 months, died on the ninth
day of small-pox. Only a few pustules appeared, and these
were imperfectly developed : there was considerable swelling
in the face, slighter in other parts.
    At the post-mortem examination, it was observed that a
small quantity of a white opake fluid might be squeezed from
the cut surfaces of the lymphatic glands of the neck and groin :
this fluid had the microscopic and chemical characters of pus.
    In some blood obtained from the right ventricle and from
the inferior cava vein, pus was detected.
                                O2

196    Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration.     Sect. I.
   Case 4. In a woman who died of puerperal peritonitis, the
peritoneum contained a large quantity of coagulated lymph,
serum, and purulent matter.
   Pus was detected in the blood obtained from the right ven
tricle of the heart.
   Case 5. James Green, et. 27. was admitted into hospital
with an ulcer of the leg. Seven days afterwards, the limb be
gan to swell, and there was hardness in the femoral vein, with
some redness in the course of the absorbents on the inner side
of the thigh. The swelling of the limb increased gradually ;
he had first pain in the head, thirst, and quick pulse ; then
purging, pain in one wrist, with restlessness, incoherency of
speech, and offensive breath ; finally, low muttering delirium,
accelerated respiration, and coma preceded his death, which
took place on the twelfth day after his admission into hos
pital.
   At the post-mortem examination, the large veins of the
limb were found to be occluded throughout by firm clots of
blood, mixed with pus and coagulated lymph, and the lining
membrane of the femoral vein was in many places of a red co
lour, and coated with fibrine. In the iliac vein no such signs
of inflammation appeared, although there was a large coagulum
of blood, which had lost its red colour, containing in its centre
a small quantity of matter resembling pus. Several purulent
deposits presented in the sheath of the femoral vessels, and in
the intermuscular cellular substance.
   The matter resembling pus in the clot of the iliac vein had
neither the chemical nor microscopical characters of that fluid.
   In some blood obtained for examination from the right ven
tricle and from the vena cava, numerous globules of pus were
found.
   Case 6. James Hawke, zet. 22, had a superficial wound of
the tibia, followed quickly by considerable pain and swelling.
There was a very scanty deposit of pus in the subcutaneous
cellular tissue. The swelling of the limb increased and ex
tended rapidly, the integuments becoming discoloured, and the
slight suppuration ceasing. His dissolution was preceded by
subsultus, collapsed face, accelerated breathing, hiccough, and
coma.
   The swelling of the limb was found to be produced by ef
fusion of fibrine and sanguinolent serum. A few pus-glo
bules were found in the blood obtained from the vena cava.
   Case 7. M. Jackson, let. 42, had erysipelas of the face,
which decreased, and wus succeeded by jaundice and effusion

   Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration. Sect. I.       197
 into the pleura. He became listless and low, with accelerated
 respiration, and died six days after the appearance of the ery
 sipelas.
    An ounce of turbid serum, with a little purulent matter, was
 found in the right pleura, and eight ounces of sanguinolent
 serum in the left.
    Some blood was obtained for examination from the larger
 veins, and found to be greatly contaminated with pus.
    Case 8. Sergeant Dunn, et. 29, had profuse suppuration
 between the muscles and beneath the integuments of the thigh;
 he died, after some weeks' suffering, exhausted by hectic.
    The purulent matter was extremely offensive, putrefying
 with great rapidity, and sometimes coagulating spontaneously,
 when set aside for a short time. It was poor in true pus-glo
 bules, but contained a large quantity of flaky fibrinous matter,
to which its opacity was chiefly owing. Many pus-globules
 were found in the blood obtained from the right•ft* ventricle.
    Case 9. Wm. MacLean, et. 1 9, died of pulmonary con
sumption. In his lungs were several vomice, containing pus
 and softened tubercular matter.
    In the blood obtained from the vena cava and right ven
tricle, many pus-globules were found.
    Case 10. A man had irritative fever, in the Marylebone
Infirmary, consequent on a large abscess behind the trochanter
femoris.
    An ounce of blood was drawn by cupping from the neigh
bouring sound parts, and some pus was detected in this blood.
    Case 11. An officer's charger died with vomice and tuber
cles in the lungs, and sero-purulent fluid in one pleura. Some
time before his death his respiration and circulation were
much accelerated.
    The vomice contained pus mixed with gangrenous sanies.
    In the blood obtained from the vena cava inferior pus was
detected.
    The preceding instances by no means comprehend the
whole number in which I have found pus in the blood. In
the detail I have rather been anxious to give examples of in
teresting varieties, than to increase the number by needless
repetitions.
    It is satisfactory to add, that the observations of Dr. Davy
tend to confirm the accuracy of those which I have just rela
ted. He detected pus in the blood of consumptive patients,
after my general results had been submitted to him, but be

1 98   Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration,      Sect. /.
fore I had turned my attention to the state of the blood in
phthisis. He has lately informed me that he has found pus
in the blood in seventeen instances after death, in sixteen of
which there was declared suppuration, and in one none could
be detected : in the latter, the patient died of acute inflam
matory disease.
    Before considering the conclusions to be deduced from the
 preceding observations, it may be proper to advert briefly to
 the nature and use of suppuration, although I shall have oc
casion to bring forward the evidence on matters of opinion in
a more systematic form in a future part of these researches.
    Since the microscopic observations of Mr. Hunter, Sir Eve-
rard Home, and Mr. Bauer, the opinion has often been ex
pressed in this country, that the globules of pus are nothing but
those of blood, modified by the inflammatory process. I be
lieve Sir Astley Cooper and the late Dr. Young came long ago
to this conclusion. Finally, on the continent, M. Gendrin,
without much regard to the observations of English patho-
logists, adopts precisely the same theory, supported indeed
by a series of very ingenious experiments, which have been
generally considered conclusive on this subject.
    I have repeated the experiments of M. Gendrin with great
 care, and although I see no reason to dissent from that part
 of his conclusion already stated as having been long since ad
 vanced in this country, I have not been able to observe the
 phenomena related in his work. It seems not improbable
 that M. Gendrin was influenced by the erroneous views of
 M. Milne Edwards as to the globular structure of fibrine ; for
 M. Gendrin states in one place that pus is but a modification
 of fibrine, although in others he informs us that it is a trans
formation of the blood-corpuscles that constitutes suppuration.
 By cauterizing the web of a frog's foot under the micro
scope, or by elevating on the polished blade of a lancet a film
 of the edge of a wound previously made in the part, he as
 sures us how easy it is to see the blood-particles gradually
 transformed into those of pus. I regret to say that I have
 not been able to succeed in this observation, because I found,
 after repeated trials, that I could not by any means induce
 suppuration in batrachian reptiles.
    With regard to the conversion of clots of fibrine into pus,
some experiments to be adduced in another section of this in
quiry, render it extremely probable that the matter often found
in the centre of such clots in the heart and great vessels, is
nothing more than softened fibrine ; and which, although it
resembles pus in some particulars, presents neither the che
mical nor the microscopical character of that fluid. I have

   Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration. Sect.l.      199
  seen nothing like pus-globules in the softened fibrinous clots
  of the heart ; and the rounded particles which sometimes oc
 cur in softened coagula of veins are probably the remains of
 blood-corpuscles. The conversion of the latter into those of
 pus is extremely probable, and it is equally probable that
 this change may tak.e place either in the capillaries or out of
 them. In the former case, after the stagnation of the blood
 in these vessels which preceded the suppurative process, as
 the clot softened and the pus became mature, it would be car
 ried into the circulation, and hence its presence in the blood
 independently of wounds or abscesses.
    In instances of idiopathic or traumatic phlebitis, the man
 ner in which the pus may become mixed with the blood is ob
 vious enough. There is a class of cases to which the latter
 appellation is commonly applied, which are probably not ex
amples of inflamed veins. They seem rather to be of an op
posite nature ; for I have seen large veins, which had been di
 vided many days before death, containing purulent fluid, al
though their inner surfaces presented no marks of inflamma
tion ; rnd the total failure of this process in them would seem
to have left open their wounds, so as to favour the entrance
of pus into them from the neighbouring parts : and this con
sideration would involve an important point of practice.
    It might be asked if, on a suppurating surface, the pus-glo
bules, considerably larger than those of blood, escape from
the capillaries, how comes it that the latter particles do not
escape as well ? To which it may be answered, that the dis
charge of the pus-globules is preceded by the coagulation of
the blood in these vessels ; and that their closure, where there
is a breach of continuity, is provided for by the formation of
the clot keeping pace with its decomposition during the sup
purative process ; and the blood corpuscle, reduced in size
by being broken down, or by losing its external part, may
escape, and still become enlarged out of the vessels from the
addition of new matter, till it assumes the character of a true
pus-globule : hence its larger and more unequal size and
irregular surface than the blood corpuscle.
    I think my experiments will render it probable that suppu
ration is a sort of proximate analysis of the blood. As the
effused fibrine produces swelling, or is attracted to the conti
guous tissue for the reparation of injury, the blood corpuscles,
altered by stagnation, become useless, and are discharged in
the shape of pus, as waste from the system. Suppuration,
therefore, would appear to be a physiological rather than a
pathological phenomenon—pus being an excrementitious dis
charge—a part of the blood which has become effete and

200     Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration.       Sect. I.
noxious during the reparative process, whether this process
may have been employed in limiting the extent of an abscess
or in healing breaches of continuity. If, however, there should
be a formation of pus in the capillaries, in consequence of the
 stagnation and coagulation of their contents, this pus might
 be mixed in large quantities with the blood in cases where
 there was no declared suppuration, as in some of the examples
brought forward in this paper.
    With regard to the correct observation of Miiller, that the
smaller capillaries have only the diameter of a blood cor
puscle, I shall on a future occasion show, from the result of
experiments, that these vessels become sufficiently enlarged
during inflammation to contain a row of pus-globules.
    If it should be remarked that pus is often formed without
any obvious addition of fibrine to the neighbouring parts, it
should be recollected that this is not a healthy, but a diseased
 form of suppuration ; and the distinction and explanation
are not difficult. In the formation of the unhealthy pus in
question, the fibrine is broken down, mixed, and excreted
with the pus ; and hence the flaky, curdy appearance of such
matter, its proneness to putrefaction, and the cases cited by come
authors as instances of suppuration without inflammation,
and the old term, " badly matured matter." Independently
of the paucity of true pus-globules in this kind of discharge,
with the abundance of flaky particles, its tendency to putre
faction would afford strong proof of its containing fibrine but
little changed in its composition ; for of all the animal fluids,
pus is probably that which resists putrefaction with the greatest
pertinacity. The eighth case, that of Dunn, is but one among
many that I could cite in illustration of these observations.
   It remains to deduce the conclusions from the experi
ments and observations related in this paper.
   The term suppurative fever is not new, and its signification
is probably now extended ; for it seems to be an approoriate
one for the different forms of constitutional disturbance under
consideration. If the presence of pus in the blood and the
fever in these cases be not related as cause and effect, the
coincidence would appear to be no less interesting than re
markable.
   What a field of inquiry this view opens to us ! Henceforth,
whenever a patient is affected with inflammatory fever, or
that low typhoid state which is so generally a forerunner of
death, as a consequence of traumatic or idiopathic inflam
mation, the state of the blood will present an interesting sub
ject of investigation. And this is not merely a matter of cu
riosity ; for the question will arise, whether, in the treatment

   Mr. G. Gulliver's Researches on Suppuration.      Sect. I.  201
 of such cases, it would not be advantageous to produce sup
 puration as soon as possible on the s-urlace of the body, so as
to establish a drain by which the blood might be deprived of
the offending matter. It may be asked also, whether the be
nefit so often effected by blisters, setons, and issues, in certain
internal inflammations,—or by incisions, which cause sup
puration, in inflammatory affections of the integuments, be not
explicable by this theory? It is well known that in cases of
traumatic or idiopathic inflammation, attended with great
swelling and febrile excitement, the establishment of suppu
ration in the part is generally a favourable symptom, the se
paration of the pus from the blood being a sort of crisis to the
symptomatic fever. In small-pox, it is a popular belief that
" the striking in," as it is termed, or suppression of the pus
tules, is a bad symptom ; and this is so far true, that the
worst cases of this disease are those in which there is great
swelling of the integuments without the due formation of pus
in the usual situation. In every instance in which I have ex
amined it, I found pus in the blood of patients affected with
small-pox.
    In the fourth and fifth experiments the pus which was in
jected into the serous sacs would appear to have been absorbed.
A more careful inquiry, however, would be requisite to warrant
this conclusion ; for in some experiments made by Dr. Davy,
the quantity of matter injected seemed to be increased ; and I
have since made an experiment with the same result.
    The absorption of pus being the cause of hectic fever is an
old hypothesis, which the detection of pus in the blood in
cases of chronic abscess and in pulmonary consumption might
be supposed to confirm. It does not seem necessary, how
ever, to assign two causes for one effect. When pus in large
quantities is incessantly forming in the capillaries, it is easy
to imagine how it may become mixed with the blood.
    I have related instances of pus in the blood, independently
of suppuration out of the vessels : this fact appears to be of
some importance, for it must be inferred that the pus was not
absorbed, but formed in the blood.
    If it be objected to some of the foregoing views, that pus
and extravasated blood are often absorbed without any ill
 effects, and that no constitutional disturbance may ensue after
 inflammation and the consequent effusion of fibrine— it may
be remarked, first, that pus and blood are probably absorbed
in a modified state ; and secondly, that a small quantity of
pus, like other poisons, gradually added to the circulation
 may not be productive of bad symptoms. The sixth and
 seventh experiments may be cited in illustration. It is pro

202             Mr. J. J. Griffin's Instructionsfor the
bable that the degree and type of the fever induced by the
presence of pus in the blood may be found to depend on the
extent to which it may be contaminated.
    Of the inflammatory, hectic, and low typhoid fever, it seems
hardly necessary to observe, that they appear to be all com
prehended under the common designation of constitutional
irritation in the interesting work of Mr. Travers, which I had
not read till my attention was directed to it by Mr. Listen
after this paper was written. 'Under the term typhoid, I have
included that grave form of fever in which the vital powers
sink rapidly, as I believe, from somewhat sudden and exten
sive mixture of pus with the blood, as sometimes occurs after
operations on veins, or amputations, or even independently
of wounds. The patient seldom complains of much pain ; he
has, among other symptoms, dilated nostril, flushed face, en
crusted tongue and teeth, restlessness, small quick pulse,
cold clammy sweats, offensive breath, hiccough, subsultus,
stupor.
    I cannot conclude this paper without expressing a hope
that it will lead to a still more careful and extensive examina
tion of the blood in various diseases than has hitherto been
attempted. The microscope may become as important an
instrument to the pathologist, and even to the medical practi
tioner, as the stethoscope. If my results should be confirmed,
it is hardly too much to expect that some important discovery,
particularly in diagnosis, may be made by a patient investi
gation of the blood in many malignant diseases, such as
cancer : it is not long since the urinous fever, as it is called,
was found to depend on the accumulation of urea in the
blood.
XXVI. Instructions for the Qualitative Analysis of Soluble
   Salts. By JOHN JOSEPH GRIFFIN, Author of " Chemical
   Recreations"*
[The salts are supposed to be in a state of purity, and each to contain one
   of the twenty-seven metals, and one of the fourteen acids, that are
   named in the tables.]
 .T^ISSOLVE the salt in water, and apply to separate small
-*-^ portions of the resulting solution contained in test tubes,
or in conical test glasses, a few drops of the test solutions that
are named at the head of each column in the tables, com-
mencing with those on the left hand.
    Pay no attention to the precipitates that are not mentioned
in the tables.
                      • Communicated by the Author.

            Qualitative Analysis of Soluble Salts.                           205
          PRECIP1TANTS FOR METALS IN SALTS.
                                               Solutions
         Solutions to be Neutral.                 to be
                                                Arid.
      A                                          t~
      %         Potash.                          lid           METALS
 V
 s
      B
      E
      <
                              Red Prussiatc of
                                  Potuh.
                                                 £&
                                                            indicated by the
                                                              Precipitates.
None                                                       1 Potassium.
None                                                       2 Sodium.
None                                                       3 Ammonium.
     None                                                  4 Barium.
     None                                                  5 Strontium.
     None                                                  6 Calcium.
           White             Brown                         7  Manganese.
           White|AU 5 are Blue                             8  Iron, protosalts
           White insoluble None                            9  Magnesium.
           White in excess                     Yellow 10      Cadmium.
           White!                               Black 11      Bismuth.
           White             Yellow-Red                  12 Zinc.
           WhjtejAll 6 are White                         13 Tin, protosalts.
           White soluble                       None 14 Aluminum.
           White L excess                      Black 15 Lead.
           White                               Yellow Hi Tin, persalts.
           White1                              Orange 17 Antimony.
           Black,            Red-Brown                    18 Mercury, its
          see Gold No. 25.                                       protosalts.
           Blue,                                         19 Cobalt.
             If boiled, Red.
           Blue,                                         20 Copper.
           If boiled, Black.
           Green             Yellow-Green                21 Nickel.
           Green             None                        22 Chromium.
           Green             Light-Blue                  23 Iron, persalts
                                                             and protosalts
                                                             mixed.
          Yellow,            Yellow-Red,                 £4 Mercury, its
                             But none from                     persalts.
                             the Perchloride.
          Yellow,            None                        25 Gold.
          sometimes slight
            and Black.
          Brown              None                        26 Iron, persalts.
          Brown              Brown                       27 Silver.

204 Instructionsfor the Qualitative Analysis ofSoluble Salts.
                           SUPPLEMENTARY TESTS.
   For Nos. 1, 2, 3, of the metals.
      Salts of Ammonia give the odour of ammonia when
          warmed with a few drops of a solution of potash.
      Salts of Soda held in a dry state in a small blue flame
          colour it yellow.
      Salts of Potash do neither.
   For Nos. 4, 5, 6, of the metals.
      Salts of Barytes give precipitates with solutions both of
          the yellow and the red chromate of potash.
      Salts of Strontian with the yellow chromate alone.
      Salts of Lime with neither.
                PRECIPITANTS FOR ACIDS IN SALTS.
                               Nitrate Nitralc    Chloride            SALTS
       Nitrate of Barytes.        of      of         of          indicated bv the
                               Silver.  Lead.     Calcium.         Precipitates.
 None                          None                              1  Nitrates.
 None                          None                              2  Chlorates.
 None                          White                             3  Chlorides.
 None                                  Yellow                    4  Iodides.
 None                                  White                     5  Arsenites.
 None                          Black                             6  Sulphurets.
 White                         None                              7 Fluorides.
 White All 5 soluble in       Yellow                             8 Phosphates.
 White        Nitric Acid,     Brown                             9 Arseniates.
 White without Efferves                        White           10 Berates.
                  cence.                       Sol. in water
 White                                         White           1 1 Oxalates.
                                               Insol. in water
  White Soluble in Acids                                       12 Carbonates.
          with Effervescence
 White Insolublein Acids                                       13 Sulphates.
 Yellow                                                        HChromates.
                           SUPPLEMENTARY TESTS.
    For Nos. 1, 2, of the acids.
      Dry Nitrates heated with dry bisulphate of potash in a
           glass tube, produce a red gas.
      Dry Chlorates do not.
    Easy method of applying Sulphuretted Hydrogen Gas as a
 Test.—Take a test tube, an inch wide and six inches long.
 Put into it half a grain of sulphuret of iron, or sulphuret of
antimony, and two or three drops of muriatic acid. Insert
into the mouth of the tube a slip of white paper, three inches

    G. Th. Fechner's Justification of the Contact Theory. 205
long and half an inch wide, wetted with the solution under
examination previously acidified. Allow a portion of the paper
to project beyond the tube and secure it by inserting a cork.
Warm the bottom of the tube over a spirit-lamp. The action
of the gas on the solution is manifested by the change pro
duced in the colour of the paper. As in Nos. 10 and 11,
Table I. you have only to distinguish between black and yel
low, and in Nos. 14—17, between no change, black, yellow,
and orange, all of which are easily perceived upon white
paper, this method of testing accomplishes the object equally
as well as the more operose and disagreeable methods in com
mon use.
   Glasgow, May 1, 1838.
 XXVII. Justification of the Contact Theory of Galvanism.
                      By G. TH. FECHNER.*
     HE present memoir was already complete before I re-
      ceived PfafPs late work "Revision der Lehre vom Gal-
vano-Voltaismus" which has in general the same object in
view. As I find that PfafPs experiments refer rather to other
points of the subject than to my own, I think that this paper
will not have been rendered superfluous by that work, but
that the one may serve as the completion of the other.
    The chief arguments which can with any appearance of
weight be brought to bear against the theory of contact, and
in favour of the chemical theory, have lately been brought
together by the zealous supporter of the latter, De la Rive, in
a separate work " Recherches sur la Cause de FElectr. Volt.
1 836." I shall chiefly refer to this, especially since the parti
sans of the chemical theory rest principally on De la Rive's
experiments.       Faraday's late experiments militate not so
much against the voltaic theory as (at least apparently so)
against a theory which seeks for the origin of electricity
solely in the contact of metals with each other, on which sub
ject I shall at the conclusion have occasion to add a few
words. Moreover they have been, together with the experi
ments of Karsten, which may be considered in the same light,
treated of in detail by PfafF; I can therefore pass them over .
at present. I have myself my own opinion on the subject,
which I would rather produce at another time and with experi
ments, than at present with words. As to the following ex
periments, I have frequently repeated and varied them, in order
to derive the expression from facts, not from accidents, from
   * From PogeendorfPs Annalen, vol. xlii. p. 481. Translated by Mr.
W. Francis.

  206             G. Th. Fechner's Justification of the
  which, I confess, I do not consider De la Rive's experiments
  to be entirely free.
              I. Facts which refer to the unclosed circuit.
     1. I have given in these Annals (vol. xli. p. 225) the means
  of proving with certainty the not inconsiderable amount of
  electricity which two heterogeneous metals acquire by contact
  in an insulated state. The supporters of the chemical theory
  are accustomed either to deny the certainty of these experi
  ments, a denial which will henceforth be rendered impossible
  by the application of the methods here stated, or to derive
  the electricity thus originated from friction, pressure, or the
  chemical influence of the air and its moisture. It is to be
  shown that the result cannot depend on these. I must how-
  i-vrr remark previously, that it appears to me somewhat
  strange to allow to friction and pressure, which after all are
  only particular modifications of contact, the property of ex
  citing electricity, independent of chemical action, while it is
  so obstinately denied to the simple contact. Nor has it even
  once been tried to derive thermo-electricity from chemical
  action: the agency of contact is here undoubted.
     That the result, in the above-mentioned experiments, can
  not depend on friction, has already been shown in my memoir
  in these Annals, vol. xli. p. 235, under No. 4.*. That it does
  not depend on pressure, is evident partly for this reason ; that
  wherever the contact is completely effected, which naturally
  cannot take place entirely without pressure, an increase of the
  pressure does not indicate any more evident influence on the
  power of the shocks; and partly, that, according to the experi
  ence of Becquerel (so very extensive on this subject) all bodies
  are capable of having electricity excited in them by pressure,
  with the single exception however of the case, in which both
  bodies pressed together are good conductors, in which it at
  least cannot be demonstrated, undoubtedly for the same rea
  son which hinders the demonstration of the electricity pro
  duced through the friction of two good conductors. But
  that chemical action cannot be the cause of the result follows
  already indirectly for this reason ; that in this case the con
  densation of the electricities at the surfaces of contact would
  be entirely inexplicable, which on the other hand is very easily
. explained according to the voltaic theory. In fact, it is self-
  evident, that, if a force exists in the contact of both plates,
  which can separate and transfer to the respective plates the
  electricities, notwithstanding their attraction for each other, it
   must also be capable of keeping them separate in a degree
   proportional to the intensity of that force.
     * The statement here alluded to will be given in the sequel of this
  translation. EDIT.

                  Contact Theory of Galvanism.                  207
    It would then in this respect occupy the place of the layer
 of varnish of the condenser. What however could, according
to the view that the developed electricity depends on che
 mical action (which can least of all take place at the sur
faces of contact), hinder the transference of the condensed op
posed electricities into one another, and allow of the con
densation even taking place ? Neither can it be a layer of air
or of oxide placed between the two, since this must for the
same reason oppose itself to the separation of the two elec
tricities; further, such a layer must then also appear as a
hindrance to the transfer to the electrometer, where the at
traction for the opposed electricity does not even support the
transition. In the mean time De la Rive has mentioned se
veral experiments, which were to prove in a direct manner,
that contact, without contemporaneous chemical action, was
incapable ofdeveloping electricity. We will at present follow
him in these experiments.
   2. Already, some time ago, De la Rive had published some
experiments, which he now again brings in support of his
view (Recherch.y p. 57), according to which the signs of elec
tricity, produced by two plates in contact in common air, no
longer appear in a vacuum and in dried air. Nevertheless it
is evident from the manner in which he performed these ex
periments, that their negative result is rather owing to his
having connected the condenser made use of with the earth,
by means of perfectly dried wood : now every one may con
vince himself that even in performing this experiment in com
mon air the condenser under these circumstances refuses its
services. Besides, Pfaff has already previously refuted these
experiments experimentally, and with regard to further ob
servations on this point I may refer to p. 20 of his work.
   3. De la Rive, previously, in another place, and lately in
his Recherch., p. 60, has made the following experiment of
importance.
   " A piece of potassium or sodium was fixed in a solid manner
by one of its ends to a platinum forceps, while the other extremity
was held by means of a wooden forceps, or what was better, an
ivory one. If, after having well brightened it, it is surrounded
by very pure oil of naphtha, [steinol] and the condenser be
touched with the end of the platinum forceps, no electrical sign
is observable; while if the naphtha oil is taken off and none re
main adhering to the metal, this is observed to oxidate rapidly
by the contact of the air, and the electricity indicated by the
electroscope is of the most lively kind. The condenser is
scarcely necessary to render it perceptible. If sometimes
some indications of electricity are obtained when the potassium

208            G. Th. Fechner's Justification ofthe
or sodium is in the oil of naphtha, then a small quantity of
humidity has been introduced into the liquid, which had re
mained adhering to the surfaces of the two metals, and which
exercises on them a chemical action which it is easy to recog
nise. Immersed in azote and in hydrogen the two metals still
gave rise to a development of electricity proceeding from the
action exerted upon them either by the gases, or by the
aqueous vapour, from which it is impossible entirely to free
them (?) ; and in proof of this chemical action, we see their
surfaces lose their metallic brightness and become tarnished
very much as would have taken place in the air."
    The result which I would draw from a repetition of this
experiment is this ; that in the form adopted by De la Rive,
it is altogether unfit to give a proof of the one or the other
view, because potassium brought into connexion with the earth
by means of dried wood, does not allow us to perceive either
out of or in petroleum, [sternal] any development of electricity,
which, according to both views, is explicable from the pro
perty of the condenser; but brought into connexion with it,
by means of moist wood, it immediately produces, both in and
out of the petroleum, powerful action, which the supporter of
the chemical view can explain from the chemical action pro
duced through the moisture, the supporter of the voltaic
theory, from the increased conducting power of the wood ; of
the influence of which in this case sufficient evidence is con
tained in the following details. The experiment, however,
may be, in fact, so varied, that it becomes decisive, and in
this form it speaks, as will be seen, against the chemica.
theory. The following is the detail of the experiments.
   A potassium ball was furnished at two opposite points with
fresh surfaces of section : into one surface was inserted the
end of a platinum wire, into the other the end of an air-dried
bar of wood, so that the ball was situated between both ; now
the highly sensible condenser (at times brass, at times copper)
which was connected with the electroscope with a dry pile
described by me in these Annals, was brought into contact
with the platinum, while the wood was held in the hand. I
could perceive by the well-known manipulation with the con
denser either no, or very inconsiderable, traces of electricity.
I then substituted for the wood a cut chip of a quill, and ob
tained the same result. If on the contrary, I held the potas
sium ball in the hand, and brought the condenser into con
tact with the platinum, I obtained a divergence of the gold-
leaf, of remarkable strength*, without comparison much more
   * This was even the case when the potassium ball was not cleansed
from the adherent petroleum ; and I cannot in the least from my expcri

                   Contact Theory of Galvanism.                     209
 powerful than we are accustomed to obtain with zinc; this
 is therefore well adapted to serve as an experiment of demon
stration in lectures. The same was the case if I held the
 bar of wood after slightly moistening it; and in the latter case,
it was quite indifferent for the production of the effect, whether
the ball was immersed in petroleum or not. I must therefore
suppose, that De la Rive, since he obtained a result out of
the petroleum, but none when the ball was in it, produced the
conducting connexion with the earth through wood or ivory
only within the petroleum, but when out of the petroleum by
a more humid conductor; otherwise there would be a direct
contradiction between his and my observations. One may
easily believe, since this contradiction did not escape me, that
I frequently repeated and varied the form of this experiment,
in order to convince myself that on repeating it in various
ways, right would remain on my side.
    It remained now to observe, whether the absence of di
vergence by the use of air-dried wood was owing to the want
of conducting power of the wood, or to the want of chemical
action : for it could not indeed be denied, that, if the po
tassium ball was held with the hands or by means of a moist
bar of wood, their moisture must act chemically upon it,
which also, when the experiment is performed under petro
leum, may easily be recognised by the bubbles of gas rising
from the point of insertion of the slightly moistened wooden
bar. The following experiment, more direct than all which
De la Rive cites in support of his views, proves quite decidedly
that the bad conducting power of the air-dried wood alone at
least suffices to explain the negative result. If I moistened
one half of the bar which stood in connexion with the po
tassium, and also the point of insertion in the potassium, just
as in the former experiments in which I obtained a result,
but held the wood during the contact of the condenser with
the platinum by the half which remained air-dried, I obtained
the former negative result ; nay, this was even then the case,
if while thus manipulating I moistened the potassium during
the contact of the condenser with acidulated water, so that a
kind of explosive, chemical action took place. By this then
the insufficient conducting power of air-dried wood for such
experiments is sufficiently proved, and every one may easily,
and even without potassium, convince himself by substituting
zinc for.that metal, when the phenomena lake place in quite
menu concur in the view of Ohm and Pfaft', that an isolated intermediate
layer of petroleum acted a part in De la Rive's experiments.
   Phil Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 81. Sept. 1838.                P

210            G.Th. Fechner's Justification of the
the same manner if the same arrangement be observed. We
see therefore that De la Rive's experiment, in petroleum, ac
cording to his account ofit, could not succeed, either according
to the chemical theory, or according to the voltaic theory, and
that when it is all taken together, he proves nothing what
ever. I succeeded however in varying these experiments so
that an argument may be drawn from them against the che
mical theory.
   From the extreme vivacity with which the divergence took
place when the potassium attached to the condenser by means
of a platinum wire or even by direct contact (for in effect the
platinum is in this case quite unnecessary) stood in connection
with the earth by a moist conducter, and from the excessive
sensitiveness of the electrometer with a dry pile which I em
ployed, it appeared to me not improbable, that even without
a condenser, by the contact of a negative metal with po
tassium, a divergence would take place. If the brass point
from which the gold-leaf was suspended was brought into
contact either directly, or even with the interposition of an
air-dried strip of paper or linen, which appeared to conduct
much better than air-dried wood, with the platinum wire
of the potassium ball, whilst the latter was held immedi
ately with the hand or by a slightly moistened slip of wood,
there might be perceived, when the gold-leaf had a certain
stability, a very weak, but undeniable, negative electrical di
vergence ; and also a positive electrical one, if by reversing
the combination I held with my fingers the platinum wire,
and brought the electrometer with the intermediation of the
air-dried inter-conducter, or even only a layer of oxide which
had formed on the potassium, into contact with that metal.
 From the numerous and varied experiments, sometimes bring
ing the electrometer into contact with insulated, then uninsu
lated platinum, "without the agency of potassium, I became
convinced, that in fact no divergence of the electrometer
would be produced by such contacts ; the contact of the po
tassium was necessary ; similar counter-experiments have not
been neglected in the following.
   From the distinctness of the signs obtained (which as yet
do not afford any objection against the chemical theory) it
appeared to me not impossible, even by the entire insulation
of the potassium, to render signs of electricity perceptible,
and thus entirely to do away with the influence of moisture.
Under these circumstances, the condenser, for known reasons,
cannot be made use of; on the other hand, it is true that this
difficulty stood opposed even tothe resultofthe application ofan

                     Contact Theory of Galvanism,                      211
 electrometrical apparatus constructed on different principles,
 namely, that the intensity ofthe electricity of two heterogeneous
 plates in contact is in the inverse ratio of the magnitude of their
 surfaces or magnitude of conduction; consequently, ifthe super
 ficies of the electrometer be considerably larger than that of the
 potassium, and moreover the former be not well insulated,
 no result can be expected. In effect I could no longer ob
 tain those signs of electricity which I had previously recog
 nised with such complete certainty, if I held the potassium
 in a dry insulating forceps and touched my electrometer with
 the platinum wire of the potassium. I completely succeeded,
however, even with this fine experiment in the following
manner. I had an electrometer purposely made with the
smallest surface possible, consisting solely of a very thin and
short brass wire, which, as the axis of a surrounding gum
lac cylinder, traversed the perforated bottom of an inverted
drinking-glass, and from which within the glass was suspended
 between the pole plates of the pile of the electrometer a very
small gold-leaf, 2{ inches long, while the electricity could be
transferred to the prominent end of the brass without the
glass. Into the potassium ball was inserted a thin platinum
wire, as short as the convenience of transfer of the electricity
allowed, and the ball itself, for the purpose of increasing
its surface, was pressed between two copper plates which
had been soaked in petroleum, as smooth as was possible
without cutting the potassium ball with the platinum wire.
Thus the entire electrometer might have been somewhat about
double the size of the surfaces of the potassium*.
    With this arrangement I now repeated the former experi
ments in the air, holding at times the potassium with the in
sulating forceps, at times the platinum, while the other metal
was each time brought into connexion with the electroscope.
If clear, opposite divergence of the gold-leaf could in this
case be observed with the most complete certainty ; for this
arrangement, if the combination of potassium and platinum
was not insulated, proved to be much more sensitive than the
one previously employed, and gave without the condenser the
most evident divergences, (opposite by the opposite arrange
ment,) which might easily be increased up to the striking of
the gold-leaf against the pole plates, if these were merely se
parated so far from one another (7£ lin.) as was necessary for
the stability of the gold-leaf. I now placed the potassium
   * I endeavoured to unite several balls of potassium by pressure, but did
not succeed, either from the petroleum which remained attached to them,
or from the oxide which immediately formed at the surfaces of the fresh
sections.
                                   P2

212            G. Th. Fechner's Justification ofthe
disc with the upwards bent wire, proceeding from it, in a
small glass, covered it with petroleum up to about half an
inch high, and discharged the platinum wire which projected
from the petroleum (and which nowhere touched the glass)
on to the electrometer, while I held the glass in my hand.
 The divergence to the side, which indicates the negative electri
city, followed in this case quite as constantly, evidently, and cer
tainly as if the potassium had been insulated in the air. I have
 already mentioned that the counter experiments in this case
 were not neglected.
    The following modes appear to me still to offer themselves
 for the explanation of the result of this experiment according
 to the chemical theory:
    a. Some moisture was brought together with the potassium
 into the petroleum, the chemical action of which caused the
 result.
    b. The petroleum was perhaps adulterated and still capable
 of acting chemically on the potassium.
    With respect to a. this objection has at first sight the ap
 pearance of some weight, since it is true that when the po
 tassium is brought from the air into the petroleum, we observe
 during some time a few gas bubbles rise up from the potassium,
 which undoubtedly are produced by the chemical action of
 the adhering moisture. But this development of gas soon
 ceases ; and long after this had entirely disappeared, twenty-
 four hours afterwards, during which time the potassium con
 tinually remained immersed in the petroleum, (I did not ob
 serve it for more than twenty-four hours afterwards) I have
 obtained the electrical signs in the petroleum ofquite the same
force, as during the development of gas and even in the air ; so
 that this objection thus completely falls to the ground.
     As to the objection b, the petroleum employed was that in
 which the potassium had already been preserved for many
 years without becoming anything more than deprived of its
 lustre at its surfaces ; while if the petroleum had contained
 any oxygen, this must necessarily have produced a gradual
 destruction of the potassium ; and even if the oil had in the
 beginning contained any oxygen, this would certainly have
 been consumed during the long preservation of the potassium
 in it, so that I conceive this second objection also to be com
 pletely refuted.
     4. An experiment on which De la Rive appears to Jay
  particular stress, since he refers to it in several places, is the
 following (Recherch., p. 67.) :
     " I took two zinc plates exactly similar with regard to
  their dimensions to the brass plates of an ordinary condenser ;

                   Contact Ilicoiy of Galvanism.              213
 I soldered to each a brass knob (bout de laiton) ; I covered
 their inner surface with a thin layer of lac varnish, so that
 they might perform the office of the plates of a condenser ;
 I further entirely covered the exterior surface of one of the
 zinc plates with a layer of the same varnish, so that this plate
 was not in immediate contact with the air at any of its points.
 Various experiments were made, forming the condenser some
 times with the two zinc plates, sometimes with one of them
 only and with a brass plate. When the zinc plate which I
employed was that the entire surface of which was covered
 with varnish, I constantly obtained electrical signs much less
strong than in employing that one of which the exterior sur
face was entirely uncovered and exposed to the immediate
contact of the air. Presuming that the electricity, very feeble
it is true, which was developed with the varnished zinc plate,
arose from the circumstance that the layer with which it was
covered was too thin to intercept completely all chemical action
of the air and of the humidity, I successively increased the
thickness of this layer, and I succeeded in rendering it such
that the plate ceased to give any electrical signs. What
moreover proves that it is to the action, even through the
varnish, which the moist air could exercise upon the surface
of the zinc, that the production of the electricity was owing,
was that I observed after a short time a commencement of
oxidation take place on this surface. We see, therefore, that
when a zinc plate, by means of a layer of varnish, is entirely
protected from the action of the air or of those agents which
might exert a chemical action upon it, it does not become
electric in its contact with a brass knob. Still more ; this in
active apparatus conducts itself as a homogeneous plate of
brass. Thus on touching the brass knob which was soldered
to the surface of the zinc, with the copper of a heterogeneous
plate, of which I held the zinc in my hand, I succeeded in
charging it with negative electricity. Or, according to the
contact theory, the two coppers being in immediate contact,
and placed between the two zincs soldered to them, viz. that
of the condenser and that which I held in my hand, no re
sult ought to have taken place. We might obtain a result of
the same kind, perhaps, still more striking, by uniting for the
purpose of forming the conductor the two plates of zinc and
making the two brass knobs soldered to them communicate
with one another. In the theory of contact, the opposition of
these two pairs, perfectly similar, ought to have neutralized
all kind of action ; however, the experiment showed that the
zinc plate, the naked surface of which was exposed to the air,
became charged with positive electricity, while thatof which the

214             G. Th. Fechner's Justification ofthe
surface was covered with a thick layer of varnish became nega
tive, just as a brass plate would have become in the same case."
    These experiments struck me in a very high degree, and
I have repeated them quite according to the method mentioned
by De la Rive, with all the care which I considered to be due
to experiments, which, accordingly as their result might turn
out, would really testify for or against the chemical theory.
 But the issue was simply this ; that the results, after the var
 nishing over of the zinc condenser, to which was soldered a
 copper knob, and after the varnish had become completely
 dry, were not perceptibly distinguishable from those which I
 obtained by over varnishing with the same condenser, although
 the layer of lac varnish with which I had covered by often
 repealed coatings the entire non-condensing|surfacesof the zinc
 condenser (while the condensing surface could only retain their
 thin coating of varnish, as was the case in De la Rive's ex
 periments according to an express statement of his in another
 place) was laid on excessively thick, and with the most an
 xious care that no point of the zinc might be left free. To
 g o a step further still than De la Rive, 1 fixed, in order to
 fay aside the objection which perhaps might be raised re
 specting the chemical action of the air upon the copper, a
 platinum wire to the copper point, ami now varnished over
 even the whole copper point, so that platinum alone re
  mained free. If the platinum was now touched with the finger
  or with a slip of paper which had been moistened in distilled
  water, the zinc condensers became quite as well charged with
  positive electricity as if it had not been varnished. Besides
  we are already in possession of some experiments of Becquerel
  and Peltier (vide Becquerel's Traite, ii. p. 139) which have
  given a result similar to my own. However, in Becquerel's
  a small part of the zinc instead of being varnished was merely
  covered by glass, which De la Rive does not consider as being
  sufficient. In Peltier's experiments this circumstance was
  avoided ; but the action of his apparatus, which was arranged
  in a different manner, I have not been able fully to compre
  hend. But also in I 'full', I find (vide his work, p. 22.) that
  he had repeated De la Rive's experiment quite in accordance
  with his own statement and had always observed the same ac
   tion of the zinc condensers with varnish as without varnish.
     Moreover I have succeeded in deciding affirmatively the
  question, whether varnished zinc in connection with electro
  negative metals developes electricity in a way by far more
  simple than by means of the condenser.
     By the application of an electrometer, quite similar to the
  one described under No. 3, except that is lias a longer gold

                    Contact Theory of Galvanism.                215
 leaf (•!•'. Parisian inches), and instead of a brass point passing
 through the lac, one of gold, I obtain with a zinc plate
 to which a platinum wire is fastened, a constant divergence
 of the gold-leaf to the right or left, very small, it is true,
 but yet subject to no deception, accordingly as I connected
 the one or the other metal with the gold wire, while I held
  the other in the hand ; only by the connexion of the zinc
 with the gold wire the interposition of a moist conductor is,
 for reasons easily understood, necessary ; but not so, if I con
 nected the platinum with it. For the latter case only I have
 employed unvarnished zinc, as also coated with a thick layer
 of varnish (so that even the point of connexion of the zinc
 with the platinum was carefully covered with it), and in both
 cases I obtained results not differing in any perceptible de
 gree (namely, a remarkable equally strong negative diver
 gence). The size of the zinc plate was such that the sur
 face of the electrometer was inconsiderable in comparison
 with it. For the success of this experiment the pole plates
 must be placed as close as is compatible with the stability of
 the gold-leaf.
    5. De la Rive makes of importance (Recherch., p. 66) that
 Becquerel by means of sensitive apparatus, according to the
 method which I have called the second in my paper in the
 Annals, vol. xli. p. 226, with the application of a gilt condenser
could, however, not demonstrate the slightest trace of electri
city between gold and platinum (Ann. de ('him. et Phys., xlvi.
p. 292, or Traite de I'Electr., t. ii. p. 137), and attributes this
to the want of the chemical action of the air upon both metals ;
while in fact, experiments with the multiplier, by the applica
tion of a fluid which would attack these metals, show that
their combination is capable of exciting electricity. To this
we may answer, that a multiplier only moderately sensitive
is without comparison a more sensitive instrument for the de
monstration of the weakest traces of electricity than the most
sensitive condenser; therefore, by the undeniable only very
weak electromotive oppositions of the gold and platinum, for
which their chemical state itself speaks, it is very evident
that the one instrument still indicates an action where the
other would appear to show that none whatever takes place.
Besides, the experiment of Becquerel completely loses all
weight, for this reason ; that he found in the same experimental
series, that graphite and some other bodies, on which no
chemical influence of the air can be proved, are capable of a
development of electricity with gold, plainly recognisable with
the condenser, even after they had previously been washed
in distilled water; and I myself have already formerly men

216 G. Th. Fechner's Justification oftfie Contact Theory.
tioned the development of electricity between gold and silver,
which may be demonstrated in a weak degree even without
a condenser. If, indeed, De la Rive even in all these cases
supposes (supponirt) a chemical action, I have only to observe,
that it must also be allowed me to suppose in all cases an
electrical action, where it car.not be demonstrated, where
further it agrees better with the contact theory.
   6. Biot long ago convinced himself that piles constructed
of an equal number of pairs of plates, with fluids of very dif
ferent chemical action, as water, solution of common salt, of
sal ammonia, of chloride of potassium, of sulphate of iron, in
dicated at the electrometer the same intensity of the poles.
If other fluids, such as solution of soda, showed exceptions
(which become explicable according to the theory of contact
by a change of the metallic surface), these are certainly not
of the kind that can speak in favour of the chemical theory.
De la Rive himself performed similar experiments (Recherch.,
p. 142) and found that piles constructed of an equal number
ofplates with river water, solution of Glauber's salts and greatly
diluted nitric acid, indicated an equal power of electricity at
the insulated pole, where (as was also the case in Biot's ex
periments) the other pole stood in connexion with the ground;
if on the other hand both poles are insulated, a difference
occurs, and the diluted nitric acid gives the weakest, often
quite imperceptible electrical signs.
   In order now to explain the equality of power, (for the first
appearance is evidently opposed to the chemical theory) by
construction of the pile with different fluids (in the case of
non-insulation) De la Rive supposes that there is, it is true,
more electricity developed by the liquids which attack more
strongly, but that always one part of the developed opposite
electricities reunites even through the members of the pile.
But since fluids of stronger chemical action possess in general
also a better conducting power, they would allow of a quicker
reunion, and with this would be explained how the free portion
of electricity is not stronger with them than with fluids which
act less powerfully. Disregarding however other objections
which might easily be raised against this view, it were yet
very curious, if this compensation in the various fluids should
amount exactly to the equality of the actions, and the more
so, since the conducting power of the fluid members of the
pile also depends in some degree on their dimensions ; conse
quently the compensation could only be exact with one single
thickness of the fluid layers. With the theory of contact the
 equality of the intensity of non-insulated piles in the con
 struction with various fluids (in so far as they do not charge

                   Mr. Graves on Cubic Equations.                        217
their metallic surfaces) proceeds as a natural consequence
without the aid of any hypotheses. The various action of the
insulated pile is still enigmatic, but might possibly depend on
this, that with a bad conducting fluid the amount of conduc
tion of the pile becomes greater, since then the electricity
probably penetrates even between fluid and metallic surface,
which might be less the case if the conducting power of the
fluid approached more to that of the metal; a subject more
over on which special experiments are still desirable.
                              [To be continued.]
XXVIII. A New and General Solution of Cubic Equations.
   By JOHN T. GRAVEs, of the Inner Temple, Esq., M.A.*
T N the ordinary books of algebra, (so far, at least, as my
*- limited acquaintance with them extends,) where cubic equa
tions are discussed, the cases of real coefficients only are con
sidered, and different methods of solution are given in order
to effect the separation between the constituentsf of the roots
in different cases. I have obtained a symmetrical solution
of the equation
                x* + (x+S -l^x + P+S^-iv** 0                              (1.)
which presents the constituents of x in an explicit form in all
cases. This is all that is wanted, for the solution of a cubic
equation of the general form.
                           + «4+ V-l /S4 = 0                              (2.)
may easily be made to depend on the solution of a cubic
equation of the form (1.) ; and, from the nature of the rela
tion between the transformed equation (1.) and the original
equation (2.),
coefficients    (x the   constituents
                   -f- */j—             (x, X, (t.,arev) easily
                            1 A, /*.+ */~Iv)              of thedeterminate,
                                                                  transformed
supposing the constituents of the original coefficients to be
explicitly given : and if the constituents of .r be determinable,
those of y can easily be determined.
    The limits of this Magazine do not permit an exposition
of my process, which I intend hereafter to communicate at
length through some more appropriate medium. It consists
in an analysis of the following formula for .r.
           ,2              \
x = ~ '-1 7ircos is cos ('-i-s- jj (1        i / /—,3^/3" 7
where p = x+^_iA and q = ^+^—}                          -_ v, and where    the
   > Communicated by the Author.
   t I call a. and /3 the " constituents" of the expression a. + V—l /3.

218              Mr. Graves on Cubic Equations.
ambiguous p* may have either of its two values, provided it
retain at any one time the same meaning in both places of its
occurrence in formula (3.).
    My resull is presented in the following formule, in which
 •v/ and */ denote real roots not negative : cos0~' denotes the
smallest cos"1 not negative : and i denotes any term of the
arithmetical series — 2, — 1, 0, 1, 2, reckoned from 0 inde
finitely backward and forward.
    Let
Then        », = -^Q,V' S,s
                              R2+ -^=-
                                     \/ So*
                                            Q.R,
    From the preceding formule it would be easy, did the size
of the page permit, to write out at full length a solution for x
in immediate terms of x, A, /*, v. The relations inter sc of the
mediate functions employed are very remarkable. It will be
seen that 5,, s2, s3, and s4 are wanted merely assign-indicators.
The critical cases where a sign-indicator becomes = 0, are im

      Prof. Graham's Note on the Constitution of Salts.            219
portant. It is also interesting to consider the conditions that
are necessary in order that a root should be wholly real or
wholly imaginary; and to observe the curious manner in
which, when A and v are both = 0, the solution here given
identifies itself respectively, according to certain relations be
tween x and p, with the ordinary algebraical or trigonometri
cal solution.
 XXIX. Note on the Constitution of Salts.              By Professor
                           T. GRAHAM *.
'T'HE author may perhaps be excused in drawing the at-
 -•. tention of chemists to a distinction in saline combina
tions, which is at present too often overlooked, and confusion
thereby occasioned. The orders of monobasic, bibasic, and
tribasic salts, of which the phosphates proved types, have
lately been greatly enlarged by the discoveries of Liebig and
Dumas respecting vegetable acids, and the distinctive charac
ters of these orders are well understood. The best proof of
an acid's being bibasic or tribasic, is its combining at once
with two bases which are isomorphous, or belong to the same
natural family, as phosphoric acid does with soda and ammo
nia in microcosmic salt, and tartaric acid with potash and soda
in Rochelle salt. Water and magnesia, water and barytes,
water and oxide of lead, are also constantly associated as bases
in bibasic and tribasic salts, but never in true double salts, or
combinations of two or more salts with each other, with which
salts of the preceding orders are apt to be confounded.
    But it is too generally supposed, that a metallic oxide can
not exist in a saline combination, except in the capacity of
base, although in most of those bodies which are at present
termed subsalts, the whole or a portion of the metallic oxide
is certainly not basic, but is attached to a really neutral salt
in a capacity similar to that of constitutional water, or water
of crystallization. Oxide of copper, oxide of lead, barytes,
and the other metallic oxides included in or related to the mag-
nesian family, appear to rival water (which is a member of the
same family), in the frequency with which they discharge this
function in the constitution of saline compounds, particularly
of those belonging to the organic kingdom. Thus the neutral
organic principle orcine combines with five atoms of oxide of
lead, according to Dumas, which replace five atoms of water
which orcine otherwise possesses. But it should be brought
prominently into view, that neither the water nor the oxide of
    • Read before the Chemical Section of the British Association, at the
late meeting at Newcastle, Aug. 22, 1838; and now communicated by the
 Author.

 220      Prof. Graham's Note on the Constitution of Salts.
 lead is basic in these compounds, but superadded to the orcine
 like constitutional water ; a distinction which is well expressed
 in their formule, by placing the symbols for water and oxide
 of lead after and not before that of orcine, or in the proper
 place for water of crystallization in the formula of a salt.
    Potash, soda, oxide of silver, and oxide of ammonium, on
 the other hand, are never found in this relation to a salt, or
 discharging any other function than that of base to an acid.
 Hence there are no such compounds as subsalts of these bases.
    In Peligot's late admirable paper on the varieties of sugar,
 (Annales de Chimie, &c., t. 67. p. 113*), he has formed the
 compounds of that principle with barytes, lime, oxide of lead,
 and common salt, and determined their composition with great
 accuracy. Like preceding chemists he considers these com
pounds as salts, in which sugar is the acid and the metallic
oxide the base, and continues to speak of them as saccharates,
although with an evident reserve. But the conclusion is by
no means necessary that sugar is an acid, and that the lime,
 oxide of lead, &c. are basic to it. On the contrary, sugar
being a body neutral to test paper, is more likely to be a salt
than an acid. That the metallic oxide attached to it discharges
the function of the superadded water of crystallization of
so many bodies, appears to me evident from the following cir
cumstances.
    1 . It is separated from the sugar by the weakest acids, even
by carbonic acid.
    2. It replaces water in the sugar, which water can also be
replaced in part by an equivalent proportion of .chloride of
sodium, or by the hydrates of barytes and lime. Now basic
water is never replaced by a salt, although constitutional water
frequently is.
    3. But the circumstance which is decisive of the lime and
oxide of lead not being basic in the sugar compounds is, that
analogous compounds do not exist, containing potash or any
of the strong alkaline bases of its class. No acid is known
which forms a salt with lime or lead, that does not also form
a salt with potash or soda ; but these last, as has been stated,
are never present in any other capacity than that of bases, and
are thus disqualified from replacing the water or magnesian
oxide in combination with sugar.
    The test of the non-basic character of water or a metallic
oxide in a compound, is the absence of a parallel combination
containing an oxide of the potash class.
    The fact that the combined water in sugar is strongly at
tached and cannot be removed by heat, is no proof that the
   • A notice of M. Peligot's researches on this subject will be found in the
present Number, p. 237.—EDIT.

  Notices respecting New Books: Kara Mathematica, &c. 221
water is basic; for many nitrates, hyposulphites, &c., are
known, the constitutional or superadded water of which can
not be removed by the same agency without destroying the salts.
               XXX. Notices respecting New Books.
A Brief Account of the Life, Writings, and Inventions of Sin SAMUEL
   MOBLAND, Master of Mechanies to Charles the Second.
RARA MATHEMATICA ; or, A Collection of Treatises on the Mathe
   maties and subjects connected with them, from ancient inedited ma
   nuscripts. No. I.—Deightons, Cambridge; Parker, London.
THESE two works are anonymous ; but they carry with them
       sufficient evidence of a close intimacy with the subjects to
which they relate.
   The little attention paid by Englishmen to the history of science
in England is not a new subject of reproach. Almost every human
pursuit has had its history investigated, its fragments published,
and its cultivators biographed, except science : perhaps this class
of researches requiring a combination of knowledge and tastes that
rarely go together, may be the chief cause. There is so little seem
ing, so little real, fraternity between the taste for decyphering an
cient manuscripts, and that for pure scientific investigation, that we
hail this class of publications as a real boon to the reputation of
England.
   Of the first of these works, it will be unnecessary to say more
than that it is a succinct history of the life of a man of great powers
of mind, whose life was marked by the usual vicissitudes of the fol
lowers of a court in perilous times, and who was reduced at the
end of his career to penury. Attached to this, is a short and inter
esting discussion of some points connected with the early history of
arithmetic.
   The Rara Mathematica, No. 1 . contains :—
   1 . Sacro-Bosco de Arte Numerandi.
   2. A Method used in England in the Fifteenth Century for taking
the Altitude of a Steeple or inaccessible object.
   3. A Treatise on the Numeration of Algorism; from a MS. of the
fourteenth century.
   4. William Bourne on Optic Glasses; written about 1580.
   5. Johannes Robyns de Cometis.
   We think it unnecessary to say one word concerning the historical
value of these tracts, as their importance will be at once admitted.
We shall, however, on a future occasion give an analysis of them,
and of such others as may appear in subsequent numbers ; but we
may here express our anticipation of their furnishing materials for a
decisionuponsome important points connected with scientific history,
which have been, as yet, but very vaguely discussed.
   Finally, a work like this may safely repose upon its own intrinsic
value, without any recommendation of ours ; and we have therefore
merely felt it necessary to call the attention of our readers to its ex

222                           Royal Society.
istence. The chief objects to be kept in view are, the historical im
portance of the tracts selected for publication, and carefully decy-
phering the doubtful contractions that occur in MSS. of the period
which this collection is intended to include. The present number
being taken aa a specimen, we are sure the execution is in good
hands.
              XXXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                             ROYAL SOCIETY.
                          [Continued from p. 152.]
   May 31.—A paper was read, entitled, " Remarks on the Theory
of the Dispersion of Light, as connected with Polarization." By the
Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F.R.S., Savilian Professor of Geometry
in the University of Oxford.
   The present paper is a sequel to those already presented by the
author to the Royal Society, in which he had instituted a compari
son of the observations of the refractive indices for the standard rays
of light in various media, with the results calculated from theoretical
formule, deduced from the most improved views of the undulatory
hypothesis ; the cases discussed including the greatest range of
data as yet furnished by experiment. The comparison exhibited an
accordance sufficient to warrant the conclusion that the theory af
fords a very satisfactory approximation, at least, to the expression
and explanation of the actual law of nature*. In order, however, to
remove any possible discrepancy which may still exist, or hereafter
be found to obtain, the author considers that further examination is
requisite of the principles on which any extension or modification of
the theory might be pursued ; and such is the object of the investi
gation undertaken in the present paper.
   The phenomena of interference, on which the undulatory theory
was originally based by Dr. Young, obliged us to adopt some idea
of an alternating motion, as well as a motion of translation, in our
conception of light ; and this, with all the accessions it has received,
especially from the investigation of Fresnel, has, at the present day,
been connected by the labours of M. Cauchy and others, with gene
ral dynamical principles, which regulate the propagation of vibratory
motions through an elastic medium. From such dynamical prin
ciples there have been deduced certain differential equations of mo
tion, the integration of which gives the well-known expression for a
wave, involving the relation between the velocity and the wave
length which explains the dispersion. The direct and complete in
tegration of these forms, effected by M. Cauchy f, and simplified by
   • A notice of Prof. Powell's last paper on the subject was given in
vol. xii. p. 367-; where also will be found references to abstracts of the
three former.—EDIT.
   t Prof. Powell's " Abstract of the Essential Principles of M. Cauchy's
View ofthe Undulatory Theory," appeared in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag.
vol. vi. p. 16. etteq.

           Rev. Prof. Powell on the Dispersion of Light.                   223
Mr. Tovey* and M. Kellandf. involves certain conditions; namely,
the evanescence of certain terms, the interpretation of which implies
peculiar views of the constitution of the ether. Mr. Tovey shows
that without these conditions, a certain form of the wave-function
is a particular solution of the equations ; and this form is precisely
that expressing elliptically polarized light. If the absence of the
condition in question be essential to the case of elliptically and cir
cularly polarized light, it follows that all the preceding investiga
tions, which depend on the fulfilment of those conditions, are ap
plicable only to unpolarized and plane-polarized light, and conse
quently the general integration ia limited in a most material part of
its application ; a defect which is only remedied by the supplement
ary investigation of Mr. Tovey, in which, for this case, a particular
solution is assigned. It seemed, then, necessary to show explicitly
that the non-fulfilment of the conditions, that is, the non-evanes
cence of the terms in question, is essential for elliptically polarized
light, as their evanescence is for common light, and thus to exhibit
distinctly the relation between the cases of elliptically polarized, of
plane-polarized, and unpolarized light ; and, again, to remove, if
possible, the obscurity and discrepancy of opinion in which the phy
sical interpretation of those conditions, with regard to the supposed
constitution of the ethereal medium, appeared to be involved.
    The author then enters upon the analytical investigation of the
 subject, and in conclusion remarks that when light is elliptically or
 circularly polarized, that is, when any one of the two component
vibrations is retarded behind the other, then, in the differential equa
tions of motion, the opposite terms do not destroy each other in the
 summation, which they can only do in general by supposing a great
 number taken into account; that is, the number of terms is limited,
 or the sphere of the influence of the force by which the vibrations
 are propagated is small. When light is plane-polarized, or unpo
 larized, that is, when there is no retardation, or the phases of the
 component vibrations are simultaneous, then the opposite sums de
 stroy each other ; that is, the number of terms involved is greater,
 or the sphere of the influence of the force greater. Since both kinds
 of light can be propagated indifferently through ordinary media, it
 follows that the sphere of influence of the force, or number of mole
 cules taken into account, does not here depend on the arrangement
 of the molecules of ether in the medium, but on the retardation of
 one of the vibrations behind the other, or the absence of it, origin
 ally impressed on the ray in the respective cases.
    A paper was also read, entitled, "An Experimental Inquiry into the
 influence of Nitrogen on the Growth of Plants." By Robert Rigg.
 Esq. Communicated by the Rev. J. B. Reade, M.A., F.R.S., &c.
    The author, after briefly alluding to a former paper laid before the
 Royal Seciety, describing the chemical changes which occur during
    • Mr. Tovey's investigations on this subject have appeared, exclusively,
 we believe, in this Journal : see Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag', vol. viii. p. 7-'
 270, 500.; vol. ix. p. 420.; xi. 524.; and xii. p. 10, 259.
     i Prof. Kelland's development of his views will be found in vol. \. p. 336.

 224                          Royal Society.
 the germination of seeds, and some of the decompositions of vege
 table matter, proceeds, in the present paper, to trace a connexion
 between the phenomena exhibited during the growth of plants, and
 the direct agency of nitrogen. The experiments by which the au
 thor supports his views are arranged in separate tables, so drawn out
 as to indicate not only the quantities of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen,
 nitrogen, and residual matter, in about 120 different vegetable
 substances, but also the quantity of nitrogen in each compound,
 when compared with 1000 parts by weight of carbon in the same
 substance. The most important of these tables are those which ex
 hibit the chemical constitution of the germs, cotyledons and rootlets
 of seeds; the elements of the roots and trunks of trees, and the cha
racters of the various parts of plants, especially of the leaves, at dif
ferent periods of their growth. From this extensive series, which is
stated to form but a small portion of the experiments made by the
author in this department of chemical research, it appears that ni
trogen and residual matter are invariably the most abundant hi those
parts of plants which perform the most important offices in vege
table physiology ; and hence the author is disposed to infer, that
nitrogen (being the element which more than any other is perma
nent in its character) when coupled with residual matter, is the
moving agent, acting under the living principle of the plant, and
moulding into shape the other elements. The method of ultimate
analysis adopted by the author, enables him, as he conceives, to de
tect very minute errors, and therefore to speak with certainty as to
the accuracy and value of every experiment*.
    A paper was also read, entitled, " Researches in Rotatory Mo
tion." By A. Bell, Esq. Communicated by the Rev. W. Whewell.
M.A., F.R.S.. &c.
    This paper, which is altogether analytical, contains several new
theorems in rotatory motion, respecting the effect of the centrifugal
force arising from a rotation about any axis, in producing rotation
about another, inclined at any angle to the former ; and also a new,
and comparatively concise, demonstration of the equations of the
motion of rotation of a solid body, its centre of gravity being fixed,
and the body being acted on by any forces.
   June 14.— A paper was read, entitled, " Researches on Suppu
ration ; " by George Gulliver, Esq., Assistant Surgeon to the Royal
Regiment of Horse Guards. Communicated by John Davy, M.D.,
F.R.S., Assistant Inspector of Army Hospitals.!
    A paper was also in part read, entitled, " Researches on the
Tides," Ninth Series ; by the Rev. W. Whewell, M.A., F.R.S..
&c.
  BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.
    The Eighth Meeting of the British Association took place at
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in the week from the 20th to the 25th of
   * An abstract of Mr. Rigg's paper on the germination of seeds will be
found in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. ix. p. 536 : see also vol. xiL
p. 31,232.
   t This paper will be found, entire, in the present number, p. 193.

                 British Association—Geological Society,               225
   August ; the General Committee havmg met for the first time on
   Saturday, August 18th, on which occasion the chair was taken by
   Prof. Whewell, V.P., in the absence of the Earl of Burlington, Pre
   sident ; and the Rev. J. Yates, the Secretary to the Council, read
   the report of the proceedings of that body for the past year. The
   first general meeting assembled in the Central Exchange on the
   Monday evening, August 20th, more than 3200 persons being pre
   sent, when Prof. Whewell resigned the chair to the Duke of Nor
  thumberland, the new President, and Mr. Murchison, the General
  Secretary, read his report, giving, agreeably to the directions of the
  Council, " a general and comprehensive view of the past progress
  and future prospects" of the Association. The several Sections
  were presided over by the following men of science : Section A,
  Mathematical and Physical Science, Sir John F. W. Herschel,
  Bart. ; B, Chemistry and Mineralogy, the Rev. W. Whewell ;
  C, Geology and Geography, President for Geology C. Lyell, Esq.,
  President for Geography Lord Prudhoe ; D, Zoology and Botany,
  Sir W. Jardine, Bart. ; E, Medical Science, Dr. Headlam ; F, Sta
  tisties, Col. Sykes ; G, Mechanical Science, Charles Babbage, Esq.
  The continued progress of the Association was evinced by the num
  ber of tickets issued for members, which, up to the Wednesday
 evening, was 2350, being upwards of 500 more than the number at
 the close of the meeting at Liverpool last year. A paper read before
  Section B, appears in our present number, p. 219.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                       (Continued from vol. xii. p. 592.)
     April 4.—A paper was read entitled, "A Description of Viscount
 Cole's specimen of Plesiosaurus macrocephalus, (Conybeare's)," by
 Richard Owen, Esq., F.G.S., Hunterian Professor in the College of
 Surgeons, London ; an abstract of which will be found in the " Pro
 ceedings" of the Society, No. 57, and also in the Annals of Natural
 History for September.
     April 25.—A paper was first read, entitled, "Notes on a small patch
of Silurian Rocks to the west of Abergele, on the north coast of Den
bighshire ;" by J. E. Bowman, Esq., and communicated by R. I.
Murchison, Esq., V.P.G.S.
    The author's attention was first directed to these strata by Mr. John
Price, of New College, Bristol. They occur immediately south of
the narrow belt of carboniferous limestone, which skirts the coast from
the Great Onnes Head, eastward, to the Point of Air and the Estuary
of the Dee. The belt of limestone is here not above a mile broad,
and the strata dip N. or N.E. At the base of the limestone precipices
at Craig y Forwyn, is a seam of impure coal about a foot thick, and a
thinner layer of bituminous shale with carbonized impressions of Le-
pidodendra ? and a leaf-like Poacites. The beds constituting the
following section are successively displayed between Llandulas and
Garthewin, a distance of nearly six miles :—
    1 . Immediately under the limestone is a conglomerate, the basis
           consisting of " light loam," and the rounded pebbles of
Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 81. Sept. 1838.                 Q

226                        Geological Society.
         greenish, slightly micaceous sandstone, containing a few bi
         valves and joints of encrinites. This stratum the author has
         also seen between Llandeilo Bay and Colwyn on the Holyhead
         road, but the pebbles are there sometimes a foot in diameter.
    2. Thin bed of the same sandstone.
    3. A thick deposit of red marl, containing numerous angular and
         water-worn pebbles, interspersed thickly with shells appa
         rently belonging to the Ludlow rocks. This marl forms a
         considerable part of Ffernant Dingle ; but it alternates with
         a compact marl, and is sometimes speckled green or yellow.
         The beds dip at a high angle to the north. Similar pebbles
          are found on the top of the limestone precipices, and beyond
         them on the beach.
    4. Compact, hard, arenaceous conglomerate, composed of pebbles
          more or less rounded, of liver-coloured and green micaceous
         shelly sandstone, also of pebbles of quartz, and the reddish
          subjacent limestone.
    5. Thin beds of compact reddish limestone containing few organic
          remains. It passes occasionally into a calcareous sandstone.
    G. Near the lower end of the dingle, the limestone rests on a bed
          of very fine blue clay.
    7. Blue clay-slate, finely grained, slightly micaceous, and containing
          occasionally a layer of small shells. It sometimes presents
          obscure indications of vertical cleavage. This rock constitutes
          the whole of the southern portion of the dingle, and in one
          place is traversed by a fault.
     The rill in Ffernant Dingle flows into Melin y Person brook. The
 red marly conglomerate is there succeeded, on the south, by alluvium
 containing slate pebbles. Above the village of Bettws Abergele the
 slate rocks occur, but are greatly contorted; and on the height a little
 further south, and to the east of the road, is a hard finely grained rock
 inclosing joints of small encrinites. Still further south this rock alter
 nates with beds of breccia, containing encrinital and other organic
 remains, the imbedded angular fragments consisting of glossy day-
 slate. A little south of this quarry, towards Garthewin, the non-
 fissile blue slate again occurs, and the author found in it abundance
 of small fragments of encrinites, with univalves and bivalves. These
 fossils occurred apparently in layers, but were much decomposed.
  Similar remains were noticed, by Mr. Bowman, in the debris of the
 lead mines at the Bronhaylog, to the north-east of Garthewin.
     The paper was accompanied by a list of fossils prepared by Mr. James
 de Carle Sowerby, including the following species which have been
 found by Mr. Murchison in the Ludlow Rocks elsewhere : Lepttenalata.
  Terebralala nucula, T. pulchra, T. navicula, Conularia quadrisvlcata ,
  Atrypa affinis, Orthis orbicularis, Cypricardia cymbteformis, var., Nu
  cula ovalis, Evomphalvs funatus, Orthoceras striatum, Avicvla re-
  troflexa, and Pleurotoma corallii.
     A notice " On the Occurrence of Wealden strata at Linksfield, near
 Elgin ; on the Remains of Fishes in the Old Red Sandstone of that
 neighbourhood ; and on raised beaches along the adjacent coast ;" by
  J. Malcolmson, Esq., F.G.S., was then read.

                             Geological Society.                     227
     The country around Elgin ia composed of sandstones, conglome
 rates, and concretionary limestones, belonging to the old red sand
 stone ; but at Linksfield, one mile south of Elgin, that formation is
 overlaid, unconformably, by a series of beds, which Mr. Malcolmson
 has ascertained, by their organic remains, to represent the Wealden
 strata of England, though they have been usually considered to be
lias.
    The following section gives the principal beds in descending order,
the average thickness of the whole series being from 20 to 30 feet :
     1 . Blue clay, containing thin bands of limestone, the lower being
           shelly.
    2. Thin bands of limestone and clay.
    3. Blackish shale, not bituminous, 1 to 2 feet.
    4. Compact grey limestone, without shells, in layers separated by
           clay, 4 feet.
    5. Laminated green clay, with a network of fibrous carbonate of
           lime.
    6. Red, sandy, calcareous marl, abounding with 1-olled pebbles of
          granite, gneiss, &c., also angular fragments of the fine
          grained yellow and grey sandstone forming the hills to the
          west, but the geological position of which is not yet ascer
          tained.
    Cornstone of the old red sandstone in unconformable position.
    The fossils are principally found in the lower bands of the top bed.
They are rarely well preserved, and cannot be separated from the
rock. The species are few in number, but abundant in individuals ;
and one species of Cyclas is undistinguishable from the C. media of
Sussex, found also by Prof. Sedgwick and Mr. Murchison in the
Isle of Skye : there is likewise an Avicula, which agrees with one
found in the Purbeck strata at Swanwich. Mr. Malcolmson procured
also fragments of an Aslarte and a Venus, and a microscopic univalve.
The clay below this shelly limestone is full of the valves of a new,
round species of Cypris. The author also obtained teeth and scales
of fishes ; and the Rev. G. Gordon has found a Saurian bone.
    Fossils of the same description have been recently discovered by
that gentleman at Lhanbryde, three miles to the east of Linksfield ;
and in a micaceous white sandstone, he has procured a large Pinna,
which Mr. James Sowerby has identified with a species found in the
Portland sand of England. In April, 1832, Mr. Gordon communi
cated to the Society a notice of the discovery in a dark clay*, pene
trated while draining the Lake of Spynie, of the Turritella muricata of
the Coral Rag. Mr. Malcolmson, therefore, hopes that many members
of the series above the old red sandstone, not yet known to exist south
of the Murray Frith, will be discovered by the practical geologists
resident in that district.
    Mr. Martin, of the Anderson Institution, has recently discovered
in a bed of calciferous conglomerate, near Elgin, and supposed by
Mr. Gordon to represent the old red sandstone of Clasbennie in
    * Proceedings, vol. i. p. 394; or Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. i.
 p. 227.
                                   Q2

228                        Geological Society.
Perthshire, scales, teeth, and bones of fishes ; and, by comparing these
 remains with a magnificent specimen of a fish from Clasbennie, in Mr.
 Murchison's possession, Mr. Mulcolmson has ascertained this suppo
 sition to be correct. A doubt, therefore, which formerly existed re
 specting the age of the conglomerate, is now removed.
    The paper concluded with an account of eleven ancient beaches on
 the coast, rising above each other, and from one of which, 15 feet
 above high-water mark, and cut through in draining Loch Spynie,
 Mr. Malcolmson procured twelve species of existing marine tes-
tacea.
    A paper, " On the Origin of the Limestones of Devonshire," by
 Robert Alfred Cloyne Austen, Esq., F.G.S., was afterwards read.
    The object of the paper is not to account for the origin of calca
 reous matter, or the means by which marine animals derive it from
 the surrounding medium, but to show how far the limestones of
 South Devonshire may have been produced by polypi.
    These limestones are stated by the author to occur, in nearly every
instance, in the immediate vicinity of volcanic disturbances, and to
 be partly included in the slates and sandstones, and partly to rest
 upon them. To the former belong the broad band extending from
 Staple Hill to Dean Prior, the minor bands in the neighbourhood of
 Hempstone and Totness, and all those which occur beyond the Dart;
 also the limestones of Newton and Torbay. They are said to be
 less pure and more slaty than the overlying limestones, and to be
frequently separated by seams of shale. Transverse sections of these
bands show, that the strata in some cases become thinner as they
descend, and that the partings of shale increase, as near Stavertoo
in the valley of the Dart, and at Staple Hill ; but that in other in
stances, as between Newton and Totness, the strata instead of fining
 off end abruptly upon the slate, and are covered in the direction of
the dip by similar slates. The strata are always inclined, but they
invariably form a table-land at the surface. This inclined position
 the author conceives is not due to dislocation, but to the beds having
been deposited at the angle which they now present ; and he illu
 strated his opinion, by a section between three andfour miles in length,
through the parishes of Pegwell, Denbury, and Abbots Kerswell, a
remarkably level country. The bands of limestone dip 40°, but are
 nowhere more than 150 feet thick, and they all contain the same de
 scription of organic remains. If the bands were deposited horizon
tally, and the most recent nearly at a level with the surface of the
ancient ocean, then the lower beds, the author says, would have been
placed at a depth of nearly three miles, although the organic remains
prove that all the beds were formed under precisely similar condi
tions.
   In the structure of the Devonshire limestones, however, Mr. Austen
considers that he has discovered evidences of an origin similar to that
of modern coral reefs, and which will explain their inclined position.
At Ogwell Park the limestone forms a horizontal capping to the in
clined strata; and at Bradley rests conformablyagainst a ridge of slate
the basset edge of each bed rising to the level of the crest of the ridge.

                            Geological Society.                         229
 This structure, Mr. Austen states, agrees with that of the coral reefs
 in the Southern Ocean, where the polypi raise their habitations on the
 flat summits or sides of submarine hills, to a level with thesurface of the
 water. The stratified arrangement of the calcareous masses he consi
 ders may be explained by the occasional deposition of sedimentary mat
 ter, which might interrupt, for a time, the labours of the polypus ; and
 thus a series of beds would be produced varying in thickness accord
 ing to the recurrence, at shorter or longer intervals, of interfering
 agents, each bed rising successively to the surface level of the water.
 If the deposition of sedimentary matter were great, then the polypi
 would be destroyed, and the reef would become encased in a mecha
nical accumulation. In further proof of the limestone of Devonshire
having been coral reefs, Mr. Austen adduced the great abundance of
zoophytes found on the surface of the lower strata, imbedded in the
layers of sand which separate the beds ; and, he added, that their
absence in other parts, especially in the interior of the bands, is no
objection to his view of tie origin of the limestone, because, in re
cent reefs, all traces of organic structure are frequently obliterated.
    May 9.—A communication by Dr. Black, F.G.S., was first read,
" On a fossil stem of a Tree recently discovered near Bolton-le-
Moor."
   The rock in which this fossil was found, occurs in the middle of the
coal-measures, about 50 yards beneath a six-feet bed of coal, and it
rests upon another bed four feet thick. It consists of three strata of
argillaceous sandstone dipping from 15° to 18° to the south-west, and
amounting in all to about 40 feet in thickness. The upper portion of the
fossil stem was discovered about thirty feet beneath the surface of the
rock, and the lower end extended to within 5 or 10 feet of the
subjacent bed of coal. It was inclined 18° to north-east, or in an
opposite direction to the sandstone strata ; and, when first laid open,
it appears to have been about 30 feet in length, but at the tune it
was examined by Dr. Black only 12 feet remained in situ. The
upper end of this portion was 15 inches in diameter, and the lower
9 inches. The whole of the exterior of the stem was singularly
striated, and irregularly furrowed, as if by compression ; and it was
coated with a layer of coal, which evidently occupied the place of the
bark. The interior of the stem is stated to be composed of a dark,
hard, argillo-ferruginous sandstone, having a specific gravity of 2'9.
A Sternbergia, about an inch in diameter, extended along the whole
length of the stem, and in some parts appeared to be half imbedded
in a groove in it. This connexion of the two plants was Dr. Black's
principal object in making the communication to the Society, not
having previously observed a similar occurrence, nor having heard
that it had been noticed elsewhere by other collectors. He is of
opinion that the Sternbergia was not accidentally allocated with the
larger stem, but that it was, while living, a parasite, and in this
respect resembled the mighty creepers of the existing tropical
regions.
   A paper was next read, " On the Distribution of Organic Remains
in part of the Oolitic Series on the coast of Yorkshire ; " by Mr.
Williamson, Curator of the Natural History Society of Manchester.

230                          .Geological Society.
   In former communications* Mr.Williamson explained the vertical
range of organic remains in the Lias and inferior and great oolites, and
in this he showed their distribution in the upper sandstone and shale,
the comhrash, the Kelloway Rock, and the Oxford Clay.
   The upper sandstonesand shales vary considerably in their characters,
but they consist of three principal divisions, the highest and lowest
being composed of sandstones sometimes ferruginous, and the middle
one of clays and shales. The principal localities for the fossils are on
the north side of Scalby Beck, near Scarborough, and Burniston Bay.
The most characteristic plants are Pecopteris Murrayana, Cyclopterii
digitata, and Otopteris obtusa ; but remains of Cycadecc and Equiseta
also occur. The list of plants is much smaller than that generally
given, in consequence of Mr. Williamson having removed, to the great
oolite, a bed generally considered as belonging to the upper sand
stones.
    Cornbrash.—Tins formation seldom exceeds five feet in thickness,
and in Cayton Bay consists of the following strata in descending
order :
          Fissile oolite                           6 inches.
          Softer rock, sometimes ironshot. . 2 feet.
          Hard ironshot rock                       2 feet.
         Blue clay, from                           3 inches to 4 feet.
    The fossils contained in the fissile upper bed, are chiefly Terebra-
tula ovoides, T. obsoleta, Ostrea tdulina, and 0. Marshii. The greater
portion of the organic remains are found towards the middle of the de
posit, the following being the most abundant : Ammonites Herveyi,
 Ostrea Marshii, Plagiostoma rigidulum, P. interstinctum, Trigonia
clavata, T. costata, Cardium citrinoideum, Unio peregrinus, Amphidesma
decurtatum, A. securiforme, Mya literata, and Clypeus orbicularis.
Twenty other species also occur, but less numerously. In the bed of
clay, remains of a small Astacus (?) are obtained, also a shell resem
bling an Unio, and an undescribed Belemnite. Thirteen of the species
found in the cornbrash are stated to exist also in the great oolite of
Yorkshire, and nine in the coralline or Oxford oolite.
    Kelloway Rock.—This deposit consists of soft sandstones, some
times calcareous, but towards the top it is occasionally very ferrugi
nous ; and it varies in thickness from 35 to 70 feet. The fossils are
numerous and highly characteristic, particularly the Ammonites.
The ferruginous bed is full of organic remains, consisting chiefly of
Belemnites abbreviatus, B. tornatilis. Ammonites Calloviencis, A. sub-
lavis, A. Kb'nigi, A. Sutherlandete, Ostrea Marshii, Gryphea dila-
tata, ft. The most abundant species in the sandstones are, Ammo
nites flexicostalus, A. subltevis, A. gemmatus, A. Calloviencis, A. per-
armatus, A. ichthyodorsus (W.), A. gamma (W.), A. rotifer (W.),
A. oblisus (W.), Belemnites abbreviatus, B. tornatilis, Turbo sulcosto-
mus, Terebratula ornithocephala, T. socialis, Gryphtea dilatata, Ostrea
Marshii, Avicula Braamburiensis, A. expansa, Lucina lyrata, Ampki-
desma recurvum : 1 8 other species of testacea occur, though less abun-
   • Proceedings, vol. ii., pp. 82, 429 ; or Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag.
vol. v. p. 222., vol. x. p. 137. i Geol. Trans. Sec. Ser. vol. v. Part I., p. 223,
et teq.

                          Geological Society.                        231
dantly. Five species are stated to be common to the Kelloway rock
and the combrash, and ten to the Kelloway rock and the coralline
oolite. Remains of fishes and of Ichthyosauri and Plesiosauri also
occur in the deposit.
   Oxford Clay.—This great argillaceous formation is about 130 feet
thick, and consists chiefly of fissile shales, but towards the upper part
it becomes sandy. Fossils are comparatively rare in it, and are con
fined to the lower part, the only shell discovered in the upper by Mr.
Williamson being Pinna lanceolata. The characteristic fossils are
Ammonites Vernoni, A. cristatus, A. athleta, A. occulatus,Belemnites
gracilis, Nucula nuda, N. elliptica, Pinna mitis, Astarte lurida.A. ca-
rinain. Avicula expansa. The bed resting on the Kelloway rock is
characterised by Belemnites abbreviates and Gryphtea bullata.
   In future communications, the author purposes to illustrate the
distribution of organic remains in the higher oolitic strata of the
Yorkshire coast.
   A paper was afterwards read, " On the State in which Animal
Matter is usually found in Fossils ;" by Mr. Alfred Smee, Student
of King's College, London, and communicated by Prof. Royle, M.D.,
F.G.S.
   The author first describes briefly, the composition of those parts
of recent animals capable of being preserved in a fossil state ; and
then proceeds to detail his investigations into the composition of
fossil organic remains.
   For the sake of arrangement, he divides fossils into two great
classes, one in which animal matter is present in various states, the
other in which it has been removed. The first class he further sub
divides into three cases: 1. comprehending those fossils in which
animal matter retains its original condition ; 2. those in which it
has been partially changed ; 3. those in which only the carbon of
the animal matter remains.
   1. The following examples were given of the first case.
   Small portions of the tooth of a horse, of an ox, and a stag, from
the chalk rubble at Brighton, were submitted to the action of diluted
muriatic acid ; and after the earthy portions had been removed the
animal matter retained the shape of the bone, was white, and of the
consistence of cartilage. Fragments of a tooth of a mammoth from
Norfolk, and of a rib of a mastodon from Big-bone-lick in Ohio, when
similarly treated, gave the same results. A thin slice of the rib ex
hibited under the microscope the structure of recent bone. Frag
ments of a stag's rib and horn, of an ox's head, and the tusk of a
boar found near the Bank of England, associated with Roman imple
ments, retained their animal matter unaltered. Small portions of a
Terebratula and of two species of Products, from the Silurian rocks of
Malvern, were placed in very diluted muriatic acid, and when the
earthy portions had been removed, small flocculi of animal matter, re
sembling the recent membrane of a shell, floated in the solution. A
minute fragment of Asaphus caudatus yielded little shreds of animal
matter. The experiments on the shells were repeated several times
with the same results. Under the microscope these fossils exhibited
also the structure of recent shells.

232                          Geological Society.
   2. The second case, in which animal matter has been partially
changed, was illustrated by the following experiments. Portions of
a stag's jaw from the Brighton chalk rubble, of a fish-bone, and a
shark's tooth from the London clay, when dissolved in diluted mu
riatic acid, gave only a brown powder ; and the animal matter of a
fragment of the humerus of a mastodon from Big-bone-lick exhibited
but little flexibility, and was easily torn, particularly in the longitu
dinal direction. It was found impossible to make sections of the
jaw-bone of the stag or the humerus of the mastodon for microscopic
observation. Part of a Human parietal bone found upon the site of
the cathedral of Old S^um, and human bones obtained from the
church-yard of St. Christopher le Stocks, on part of which the Bank
of England stands, were ascertained to have had their animal matter
reduced to the same state as that of the stag's jaw. A fossil oyster
from the Isle of Wight, when placed under the microscope, showed
black spots over its surface, and the structure of the shell was appa
rently destroyed. A fragment of a Pecten from the lias also exhi
bited opaque spots. Part of an ammonite when dissolved left a sub
stance resembling Sepia.
   3. The third case, where only the carbon of the animal matter
remains, was explained by two series of experiments, one of which
proved it to be associated with bitumen, and the other that it existed
by itself. The scales of Dapedium polilum and other fishes from
Lyme Regis, when acted upon by acid, left carbon undissolved ; and
when heated under a test-tube gave a considerable quantity of
bitumen*.
   Portions of the bones of the Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus from
the lias, yielded a black residuum, which deflagrated with red hot
nitre, and the resulting mass gave a precipitate with chloride of cal
cium. To prove that the carbon was a portion of the bone and not
an adventitious ingredient, a section was made, and the greatest
quantity of carbon was found in the thickest part ; and an analysis
showed that the proportion of carbon was about the same as in the
animal matter of a similar mass of recent bone. A still further proof
was adduced, in no gelatine having been detected after 36 hours
boiling of a fragment of the fossil. A section of recent bone dis
played, when carbonized by heat and charged with crystals of alum
or a composition of whitening, a similar appearance in the arrange
ment of the carbon as in the fossil bone. No bitumen was given off,
when fragments of these bones were acted upon by heat under a
test-tube.*
   With respect to the second great class in which the animal matter
has been removed, the following cases were mentioned :—Portion of
   * [We presume it is here intended to be implied, though it is not »
stated, that the bitumen associated with the carbon in these fossil fish-
scales is itself a part of the altered animal matter, in a state of imperfect
carbonization. Such an inference would appear to be confirmed by the
negative result obtained with the bones of the Ichthyosaurus and Plesio
saurus subsequently stated. See the observations of Mr. Murchison and
 Mr. Faraday on the origin of the bitumen in the bituminous schist cf See-
feld, in Phil. Mag. and Annals, N.S., vol. vi. p. 39.—EDIT.]

             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               233
the external and internal parts of a mammoth tusk from Siberia, did
not blacken by heat, and dissolved completely in muriatic acid. The
internal part of a tusk from Ohio gave the same results, but the ex
ternal part was found to contain a considerable proportion of animal
matter. Inbones from the crag, the animal matter had been abstracted.
Human bones which had been long buried were found to be in the
same state.
   The paper concluded with the following remarks. As the different
states, in which animal matter is found in fossils, pass insensibly into
each other, and as many of the changes occur in church-yardand other
bones, it follows, that no extraordinary circumstances are requisite
to produce these alterations ; but that they may be effected by the or
dinary processes of putrefaction. Even the carbonization of animal
matter may be accomplished by similar processes without the aid of
heat, as bones become black by being macerated too long. It is also
to be observed, that the parts of animals preserved in the fossil state,
are those which longest resist putrefaction. It having been likewise
shown that the degree of change does not depend upon the age of
the bed in which the fossil occurs, it is a curious subject of inquiry
for the geologist to ascertain how far the conditions necessary to pu .
trefaction, air, a certain temperature, and moisture, were present in
those strata, in which the change has been great ; how far they were
absent in those, in which the change has been small.
         XXXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
THE SWISS ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF NATURAL
                                SCIENCE.
   This Association will hold its Annual Meeting on the 12th, 13th,
and 14th of this month at Bale, that is to say, a few days after that
of the French Geological Society at Purrcntray in the Swiss Jura
(which is about 14 leagues from Bale), and two days previous to
the opening of the German Association atFribourg in Baden (about
12 leagues from Bale).
 ERRORS IN THE NOMENCLATURE OF CERTAIN STARS IN
                    GROOMBRIDGE'S CATALOGUE.
   The following notice has been inserted in the monthly notices
of the Astronomical Society for March, at the request of the
Astronomer Royal : we transfer it to our pages for the purpose of
giving it further publicity.
   Immediately after sending out a number of copies of Groom-
bridge's Catalogue, I discovered that some errors had been com
mitted in the nomenclature of the stars, with reference, chiefly, to
their accordance with the corrections made by Mr. Baily in Flam-
steed's British Catalogue. These errors arose from the omission of a
comparison which was supposed to be fully included in another.

 234;           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  I have since made a collation ; and I think it probable that the fol
  lowing list contains the whole of these errors.
  Groombridge, No.462 and 463 constitute 59 Andromede.
                    1172                 is      7Lyncis.
                    1297 and 1298 are           20 Lyncis.
                    1478 is not                  7 Ursse Majoris.
                    1984 is not                22 CanumVenaticorum.
                    2185 is                     8 Ursse Minoris.
                    2780 is not                19 Lyra.
                    3196 is not                44 Cygni.
                    3412isno<                  68 Cygni orBradley2775.
                    3427 is                    68 Cygni, Bradley 2775.
                    4240 is                        Bradley 3216.
                    4241 is                        Bradley 3217.
     March 9, 1838.                                       G. B. AIRY.
 ON THE CHEMICAL REACTIONS OF WATER.                 BY M. KUHLMAN.
     The influence exerted by the action of water in some chemical re
 actions, has already been the subject of several important observa
 tions. Proust has shown that nitric acid of sp. gr. 1'48 does not
 attack tin, and that by the addition of a little water its action is ex
 tremely energetic. M. Pelouze has more recently stated some other
 facts: 1st. That acetic acid, of sp. gr. 1'063, does not decompose
 carbonate of barytes ; 2ndly. That the carbonates of potash, soda,
 lead, zinc, strontia, and magnesia, are decomposed by crystalli-
 zable acetic acid ; but that the energy of the action is greater when
 water is added, and that there is no action upon these carbonates
 when the acetic acid is mixed with absolute alcohol ; lastly, That
 anhydrous alcohol, sulphuric ether, and acetic asther, completely
 mask the properties of the most powerful acids ; their solutions
 do not redden litmus, and do not attack a great number of car
 bonates.
    The rational explanation of so strange a fact (the non-action of
acetic acid mixed with alcohol upon carbonate of potash) is not
readily found. The intervention of insolubility, as likely to oppose
the formation of acetate of potash, cannot be alleged ; for this salt is
not only soluble in alcohol, but is a mixture of alcohol and acetic acid.
    M. Braconnot has added other observations to these, especially
with respect to nitric acid. This acid, concentrated and boiling,
does not at all act upon fragments of marble, or carbonate of bary
tes in powder ; this non-action is attributed by him to the insolu
bility of the nitrates of lime and barytes in concentrated nitric acid,
and to the affinity which retains the carbonic acid in its com
pounds.
    M. Braconnot has also determined, in a manner which is appa
rently satisfactory, that if neither tin, iron, lead, nor silver, are at
tacked by concentrated nitric acid, it is because the nitrates of these
metals arc insoluble in this acid. It is to the same cause that he
attributes all the results obtained by M. Pelouze.

            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                 235
   The following new facts, which admit of the explanation of M.
Braconnot in certain cases, cannot I think be generalized, and that
other causes besides those mentioned oppose the action of acids upon
bases or their carbonates.
   One of the most remarkable chemical reactions is that which re
sults from the contact of sulphuric acid with barytes. It is well
known that this combination is sometimes effected with the extri
cation of so much heat, that the mass of barytes becomes red hot,
and part of the sulphuric acid escapes in the state of vapour. I
have found some peculiarities respecting this combination, which
appear to me to possess some scientific interest.
   A. A fragment of barytes, put into contact with cold Nordhausen
fuming sulphuric acid, occasioned immediate and very vivid action.
This action was still more vivid when anhydrous sulphuric acid, lique
fied at about 77° Fahr., was employed.
   B. A fragment of barytes, recently calcined, put into cold sul
phuric acid, containing only one atom of water, of sp. gr. 1-848,
suffered no alteration ; no appearance of combination occurred.
After remaining some time in contact, action suddenly takes place
when the mixture is exposed to moist air ; it may be also effected
by slightly touching the barytes, moistened with sulphuric acid,
with a hot iron, or a glass rod moistened with water.
   C. A fragment of barytes was put into contact with sulphuric
acid of sp. gr. 1'848, to which a small quantity of water was pre
viously added, and incandescence was the immediate result. The
action is equally speedy when weaker sulphuric acid is employed,
but no incandescence occurs.
   D. Sulphuric acid of density 1'848, which did not act upon re
cently calcined barytes, acted energetically upon barytes which had
absorbed a little moisture from the air.
   E. Hydrated sulphuric acid, properly diluted so as to act imme
diately on barytes, does not act when cold, if it is mixed with
absolute alcohol or pyroxilic spirit.
   From these different results, it may be inferred that hydrated sul
phuric acid, containing only one atom of water, is with difficulty
separated from it ; it neutralizes in some mode the properties of the
acid ; for even in the presence of so powerful a base as barytes, the
acid does not act without the assistance of heat.*
   It becomes very important to state exactly the density of sul
phuric acid, when it is employed in chemical reactions ; for by the
experiments above detailed', it appears that this acid combines ener
getically with barytes, when put into contact with this base at com
mon temperatures, in the state of anhydrous acid, fuming acid, or
when weaker than 1'848, but it ceases to act when it is exactly
1-848.
   If the anhydrous acid, or the fuming acid of Nordhausen, did not
combine with barytes very energetically, it might be inferred, in
order to explain the necessity of weakening the acid of 1'848, that
the formation of sulphate of barytes cannot occur under these cir-
   • See Prof. Graham's paper on water as a constituent of salts in Lond.
and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. vi. p. 327.—EDIT;

 236           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 cumstances, except by the previous formation of hydrate of barytes
 at the expense of a part of the water feebly retained by the sul
 phuric acid ; but the facts stated render this opinion inadmissible.
 When employing acid of T848 density, the heat, as well as the
 addition of a little water, occasions the reaction, and in the latter
 case, the presence of the water unquestionably does not intervene,
 except by the extrication of the requisite heat. This extrication
 may be owing to different causes ; in the experiment C, it may be
 attributed to the combination of a part of the water of the weak
 acid with barytes, or the formation of hydrate of barytes ; and in
 the experiment D, it is hydrate of barytes ready formed, which, be
ing more favourable to combination, gives immediate rise to the
production of sulphate of barytes by its contact with sulphuric acid
of density 1-848.
   The explanations given by M. Braconnot of the non-action, under
certain circumstances, of the acids upon metals, their bases or car
bonates, are not, in the opinion of M. Lassaigne, applicable to the
results of the experiments related ; they are equally unsatisfactory
in explaining the phenomena observed by Proust, and which relate
to the action of nitric acid upon tin —an action which gives rise to
the production of a compound which is insoluble (stannic acid), even
when the acid is in the state most favourable for energetic action. He
is also of opinion that in all the reactions described by MM. Proust,
Pelouze, and Braconnot, the great stability of the compounds of
acids and water, when they exist in the proportions stated with re
spect to the weights of their atoms, exerts great influence; and
that the mixture of alcohol and ather with the acids results, not
only from giving a liquid which is not susceptible of dissolving the
product which may arise from the reaction of these acids on the bases
or the carbonates, but from preventing all action from occurring by
taking from the acids the portions of water which are not retained
by stability of combination. The experiment E. gives support to
this opinion.
   In the contact of nitric acids with the metals, the presence of a
little uncombined water also undoubtedly intervenes to facilitate the
reaction. Ammonia, the formation of which occurs with iron, zinc,
and cadmium, as is the case with tin, favours this opinion ; but this
influence cannot be readily admitted with respect to lead, copper,
and silver.
   In the course of these experiments, M. Lassaigne found that the
action of nitric acid upon the metals is always accompanied with
the formation of more or less ammonia, according as the metals de
compose water more or less readily. The metals which do not de
compose water yield no traces of ammonia.
   In operating upon potassium and sodium, nevertheless, he ob
tained no traces of nitrate of ammonia, which he attributes to the
high temperature produced, and at which the nitrate of ammonia
cannot exist : these experiments with the metals of the alkaline ox
ides are not free from danger, on account of the violent explosion
which takes place at the moment of contact between them and the
nitric acid.—Ann. de Chimie, Ixvii. 209.

             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              237
                   ON SUGARS.      BY M. PELIGOT.*
    Common Sugar.—On repeating the analysis with all possible care,
the author found that the formula long since adopted is that which
best agrees with experiment : this formula is C*1 H-a O"f.
   M. Berzelius found that the compound of sugar with oxide of lead,
is C34 H*' O'°, 2PbO. On drying this salt at 320° Fahr., M. Peligot
obtained C24 H18 O«, 2 PbO. Anhydrous sugar will therefore be C-4
H'8 O2 instead of C24 H8° O10.
   The author also obtained a crystallized saccharate of barytes,
crystallized by the direct contact of sugar and barytes dissolved in
water, and he found the formula to be C-4 H-2 O", BaO ; he com
bined sugar with common salt, and found the composition of this
body to be C48 H42 O81, Ch5 Na.
   Sugar of Starch and of Diabetes.—The formula of these and of
the grape and honey sugar, M. Peligot found to be C54 H2s O14. He
also analysed the compound of diabetic sugar and common salt
obtained by Calloud, and found that this curious product is repre
sented by the formula C48 H5- O86, Ch2 Na ; the compound of sugar
of starch and oxide of lead, obtained by the contact of ammoniacal
acetate of lead and sugar dissolved in excess, was found to be C<3 H4a
O2, 6 PbO ; the saccharate of barytes from sugar of starch is repre
sented by C48 H*6 O28, 3 BaO.
   M. Peligot found that common sugar is the only one which com
bines with the alkalis without suffering change. Sugar of starch
and all other known sugars, at first combine with the alkalis, and
are gradually destroyed, giving rise to two distinct products, ac
cording to the circumstances of the mixture of these bodies.
   Lime dissolved in a solution of starch sugar, gradually loses its
caustic property, and is saturated by an acid formed by its influence.
The salt of lime formed, when rendered neutral, is abundantly pre
cipitated by subacetate of lead. The formula of the insoluble salt is
C48 H30 O15, 6 PbO. The disengaged acid could not be conveniently
examined : it is not volatile, and forms salts, almost all of which
are soluble in water. On heating the solution of starch sugar and
an alkali, a more rapid action is observable ; the mixture becomes
coloured, and a brownish-black acid is formed, having some resem
blance to ulmic acid, but it is quite distinct from it. Its composition
is represented by the formula C18 H^O'0. It appears to be iden
tical with the acid obtained by M.Suanberg, in treating the acid of
catechu with caustic potash, which has the composition represent
ed by the preceding formula ; nevertheless differences occur in the
analyses, which indicated one per cent, too much hydrogen. This
acid is very readily obtained with fused starch sugar, and a concen
trated solution of potash ; the action is rapid. When the colour has
become very intense, water is added, and the acid is precipitated by
hydrochloric acid. If it be identical with the japonic acid, this
acid is represented by C4CH1C O8. These two acids differ from sugar
   • See Prof. Graham's paper, p. 219. of the present number.—EDIT.
   t The original atomic weights are preserved.

238            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
only in being minus water : for, C48 H44 O24 anhydrous sugar, be
comes O H'° O18, the first acid, by losing 6 H" O; then C48 H» O1'
becomes C48 H16 Os, japonic acid by losing 7 H2 O. Sugar thus loses
water successively even in the midst of water. This remarkable
transformation is well characterized with starch sugar, and analo
gous sugars. When the sugar and alkali are not in contact with
water, the phenomena of decomposition no longer occur: an alkaline
saccharate is obtained in which the sugar possesses its usual pro
perties.
   M. Peligot has examined the nature of the action of acids, and
particularly that of concentrated sulphuric acid upon sugars. With
sulphuric acid and common sugar, a deep colour is produced, and a
certain quantity of japonic acid is formed. With sugar of starch,
on the contrary, there is no colour ; and what is very remarkable
is, that this sugar and the acid combine and form sulphosaccharic
acid. This is to be saturated with carbonate of barytes, and treated
with subacetate of lead : sulphosaccharate of lead is precipitated,
the composition of which is C48 H40 O*' SO' + 4 PbO ; but it has
not been precisely determined what quantity of water the sulpho
saccharic acid contains. This acid when uncombined is not very
stable : it does not precipitate barytic salts, and in general forms
soluble salts.
    The action of heat upon sugars, when properly managed, yields
very simple results ; at about 410° Fahr., water only is obtained, and
:i black product remains, which is entirely soluble in water. The
author has preserved the name of caramel for it. When purified by
alcohol a tasteless substance is obtained, which does not ferment. Its
composition is very simple, C48H5<!018; and it differs only from
 sugar in losing a part of its water. Common and starch sugar,
treated in this way, both yield the same substance.
    These experiments, it will be seen, greatly modify the present
opinions of the atomic weight of sugars, confirming the analyses
already made of cane and starch sugar.
                                  Journal de CA. Med.—June, 1838.
                              SUCCISTER1N.
    MM. Pelletier and Walter, in examining the pyogenous products of
amber, have obtained and analysed several substances, among which
there is one that they think worthy of being particularly noticed.
    It is white, crystalline, scarcely soluble in alcohol or ether, and
its colour is rendered intensely blue by sulphuric acid. The analysis
which they have performed indicates the formula CJ H1 ; it has there
 fore the same composition as idrialin, and possesses also nil its pro
 perties. It is well known that idrialin, which was discovered by M.
Dumas, has been met with only in a mineral, the site of which is
lost, and is found only in a few mineralogical collections. The
 authors do not assert the identity of idrialin with the substance
 which they have found in amber. If it be supposed that they are
 merely isomeric, they propose the name of succislerin for the newer
 compound.—L'Institut, Juin, 1838.

                          Meteorological Observations.                               239
Register of Meteorological Observations for June 1838, made at Applegarth
               Manse, Dumfriesshire. By the Rev. Wm. Dunbar.
                                  (Omitted last Month.)
    Do7"         Barometer.      Therm.
                                           Wind.    Rain.                Weather.
   Month.     9 a.m.   9 p.m. 9 a.m. 9p.m.
 June 1        29-80    29-75   50    49      >.      ...    Cold and withering.
        2      29-63    2958    494   49     sw.             Fine : rain : genial.
        3      29-54    2950    55    52    ssw.            Showery and sunny.
        4      2949     29-60   59    53      s.            Showery and warm.
        5      29-71    29-85   62    52j S.W.              Showery: thunder.
        6      29-96   30-02    6H    47 1. by k.     ...   Showery : cold p.m.
        7      3005     3008    56    454 ssw.              Dry : cool : genial.
    O 8        3013     3011    55    48J N. & S.    l"l2    Dry : cool : genial.
               2997    •29-71   54    50 SSW.               Dry, but threatening rein.
        9
       10      2948     2940    50    51      a>    0-46    Wet all day.
       11      2949     29-50   56    49     SI.    072     Wet : thunder.
       12      29-61    29-67   55    49J MX.         ...   Dry and pleasant.
       13      29-68    29-64   53    51     MX.            Dry : rather cool.
       14      2951     29-50   51    48     MX.    0-62    Wet throughout.
     <fl5      2950     29-49   53    53     SW.    1-80    Very genial day.
       16      2953     2955    55    554     S.     1-46   Soft rain all day.
       17      29-64    29-67   57    56 s. by w.     ...   Fine growing weather.
       18      2955     2936    60    57    N.E.      ...   FairA.M. : wet p.m. : thund.
       19      29-30    29-50   55*   55     w.     0-96    Wet preced* night : dry p.m.
       20      2949     2920    59    50    sw.      1-32   Very wet afternoon.
       21      29-21    29-25   57    51    sw.     374     Fair all day.
    #22        2937     29-60   52    524 sw.        ...    Showery a.m. : cleared.
       23      29-89    29-91   60    544 ssw.        ¦•a   Fair : fine day.
       24      29-80    29-80   62    56 ssw.         ...   Fair all day.
       25      29-91    29-93   56    58    ssw.            Fair and mild.
       26      29-86    29-86   66     ...   SI.      • a.  Fair and warm.
       27      2975     29-80   56    50    SK.             Wet a.m. : cleared up.
       28      29-80    29-85   61    481      s.            Fine summer day.
       29      29-87    29-85   54     54    Mb             Showery, but warm.
      >30      2970     2974    54$   56    MX.     0-60    Cloudy and moist.
     Mean.              29-67   56    51J           7-26
             j 29-71
        METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR JULY 1838.
    Chiswidc.—July 1. Cloudy and fine : rain. 2. Sultry : rain. 3. Rain. 4. Hazy:
 fine. 5. Veryfine. 6. Heavy rain with thunder: fine. 7, 8. Fine. 9— ll.Veryfine.
 12. Overcast. 13. Very hot: lightning at night. 14. Rain. 15. Showery. 16—22.
 Very fine. 23. Overcast. 24, 25. Fine. 26. Cloudy and fine : rain. 27. Fine.
 28. Very fine : slight rain. 29. Cloudy: rain. 30. Heavy showers. 3). Very fine.
    Boston.— July 1. Cloudy : rain early a.m. 2. Cloudy : rain p.m. 3, 4. Cloudy.
 5. Fine. 6. Fine: rain p.m. 7. Fine. 8. Rain. 9. Cloudy. 10. Fine. 11.
 Cloudy: rain early a.m. : rain p.m. 12. Cloudy. 13. Fine : thunder and light
 ning p.m. 14. Cloudy: rain early a.m. : rain p.m.             15. Fine: rain p.m.    16.
  Cloudy. 17. Fine. 18. Cloudy.               19. Fine. 20—22. Windy. 23. Fine:
 rain p.m.      24. Fine.     25. Cloudy. 26. Fine : rain p.m. 27. Stormy. 28.
  Fine. 29. Fine: rain a.m. 30. Fine: rain a.m. 31. Fine.
     Apptegarth Manse, Dum/Hes-slure.—July 1. Shower a.m. : fair p.m. 2. Fair
 all day. 3,4. Fine summer days. 5. Excellent weather. 6. Warm : thunder :
 rain. 7. Showery all day. 8. Fair: mild : cool p.m. 9. Dull day: very cloudy.
  10. Rain in the afternoon. 1 1. Rainy all day : fog p.m. 12. Rain : cleared up
 p.m.     13. Showery. 14. Showery all day. 15. Showery: cleared p.m. 16.
  Showery a.m. : cleared. 17. Wet all day.              18. Fine day : moist p.m.      19.
  Showery all day. 20. Fair day, though cool. 21. Fair a.m.: showery p.m.
  22. Fair throughout. 23. Heavy rain : thunder.              24. Fair throughout. 25.
 Fair, but cool.      26. Wet nearly all day.       27. Showery a.m. 28. Showery
 nearly all day. 29, 30. Showery p.m. 31. Fair throughout.


          Just Published, Price 10$. handsomtly bound in Cloth.
MEMOIRS OF A PRISONER OF STATE
                    IN THE FORTRESS OF SPIELBERG,
                                        BT
                  ALEXANDER ANDRYANE,
            COMPANION IN CAPTIVITY OF COUNT CONFALONIBRI ;
                   TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL BT
                        FORTUNATO PRANDI.
                          H. Hooper, 13, Pall Mall East.
                        OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
" WE have closed the volume ; but the torturing trial hefore the Commission,
the scenes of Santa Margarita, and of Porta Nuova, are still vivid in our me
mory. This work will be an excellent companion to the volume of Silvio Pellico.
We have extracted rather largely [two columns and a ltalf"\, but had we selected
every passage worthy of remark we should have greatly exceeded our limits.
We therefore recommend it for general perusal as a work well written and
abounding with interest, and as one that might excite the sympathy of every
bosom. The work before us is not in. its original form, hut is an abridgement
translated into English ; so accurate and elegant is the translation, so judicious
and well-contrived the abregi, that it would be difficult to trace the hand of a
foreigner, or to imagine the work not to have proceeded, in the first instance,
from the same pen."— Timei.
   "This is the history of the sufferings of Alexander Andryane, who was
brought before the Political Inquisition of Lombardy, and sentenced to im
prisonment for life hi the Fortress of Spielberg.. ..Silvio Pellico's account 01
his sufferings, which he was obliged to extenuate, owing to a watchful censor
ship, falls infinitely below the details given by Andryane, and it will startle
every Englishman to hear that cruelties so horrible could be inflicted by any
continental power.. ..This volume will be read with the deepest interest b

                         Memoirs of a Prisoner of State.
 every friend of humanity, and it cannot fail exciting the liveliest feelings of
 indignation in the breast of every lover of liberty."—Sunday Times.
    " The author's examinations before the Commission illustrate more forcibly
 than anything we can remember the hellish system of torture resorted to by
the Austrian authorities. The fiend who presided over them was in himself
counsel on both sides, judge, jury, court of appeal, everything but executioner.
This man's conduct in the course of these examinations is sketched in the
volume before ua with a very startling force and effect."—Examiner.
    "This work was reviewed by us on its original publication .... The trans
lation is extremely well done. Mr. Prandi has tamed down the ambitious style
of the original, and made some judicious curtailments.'.'—Athcnieum.
   " The book gives a sight of the working of the Austro-Italian criminal pro
cedure in cases of treason, and furnishes many, scenes of melo-dramatic force
and vivacity."—Spectator.
   " Never was author more indebted to translator than M. Andryane to Signor
Praadi. It is a fact that one nf the most perfect and elegant English transla
tions of a foreign work has been executed by an Italian.. ..We can safely re
commend this moderately-sized volume to our readers as highly entertaining,
and so far from being politically injurious, that we think it sufficient to open
the eyes of many misguided ardent young patriots to the injuries they may in
flict upon their fellow-creatures by resorting to revolutionary violence, instead
of trusting to reason and the laws. There is another useful lesson in the work
—it shows the difference between true religion and Christianity, and that false
philosophy, which the author relinquished when the solitude of a prison led him
to turn from his self-sufficient Deism to revealed religion."—Morning Post.
   " This narrative cannot be read without deep and painful interest, and ex
citing the sympathies of every generous mind,"—Observer.
   " The book is highly interesting, and reminds us of Baron Trenck.''—Court
Journal.
   " We regret that our limit* [the. notice Jills six columru ] oblige us to leave
out many passages we had marked for extract from this very entertainmg book,
ft is one full of interesting episodes, descriptive of the sufferings of the various
fellow-prisoners of the author, and of the ingenious modes by which they en
deavoured to relieve the monotony of their long and rigorous confinement"—
 Torch.
   " Since the interesting publication ofhis imprisonment and sufferings by Silvio
Pellico, we have eeen no romance in real life of deeper or more affecting pathos
than the subject of our present review. . . .The incidents are of the most pathetic
character, and it is impossible to read a detail of the cruelties to which the
patriotic sufferers were exposed without feeling an indignant abhorrence of the
despotism under which they suffered."—Morning Advertiser.

                                 THE
               LONDON AND EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                 AND
          JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                        [THIRD SERIES.]
                       OCTOBER 1838.
XXXIII. Remarks on the Constitution of the Atmosphere; ad
   dressed to Dr. Dalton, F.R.S., by JOHN WILLIAM DRAPER,
   M.D., Professor of Chemistry in Hampden Sydney College,
   Virginia, Member of Acad. Nat. Sc. Pkilad., fyc. #c.*
                         Hampden Sydney College, Virginia, U. States,
       RESPECTED SIR,                     June as, 1838.
I HAVE this morning read, with much pleasure, the re
     marks inserted by you in the Numbers of the London and
Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine for February and May
last, in relation to the constitution of the atmosphere, and other
important points connected with investigations of its composi
tion.
   It fully appears, if we admit the hypothesis brought for
ward many years ago by you, and generally received by che
mists, that a gas acts as a vacuum to the particles of one of
another kind, that the constitution of the atmosphere is not
such as it ought to be. The hypothetical result, contrary to
what is popularly imagined, would indicate a continuous vari
ation in the composition of air at different altitudes, and give
us two limits, the one marking out an elevation beyond which
oxygen could not be found, and the other the same for the
azote. From a long experience in these matters, and a per
fect acquaintance with these theories, you have given it as
your opinion, that in the higher regions of the air, the pro
portion of oxygen to azote is less than at the surface of the
earth, but not nearly so much as the theory of mixed gases
would require, and that the reasons for this must be found
in the incessant agitation of the atmosphere from winds and
other causes.
   In America, partly for the foregoing reason, and partly for
                       * Communicated by the Author. .
Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 82. Oct. 1838.                B

242            Dr. J. W. Draper's Remarks on the
others to which I will presently allude, some chemists have
altogether rejected the hypothesis of gaseous action, perhaps
on very insufficient grounds. It is therefore desirable that
the subject should be more extensively investigated, and these
objections set aside. No one can do this more ably than
yourself.
    If a soap-bubble be expanded with hydrogen gas, in an at
 mosphere of common air, and then be suddenly burst, so as
to accomplish an instantaneous diffusion and intermixture, at
 the moment at which this occurs there is an expansion, which
 is apparently of a thermal kind, inasmuch as the gaseous
 mixture, in a short space of time, recedes to its original
volume. One hundred measures of hydrogen and four hun
 dred of atmospheric air occupy, on the moment of being
 mixed in this way, considerably more space than five hun
 dred measures. Does not this indicate that the particles of
 these gases occupy, when their temperature has fallen to the
 original degree, a less space than the sum of their volumes
 before mixing ? Is it not a phenomenon of the same kind
 as that observed on mixing alcohol and water, when there is
 a thermal disturbance, followed by a penetration of dimen
 sions? In other words, does not this experiment give indi
 cations of proof, that certain gases, on being simply mixed,
 exist in a condensed state ?
    This result is readily observed on mixing hydrogen with
 atmospheric air, and also with nitrogen gas. I detected it
 some years ago, but have not yet been able to show it in the
 case of other gases. If it be really due to a condensation
 taking place, it is an experiment of no ordinary importance ;
 especially if it should be found that the same occurs on
 mixing oxygen with nitrogen. It would indicate to us one
 of those " other causes" which keep up the integrity of the
 constitution of the atmosphere.
    One of the most powerful arguments brought forward in
 support of the hypothesis of gaseous action, is founded on the
 experiments of Professor Graham ; it is, that the law which
 regulates the flow of gases into a vacuum, is precisely the same
 as that which regulates their flow into each other: is this
 however strictly the case ?
     Professor Graham has shown*, that when hydrogen gas, car
 bonic acid, &c. are separated from atmospheric air by a thin
  screen of stucco, they diffuse themselves according to the law of
  the square roots of their density. One volume of air, for ex
  ample, replaces 0'8091 of carbonic acid gas ; the gas therefore
  on that side of the screen where the carbonic acid was placed,
         [» See L. and E. Phil. Mag. vol. ii. p. 175 ; vol. iv. p. 321.]

              Constitution ofthe Atmosphere.                    243
increases in quantity. But if any one will throw into a soap-
bubble one hundred measures of carbonic acid, and expose it
to atmospheric air, he will perceive a very different result to
that just mentioned, for instead of gas accumulating within
the bubble, a very extraordinary and rapid diminution will
ensue : this phenomenon is not a little remarkable ; it does not
require any instrumental arrangement to detect it. A bubble
of carbonic acid gas an inch in diameter, collapses in the
space of a few minutes to the size of a common pea.
   Again, if carbonic acid, &c. and atmospheric air are kept
from directly mingling with each other, by being separated by
a thin lamina of India-rubber, they will pass through the
barrier to intermix. Do they intermix with a force greater
than the pressure of one atmosphere? Dr. Mitchell of Phila
delphia found that carbonic acid would pass through a piece
of India-rubber, and diffuse itself into atmospheric air, though
resisted by a pressure greater than two atmospheres (63 inches
of mercury). This first cast doubts on the hypothesis of
gaseous action, for if it can be proved that these mixtures
are effected with a force greater than that which is measured
by one atmosphere, the idea that gases act towards each other
as vacua, necessarily falls to the ground.
   Allow me, Sir, to point out some experiments which seem
to bear on this matter. Let us examine, for instance, whether
sulphurous acid will pass into atmospheric d             m
air with a force greater than the pressure
of one atmosphere. A tube of glass, about
one third of an inch in bore, and ten inches
long, is bent into a kind of siphon so that
one leg shall be about six, and the other
two inches long. The extremity a a, has
a lip or rim turned on it, at the lamp; and
in the longer leg a thin glass tube cc, about
one eighth of an inch in bore, and closed at
one extremity, is included to serve, as will
 be hereafter shown, as a gauge. Next, the
 extremity b of the siphon is closed, there
 being inserted through it two platinum
 wires d d, e e, parallel to each other, but
 not touching. The arrangement is thus
 completed tor use. Let us suppose it is re-         ™i      j
 quired to pass through India-rubber, sul-           \j—/)
 phurous acid gas, into atmospheric air
 condensed by a pressure of five or six atmospheres; the long leg
 of the siphon is to be filled with water, which is excluded from
 the gauge tube c c, owing to its narrowness ; next, a strong de
 coction of litmus is to be placed in the short leg, until it is half
                                 II 2

 24,4'         Dr. J. W. Draper's Remarks on the
 filled. The rim round the extremity a a, is then daubed with a
 piece ofburnt caoutchouc, and upon it is tied a thin piece ofthat
 substance, with a fine but strong waxed thread. Over this is se
 cured a piece of stout silk or cotton cloth, for the purpose of
 fortifying the elastic barrier. The wires d d e e, are next made
 to communicate with the poles of an active voltaic battery,
 and the condensation commences ; for the gas which is evolved
 from these electrodes, rising to the top of the tube, accumu
 lates there, causing the column of water in the short leg to
 rise and condense the atmospheric air above it. The mem
 brane though fortified gives way to a certain extent, becoming
 convex outwards ; and as the accumulation of gas in the long
leg continues, the condensation of that in the short one in
 creases, as is indicated by the gauge c c. A very thin India-
rubber, of the diameter here indicated, will stand a pressure
of 6 to 20 atmospheres without rupture, if its silken support
is good ; and I have found that anointing the edges of the
rim with the burnt substance enables the operator to tie the
barrier on so that no leakage can occur between it and the
glass, under the severest pressures. When the gauge indicates
that the required degree of condensation is arrived at, the
connexion with the battery is broken, and the condensation
of course stops : the siphon being carried to the mercurial
trough, taking care to keep its position erect, its short limb
is depressed under the mercury and carried into ajar contain
ing sulphurous acid. If, under these pressures, any of the
acid gas finds its way into the condensed air, its presence is
detected by the reddening of the blue litmus water. It is
necessary here to observe, that the indications of the tube
gauge do not give a correct estimate of the amount of con
densation, but always represent them higher than they are,
according to Marriotte's law. It has long been known, that
the volume of gas dissolved in water depends in a great mea
sure on the pressure exerted on it ; now it will be found, when
the operation is conducted in an instrument arranged as this,
that a certain proportion of the air in the gauge disappears
in this manner. Its zero point is therefore altered, and the
condensation appears higher than it really is. It may be re
marked, in passing, that it is surprising to see to what an
extent the absorption of the oxygen and hydrogen is carried
in the longer leg, owing to their making their appearance in
the nascent form. To ascertain the true condensation, so
soon as the passage of the sulphurous acid or other gas has
taken place satisfactorily, the membrane is to be punctured
with a pin; and when a pneumatic equilibrium is attained, the
height of the liquid in the gauge will mark the point where
the zero of the scale should be placed.

                   Constitution ofthe Atmosphere.             245
    In this way it may be shown, that sulphurous acid will pass
instantaneously into atmospheric air, against a pressure equi
valent to two hundred and twenty inches of mercury, or seven
atmospheres and a third.
    The curved form of the instrument just described was
found to present certain inconveniences when pressures up
wards of 6 or 7 atmospheres were made use of. The volume
of air, which at the beginning of the experiment occupied the
greater part of the extent of the shorter limb, had now col
lapsed much in its dimensions, and owing to the unavoidable
giving way of the India-rubber and silk cover, had retreated
beneath it out of sight. It was not found expedient to lengthen
this limb, for that entailed a corresponding increase in the
dimensions of the battery, in order to produce a given con
densation in a given time. A straight tube was therefore
taken, about three sevenths of an inch in bore, and a rim
turned on it at an; at the closed extremity the        a "
platina wires b c entered ; a gauge tube d was
dropped in between them; water was then
poured to the height e e ; and lastly, a tubeyj
containing an appropriate chemical test, was
inserted, its bottom resting on the top of the
gauge tube. Nothing remained but to tie on
 the India-rubber with its silken support, and
 by the voltaic battery to proceed to condense.
 In this instrument the test fluid was never out
 of sight, nor did the volume of the gas suffer
 any inconvenient change ; the gauge too was
 well located for observation, and a given con
 densation could be produced in less time, and
 by a less amount of electricity, than with the
 siphon tube. It is to be observed, however, that *         c
 the gaseous matter evolved from the water mingles with the
 atmospheric air in the upper part of the tube, and therefore''
 the passage of the gases tried, does not take place into at
 mospheric air, but into a mixture of oxygen, hydrogen, and
 nitrogen.
     The tube f being filled with lime water, and a pressure
 amounting to ten atmospheres being produced in the vessel,
 it was exposed to an atmosphere of carbonic acid gas, at
 ordinary pressures. In the course of a few minutes, the upper
 part of the tube containing the lime-water began to look
 milky, and in an hour a cloud of particles of carbonate of
 lime had fallen to the bottom.
     Again, having filled the test tube f, with a solution of ace
  tate of lead, and produced a pressure amounting to twelve

246           Dr. J. W. Draper's Remarks on the
atmospheres, it was exposed to sulphuretted hydrogen. In a
very short time the black sulphuret of lead appeared, giving
tokens of the rapid passage of the gas. A comparative ex
periment was made, in order to discover whether the trans
mission took place more slowly than when it was resisted by
such a severe pressure. It appeared, however, so far as the
experiment could be tried under similar circumstances, as re
gards the thickness of the barrier, &c., that sulphuretted hy
drogen gas went through a barrier against a pressure of
three hundred and sixty inches ofmercury, to mix with another
gas, as readily as if no force were exerted against it.
    As numerous experiments, which had been tried on various
gases, had failed to indicate any obstacle to their passage, it be
came necessary to know whether at the most extreme pressures
that could be commanded they would pass through a barrier.
To accomplish this, I took a strong and narrow tube, and
having turned a rim at one end, and sealed five platina wires
into the other, \Jilled it with distilled water, and inclosed a
narrow capillary tube in it, the gaseous contents of which
were small. As a test, in the upper part of the arrangement,
and in lieu of the tubef, I placed a slip of paper which had
been alternately soaked in acetate of lead and carbonate of
soda ; the India-rubber was fortified by a piece of very strong
silk, which was carefully tied on; there was not therefore any
gaseous matter present, except the small quantity of air in
the gauge tube. The condensation went on with great ra
pidity, a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gradually accumu
lating in the top of the vessel, bulging out the India-rubber
and silk barrier, until it was almost hemispherical. It was
my intention to try a pressure of twenty-five atmospheres;
and when that was supposed to be reached, the instrument
was immersed in sulphuretted hydrogen. Very soon the test
paper became of a tawny yellow, and finally it was quite
black ; the pressure when the experiment was over was de
 termined to be twenty-four and a quarter atmospheres.
    At a temperature of 48° Fahr., and pressure 29'74 bar.
sulphuretted hydrogen gas passes through a barrier into a
mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, though it may be resisted
by a pressure of twenty-four and a quarter atmospheres, or
nearly seven hundred and thirty inches of mercury. Like sul-
phurousacid, it will become diffused into an atmosphere beyond
it under a greater pressure than that which is sufficient to con
dense it into a liquid.
    These results would appear, at first sight, entirely opposed
to the hypothesis of gaseous action, and important enough to
cast doubts upon its correctness, if not entirely to destroy it.

                  Constitution of the Atmosphere.           247
To me, however, it seems that an explanation can be given of
them, which will lead us entirely to a different conclusion,
and furnish a beautiful illustration of the truth of that hypo
thesis.
   It appears there is abundant and conclusive evidence, that
under ordinary circumstances of temperature and pressure,
any given gas bears the same relation to one which is perco
lating into it that a vacuum would do, for the law of dis
charge is identically the same. For the purpose of illustration,
we may therefore regard it to all intents as a vacuum, and
reason accordingly. If the particles of heterogeneous gases
possess no repulsive tendency as respects each other, but are
perfectly quiescent and neutral, then it is immaterial how
many of such particles are condensed together into a given
space, for owing to the want of repulsive action in those par
ticles, that space will be as much a vacuum to any other gas
as it ever was. Now it has just been shown that certain
gases will diffuse into others even though the latter may be
condensed into a space twenty times less than that which they
would ordinarily occupy. The vacuum is not the less a
vacuum because it is contained under smaller dimensions,
any more than a Torricellian vacuum is less perfect when the
mercury is made to rise nearly to the top of the barometric
tube, than it was when there was a vacant space many inches
in length. Theory would therefore indicate, that these dif
fusions might take place under all pressures, provided the
gaseous condition subsists.
   Moreover, the foregoing experiments do not actually furnish
any proof that gases diffuse themselves into one another with a
force greater than one atmosphere. It is a mistake to adduce
them as examples in point, for the fact is that the barrier or
tissue, far from being passive, exerts a very remarkable action
in virtue of its absorbing power, a property pre-eminently pos
sessed by charcoal, and some other porous bodies. This
seems to afford an explanation of the whole phenomenon,
and furnish an important fact in a physiological point of
view,—that membranes and tissues are occasionally the origin
and seat of powers of uncommon intensity.
   It will be convenient, for the better understanding of these
actions, to consider them under two heads. First, where the
barrier between the media exerts no absorbent action on the
media ; this will include most of the results of Prof. Graham :
secondly, where one of the media is absorbed to a much
greater extent than the other; this will include all the fore
going experiments.
   In the first case, the velocities with which any two gases

248           Dr. J. W. Draper's Remarks on the
pass into a vacuum are inversely proportional to the square
roots of their densities respectively : moreover, the volumes
that so pass vary directly as the velocities, and therefore may
be taken as an index and measure of them ; but as the ma&s
of each gas is expressed by the product of its density into
its volume, it may be represented by the velocity multiplied
into the density; and as the square of the velocity of one
gas multiplied into its density is equal to the square of the
velocity of the other multiplied into its density, whatever may
be the difference of the specific gravity of the two gases, their
mechanical momentum will always be the same ; the resistance
they meet with in passing through the tissue is common to
both, and equal in both cases, and hence the initial velocities
of diffusion ought to be inversely proportional to the square
roots of the densities ; and as during the progress of the ex
periment the impelling force of the one gas is equal to the ex
pelling force of the other, the resulting momenta of the two
currents is still equal, and the final volumes are such as are
found by direct experiment.
   In the second case. We have first to refer here to a fun
damental proposition of dynamics, that when the moving
force and the matter to be moved vary in the same propor
tion, the resulting velocity will be the same. An illustration
will show the application of this principle to the case in hand :
if a cylinder of air, fitted appropriately with a piston, com
municates with a vacuum by means of a narrow aperture, it
is immaterial whether the air be allowed to flow into the void
without any pressure, or whether it be urged by a direct ac
tion on the piston ; its velocity as it goes into the void will in
both cases be the same ; for if it be compressed, the immediate
action of the force exerted on the piston is to reduce the air
in the cylinder to such a density that its elasticity shall be
equivalent to the compressing force; and because the elasticity
varies as the density, the density of the air will increase with
the expelling force; the matter to be moved is therefore in
creased in the same proportion with the pressure, and the
final velocity is therefore the same. Now what is here said
of a cylinder of compressed air, applies evidently to the action
of barriers, such as sheets of water or India-rubber, which
are nothing more than perpetual and equable condensing en
gines. When one of these is employed, if it increases the
elastic force of a gas by compressing it, at the same time it
increases its density, and therefore the velocity of transit is
the same as though the gas had suffered no action of com
pression.
   Such is the case whilst the gases are engaged with each

                   Constitution ofthe Atmosphere.              249
other in the barrier, but as soon as they are passed from it and
are beyond the reach of its attractive force, a new condition
of things takes place; the condensed gas being no longer
under restraint, expands freely into a void, and when there
measured, gives a resulting volume totally different to what
it would have given had not the tissue compressed it. Sup
pose, for example, we place on one side of a barrier carbonic
acid gas, of which it could condense its own volume, and on
the other atmospheric air on which it exerted no action.
Whilst the two gases were engaged together in the barrier
the one would be presented to the other under an elastic
force double of that which it would have had, if no absorp
tion had gone on ; but since its density is directly proportional
to its elastic force, the continual velocity with which it rushes
into the other gas is the same as though no compression
whatever had occurred ; the rate of exchange in the barrier
is the same as under normal circumstances, that is to say,
every volume of air replaces 0'8091 of compressed carbonic
acid; but so soon as this gas has reached the opposite side of
the barrier and there escapes, its elastic force, being restrained
by no compression, causes it to assume its original dimen
sions.
   This explanation satisfies all the facts, and reduces these
experiments to the operation of the hypothesis of gaseous
action ; I would not here be understood to say that there are
no other disturbing actions going on in barriers except those
that result from their absorbing power. A great disturbance
often arises from the circumstance that when two gases are
absorbed together they experience n greater condensation
than each would in a separate state. It is therefore impos
sible to foretell what the result of diffusing one gas into an
other will be, by simply ascertaining how many volumes of
either alone will be absorbed by the tissue, inasmuch as a
greater or less condensation may happen when both are em
ployed together.
   Variations of temperature, which probably affect the power
of absorption, and thereby the diffusive volumes, are experi
enced by all barriers. When charcoal, or any other porous
mass, is placed in an atmosphere of gas which it can rapidly
condense, its temperature rises, the effect apparently depend
ing more on the velocity of absorption than on the final
amount. In the case of ammonia, it does not even require a
thermometer to discover the increase of temperature, for it is
very sensible to the touch. On the other hand, when this
condensed gas makes its escape, a corresponding diminution
of temperature happens : it is immaterial by what means the

 250            Dr. J. W. Draper's Remarks on the
 liberation of the gas is effected ; the same result uniformly
 follows. If a porous mass, saturated with carbonic acid, be
 exposed to an atmosphere of hydrogen, it absorbs but a small
 quantity of this latter, whilst a very large amount of the
 former is liberated from its condensed state, and the thermo
 meter indicates a fall of temperature ; the resulting volume of
the mixed gases being much larger than the original volume
of hydrogen. And if a porous mass which has absorbed its
due volume of hydrogen be immersed in an atmosphere of
ammonia, the resulting volume of the mixed gases is much
smaller than the original amount, and the porous mass be
comes hot.
   The observations here made on the vicissitudes oftempera
ture which a porous mass experiences when successively
immersed in an atmosphere of different kinds, obviously ap
ply when the exposures instead of being consecutive are simul
taneous. If, for example, a barrier separates carbonic acid
and hydrogen gas, and absorbs the former to a large amount,
but exerts little or no action on the latter, then the opposite
sides of that barrier will be unequally heated. Suppose, for
illustration, we call that surface of the barrier which looks
towards the carbonic acid C, and the surface looking toward
the hydrogen H ; then because of the condensing action of
the barrier on the acid gas, the surface C will become hot;
but because this gas as soon as it has passed through the bar
rier expands, as into a void, when it reaches the surface H,
that surface because of the expansion will become cold. We
see, therefore, that immediately after the action of the barrier
is first set up, the absorption of carbonic acid takes place
on a hot surface, and its evolution from a cold one; whereas
the absorption of the hydrogen takes place on a cold surface,
and its evolution from a hot one. A modified result of course
happens when both gases are absorbed in different degrees,
and any prediction of the resulting action becomes a matter of
much difficulty. When the barrier is very thin, or has a high
conducting power as respects caloric, this distinct surface ac
tion may not rigidly occur, but the whole structure experiences
some rise or diminution, a mean expressive of the condition
of the two surfaces respectively.
   On the 22nd of November 1837, on analysing atmospheric
air at this place, there was found in it only 19'60 per cent, of
oxygen, corroborative results being obtained by the use of
deutoxide of nitrogen and hydrogen gas ; but the day previous
and the day following, the proportion was almost 21 per cent.
This is not an insulated result ; I know that on several occa
sions during the last four years the proportion of oxygen in the

                  Constitution of the Atmosphere.                 251
air has varied in experiments that have been carefully made
in Virginia. For a length of time these variations were im
puted to the use of binoxide of nitrogen, and it was not until
we made the same observations in using hydrogen gas, that
the true cause was suspected. I believe that the binoxide of
nitrogen will always give accurate results, if added to atmo
spheric air, in a stream of bubbles, by Hare's sliding rod eu
diometer* : one fourth of the deficit is to be taken.
    In the course of these investigations, it has happened to
me to observe some instances of an action which you have so
fully described. In a paper inserted in the American Journal
of Medical Sciences for May 1836, it is remarked, "An im
portant circumstance in gaseous analysis may here be no
ticed. If a tissue, in the act of transmitting gas or ready to do
so, be placed in contact with another gas of a different nature,
disturbance immediately ensues. A cubic inch of nitrogen
made with phosphorus, but which was found to be contami
nated with 4^ per cent, of oxygen, was agitated briskly in a
phial containing about an ounce of spring-water. In one
minute the nitrogen gained one per cent, by the agitation.
The same quantity of nitrogen agitated in a pint of water
gained no less than eleven per cent, of oxygen. Nor is agita
tion or mechanical violence necessary to produce this im
portant result. Into a bell filled with water and inverted
into another vessel, so as not touch it in any point, I placed
 100 measures of a gas, 85 of which were oxygen. After four
weeks, an analysis was made, and the gas in the bell found
to contain only 72 per cent, of oxygen, the remainder being
nitrogen. In this way too, in the lapse of time, from an in
verted vessel partially filled with atmospheric air, the oxygen
will escape into the water, and thence into the atmosphere ; and
I have twice known this event to take place, so that the resi
due did not contain more than three or four per cent, of oxy
gen. In many of the most delicate researches of chemistry
we have this disturbing cause in operation, which has for the
 most part been overlooked. Water is uniformly employed
 in our laboratories as a means of confining gases ; it enters
 largely into our processes of pneumatic manipulation, and
 though we have hitherto neglected its action, it silently dis
 turbs all our results. An air bell cannot pass to the top of
 a jar without instant contamination; during its residence
 there it is subject to a continued succession of changes ; at no
 two moments is it the same in composition, a perfect freedom
 of communication existing between it and the atmosphere."
     " As an instrument of rigid analysis, the pneumatic appara
  tus so arranged requires to be used with circumspection. It is
           [* See Phil. Mag. and Annals, N. S., vol. vi. p. 114.]

252       M. Quetelet's Observations on Shooting Stars
impossible to keep oxygen, nitrogen, or any other gas in its
original purity, if confined by water. This fluid, which when
reduced to a thin imperceptible film is instantaneously per
meated by almost every substance, undergoes the like action
in course of time, even in deep masses. Gases are absorbed
by it, and thrown off' by it, in its purest state ; how much more
complicated then must its action be in that impure condition
in which it is commonly used ! Connected with this point,
there is another: if a series of bells stand on a pneumatic
trough, each will affect all the others, communicating a part
of its contents and receiving from them in return. A jar con
taining binoxide of nitrogen, standing by the side of one con
taining common air, seriously affects it. I have noticed that
two common tumblers, filled with these. gases and so placed,
communicate with each other, and so freely, that in 1 7 hours
the tumbler originally filled with atmospheric air contained
only 9| per cent, of oxygen. The habit of collecting gases
at the same trough that is destined to preserve others is very
exceptionable : we place the disturbing agency in circum
stances the most favourable for its action. All operations of
washing are liable to the same strictures."
   I fear I have intruded upon you too long a letter. I have
been encouraged to do so ; for we are accustomed in America
to associate with your name whatever there is of exactitude
in chemistry. In gaseous mechanies the most important ob
servations are due to your labours ; and anything that may
have even a remote bearing on the subject, will, I am per
suaded, meet with acceptance from you.
                        Your obedient servant,
                                                JOHN W. DRAPER.
XXXIV. Observations on Shooting Stars on the Nights of the
   9th, 10th, and \lth of August 1838. By M. QUETELET,
   Director of the Observatory of Brussels, 8$c. Sfc. Sfc., and by
   E. J. COOPER, Esq. M.P.* '
      To Richard Taylor, Esq. Editor ofthe Philosophical
                           Magazine.
      DEAR SIR,
T RECEIVED the letter of which the following is an ex-
.*. tract the day after the last meeting of the Physical Section
of the British Association at Newcastle, and was therefore
not able to comply with the request of M. Quetelet to pre
sent the interesting particulars which it contains to the notice
of the Section. It seems to me that it I shall equally well effect
           * See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. xi. p. 261.

        on the nights of the 9th, 10th, and 1 1th ofAugiisf. 253
 M. Quetelet's objects by calling attention to his observations
in your Journal, and by requesting that if any similar ones
have been made in Great Britain, they may be communicated
to you.                   Very respectfully yours,
   London, Aug. 30, 1838.                       A. D. BACHE,
                                            President of the Gir. Coll.
                                                 Philadelphia.
Extract of a Letter from M. Quetelet, Director ofthe Obser
    vatory ofBrussels, to Prof. A. D. Bache, ofPhiladelphia.
    " I observed the number of shooting stars visible here (at
Brussels) on the nights of the 9th, 10th, and llth of August.
On the first of these nights the sky was almost entirely co
vered with clouds, and I saw but two shooting stars.
    " On the night of the 1 1th, until nearly midnight, about one
third of the sky towards the zenith was generally clear.
Subsequently it was only clear at intervals, and towards two
o'clock it rained. I was assisted in my observations by two
other persons; and notwithstanding the unfavourable circum
stances of the night we saw many shooting stars, besides se
veral very brilliant meteors, with nearly all of them a luminous
train. The uniform direction of their motion was further re
markable. Below is the result of our observations on the
night of the 10th, giving the directions of the paths of the
shooting stars and the hours between which the numbers
given were seen.
  49 directed from between the north and east towards the
            opposite quarter of the sky.
    1 between the south and west towards the opposite quar
            ter of the sky.
    4' between the south and east towards the opposite quar
            ter of the sky.
  1 1 between the north and west towards the opposite quar
         ter of the sky.
    5 from east to west.
    1 from west to east.
    4 from north to south.
    1 from south to north.
  76
  1 1 not well determined.
  87 total number seen.
    Of these were seen :
     16 between 9—10 o'clock. The observations about 9
         o'clock were interrupted for aboutl.5 minutes by clouds.

254     Mr. E. J. Cooper's Observations on Shooting Stars
   29 between 10—11 o'clock.
   39 between 11, and 11 and 50 minutes. The sky then
         clouded over.
     8 after midnight in the clear intervals.
   " I estimate at double the number just given what we should
probably have seen had the weather been favourable.
   " On the night of the 1 1th the sky was clear until towards
two o'clock. At half past two it was covered with clouds.
I had on this occasion three assistants. We saw
     2 shooting stars before 9 o'clock.
   34- between 9— 10 o'clock.
   19 between 10— 11       „
   24 between 11 —12 „
   32 between 12— 1        „
   12 between 1 —2         „
   10 between 2—3          „
     2 after 3 o'clock.
  135 total number of shooting stars which were seen.
         The directions of the motions were
   71 from between the north and east towards the opposite
         part of the sky.
     3 between the south and west towards the opposite part
         of the sky.
   16 between the south and east towards the opposite part
         of the sky.
   10 between the north and west towards the opposite part
         of the sky.
    10 from east to west.
     2 from west to east.
    13 from north to south.
     6 from south to north.
  131, leaving four, the directions of which were not well de
         termined.
   "The shooting stars of the 11th, though fine, were less so
than those of the 10th. The general direction, as has been
seen, was from the north-east towards the south-west."
    [The following notice on the same subject has been commu
nicated by the Rev. T. R. Robinson, D.D. of Armagh.]
   Extract of a Letterfrom Edward J. Cooper, Esq., M.P.
       " My dear Dr. Robinson,             Geneva, Aug. 15, 1838.
    " I have not been able to do much in arranging the observa
 tions made of falling stars on the nights 10— 11 instant, as
 I only received those made by my companions last night.

         on the nights of the 9th, 10th, and 1 Xth of August. 255
The total number seen from 8h to 16h was upwards of 380.
The number actually observed = 373, of which 123 fell to my
list. My companions were M. Wartman and his two sons,
M. Muller of the Observatory, and M. Borel, a friend of his.
At 8h two banks of clouds converged to a point on the horizon
N. 40 E. This point moved subsequently about 5° more to
the £. ; and at 9h 45m the clouds hod become much darker,
and the angle of convergence had greatly increased. At 10h
they had become white and thin, and nearly concealed the
north from the horizon to a Lyra. About 14h they had moved
 northward, and the point of convergence was at N. 35 E.
 Heavy dew, night perfectly calm. Three of the stars passed
 apparently over clouds. I can now merely class my own ob
 servations as follows. I find I am too late for post today, so
 will endeavour to class the total. Aug. ICth. I have found
 that it requires a very long time, so I can only give you the
 total numbers from and to each constellation. I shall place
 the numbers/row before, and the number to after, the name of
 the constellation. I have not time to check my work.
     16 Andromed. 6.                    1 Hon. Fred. 3.
      1 Antinoi 14.                     0 "Lizard" 1.
      0 Appar. Sculpt. 1.               2 Libra 5.
     10 Aquarii 6.                      0 Lyncis 4.
     16 Aquilae 13.                    17 Lyra 12.
      2 Arietis 2.                      0 Mont. Menal.     1.
     11 Aurigsc 7.                      1 Ophiuchi 9.
     18 Bootis 28.                      2 Orionis 4.
      6 Camelop. 2.                    16 Pegasi 15.
      2 Can. Ven. 5.                   17 Persei 13.
      5 Capricorn. 10.                  0 Pise. Aust. 1.
     20 Cassiopeia' 11.                 3 Piscis 2.
   128 Cephei 10.                       0 Ram. et Cerb.    3.
       1 " Cercle Murale" 1.            4 Sagitta; 2.
       1 " Cervus Arcticus" 0.           1 Sagittarii 6.
       5 Ceti 7.                       10 Serpentis 18.
       1 Custod. Messium 0.             2 Scut. Sobiesk.   0.
       0 Coma; Ber. 1.                   2 Scorpionis 8.
     13 Corona? Bor. 14.                6 Tauri 6.
     26 Cygni 17.                        2 Taur. Poniat.   6.
       7 Delphini 0.                    0 Telescopii 1.
     40 Draconis 21.                     2 Trianguli 5.
       0 Equus Min. 1.                 31 Urs. Maj. 29.
       2 Gemini 6.                     22 Urs. Min. 21.
     21 Herculis 18.                    0 Virginis 1.
      "You will perceive that the numbers here particularized do

 256            Dr. Schoenbein's Conjectures on the
not accord with the grand total, nor can I, as I have already
said, check them. I think however that there is enough to
prove that on the 10th of August at least there has been
nothing to support the idea of a common focus. I also must
add, that on the following night there were only 3 per hour
less in number."
XXXV. Conjectures on the Cause of the peculiar Condition
                of Iron. Ifc/Dr. SCHCENBEIN.*
CEVERAL attempts have already been made to explain
^ the peculiar condition of iron. Dr. Faraday's hypothesis
upon that subject is certainly the most ingenious and most
plausible of all the theories as yet brought forward, but
there are some facts pointed out by me elsewhere, which do
not well agree with the views of that distinguished philosopher.
As the matter alluded to is of some importance with respect
to electrical science, and all the theories hitherto announced
upon the cause of the anomalous relations of the iron having
failed, I may, perhaps, be allowed to suggest some ideas re
garding the delicate point in question. .But before doing it
I must not omit to say, that I do not lay much stress upon
my conjectures, and that I have only ventured to make them
public, because I hope they will engage some philosopher
more able than myself to take up the subject, and clear up by
new investigations the darkness which still invests the cause
of the inactivity of iron.
    Chemistry in our days accounts for the difference of qua
lities exhibited by what are called " isomeric bodies" by
asserting that the same number of particles of the same ele
ments are capable of grouping themselves in different ways.
Now if heterogeneous atoms be capable of combining in va
rious manners, is it not possible that homogeneous ones may
do the same, and in such a way as to give rise to substances
essentially distinct from each other not only with regard to
their physical, but also as to their chemical properties '{ Sul
phur, selenium, phosphorus, and carbon prove indeed that
simple substances are capable of assuming states almost as
different from each other as any two isomeric bodies are in
qualities. It is true, the difference of properties which we
sometimes observe in the same element is generally referable
to a modification of the cohesive attraction of its molecules
brought about by the agency of heat ; but I am almost sure,
   • Communicated by Mr. Faraday, to whom it had been addressed by
the Author.

              Cause ofthe peculiar Condition of Iron.         257
that the chemical relations of a body are, more or less, modi
fied also as often as a change of its cohesive state is effected.
Sulphur for instance, in its peculiar (viscid) condition, phos
phorus being liquid at the common temperature, selenium
in its half fluid state, carbon as diamond, all these simple
bodies are, most likely, in a chemical point of view, different
from what they are in their usual condition. We certainly
want as yet tests to ascertain the chemical difference which
exists, for instance, between viscid and common sulphur, &c. ;
but though this be the case, analogy, I think, makes up for
that want, and allows of our making an assertion of the
kind. There are, indeed, many instances in chemistry which
show a most intimate connexion existing between the cohe
sive state of a body and its chemical relations, and it would
be quite superfluous to cite any such example.
   Now, if by means of heat, and in some rare cases by that
of light too, a number of simple substances can undergo an
essential change as to their molecular aggregation, why should
an agency so powerful as current-electricity, which parts
asunder elements most intimately combined with one another;
—I ask, why should such a force be incapable of modifying the
natural cohesive state of bodies, for instance, that of iron ?
The conjecture, that the current which passes from that metal
into a solution of blue vitriol modifies the molecular consti
tution of iron so as to destroy the affinity of the latter for the
oxygen contained in the oxide of copper and disengaged from
water by electrolytic action, is indeed a new and rather a bold
one, but I should think no more so than many other conjec
tural views, which are now much in vogue with chemists and
considered as very plausible. The fact that iron once being
rendered inactive does not remain in its peculiar condition, is
no proof against the correctness of my idea ; for it may be
said, that the modification of the molecular constitution caused
by the current is, as it were, a condition forced upon the metal,
a strained state, which ceases to exist as soon as its cause
ceases to act. The condition may properly be compared to
that in which the particles of a bent steel-spring exist.
   The circumstance that inactive iron can remain untouched
for any length of time within nitric acid of a certain strength
without the agency of a current, is a fact which may appear
to be quite irreconcilable with my hypothesis. I do not think,
however, that such is the case. In the first place we must
suppose that something like a " vis inertia: " comes into play,
that is to say, to a certain degree a tendency of the iron par
ticles to remain in their newly assumed juxtaposition ; but on
the other hand we must also admit the existence of some ac-
   PhiLMag. S.3. Vol. 13. No. 82. Oct. 1838.                S

258               Dr. Schcenbein's Conjectures on the
tion on the part of the ncid upon the inactive iron. It is a
well-known iact that fused phosphorus does not become solid
at the common temperature if surrounded by a strong solu
tion ofpotash* ; and according to the experiments which I have
made on the subject, phosphorus being in the circumstances
mentioned can be cooled down nearly to the freezing point
without becoming solid, whereas when covered with water it
becomes solid at 104° Fahr. Now if the presence of a solution
of potash prevent phosphorus from assuming its solid state,
nitric acid by an analogous action may force the particles of
inactive iron to remain in their peculiar relative position.
    Having ventured myself so far into the regions of conjec
 ture, I may, perhaps, be allowed to continue my course a little
longer in that direction. For aught I know, all chemical phi
losophers tacitly acknowledge that the chemical attractive
force which a particle of any element exerts with reference
 to a particle of any other simple body is equal on every one
 of its sides, provided the distance between the two particles
 remains the same. Now the peculiar state of iron leads
 me to suspect, that the particles of that metal have each of
 them two chemical poles, at least with regard to oxygen, one
 pole which attracts the latter body, and another pole which
 either exerts no attraction for oxygen or which repels it.
 Supposing each molecule of iron to be possessed of such
 polar sides, it may be conceived, that a current which passes
 from the metal into an oxi-electrolytic fluid, into a solution of
 blue vitriol for instance, directs these particles so as to place
 their attractive poles (attractive with regard to oxygen) to
 wards the axis of the current, or inwards with respect to the
 surface of the metal, and the repulsive ones towards the elec
 trolytic fluid. Such a position of the particles would prevent
 them from acting either upon the oxygen disengaged at them
 by electrolytic action or upon the oxygen contained in the
 oxide of copper. It is a matter of course, according to my
 hypothesis, that the arrangement of the poles of the mole
 cules of the iron would be the reverse of that just spoken of,
 in case the metal acted the part of the cathode of a current.
 I have shown that a piece of iron rendered inactive by its
 having been made the positive electrode within common nitric
 acid, is turned active again by being made the negative one.
 I must, however, not omit to state, that in order to make the
 hypothesis agree with nil the facts known respecting the pe
 culiar condition of iron, we are obliged to suppose that the
 polarity of the iron particles exists only with regard to oxy-
   • The presence of the solution of potash, however, is not required to
 retain the phosphorus in the liquid state. See Phil. Mag. and Annals,
 N.S., vol. iii. p. 144.—EDIT.

               Cause of the peculiar Condition ofIron.              259
gen which is either in a combined state or set free by electro
lytic action, and by no means to oxygen which is in its usual
condition. If iron be voltaicnlly associated with platina and
put into water containing oxygen dissolved, the former metal
is oxidized whether the platina be plunged into the fluid
before or after the iron. If zinc be the substance put into
voltaic association with iron, the latter is not in the least af
fected by the oxygen, which the water holds dissolved. For
these last four months I have kept a combination of both
metals within common water, which has been continually ex
posed to the air, and the surface of the iron is at this present
moment as brilliant ns it was when I put that metal into the
water; whilst the zinc appears surrounded by a thick cloud
of its oxide. In the two cases stated the electro-chemical
laws hold good, whereas they do not at all agree with the
phenomena which are referable to the peculiar condition of
iron. I must openly confess that the different way in which
the same current makes the iron act upon the oxygen appears
to me as rather unfavourable to my hypothesis of a chemical
polarity of the iron particles ; but on the other hand it must
be allowed, that the fact alluded to is likewise very much at
variance with the principles of the electro-chemical system
of the present day.
    There is another objection to which my hypothesis will, per
haps, be thought liable. It may be said that the solid state
of iron does not allow its particles the motion required for
obtaining the peculiar arrangement of their poles mentioned.
It is a point generally adopted by philosophers, that the
atoms of no body do immediately touch each other, and it is
supposed that the distance at which any two contiguous par
ticles are placed from each other surpasses by far the diame
ter of each atom. If such be the case, I cannot conceive
why the molecules of iron should not be capable of being
turned by some force, being superior to that by which they
are kept together under ordinary circumstances. There are,
indeed, some facts which put it beyond doubt that the molecu
lar constitution of a solid body may be essentially modified
without having recourse to its liquefaction or vaporization.
Gustave Rose, in a very interesting paper lately published in
Poggendorff 's Annalen*, has demonstrated, that arragonite
can easily be transformed into calcareous spar by moderately
heating the former substance. Such a change cannot tnke
place without an internal motion of the particles of carbonate
of lime, the form of crystallization as well as the specific gra
vity of the compound becoming considerably modified under
   • And of which a translation appeared in Lond. andEdinb. Phil. Mag.,
vol. MI. p. 465.—EDIT.
                                 S2

260       Dr. Schcenbein on the peculiar Condition ofIron.
the circumstances. Now what heat is capable of effecting in
one case, a current, I think, must be able to do in another.
   As to the arrangement of the molecules of common iron
with regard to the relative position of their chemical poles, it
must be supposed to be similar to that of Ampere's molecular
currents in the same rnetal before its being magnetized, that
is to say, quite irregular. From such being the case it would
follow that the surface of a piece of common iron is formed
of attractive and repulsive poles, or what comes to the same
thing, that the metal without being placed under the influence
of a current of a certain direction, is to be chemically affected
by oxygen which is in the peculiar state before mentioned.
    It is not impossible that the supposed chemical polarity of
the molecules of iron is in some way or other connected with
the eminently magnetic properties of that metal, and it may
even be imagined, that the current which is suspected of circu
lating round each iron particle has its source in the said po
larity. As far as I know, Ampere has only postulated the
currents in the iron, or rather inferred them from a certain
number of facts, and given out no opinion whatever as to
their ultimate cause. The passage of a current through iron
must at any rate have some influence upon the relative posi
tion and motion of the supposed molecular currents of that
metal, and changing the direction of these currents may also
determine a modification of the chemical relations of iron.
 Pursuant to my hypothesis nickel and cobalt ought to be
quite similar with regard to the phenomena of inactivity.
 Such, however, as formerly shown by me, is not the case ; but
on the other hand I must say, that my experiments were
made upon such a small scale and were so few in number,
that I do not yet dare to draw any conclusive inference from
them.
    Isomerism and dimorphism, generally speaking so closely
 connected with one another, are phenomena which have,
 perhaps, also something to do with chemical polarity. Up to
 this present moment they remain unaccounted for; but if we
 suppose that the particle of one substance exerts towards the
particle of another different degrees of attraction, according
 to different relative positions of these molecules, we can con
 ceive the possibility of two bodies forming a variety of distinct
compounds, though the ratio in which their constituent parte
enter into combination should remain the same.
    Agreeably to such hypothesis a series of isomeric bodies
 would be nothing but [bodies constituted by the operation
 of] different sorts of chemical equilibrium between the same
constituent parts. It would also follow from the hypothesis,

         Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats ofthe Gases.      261
 that amongst such a series of isomeric bodies, there is one
 in which the chemical equilibrium is stable, that is to say, the
 relative position of the chemical poles of the heterogeneous
 atoms such as to allow the greatest attraction between the
 component parts.
    In closing this paper I cannot but repeat what I said at the
 beginning of it, namely, that I do not attach much import
 ance to the views just now developed, they being entirely hy
pothetical; nevertheless I think them not altogether unworthy
of being taken into consideration. If they should happen to
excite happier ideas upon the subject treated of in my paper,
they will not have been quite useless.
   Bale, May 24, 1838.
XXXVI. The Specific Heats of the Gases as deduced by Dr.
   Apjohn, compared with the more recent Results of Dr.
    Suerman. By JAMES APJOHN, M.D., M.R.I.A., Professor
   of Chemistry in the Royal College ofSurgeons, Ireland.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       GENTLEMEN,
 TT is known to some of my scientific friends that I have
     been for a considerable time engaged in experiments for
determining the specific heats of the more remarkable gaseous
bodies; and indeed several of the results at which I have ar
rived have been communicated to the public through the re
ports of the British Association and the pages of the Philo
sophical Magazine.* The entire of my researches on this sub
ject have some time since been laid before the Royal Irish
Academy, and have appeared in a connected form in the vo
lume of its Transactions which has just issued from the press.
As, however, the circulation of the Transactions is necessarily
limited, and, also, in order that I may set myself right with the
public upon some points in reference to which I have been
misapprehended, I am anxious to avail myself of the pages of
your Journal, to draw attention to the efforts which I have
made towards the solution of a problem of acknowledged diffi
culty and great importance. I have also another object in ma
king this hasty communication, viz. to bring under the notice
of British philosophers the recent very able and valuable in
vestigations of Suerman, a copy of whose memoir on the spe
cific heats of gases has recently come into my possession.
   Dr. Suerman has, as will be seen, adopted my method, and,
by means of a very elaborate apparatus, has arrived at con
clusions which, as I shall show, correspond very closely with
             [* See L. and E. Phil. Mag., vol. vii. p. 385.]

262      Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases,
mine. Let roe not, however, be misunderstood. Dr. Suer-
!n, ui has borrowed nothing from me, for before he had seen
my first paper on specific heats he had resolved upon em
ploying the method in question in the same research*. So
far from having reclamations to make, I feel myself his debtor.
He has frankly admitted my priority, and spoken of my ex
periments in terms I fear much too flattering.
    Before proceeding to my immediate object it will be neces
sary to remind the reader that in November 183-tt, I commu
nicated the following formula for the solution of the dew-point
problem to the Royal Irish Academy :
                     f« - f        — x P
                    J ~J ' 88 " 30 '
in whichf" is the force of vapour at the dew-point, f the
same at the temperature of the wet thermometer, d = t — I'
the difference between the indications of the wet and dry in
struments, p the existing, and 30 the mean pressure-
    In investigating this expression it was assumed that the spe
cific heat of air and the caloric of elasticity of aqueous vapour
are constant, at least within the limits of the variations, in these
latitudes, of atmospherical temperature and pressure, an hy
pothesis the strict accuracy of which cannot be admitted.
 Preparatory therefore to the application of the formula to the
investigation of the specific heats of gases, it became necessary
to give it its most comprehensive form, substituting for the
numeral coefficient — the factors of which it is composed,
                          88
and introducing the consideration of density, in order that
the expression may be true generally of the various elastic
fluids. The steps which have conducted to such general ex
pression I shall here give, partly because I have not published
them elsewhere, and partly because my investigation of the
formulay" .=./'— — x ——has been by some considered
                        88       30
as complicated and obscure. When, in the case of the wet
thermometer, the stationary temperature is attained, the ca
loric which vaporizes the water is necessarily exactly equal to
that which the surrounding gas imparts in descending from
its proper temperature to that of the moistened bulb. From
   • "Tandem opus aggressus, et occupatus in idoneo parando supellectili,
diarium accepi Anglicum, quo in collegio, quod Dublini habetur, Chemia;
professoris Apjohn continehatur disquisitio, ex eodem illo principle
fluidorum elasticornm calorem specificmn derivaus. Primum.quid silcam?
 Animo despondebam, quum novitatis colorem, que mini prcecipue arridc-
bat, de meo evanescere viderem proposito." (Preface, p. viii.)
    [t See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. vi. p. 182.]

             as deduced by himselfand Dr. Suerraan.           263
this consideration, and the additional hypothesis that the gas
so cooled by successive contacts with the moistened bulb is sa
turated with humidity, we can deduce the following equation :
in which f" orf have the significations already assigned to
them, while i«' and in represent, the former the amount of va
pour which would be formed by the caloric evolved from a given
bulk of the gas in cooling through t —t' degrees, the latter the
maximum quantity which the same volume of such gas could
contain at the temperature t'. The correctness of this de
duction is easily shown. For m being the total quantity of
moisture in the gas, and m1 the quantity introduced into it,
m — m' will be the quantity it already contained ; so that, since,
when the temperature and volume of vapour are both given,
its elastic force is proportional to its quantity, we shall have
                        m : m-m' : :/' :/"
a proportion which gives, as above,
    In arriving at this conclusion, we have assumed that the air
which is cooled by contact with the moistened bulb becomes
saturated with humidity. This is the only premiss which we
have employed about which a question can be raised. That it
is brought, however, into such condition, no one can, I con
ceive, entertain a doubt who reflects upon the very low con
ducting power of air, and the consequent impossibility of its
communicating caloric to the moistened bulb unless by actual
contact, a condition which can scarcely be fulfilled without
the entire of the cooled air being at the same time carried to
the maximum degree of humidity.
    In the expression for./" given above,/' may be considered
as known, the corresponding temperature t' being the result
of an observation. In order, therefore, to render the formula
available it will only be necessary to determine in known terms
values of m' and m, which may be done in the following man
 ner:
    Let a be the specific heat of the gas under a constant press
 ure, and c the caloric of elasticity of aqueous vapour at ^,
 the stationary temperature of the wet thermometer. It is evi
 dent that a grain of the gas in cooling through t —/' = d de
 grees gives out the caloric necessary for raising the tempera
 ture of a grains of water through the same number of degrees.
 But the caloric which heats a grains of water d degrees would

264     Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases,
convert into vapour having the temperature /' an amount of
the same fluid represented by             grains. Hence one grain
of the gas in cooling through d degrees evolves heat adequate
to the evaporation of             grains of water at the temperature
shown by the wet thermometer ; or, if we divide by — , —
                                                             e    a
grains of the gas in cooling through d degrees extricates heat
which will vaporize d grains of moisture at t'. For m' there
fore in the formula f
d may be substituted.
     Now, supposing the gas to be atmospheric air, and that
 100 cubic inches of this weigh 31 grs., the volume in cubic
             g
 inches of — grains of it at 60° and under a pressure of 30
 will obviously be
                               JL
                                a X 31
 and at any other temperature *', and pressure p
                     c V —100- V 44.8 + t'        30
                      ~
                        "    —  -            ~
                     a " 31             508 '4 p '
 an expression which, as the volumes are reciprocally as the
 densities, will, for any gas whose specific gravity is s, become
                   j~       100 X 448    -M' X J50~
                    as X Tf           ~508       p '
     Let this be multiplied by ,4K ~/' x "on X '625 x 31i tne
 weight of a cubic inch of aqueous vapour of maximum tension
 at temperature t', and the product, viz.
   e     100      448 + t'      30        508       /'
 as X -31 * "SOS' X T X ST+7 X i
                           e        f
                        - X ^- x -625,
                         as         p
  will be the maximum amount of moisture which can be con-
               p
  tained in — grains of the gas at temperature /', and pressure
 pt and is therefore the value of m.

                 as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.     265
     If therefore we revert to the equation
                          fa- fi fi~ ^.\
                         J ~J I1         m )'
and substitute in it for m1 and m their values, namely d, and
  e x f- x '625, we are conducted to the following final
 (I S      , 'if
equation, which includes the solution of the dew-point pro
blem,
     In the case of atmospheric air s = 1 ; so that for the pur
poses of the meteorologist
                         /v/_ f 48 a dx P                   m,
                        J -J           — x 30'              («.)
which, if we assume a = -267, and e = 967° + 212° —50°
 = 1129, becomes
                        Jfn-.fi^jLxJL
                            ~J       88     30 '
the expression which I have used in my paper on the dew-
 point. Now though a, and e are not, as is assumed in this
 latter expression, constant, the mean values which are assigned
 to them are sufficiently exact for all practical purposes. This
 I believe I may say I have established by three distinct series
 of experiments, for the particulars of which, however, I must
 refer to my second paper on the dew-point.
      Before proceeding to other topies, I wish to state that an
 expression identical with (B) was obtained some years ago by
 Mr. Ivory. His method, however, was so totally different from
 mine, that those who examine both will, I make little doubt,
 consider it scarcely necessary for me to disclaim, as I have
 elsewhere done, any knowledge of his investigations at the
 time I gave publicity to my own results. In perusing also
 Dr. Suerman's thesis already referred to, I find ascribed
 to Gay-Lussac a formula for dry air which scarcely differs, as
 shall be hereafter shown, from one which may be deduced
 from mine. Again, in the first part of Professor Graham's
  Elements of Chemistry recently published, and which he was
 good enough to send me, I find, in a note to page 82, a
  formula ascribed to Dr. August which is in form the same
  with that which I have given, but adapted to Reaumur's
  thermometer. The coefficient, however, of d is too great by
  about one fourth ; for the formula in question (adopting in it
  the notation already employed,) is

 266     Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases,
                       j-n =y; _ 'SS8dp^
 whereas, assigning to a its ordinary value '267, my expres
 sion, when brought to this shape, would be
                                       -4272 dp
                       J ~J         ~ = e
     Now, the only way of accounting for this difference is by
 supposing Dr. August to consider the value of a, the specific
 heat of air, to be not -267 but '349, an assumption which it is
 scarcely necessary to say is altogether inconsistent with ex
 periment. Professor Graham observes of this formula, " It
 was employed by Humboldt and G. Rose in their recent ex
 pedition to Siberia, and (as I was assured by the latter) with
 excellent effect." This testimony would have startled me
 much had it been stated that contemporaneous observations
 were uniformly made with a condensation hygrometer. But
 as this is not asserted, I feel the less reluctance in declaring
 that the formula in question, however satisfactory it may seem
 to the eminent philosophers just named, is undoubtedly er
 roneous. In an observation of theirs quoted by Professor
 Graham, t being 74°'9, f 56°'9, and p 30-17, by the method
of August, f" is inferred to be -22678, whereas by mine it
would be -26596. Adopting the former value the dew-point
if' would be 35°-6, while, if the latter be correct, it is <K)°-1.
Now from the many and severe tests to which I have put my
own method, I do not hesitate to assert that the first-mentioned
determination of the point of deposition makes it at least four
degrees Fahrenheit too low.
    But to return from this digression to the subject of specific
heats. From equation (A) or /" =/' --                  x •£- we
                                                 C        J\J
readily deduce the following expression for the specific heat
of a gas, viz.
                           -(/'-/)"'
                           _ ~~              30
                          ~
which, when the gas is perfectly dry, or, in other words,
whereJ" = 0 becomes
                         --
                              f'e
                            ..t/_ -  V  ~
                                         SO
                          ~ 4:8 sd
    This is the specific heat of the gas under a given weight.
Hence as the specific heats of equal volumes of different gases
are equal to the specific heats ofequal weights multiplied by the

            as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.           267
specific gravities, the general expression for the specific heats
of equal volumes will be
                             £l. x 3?.
                             48 d    p
   Now, in this expression d = t—t,f the force of vapour
at if, and p the existing pressure, are given by observation;
e is also a known quantity, being, according to the most ac
curate experiments, and upon the hypothesis that the sum of
the sensible and latent heat of aqueous vapour at all tempera
tures is a constant quantity, equal to 1 179— t. By aid, there
fore, of a hygroraetric observation with a wet and dry ther
mometer in any gas, the barometer being also observed, the
specific heat of a given volume of such gas may be calculated.
Such is the method which, as far as my knowledge extends,
I have been the first to propose and practise. To this general
explanation it is only necessary to add that, at the close of
each experiment the gas operated with was subjected to ana
lysis, and a correction made for the per centage of atmo
spheric air which it wA found to include, by means of a for
mula which may be thus investigated.
    Let a be the calculated specific heat of the mixture of air
and gas, a' the true specific heat of the gas, n the number of
volumes of air in 100 of the gas, and c the specific heat of air
as deduced by means of formula (c) from a distinct experi
ment with air alone. Then, on the principle that the specific
 heat of the mixture of air and gas multiplied by its volume is
 equal to the sum of the products of the respective volumes of
 air and gas multiplied by their respective specific heats,
                    d (100 — ri) +ne = 100 a
 which gives
                        ,         (a— e)n
                       a =a+           -— .
                                   100— re
    As examples of the course to be pursued, I shall adduce
 the following observations made successively on air and hy
 drogen, on the 5th of August 1835.
                           t       f        d       p
         Hydrogen         68      48       20      30-114
         Air              68      43       25      30-114
                                                       ef      30
     By applying to these results the equation a = -~ x -
                                                      4o d     p
  we get
            Specific heat of air           = -2767 = c
            Specific heat of hydrogen = -4090 = a.
     But the hydrogen upon analysis was found to contain 5 per

268     Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats ofthe Gases,
cent, of air.   Hence, the specific heat of the hydrogen sup
posed pure, as deduced from the equation a' = a+ ^              —,
                                                         100 '~7Zi
becomes -4151. And as -2767 : '2670 : : 4151 : -4005, the
specific heat of hydrogen compared to that of an equal volume
of air under a pressure of 30 when water is represented by
unity, or, what amounts to the same, when air is '267.
   In order to the determination of / and I' the wet and dry
thermometers were introduced into a glass tube through which
the gas, first dried by bubbling through oil of vitriol, was
made to pass in a rapid current, by means of pressure with
a board upon a large bladder in which it was contained; and,
as soon as the wet thermometer, which by exposure to the
dry air or gas rapidly falls, acquired a stationary temperature,
its indication and that of the dry instrument were registered.
In the case of air there was no difficulty in reaching this sta
tionary point, it being obviously only necessary to maintain
the blast sufficiently long. It would,Jiowever, have been in
convenient to employ a sufficient quantity of the other gases
to ensure the production in each case of a maximum degree
of depression ; so that, when for any of these / and /' bad to be
observed, the wet thermometer was first brought nearly to its
stationary point by a current of atmospherical air. The de
pression proper to the gas was now easily obtained by causing
the blast of air to be immediately succeeded by one of the gas,
and which in consequence of this contrivance it was, generally
speaking, found necessary to maintain only for a few seconds.
For a more detailed description, and a wood-cut of the ap
paratus, I must refer to the report published by the British
Association of its proceedings in Bristol. The results ob
tained by the method just explained are presented in the
following tables. Table (1.) relates to atmospheric air alone;
table (2.) to the other gases. In table (3.) we have the mean
results given in table (2.) referred to atmospheric air repre
sented both by '267 and by unity. The numbers in the last
column of table (3.) are the specific heats of equal weights,
and are got by dividing the numbers in the preceding column
by the specific gravities of the gases to which they respectively
belong.

                as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.                                 269
                                         (10
                              t        t'          d           P            a
             June 21.       58-8     38-4        20-4      30-014        .2912
                    27.     52-7     34-9        17-8      30'225        .2935
             July 31.       64-5     41-2        23-3      30-330        .2773
             Aug. 1.        67-3     42          25-3      30-140        .2624
                     4-     68       43          25        30-114        .2767
                     5.     67       42-4        24'6      30-000        .2768
                     7.     66       44-7        24'3      30-218        .2657
                                                                         .2776
                                          (2.)
                                                           Air per                     Means.
                          I      f   d      P        a      cent.      a'       a"
.           I June 27. 53-8 35-5   18-3   30-225   -2915             2915     .2912
            (July 31. 65 41-3      23-7   30-330,  -2735             2735     .2669 j-2660
Carbonic JJunC^' 60- 40            20     30-014   .3135     11-4 .3137       .2876
                         53-8 36-5 17-3   30-225   .3178     12      .3211    .2921 L-2910
  Add- [July 3l". 65-2 42-7        22-5   30-330   .3021       8-2 .3043      .2933
                         67-3      23-8   30-140    .C952            .2952    .3003
Carbonic J      "*'' ,' 67-5 43'5  24-5   30-000    .2874            .2874    .2772 1-2863
                                43
                         66-2 42-4 23-8   30-218    .2774            .2774    .2825 J
           i June 21. 59 42-8      16-2   30-014    .4262      4     .4317    .3961
                         52-3 38-9  13-4  30-225    .4475      7     .4590    .4175 ]
              July 3U 65 46         19    30-330    .4000      7'5 .4099      .3946 1-4022
               Aug. 4. 68 48       20     30-114    .4092      5     .4151    .4005 J
Nitrous      f Aug. 4. 67-5 44-5 23       30-114    .3173    27-5 .3327       .3210
  Oxide     \         7. 65 42-5 22-5     30-218    .3013     14      .3071    .3085 }-3147
                                          (3.)
                                                                        Specific Hesta
                                             Specific Heats of equal       of equal
                                                    Volumes.               Welghts.
                                              .26?0         1-000            1-000
          Azote                               .2660          .996            1-024
          Oxygen, (by calculation)            .2710         1-015             .920
                                              .4022         1-506          21-826
                                              .2910         1-090             .715
                                              .2863         1-072            1-102
                                               .3147        1-179              .773
      Upon these results I never placed much reliance. The
   apparatus employed was very imperfect, particularly in not
   allowing more than a single experiment with the same quan
   tity of gas ; and I also saw reason to doubt that I had in every
   instance by means of it accomplished perfect desiccation.
   The difference, however, between my number for hydrogen
   and that of De la Roche and Berard, which has hitherto

270     Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heals ofthe Gases,
been generally adopted, appeared to me much too great to
admit of being referred to error of experiment. ] was there
fore very anxious to return to the subject, and towards the
end of July 1836, I undertook a fresh series of experiments,
 which were conducted on the following plan.
          'r
       A
           A
   A pair of copper gasometers, A, B, with glass bells, C, D,
such as are usually employed by chemical lecturers, were
charged with a proper quantity of oil of vitriol, instead of
water, and placed upon a table at the distance of three feet
1'rom each other, the brass caps, E, F, attached to the bells,
being suspended to the extremities of a stout cord passing
over a pair of pulleys, G, H, fixed in the ceiling of the la
boratory, the length of the cord being such that while one of
the bells was almost entirely immersed in the oil of vitriol, the
other dipped about an inch beneath its surface. Between the
lower stopcocks, m, nt attached to the gasometers, a couple
of glass tubes were interposed, connected to the stopcocks by
caoutchouc collars, and fitting at their other extremities to
each other by a tight ground joint. In the larger of these
tubes the dry thermometer I was permanently placed, and into
it the wet one t' was also introduced previous to the com
mencement of an experiment. Matters being, we shall sup
pose thus prepared, and the unimmersed bell, C, occupied,

             as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.           271
first, with atmospherical air deprived by the oil of vitriol of
it moisture, pressure was made upon it by an assistant, so as
to force its contents in a rapid current into the second bell,
D, through the tubes containing the wet and dry thermome
ters. During this operation the observer kept his eye, armed
with a lens, steadily fixed on the thermometers, and registered
the indications of both as soon as the wet one became and
continued stationary for a few seconds. The height of the
barometer being now taken, the necessary data were obtained
for calculating from formula (A), or
                    fit _ f    Mad       p
                   J ~J          T *30'
the elastic force of the vapour still existing in the air of the
gasometer. This air being now replaced by one of the gases
which were to be the subject of experiment, and this being
left during the same time with the air in contact with the oil
of vitriol, the very manipulations and observations just detailed
were repeated. This same experiment was again and again
performed, and it having been ascertained, after a consider
able number of repetitions, that the results were uniform and
consistent, and that they might therefore be relied upon, the
mean of all the observations was taken, and from this the spe
cific heat of the gas was deduced by means of the formula
that value being assigned to/" which resulted from formula
(A) applied to the preliminary experiments on atmospherical
air. The analysis of the gas was next very carefully per
formed, and it having been ascertained that n volumes, e. g.
of atmospherical air per cent, were present, the proper cor
rection was applied by the formula
                               (a — e)n
                     a = a +---
                             r 100-n
already explained, in which e = '267 is the specific heat of
air, a' the true specific heat of the gas, and a the specific
heat of mixture of air and gas as previously determined.
Such was the course pursued in the case of each of the gases
submitted to experiment.
   The particulars of the entire series of experiments are com
prehended in tables (1.) and (2.) Table (3.) contains the
final results, alongside which are placed the numbers of De
la Roche and Berard, and those of Dulong, for the purpose
of comparison.

272     Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases,
                                        (1.)
         1836.           t          t'           7'           d          /"
        Aug.    8.     635        40-3        23-2        30-226
                8.     632        40- 1       231         30-226
                8.     632        40          23-2        30-226
        Mean ...       633        40-1        23'2        30-226       •0024
        Aug. 9.        62-8       40-5        22'3        30-250
                9-     63         40-8        22-2        30-250
                9.     62-9       406         22-3        30-250
                9.     63-5       411         22-4        30-250
                9.     63-2       40-8         22-4       30-250
        Mean ...       63-1       407          22-4       30-250       •0134
        Aug. 10.       63         407          22-3       30-208
              10.      64         415          22-5       30-208
              10.      634        412          22-2       30-208
              10.      63-6       10-9         227        30-208
        Mean ...       63-5       411          22-4       30-208       •0114
        Aug. 11.       62-2       40-9         21-3       30-310
               11.     63         40-9         22-1       30-310
               11.     63         415          21-5       30310
               11.     638        41-5         22-3       30310
               11.     63-2       417          21-5       30-310
               11.     63-2       41-3         21-9       30-306
               11.     64         414          22-6       30-306
        Mean ...       63-2       41-3         21-9       30-307       •0241
        Aug. 12.       66-5       41-8        247         30-270       •0063
               15.     65-8       41-9        23-9        30070
               15.     66-5       41-4        251         30-070
               15.     66-6       41-9        247         30070
        Mean ...       66-3       41 7        246         30-070       •0027
                                        (2.)
                                                                            Air
           1836.                  t        t'         d      /'      a   percent   a'
                  1'Aug. 8.     62-5     41-5        21    30-226          10-2
                            8.  62-6     415        211    30-226
                            8.  63       41-9       211    30-226
 Carbonic Acid <             8. 63       42-3       207    30-226
                            8.  63-6     42-4       21-2   30-226,
                            8.  637      42-4       21-3  30-226
                            8-  63-2     421        211   30-2261          11-4
                     Mean ...   631      42         211   30-226 •3136 10-8 •3992
                    Aug. 8.     63-6     451         18-5 30-226 •3970 3-2 •4012
                   fAug. 9.     62- 1    441         18   30-260            3-2
                            9-  62-6     441         18-5 30-260            3-6
                            9-  63        1-1-7     18-3  30-260            4
                            9-  62-8     44-7        18-1 30-260            4-4
                            9-  63       44-6       18-4  30-260            4-8
                            9-  63-8     45-1       187   30-250            5-2
                            9.  63       44-6       18-4  30-250            57
                                                                   •3734
                     Mean...    62-9     44-5       18-4  30-257            43 •3781
                   f Aug. 10.   62- 1    421        20    30-200            14-
                           10.  63       42-4       20-6  30-205
                           10.  63-6     42-6       21    30-210
 Nitrous Oxide >
                           10.  63       42         21    30-210
                           10.  63-5     42-5       21    30-210
                   L       10.  63-4     42-6       20-8  30-210            16
 — - —^™*-
                     Mean...    631      42-3       20-8  30-207 -3109      16   3186

              as deduced by himself and Dr. Suermnn.                               273
                              TABLE (2) continued.
           183G.                   t        t'        d        P      a            a'
Equal volumes [Aug. 11.          64-9     42-8       211    30306
  of Catb. Acid <         11.    654      43-3       22-1   30306
andCarb.Oxide L           "•     653      433        22     30-306
                     Mean...     65-2     431        221    30-306 ¦2865         •2865
                   ' Aug. 12.    65-3     42-7       22-6  30-27
Equal volumes
                          12.    65-8     43-4      22-4   30-27
  of Carb. Acid.                                           30-27
                          12.    65-8     42-3      235
 andCarb.Oxide
                          12.    65-3     42-6      22-7   30-27
                     Mean...     655      42-7      22-8   30-27 •2988           ¦2988
                  f Aug.15.      64-8     41-9      229    3007
                                 66-8     423       24'5   30-07
                  1 Mean...      66
                                 659
                                          42
                                          42- 1
                                                    24
                                                    23-8
                                                           3007
                                                           3007 •2799            •2799
                                         (3.)
                     Specific Heats of equal Volumes.
                                                          De la Roche
                                       J. A.                  and       Dulong.
                                                           Berard.
       Atmospheric Air ...      •2670          1000         1000        1000
                                •2799         1048          1006        1000
                                •2154           •808         •976       1000
       Hydrogen                 •3896         1-459          •900       1-300
       Carbonic Acid ....       •3192         1195          1-258       1-172
       Carbonic Oxide ...       •2660           •996        1-034       1000
                                •3 186         1193         1-350        1-159
    The number in this latter table for oxygen was inferred
from that for nitrogen by formula (C), and the same may be
said of the number attached to carbonic oxide, which was cal
culated in the same way from the specific heat of carbonic
acid and of a mixture of equal volumes of the two gases, as
deduced from experiment. From the care bestowed upon
the various manipulations, and the consistency of the different
observations in the same gas, I am disposed to look upon the
numbers given above as very close approximations to the
truth. I should probably except from this statement the spe
cific heats ascribed to oxygen and nitrogen, as but three ex
periments were made, in consequence of one of the gasometers
having begun to leak. Moreover as nitrogen was the gas
operated with, in passing by calculation to the specific heat of
 oxygen the errors of observation would be multiplied by four.
 Oxygen, in fact, not nitrogen, should have been the subject of
 experiment.
                                [To be continued.]
     Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 82. Oct. 1838.                               T

                             [   274     ]
  XXXVII, A Remark on an Article of M. Poisson's Traiie
     de Mecanique (Edition 2nd. No. 593.). By JAMES IVORY,
     K.H., F.B.S., $c.*
  TN speculations of difficulty it is of great importance to 7iote
       such points as are susceptible of clear demonstration.
  What is thus established by undoubted evidence, is not liable
  to be misapprehended or inadvertently misapplied. In this
 view it may be useful to demonstrate the following theorem,
 relating to the equilibrium of incompressible fluids, the par
 ticles of which are urged by accelerating forces : If an in
 terior level surface be extended through the mass, the body of
fluid within the level surface will tie in equilibrium independently
 of the rest of the mass, and supposing the incumbentJluid ix>ere
 removed.
     In order to demonstrate this theorem, suppose a canal
 to be conducted from an orifice in the upper surface of the
 fluid to the central point within all the level surfaces: the
 pressure of this canal at the centre, caused by all the forces
 which urge its elementary portions in the direction of the canal,
 and estimated on the unit of surface, will be the same, what
 ever be the position of the initial point in the upper surface:
 the symbol B may be used to denote the intensity of the
 pressure at the centre resulting from this canal, which is no
 other than the central column of Newton. In like manner if
 a similar canal be drawn to the centre from any orifice in an
 interior level surface, the intensity of pressure at the centre,
 represented by b, will be a constant quantity. The intensity
 of the exterior pressure at all the points of the level surface,
 caused by all the forces that urge the particles of the incum
 bent fluid, will be equal to B — b. Using the same symbols
 as M. Poisson (Edition 2nd, No. 583), x,y,z will represent
 the three rectangular coordinates of a particle of the fluid ;
 X, Y, Z, the accelerating forces acting on the particle in the
directions of x,y, z; and, as unit may stand for the density
of an incompressible fluid, we shall have
           B-& = /(Xrf* + Ydy + Zdz) ............ (a.}
the integral representing the intensity with which any canal,
having one orifice in the upper surface of the fluid and the
other in the level surface, presses upon the level surface.
By differentiating the equation, supposing the coordinates to
vary in the level surface, we obtain
              Xdx + Ydy + Zdz = 0 ............... (ft.)
                 • Communicated by the Author.

        Mr. Ivory's remark on an article by M. Poisson. 275
which expresses that the forces X, Y, Z are ineffective to dis
place the particles in any direction upon the level surface,
their resultant being perpendicular to that surface. The sig
nification of these equations being explicitly settled, it readily
follows that they are alone sufficient to determine the figure
of equilibrium, when there are no other causes tending to
displace a particle in a level surface, except the pressure of
the incumbent fluid caused by all the forces, of whatever de
scription, that urge its particles.
   When the fluid consists of particles that attract one an
other, M. Poisson admits that the matter exterior to a level
surface will attract the particles placed in that surface, or
within it. The effect of this attractive force is perfectly di
stinct from the pressure of any canal passing between the
upper surface and the level surface. In neither of the equa
tions (a) nor (6) is any account taken of an attraction which
the exterior fluid exerts upon a particle in a level surface.
But if the resultant of such attractions be not perpendicular
to the level surface at every point, the particles in that sur
face will be displaced, and there will be no equilibrium.
Let P, Q, R, represent the partial attractions of the matter
exterior to a level surface, upon a particle in that surface, the
forces being respectively parallel to x,y, z, the coordinates of
the particle: then the condition that the attractive forces shall
be ineffective to move the particle in any direction upon the
level surface; or, which is the same thing, the condition that
the resultant of the attractions shall be perpendicular to that
surface, is thus expressed,
           Pdx + Qdy + Rd* = 0                  \             ,.
           /(P dx + Qdy + R dz = con',/
the coordinates varying in the level surface. Now these
equations are not less indispensable than the former ones (a)
 and (b), to the immobility of the particles of a level surface.
 And thus it appears that, when all the forces in action are taken
into account, two independent conditions are necessary for
 determining the figure of equilibrium of n fluid at liberty,
 which consists of attracting particles; a conclusion that ac
 cords perfectly with the result deduced from analytical con
 siderations in this Journal for August last (p. 81).
    What has been proved is inconsistent with the argument
 of M. Poisson in the article (No. 593) cited from his Meca-
 nique. For, as it is here shown that the whole action of the
 exterior matter, whether by attraction or by pressure, upon
 the particles in a level surface, is directed perpendicularly to
 that surface, it follows that the removal of the exterior matter
                                T2

 276                Mr. C. Binks on Electricity,
 will not alter the state of the fluid within the level surface
 with respect to an equilibrium. On the contrary, M. Poisson
 alleges that a necessary consequence of removing the exterior
 matter would be a change in the figure of the fluid body
 within the level surface.
    The discrepancy is easily explained. M. Poisson makes
 the equilibrium depend entirely on the equations (a) and (b) ;
 that is, he considers only the pressure of the exterior matter
 caused by the forces which urge its own particles, neglecting
 the attractive force of the same matter upon the interior flu'ul.
 When the effect of this attraction was pointed out, he gave
 the explanation of it in his work referred to. What he should
 have done was, to return upon his steps, and to correct his
 investigation by taking into account all the forces tending to
 move the particles of the fluid.
    A general demonstration of the theorem will readily sug
 gest itself from what has been said. To elucidate the prin
 ciple of the equality ofpressure in all directions, and to point
 out what may safely be inferred from it, would exceed the
 present limits.
   Sept. 12, 1838.                                      J. IVORY.
XXXVIII. Onsome of the Phenomena and Laws of Action of
     Voltaic Electricity, and on the Construction of Voltaic Bat-
    tion,$c. By CHRISTOPHER BINKS. A second Communica-
    teries, addressed to J. F. Daniel), Esq. F.R.S., fyc., Professor
   of Chemistry in Kings College, London. Part the First.
                        [Continued from p. 180.]
 159. AN examination of these results as they are shown by
        .*"*. these tables, and by the diagram, would seem to
 warrant the following general inferences.
    160. 1st inference. That considering the zinc in these ar
rangements as the generating point, and the mass of liquid
intermediate between it and the copper to be placed in an
electrical condition, in whatever such a condition may consist,
whether in the actual transmission through the liquid of a ma
terial agent, or the disposing of its particles into a state of po
larization, or of induction, or in what ; considering the elec
tricity developed at the zinc to exercise an influence of this
nature over the intermediate mass, we must infer from these
experiments, that that influence is diffused over a greater
space as we progressively recede from the point from which
it emanates, whilst its quantity, howsoever distributed, re
mains precisely the same. So that at the several distances of

                        Voltaic Batteries, $c.                 277
], 2, and 4 inches above, we obtain this influence in the same
amount, but find it to be distributed over spaces progressively
increasing with the distance.
   161. Or the inference to be drawn from these facts may be
otherwise expressed ; that the amount of electrical action oc
curring in such arrangements as those here employed, may be
condensed within a smaller space, or diffused over a larger
one, under certain limitations in both cases, in proportion as
the elementary conducting plate is approached to, or removed
from, the zinc or generating point, presenting in these opera
tions a marked analogy to the general phenomena of the ra
diation of light and heat.
   162. But in this kind of reasoning there are two assump
tions; first, that the zinc is the point from which this influ
ence emanates; and second, that the mass of liquid interposed
between the two plates is placed in any peculiar condition ;
and for neither of these have we the support of any direct evi
dence.
   163. Light and heat radiate in all directions from any ge
nerating point, as from one common centre. It matters not
to the present purpose by what theory we explain the mode
of emanation, or whether we assume their materiality or the
contrary. We know of their presence at any given distance
from the point of emanation, ofdy by the interposition (as in
the case of light), of any body capable of receiving its impres
sions, or of reflecting it; and in the case of heat, in like man
ner, only by the agency of some body interposed, and capable
of appreciating or indicating its existence within the medium
through which it is supposed to be diffused or propelled. The
same agencies which serve to detect the presence of light and
heat, serve also to measure their quantities. And in like man
ner does the copper-plate, in such voltaic arrangements as
the above, serve to indicate the existence of voltaic action,
and to measure its amount. The copper-plate may then be
considered as subserving the same purpose in electrical ex
periments, as the screen in optical experiments, and the ther
mometer in those of heat; but with this (though perhaps only
apparent) difference, that the copper-plate is essential equally
to the production as to the measurement ofelectricity ; whereas
in the other two, their production is apparently independent
of the instruments by which their quantities are determined.
But making no attempt to trace the existence of any analogy
as regards the way in which these several agents are originally
produced, there seems, so far, to be some evidence for belie
ving, that when once produced, some of the phenomena they
exhibit are similar in general character ; and as far as regards

278                Mr. C. Binka on Electricity,
one such at least, namely, that of radiation, as far as that is
developed in these experiments, the analogy between them
appears to be complete.
    164'. Reasoning upon the facts derived from experiment
and by analogy, it thus appears that there is evidence for be
lieving that this divergence extends within the space bounded
by the two plates ; but we have no experimental evidence
 that it extends in any other direction besides that thus deter
 mined by the position of the conducting plate. It becomes a
 matter of importance to determine this point, that is, whether
 the electrical condition of the liquid is the same in every direc
 tion around the zinc point, as it is in the direction of the cop
 per plate ; or whether the direction of its influence is determined
 solely by the position of the copper ; and is entirely restricted
 to the mass of liquid interposed between it and the zinc, a
 question which appears to me to be fmally determined by the
 investigations in sections 8 and 9.
    165. 2nd inference. That in the fact of this divergence, or
 this diffusion of the electrical influence over a space progress
 ively increasing with the distance, we have afforded the means
 of explaining the decrease in amount of action which follows
 an increase in the relative distance of the two elementary plates,
 on a principle much more probably true than that to which
 this phenomenon has generally been hitherto referred. It
 has generally been considered that this decrease is owing to
 the inferior conducting power of the greater mass of liquid
 interposed between the two plates.
    166. 3rd inference. From the above results we must con
 clude, that the extent of this divergence is affected, in a cer
 tain degree, by the particular strength of the acid mixture in
 which it takes place; for although every condition except that
 of the strength of the acid was maintained -uniform in the two
 sets of experiments above, yet the dimensions of the plates,
 and the positions at which they are needed to produce the
 same effect, are different in each. The amount of this differ
 ence is not great, nor can it be expected to be great ; but it
 is sufficiently marked to indicate that such an effect does re
 sult from a difference in the particular strength of the mix
 ture. But whether its immediate influence be due to the
 greater or less activity of the generating agents, or to the
 greater or less density of the acid mixture, or to whatever
 other cause, does not for the present appear.
    167. 4th inference. That the amount of voltaic action at
certain points within such arrangements undergoes a pecu
liar change, which, in the present state of our knowledge of
its operations generally, is equally unexpected and inexpli

                         Voltaic Batteries, 8fc.                 279
   cable. In some instances above, its amount is increased at
   certain positions, in others diminished, in cases in which, as
   yet, no apparent cause can be assigned for such an alteration.
   But the recurrence of this phaenomenon, with a certain de
  gree of regularity as to the positions at which it takes place,
  indicates that it has its origin in one uniform cause, the nature
  of which, however, so far, is wholly undetected.
      168. 5th inference. That in this alternation in the amount
  of action, which is detected by the larger plates used in the
  latter experiments to occur at several positions as we recede
  from the zinc or generating point, we perceive an effect pre
  cisely similar, and in all probability identical with that already
  detected in the former experiments upon the effects of distance,
  as they were registered in tables, Nos. 5 and 6. The recur
  rence of this alteration at similar positions in both cases, in
 dicates that in the several instances it has its origin in one
 common cause, whatever that cause may be.
      169. I would not omit at this moment to remind you of the
 extent to which I consider myself indebted for a suggestion,
 which, in no inconsiderable degree, has influenced the reason
 ing upon some of the facts derived from the previous experi
 ments, though that suggestion did not originate the experi
 ments themselves. You may remember that some time past,
 whilst urging me to follow up some former inquiries, you
 hinted it as your opinion that some phenomena detected in
 them would prove ultimately to be due to radiation.
     Although this was the extent of your communication, and
 I was alike ignorant upon what grounds such a conjecture had
 been founded, and whether or not you had entered upon any
investigations in accordance with it, yet an idea at once so
 novel and elegant could not fail to exercise its due influence
upon any one then engaged in such pursuits.
     I am not prepared to say how far my own course of expe
rimenting already devised might have led to a similar train
of reasoning, since it is impossible that the mind could have
been divested of the influence of such an impression thus in
cidentally conveyed.
    I need not say how fully I shall feel recompensed for the
labour of experiment, if the results thus obtained independ
ently, shall be found in the* end to be in accordance with
your own views of the nature and extent of this phenomenon,
or shall agree with the results of any investigations of it upon
which you may yourself have entered.
    170. My own results upon this point seem finally to indi
cate that this tendency to diverge is limited both in its extent

280 Mr. C. Binks on Electricity, Voltaic Batteries, S?c.
and direction; and follows as a consequence of that law of ac
tion of voltaic arrangements stated in the previous part of this
paper (section 1, 38, et seq.).
     171. I find that the electrical influence developed in such
single arrangements, diffuses itself from the generating to the
conducting metal to such an extent, and in such a manner,
 that it occupies upon the surface of the latter a space exactly
 thirty-two times greater than that engaged upon the former.
 This is a constant result in every such arrangement; and
 appears to depend upon the physical and chemical properties
 of the electrolyte; and to be entirely independent of the kind
 of metal employed in the arrangement.
     When the two metallic surfaces are in this proportion, then
 this diffusion upon the conducting surface, and the amount ot
 action obtained in the arrangement, are at their maximum ;
 and when the conducting surface is made greater than this,
 then a singular change takes place, not only in degree (which
 is less), but also in the kind of action which results (see
 section 9).
      I find that the direction in which this divergence takes place
  is determined entirely by the position of the conducting sur
 face. This surface maytbe obtained by nplate of metal placed
  on one side of the generating point, or it may be so distri
  buted as to be placed over against two or more of its sides, or
  it may be in the form of a hollcmo cylinder or sphere, and be
  distributed entirely around the generating point ; but what
  ever may be its direction with relation to that point, or how
  soever distributed, the direction in which this divergence from
  that point takes place is determined accordingly, and the
  amount of action resulting exactly the same.
      172. These effects are rendered obvious when the genera
  ting point consists of a small solid sphere of zinc, and the
  conducting surface, first of a flat plate of copper thirty-two
  times larger and placed on one side; and then of an equal
  extent of surface distributed as a hollow sphere entirely
   around the zinc. By both is precisely the same amount of
   action obtained. By making either the plate or the sphere
  larger, we obtain no increase whatever of that amount ; but by
   reducing the extent of surface either of the sphere or the plate
  below this maximum size, then that amount is diminished in
  proportion and by the same rate in both cases.
       173. But there are other influences affecting the distribu
   tion of the electricity when once generated in such arrange
   ments. Some facts detected by experiment lead me to con
   clude, that the direction which the electricity takes between

    Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity. 28 1
the two'elementary plates ofany arrangement may be changed ;
the nature of which change, and the circumstances under
which it takes place, I proceed immediately to examine in the
succeeding section.
                          [To be continued.]
XXXIX. Experimental Researches in Electricity. —Eleventh
   Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq., D.C.L. F.R.S. Ful-
   lerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Con: Memb. Royal
   and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petersburgh, Florence,
   Copenhagen, Berlin, Sfc. fyc.*
§. 18. On Induction. ^[ i. Induction an action of contiguous
   particles. ^[ ii. Absolute charge of matter. ^[ iii. Elec
   trometer and inductive apparatus employed. ^ iv. Induc
   tion in curved lines. ^ v. Specific inductive capacity.
    ^ vi. General results as to induction.
        f i. Induction an action of contiguous particles.
 1161. '"THE science of electricity is in that state in which
              every part of it requires experimental investigation;
not merely for the discovery of new effects, but, what is just
now of far more importance, the development of the means
by which the old effects are produced, and the consequent
more accurate determination of the first principles of action
of the most extraordinary and universal power in nature :—
and to those philosophers who pursue the inquiry zealously
yet cautiously, combining experiment with analogy, suspicious
 of their preconceived notions, paying more respect to a fact
 than a theory, not too hasty to generalize, and above all things,
 willing at every step to cross-examine their own opinions,
 both by reasoning and experiment, no branch of knowledge
 can afford so fine and ready a field for discovery as this.
 Such is most abundantly shown to be the case by the progress
 which electricity has made in the last thirty years: Chemistry
 and Magnetism have successively acknowledged its over
 ruling influence; and it is probable that every effect depend
 ing upon the powers of inorganic matter, and perhaps most
 of those related to vegetable and animal life, will ultimately
 be found subordinate to it.
    1162. Amongst the actions of different kinds into which
 electricity has conventionally been subdivided, there is, I
 think, none which excels, or even equals in importance that
 called Induction. It is of the most general influence in elec
 trical phenomena, appearing to be concerned in every one of
          • From the Philosophical Transactions for 1838, Part I.

  282 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity,
  them, and has in reality the character of a first, essential, and
  fundamental principle. Its comprehension is so important,
  that I think we cannot proceed much further in the investiga
  tion of the laws of electricity without a more thorough under
 standing of its nature ; how otherwise can we hope to com
  prehend the harmony and even unity of action which doubt
  less governs electrical excitement by friction, by chemical
  means, by heat, by magnetic influence, by evaporation, and
  even by the living being ?
     1 163. In the long-continued course of experimental inquiry
 in which I have been engaged, this general result has pressed
 upon me constantly, namely, the necessity of admitting two
 forces, or two forms or directions of a force (516. 517. ),
 combined with the impossibility of separating these two forces
  (or electricities) from each other, either in the phenomena of
 statical electricity or those of the current. In association
 with this, the impossibility under any circumstances, as yet,
 of absolutely charging matter of any kind with one or the
 other electricity dwelt on my mind, and made me wish and
 search for a clearer view than any that I was acquainted with,
 of the way in which electrical powers and the particles of mat
 ter are related ; especially in inductive actions, upon which
 almost all others appeared to rest.
    1164. When I discovered the general fact that electrolytes
 refused to yield their elements to a current when in the solid
state, though they gave them forth freely if in the liquid con
dition (380. 394. 402.), I thought I saw an opening to the elu
cidation of inductive action, and the possible subjugation of
many dissimilar pheenomena to one law. For let the electro
lyte be water, a plate of ice being coated with platina foil on
its two surfaces, and these coatings connected with any con
tinued source of the two electrical powers, the ice will charge
like a Leyden arrangement, presenting a case of common in
duction, but no current will pass. If the ice be liquefied, the
induction will fall to a certain degree, because a current can
now pass ; but its passing is dependent upon a peculiar mole
cular arrangement of the particles consistent with the transfer
of the elements of the electrolyte in opposite directions, the
degree of discharge and the quantity of elements evolved being
exactly proportioned to each other (377. 783.). Whether
the charging of the metallic coating be effected by a powerful
electrical machine, a strong and large voltaic battery, or a
single pair of plates, makes no difference in the principle, but
only in the degree of action (360.). Common induction takes
place in each case if the electrolyte be solid, or if fluid che
mical action and decomposition ensue, provided opposing ac-

   Ordinary Induction and Action of contiguous Particles. 283
tions do not interfere ; imd it is of high importance occasion
ally thus to compare effects in their extreme degrees, for the
purpose of enabling us to comprehend the nature of an action
in its weak state, which may be only sufficiently evident to us
in its stronger condition. As, therefore, in the electrolyte,
induction appeared to be the Jirst step, and decomposition the
second (the power of separating these steps from each other
by giving the solid or fluid condition being in our hands); as
the induction was the same in its nature as that through air,
glass, wax, &c. produced by any of the ordinary means;
and as the whole effect in the electrolyte appeared to be an
action of the particles thrown into a peculiar or polarized
stale, I was led to suspect that common induction itself was
in all cases an action of contiguous particles, and that electri
cal action at a distance (i. e. ordinary inductive action) never
occurred except through the intermediate influence of the in
tervening matter.
   1165. The respect which I entertain towards the names of
Epinus, Cavendish, Poisson, and other most eminent men, all
of whose theories I believe consider induction as an action at
a distance and in straight lines, long indisposed me to the
view I have just stated; and though I always watched for op
portunities to prove the opposite opinion, and made such ex
periments occasionally as seemed to bear directly on the point,
as, for instance, the examination of electrolytes, solid and fluid,
whilst under induction by polarized light (951, 955.), it is
only of late, and by degrees, that the extreme generality of the
subject has urged me still further to extend my experiments
and publish my view. At present I believe ordinary induc
tion in all cases to be an action of contiguous particles, con
sisting in a species of polarity, instead of being an action of
either particles or masses at sensible distances : and if this be
true, the distinction and establishment of such a truth must
be of the greatest consequence to our further progress in the
investigation of the nature of electric forces. The linked con
dition of electrical induction with chemical decomposition ;
of voltaic excitement with chemical action ; the transfer of
elements in an electrolyte ; the original cause of excitement
in all cases ; the nature and relation of conduction and insu
lation ; of the direct and lateral or transverse action consti
tuting electricity and magnetism ; with many other things
more or less incomprehensible at present, would all be affected
by it, and perhaps receive a full explication in their reduction
under one general law.
    1166. I searched for an unexceptionable test of my view,
 not merely in the accordance of known facts with it, but in

 284" Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
the consequences which would flow from it if true; especially
in those which would not be consistent with the theory of ac
tion at a distance. Such a consequence seemed to me to pre
sent itself in the direction in which inductive action could be
exerted. If in straight lines only, though not perhaps decisive,
it would be against my view ; if in curved lines also, that would
be a natural result of the action of contiguous particles, but I
think utterly incompatible with action at a distance, as assumed
by the received theories, which, according to every fact and
analogj' we are acquainted with, is always in straight lines.
    1167. Again, if induction be an action of contiguous par
 ticles, and also the first step in the process of electrolyzatiou
(1164, 949.), there seemed reason to expect some particular
relation of it to the different kinds of matter through which it
 would be exerted, or something equivalent to a specific elec
 tric induction for different bodies, which, if it existed, would
 unequivocally prove the dependence of induction on the par
ticles; and though this, in the theory of Poisson and others,
has never been supposed to be the case, I was soon led to
doubt the received opinion, and have taken great pains in sub
jecting this matter to close experimental examination.
    1 168. Another ever-present question on my mind has been,
whether electricity has an actual and independent existence
as a fluid or fluids, or was a mere power of matter, like what
we conceive of the attraction of gravitation. If determined
either way it would be an enormous advance in our knowledge;
and as having the most direct and influential bearing on my
notions, I have always sought for experiments which would in
any way tend to elucidate that great question. It was in at
tempts to prove the existence of electricity separate from mat
ter, by giving an independent charge of either positive or ne
gative power to some substance, and the utter failure of all
such attempts, whatever substance was used or whatever
means of exciting or evolving electricity were employed, that
 first drove me to look upon induction as an action of the par
 ticles of matter, each having both forces developed in it in ex
 actly equal amount. It is this circumstance, in connexion
 with others, which makes me desirous of placing the remarks
 on absolute charge first, in the order of proof and argument,
 which I am about to adduce in favour of my view, that elec
tric induction is an action of the contiguous particles of the
insulating medium or di-electric.
              ^| ii. On the absolute charge ofmatter.
    1169. Can matter, either conducting or non-conducting,

                 On the absolute Charge of Matter.                    285
be charged with one electric force independently of the other i
in the least degree, either in a sensible or latent state?
    1 1 70. The oeautiful experiments of Coulomb upon the
equality of action of conductors, whatever their substance, and
the residence of all the electricity upon their surfaces*, are
sufficient, if properly viewed, to prove that conductors cannot
be bodily charged; and as yet no means of communicating
electricity to a conductor so as to relate its particles to one
electricity, and not at the same time to the other in exactly
equal amount, has been discovered.
    1 171. With regard to electrics or non-conductors, the con
clusion does not at first seem so clear. They may easily be
electrified bodily, either by communication (1247.) or excite
ment ; but being so charged, every case in succession, when
examined, came out to be a case of induction, and not of ab
solute charge. Thus, glass within conductors could easily
have parts not in contact with the conductor brought into an
excited state; but it was always found that a portion of the
inner surface of the conductor was in an opposite and equiva
lent state, or that another part of the glass itself was in an
equally opposite state, an inductive charge and not an absolute
charge having been acquired.
    1 1 72. Well-purified oil of turpentine, which I find to be
an excellent liquid insulator for most purposes, was put into
a metallic vessel, and, being insulated, was charged, sometimes
by contact of the metal with the electrical machine, and at
others by a wire dipping into the fluid within ; but whatever
the mode of communication, no electricity of one kind was re
tained by the arrangement, except what appeared on the ex
 terior surface of the metal, that portion being there only by
 an inductive action through the air around. When the oil of
 turpentine was confined in glass vessels, there were at first
 some appearances as if the fluid did receive an absolute charge
 of electricity from the charging wire, but these were quickly
 reduced to cases of common induction jointly through the
 fluid, the glass, and the surrounding air.
    1173. 1 carried these experiments on with air to a very
great extent. ' I had a chamber built, being a cube of twelve
feet in the side. A slight cubical wooden frame was constructed,
 and copper wire passed along and across it in various direc
 tions, so as to make the sides a large net-work, and then all
 was covered in with paper, placed in close connexion with
 the wires, and supplied in every direction with bands of tin
 foil, that the whole might be brought into good metallic com-
        • Memairet de I'Academie, 1786, pp. 67, 69, 72; 1787, p. 452.

286 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
munication, and rendered a free conductor in every part. This
chamber was insulated in the lecture- room of the Royal In
stitution ; a glass tube above six feet in length was passed
through its side, leaving about four feet within and two feet
on the outside, and through this a wire passed from the large
electrical machine (290.) to the air within. By working the
machine, the air within this chamber could be brought into
what is considered a highly electrified state (being, in fact, the
same state as that of the air of a room in which a powerful
machine is in operation), and at the same time the outside of
the insulated cube was everywhere strongly charged. But
putting the chamber in communication with the perfect dis
charging train described in a former series (292.), and work
ing the machine so as to bring the air within to its utmost de
gree of charge, if I quickly cut oft' the connexion with the
machine, and at the same moment or instantly after insulated
the cube, the air within had not the least power to communi
cate a further charge to it. If any portion of the air was
electrified, as glass or other insulators may be charged (1171.),
it was accompanied by a corresponding opposite action within
the cube, the whole effect being merely a case of induction.
Every attempt to charge air bodily and independently with
the least portion of either electricity failed.
   1174. I put a delicate gold-leaf electrometer within the
cube, and then charged the whole by an outside communication,
very strongly, for some time together ; but neither during the
charge or after the discharge did the electrometer or air with
in show the least signs of electricity. I charged and discharged
the whole arrangement in various ways, but in no case could
I obtain the least indication of an absolute charge; or of one
by induction in which the electricity of one kind had the small
est superiority in quantity over the other. I went into the
cube and lived in it, and using lighted candles, electrometers,
and all other tests of electrical states, I could not find the least
influence upon them, or indication of anything particular
given by them, though all the time the outside of the cube
was powerfully charged, and large sparks and brushes were
darting off from every part of its outer surface. The conclu
sion I have come to is, that non-conductors, as well as con
ductors, have neveryet had an absolute and independent charge
of one electricity communicated to them, and that to all ap
pearance such a state of matter is impossible.
   1 175. There is another view of this question which may be
taken under the supposition of the existence of an electric
fluid or fluids. It may be impossible to have the one fluid or
state in a free condition without its producing by induction the

           No absolute Charge of Matter.—All Inductive.        287
 other, and yet possible to have cases in which an isolated por
 tion of matter in one condition being uncharged, shall, by a
 change of state, evolve one electricity or the other: and though
 such evolved electricity might immediately induce the oppo
 site state in its neighbourhood, yet the mere evolution of one
 electricity without the other in the Jirst instance, would be a
 very important fact in the theory which assumes a fluid or
 fluids; these theories as I understand them assigning not the
 slightest reason why such an effect should not occur.
     1 176. But on searching for such cases I cannot find one.
 Evolution by friction, as is well known, gives both powers in
 equal proportion. So does evolution by chemical action, not
 withstanding the great diversity of bodies which may be em
ployed, and the enormous quantity of electricity which can in
this manner be evolved (.'371. 376. 861. 868.). The more
promising cases of change of state, whether by evaporation,
 fusion, or the reverse processes, still give both forms of the
power in equal proportion ; and the cases of splitting of mica
and other crystals, the breaking of sulphur, &c. &c., are sub
ject to the same limitation.
    1 1 77. As far as experiment has proceeded, it appears, there
fore, impossible either to evolve or make disappear one elec
tric force without equal and corresponding change in the
other. It is also equally impossible experimentally to charge
a portion of matter with one electric force independently of
the other. Charge always implies induction, for it can in no
instance be effected without; and also the presence of the /too
forms of power, equally at the moment of development and
afterwards. There is no absolute charge of matter with one
fluid ; no latency of a single electricity. This though a nega
tive result is an exceedingly important one, being probably
the consequence of a natural impossibility, which will become
clear to us when we understand the true condition and theory
of the electric power.
    1178. The preceding considerations already point to the
following conclusions : bodies cannot be charged absolutely,
but only relatively, and by a principle which is the same with
thatof induction. A\\chargeis sustained by induction. All phe-
nomena of intensity include the principle of induction. All
excitation is dependent on or directly related to induction. All
currents involve previous intensity and therefore previous in
duction. INDUCTION appears to be the essential function both
in the first development and the consequent phenomena of
electricity.

288 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
       ^[ iii. Electrometer and inductive apparatus employed.
    1 1 79. Leaving for a time the further consideration of the
preceding facts until they can be collated with other results
bearing directly on the great question of the nature of induc
tion, I will now describe the apparatus I have had occasion
to use; and in proportion to the importance of the principles
sought to be established is the necessity of doing this so clearly
as to leave no doubt of the results behind.
     1 1 80. Electrometer. The measuring instrument I have em
ployed has been the torsion balance electrometer of Coulomb,
constructed, generally, according to his instructions*, but with
certain variations and additions, which I will briefly describe.
The lower part was a glass cylinder eight inches in height
and eight inches in diameter ; the tube for the torsion thread
 was seventeen inches in length. The torsion thread itself was
 not of metal, but glass, according to the excellent suggestion
 of the late Dr. Ritchief. It was twenty inches in length, and
 of such tenuity that when the shell lac lever and attached ball,
 &c. were connected with it, they made about ten vibrations in
 a minute. It would bear torsion through four revolutions, or
 1440°, and yet, when released, return accurately to its po
 sition ; probably it would have borne considerably more than
 this without injury. The repelled ball was of pith, gilt, and
 was 0'3 of an inch in diameter. The horizontal stem or lever
  supporting it was of shell lac, according to Coulomb's direc
  tion, the arm carrying the ball being 2'4 inches long, and the
 other only 1-2 inches: to this was attached the vane, also de
  scribed by Coulomb, which I found to answer admirably its
  purpose of quickly destroying vibrations. That the inductive
  action within the electrometer might be uniform in all posi
  tions of the repelled ball and in all states of the apparatus,
  two bands of tin foil, about an inch wide each, were attached
  to the inner surface of the glass cylinder, going entirely round
  it, at the distance of 0-4 of an inch from each other, and at
  such a height that the intermediate clear surface was in the
  same horizontal plane with the lever and ball. These bands
  were connected with each other and with the earth, and, being
  perfect conductors, always exerted a uniform influence on the
  electrified balls within, which the glass surface, from its ir
  regularity of condition at different times, I found, did not.
   For the purpose of keeping the air within the electrometer in
  a constant state as to dryness, a glass dish, of such size as to
   enter easily within the cylinder, nad a layer of fused potash
                    • Memoires de FAcademic, 1?85, p. o/O.
                    t Phil. Trans., 1830.

          Coulomb's Electrometer—particular Adjustments.      289
placed within it, and this being covered with a disc of fine
wire gauze to render its inductive action uniform at all parts,
was placed within the instrument at the bottom and left
there.
    1181. The moveablc ball used to take and measure the por
tion of electricity under examination, and which may be called
the repelling, or the carrier, ball, was of soft alder wood, well
and smoothly gilt. It was attached to a fine shell lac stem,
and introduced through a hole into the electrometer accord
ing to Coulomb's method : the stem was fixed at its upper end
in a block or vice, supported on three short feet : and on the
surface of the glass cover above was a plate of lead with stops
on it, so that when the carrier ball was adjusted in its right
position, with the vice above bearing at the same time agamst
these stops, it was perfectly easy to bring away the carrier
ball and restore it to its place again very accurately, without
any loss of time.
    1 182. It is quite necessary to attend to certain precautions
respecting these balls. If of pith alone they are bad ; for
when very dry, that substance is so imperfect a conductor
that it neither receives nor gives a charge freely, and so, after
contact with a charged conductor, is liable to be in an uncer
tain condition. Again, it is difficult to turn pith so smoothly
as to leave the ball, even when gilt, sufficiently free from ir
regularities of form, as to retain its charge undiminished for
n considerable length of time. When, therefore, the balls
are finally prepared and gilt they should be examined, and
being electrified, unless they can hold their charge with very
little diminution for a considerable time, and yet be discharged
instantly and perfectly by the touch of an uninsulated con
ductor, they should be dismissed.
    1183. It is, perhaps, unnecessary to refer to the graduation
of the instrument, further than to explain how the observa
tions were made. On a circle or ring of paper on the outside
of the glass cylinder, fixed so as to cover the internal lower
ring of tin foil, were marked four points corresponding to an
gles of 90°; four other points exactly corresponding to these
points being marked on the upper ring of tin foil within. By
these and the adjusting screws on which the whole instrument
stands, the glass torsion thread could be brought accurately
into the centre of the instrument and of the graduations on
it. From one of the four points on the exterior of the cylin
der a graduation of 90° was set off, and a corresponding gra
duation was placed upon the upper tin foil on the opposite
side of the cylinder within; and a dot being marked on that
point of the surface of the repelled ball nearest to the side of
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 82. Oct. 1838.         U

 290 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
the electrometer, it was easy, by observing the line which this
 dot made with the lines of the two graduations just referred
 to, to ascertain accurately the position of the ball. The upper
 end of the glass thread was attached, as in Coulomb's original
electrometer, to an index, which had its appropriate graduated
circle, upon which the degree of torsion was ultimately to be
 read off.
    1184. After the levelling of the instrument and adjustment
of the glass thread, the blocks which determine the place of
the carrier ball are to be regulated (1181.) so that, when the
carrier arrangement is placed against them, the centre of the
ball may be in the radius of the instrument corresponding to
0° on the lower graduation or that on the side of the electro
meter, and at the same level and distance from the centre as
the repelled ball on the suspended torsion lever. Then the
 torsion index is to be turned until the ball connected with it
(the repelled ball) is accurately at 30°, and finally the gra
duated arch belonging to the torsion index is to be adjusted so
as to bring 0° upon it to the index. This state of the instru
ment was adopted as that which gave the mdst direct expres
sion of the experimental results, and in the form having few
est variable errors ; the angular distance of 30° being always
retained as the standard distance to which the balls were in
every case to be brought, and the whole of the torsion being
read off at once on the graduated circle above. Under these
circumstances the distance of the balls from each other was
not merely the same in degree, but their position in the in
strument, and in relation to every part of it, was actually the
same every time that a measurement was made ; so that all
irregularities arising from slight difference of form and action
in the instrument and the bodies around were avoided. The
only difference which could occur in the position of anything
within, consisted in the deflexion of the torsion thread from a
vertical position, more or less, according to the force of re
pulsion of the balls; but this was so slight as to cause no in
terfering difference in the symmetry of form within the in
strument, and gave no error in the amount of torsion force
indicated on the graduation above.
    118.5. Although the constant angular distance of 30° be
tween the centres of the balls was adopted, and found abun
dantly sensible, for all ordinary purposes, yet the facility of
rendering the instrument far more sensible by diminishing
this distance was at perfect command; the results at different
distances being very easily compared with each other either
by experiment, or, as they are inversely as the squares of the
distances, by calculation.

                  Induction Apparatus described,              291
    1186. The Coulomb balance electrometer requires expe
 rience to be understood ; but I think it a very valuable instru
 ment in the hands of those who will take pains by practice and
 attention to learn the precautions needful in its use. Its insu
lating condition varies with circumstances, and should be ex
amined before it is employed in experiments. In an ordinary
and fair condition, when the balls were so electrified as to give
a repulsive torsion force of 400° at the standard distance of 30°,
it took nearly four hours to sink to 50° at the same distance ;
the average loss from 400° to 300° being at the rate of 2°-7
per minute, from 300° to 200° of l°-7 per minute, from 200°
to 100° of l°-3 per minute, and from 100° to 50° of 0°-87 per
minute. As a complete measurement by the instrument may
be made in much less than a minute, the amount of loss in
that time is but small, and can easily be taken into account.
    1 1 87. The inductive apparatus.—My object was to examine
inductive action carefully when taking place through different
media, for which purpose it was necessary to subject these
media to it in exactly similar circumstances, and in such quan
tities as should suffice to eliminate any variations they might
present. The requisites of the apparatus to be constructed
were, therefore, that the inducing surfaces of the conductors
should have a constant form and state, and be at a constant
distance from each other ; and that either solids, fluids, or
gases might be placed and retained between these surfaces
with readiness and certainty, and for any length of time.
    1188. The apparatus used may be described in general
terms as consisting of two metallic spheres of unequal diame
ter, placed, the smaller within the larger, and concentric with
it; the interval between the two being the space through
which the induction was to take place. A section of it is
given (fig. 1.) on a scale of one third: a, a, are the two
halves of a brass sphere, with an air-tight joint at b, like that
of the Magdeburg hemispheres, made perfectly flush and
smooth inside so as to present no irregularity; c is a connect
ing piece by which the apparatus is joined to a good stop-cock
»/, which is itself attached either to the metallic foot e, or to
an air pump. The aperture within the hemisphere at-/ is very
small: g is a brass collar fitted to the upper hemisphere,
through which the shell lac support of the inner ball and its
stem passes; k is the inner ball, also of brass; it screws on to
 a brass stem i, terminated above by a brass ball B ; /, I is a
 mass of shell lac, moulded carefully on to z, and serving both
 to support and insulate it and its balls h, B. The shell-lac
 stem / is fitted into the socket g, by a little ordinary resinous
 cement, more fusible than shell-lac, applied at »i m in such a
                                   U2

292 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
way as to give sufficient strength and render the apparatus air
tight there, yet leave as much
as possible ofthe lower part of
the shell-lac stem untouched,
as an insulation between the
ball A and the surrounding
sphere a, a. The ball h has
a small aperture at n, so that
 when the apparatus is exhaust
ed of one gas and filled with
another, the ball A may itself
also be exhausted and filled,
that no variation of the gas in
the interval o may occur du
 ring the course of an experi
 ment.
    1189. It will be unnecessary
 to give the dimensions of all
 the parts, since the drawing
 is to a scale of one third : the
 inner ball has a diameter of
 2-33 inches, and the surround
 ing sphere an internal diameter
 of 3'57 inches. Hence the
 width of the intervening space,
 through which the induction
 is to take place, is 0'62 of an
 inch ; and the extent of this
 place or plate, i. e. the surface of
 a medium sphere, maybe taken
  as twenty-seven square inches, a quantity considered as suffi
 ciently large for the comparison of different substances. Great
 care was taken in finishing well the inducing surfaces of the
 ball h and sphere a, n; and no varnish or lacquer was applied
 to them, or to any part of the metal of the apparatus.
     1190. The attachment and adjustment of the shell-lac stem
  was a matter requiring considerable care, especially as, in con
  sequence of its cracking, it had frequently to be renewed.
  The best lac was chosen and applied to the wire i, so as to
  be in good contact with it everywhere, and in perfect conti
  nuity throughout its own mass. It was not thinner than is
  given by scale in the drawing, for when less it frequently
  cracked within a few hours alter its cooling. I think that
  very slow cooling or annealing improved its quality in this re-
  pect. The collar g was made as thin as could be, that the
  lac might be as large there as possible. In order that at every

                  Induction Apparatus described.              293
re-attachment of the stem to the upper hemisphere the ball h
might have the same relative posi
tion, a gauge p (fig. 2.) was made of
wood, and this being applied to the
ball and hemisphere whilst the ce
ment at m was still soft, the bearings
of the ball at q q, and the hemisphere
at r r, were forced home, and the
whole left until cold. Thus all diffi
culty in the adjustment of the ball in
the sphere was avoided.
   1191. I had occasion at first to
attach the stem to the socket by other
means, as a band of paper or a
plugging of white silk thread ; but
these were very inferior to the ce
ment, interfering much with the in
sulating power of the apparatus.
    1192. The retentive power of this
apparatus was, when in good condi
tion, better than that of the electro-
meter(1186.),i.e. the proportion ofloss ofpower was less. Thus
when the apparatus was electrified, and also the balls in theelec-
trometer, to such a degree, that after the inner ball had been in
contact with the top k of the ball of the apparatus, it caused a
repulsion indicated by 600° of torsion force, then in falling
from 600° to 400° the average loss was 8°<6 per minute; from
400° to 300° the average loss was 2°-6 per minute ; from 300°
 to 200° it was l°-7 per minute; from 200° to 1703 it was 1°
 per minute. This was after the apparatus had been charged
 for a short time ; at the first instant of charging there is an
 apparent loss of electricity, which can only be comprehended
 hereafter (1207. 1250.).
     1193. When the apparatus loses its insulating power sud
 denly, it is almost always from a crack near to or within the
 brass socket. These cracks are usually transverse to the
 stem. If they occur at the part attached by common cement
 to the socket, the air cannot enter, and being then as vacua,
 they conduct away the electricity and lower the charge, as
 fast almost as if a piece of metal had been introduced there.
  Occasionally stems in this state, being taken out and cleared
  from the common cement, may, by the careful application of
  the heat of a spirit lamp, be so far softened and melted as to
  renew perfect continuity of the parts; but if that does not
  succeed in restoring things to a good condition, the remedy is
 a new shell-lac stem.

 294 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
     1194,. The apparatus when in order could easily be ex
 hausted of air and filled with any given gas ; but when that
 gas was acid or rtlkaline, it could not properly be removed by
 the air-pump, and yet required to be perfectly cleared away.
 In such cases the apparatus was opened and cleared ; and
 with respect to the inner ball h, it was washed out two or
 three times with distilled water introduced at the screw hole,
 and then being heated above 212°, air was blown through to
 render the interior perfectly dry.
     1195. The inductive apparatus described is evidently a
 Leyden phial, with the advantage, however, of having the di
 electric or insulating medium changed at pleasure. The balls
 h and 8, with the connecting wire t, constitute the charged
 conductor, upon the surface of which all the electric force is
 resident by virtue of induction (1178.). Now though the
 largest portion of this induction is between the ball h and the
 surrounding sphere a a, yet the wire t and the ball B deter
 mine a part of the induction from their surfaces towards the
 external surrounding conductors. Still, as all things in that
 respect remain the same, whilst the medium within at o o, may
 be varied, any changes exhibited by the whole apparatus will
 in such cases depend upon the variations made in the interior ;
 and it was these changes I was in search of, the negation or
 establishment of such differences being the great object of my
 inquiry. I considered that these differences, if they existed,
 would be most distinctly set forth by having two apparatus of
 the kiiul described, precisely similar in every respect; and
 then, different insulating media being within, to charge one
 and measure it, and after dividing the charge with the other,
 to observe what the ultimate conditions of both were. If in
 sulating media really had any specific differences in favouring
 or opposing inductive action through them, such differences,
 I conceived, could not fail of being developed by such a pro
cess.
    1196. I will wind up this description of the apparatus, and
explain the precautions necessary in their use, by describing
the form and order of the experiments made to prove their
equality when both contained common air. In order to fa
cilitate reference I will distinguish the two by the terms App.
i. and App. ii.
    1 197. The electrometer is first to be adjusted and examined
(1184.), and the app. i. and ii. are to be perfectly discharged.
A Leyden phial is to be charged to such a degree that it would
give a spark of about one-sixteenth or one-twentieth of an inch
in length between two balls of half an inch diameter ; and the
carrier ball of the electrometer being charged by this phial, is

             Induction Apparatus. —Precautions in Us use.       295
  to be introduced into the electrometer, and the lever ball
  brought by the motion of the torsion index against it ; the
  charge is thus divided between the balls, and repulsion ensues.
  It is useful then to bring the repelled ball to the standard di
  stance of 30° by the motion of the torsion index, and observe
  the force in degrees required for this purpose ; this force will
  in future experiments be called repulsion ofthe bulls.
      1198. One of the inductive apparatus, as for instance, app.
 i., is now to be charged from the Leyden phial, the latter
 being in the state it was in when used to charge the balls ;
 the carrier ball is to be brought into contact with the top of
 its upper ball (/., fig. 1.), then introduced into the electrome
 ter, and the repulsive force (at the distance of 30°) measured.
 Again, the carrier should be applied to the app. i. and the
 measurement repeated ; the apparatus i. and ii. are then to be
joined, so as to divide the charge, and afterwards the force of
 each measured by the carrier ball, applied as before, and the
 results carefully noted. After this both i. and ii. are to be
discharged ; then app. ii. charged, measured, divided with
 app. i., and the force of each again measured and noted. If
 in each case the half charges of app. i. and ii. are equal, and
 are together equal to the whole charge before division, then it
 may be considered as proved that the two apparatus are pre
 cisely equal in power, and fit to be used in cases of comparison
 between different insulating media or dielectrics.
     1 1 99. But the precautions necessary to obtain accurate re
sults are numerous. The apparatus i. and ii. must always be
placed on a thoroughly uninsulating medium. A mahogany
table, for instance, is far from satisfactory in this respect, and
therefore a sheet of tin foil, connected with an extensive dis
charging train (292.), is what I have used. They must be so
placed also as not to be too near each other, and yet equally
exposed to the inductive influence of surrounding objects; and
these objects, again, should not be disturbed in their position
during an experiment, or else variations of induction upon
the external ball B of the apparatus may occur, and so errors
be introduced into the results. The carrier ball, when re
ceiving its portion of electricity from the apparatus, should
always be applied at the same part of the ball, as, for instance,
the summit £, and always in the same way ; variable induction
from the vicinity of the head, hands, &c. being avoided, and
the ball after contact being withdrawn upwards in a regular
and constant manner.
    1200. As the stem had occasionally to be changed (1190.),
and the change might occasion slight variations in the position
of the ball within, I made such a variation purposely, to the

296 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
 amount of an eighth of an inch (which is far more than ever
 could occur in practice), but did not find that it sensibly altered
 the relation of the apparatus, or its inductive condition as a
 whole. Another trial of the apparatus was made as to the
 effect of dampness in the air, one being filled with very dry
 air, and the other with air from over water. Though this
 produced no change in the result, except an occasional tend
 ency to more rapiddissipation, yet the precaution was always
 taken when working with gases (1290.) to dry them per
 fectly.
    1201. It is essential that the interior of the apparatus should
be perfectly free from dust or small loose particles, for these
very rapidly lower the charge and interfere on occasions when
their presence and action would hardly be expected. To
breathe on the interior of the apparatus and wipe it out quietly
with a clean silk handkerchief, is an effectual way of removing
them ; but then the intrusion of other particles should be care
fully guarded against, and a dusty atmosphere should for this
and several other reasons be avoided.
    1202. The shell lac stem requires occasionally to be well
wiped, to remove, in the first instance, the film of wax and
adhering matter which is upon it ; and afterwards to displace
 dirt and dust which will gradually attach to it in the course
of experiments. I have found much to depend upon this pre
 caution, and a silk handkerchief is the best wiper.
    1203. But wiping and some other circumstances tend to
give a charge to the surface of the shell lac stem. This should
be removed, for, if allowed to remain, it very seriously affects
the degree of charge given to the carrier ball by the apparatus
(1232.). This condition of the stem is best observed by dis
charging the apparatus, applying the carrier ball to the stem,
touching it with the finger, insulating and removing it, and
examining whether it has received any charge (by induction)
from the stem ; if it has, the stem itself is in a charged state.
The best method of removing the charge I have found to be,
to cover the finger with a single fold of a silk handkerchief, and
breathing on the stem, to wipe it immediately after with the
fmger, the ball B and its connected wire, &c. being at the
same time uninsulated: the wiping place of the silk must not
be changed ; it then becomes sufficiently damp not to excite
the stem, and is yet dry enough to leave it in a clean and ex
cellent insulating condition. If the air be dusty, it will be
found that a single charge of the apparatus will bring on an
electric state of the outside of the stem, in consequence of the
carrying power of the particles of dust ; whereas in the morn
ing, and in a room which has been left quiet, several experi

       Induction Apparatus.— Mode of dividing charges. 297
rnents can be made in succession without the stem assuming
the least degree of charge.
   1204. Experiments should not be made by candle or lamp
light except with much care, for flames have great and yet
unsteady powers of affecting and dissipating electrical charges.
   1205. As a fmal observation on the state of the apparatus,
they should retain their charge well and uniformly, and alike
for both, and at the same time allow of a perfect and instant
aneous discharge, giving them no charge to the carrier ball,
whatever part of the ball B it may be applied to (1218.).
   1206. With respect to the balance electrometer all the pre
cautions that need be mentioned, are, that the carrier ball is
to be preserved during the first part of an experiment in its
electrified state, the loss of electricity which would follow upon
its discharge being avoided ; and, that in introducing it into
the electrometer through the hole in the glass plate above,
care should be taken that it do not touch, or even come near
to, the edge of the glass.
   1207. When the whole charge, in one apparatus is divided
between the two, the gradual fall, apparently from dissipation,
in the apparatus which has received the half charge is greater
than in the one originally charged. This is due to a peculiar
effect to be described hereafter (1250. 1251.), the interfering
influence of which may be avoided to a great extent by going
through the steps of the process regularly and quickly ; there
fore, after the original charge has been measured, in app. i.
for instance, i. and ii. are to be symmetrically joined by their
balls B, the carrier touching one of these balls at the same
time ; it is first to be removed, and then the apparatus sepa
 rated from each other ; app. ii. is next quickly to be measured
by the carrier, then app. i. ; lastly, ii. is to be discharged, and
the discharged carrier applied to it to ascertain whether any
 residual effect is present (1205.), and app. i. being discharged
is also to be examined in the same manner and for the same
purpose.
    1208. The following is an example of the division of a
 charge by the two apparatus, air being the dielectric in both
of them. The observations are set down o"ne under the other
in the order in which they were taken, the left hand numbers
representing the observations made on app. i. and the right
hand numbers those on app. ii. App. i. is that which was
originally charged, and after two measurements, the charge
was divided with app. ii.
         App. i.                Anp. ii.
                 Balls 160°
              •   .  .  .   .    «

  298 Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity.
        App. i.              App. ii.
        254°
        250
     divided and instantly taken
                               122
        124
          1                           after being discharged.
                                  2 after being discharged.
     1209. Without endeavouring to allow for the loss which
 must have been gradually going on during the time of the ex
 periment, let us observe the results of the numbers as they
 stand. As 1° remained in app. i. in an undischargeable state,
 249° may be taken as the utmost amount of the transferable
 or divisible charge, the half of which is 1240-5. As app. ii.
 was free of charge in the first instance, and immediately after
the division was found with 122°, this amount at least may be
 taken as what it had received. On the other hand 124° minus
 1°, or 123°, may be taken as the halfof the transferable charge
 retained by app. i. Now these do not differ much from each
 other, or from 124°'5, the half of the full amount of transfer
 able charge ; and when the gradual loss of charge evident in
 the difference between 254° and 250° of app. i. is also taken
 into account, there is every reason to admit the result as show
 ing an equal division of charge, unattended by any disappear
 ance ofpower except that due to dissipation.
     1210. I will give another result, in which app. ii. was first
charged, and where the residual action of that apparatus was
greater than in the former case.
            App. i.         App. ii.
                    Balls 1506
                               152°
                               148
       divided and instantly taken
         70°
                                78
                                  5 immediately after discharge.
          0                           immediately after discharge.
    1211. The transferable charge being 148°—5°, its half is
71°-5, which is not far removed from 70°, the half charge of
i. ; or from 73°, the half charge of ii. : these halfcharges again
making up the sum of 143°. or just the amount of the whole
transferable charge. Considering the errors of experiment,
therefore, these results may again be received as showing that
the apparatus were equal in inductive capacity, or in their
powers of receiving charges.
    1212. The experiments were repeated with charges of ne
gative electricity with the same general results.

                               Geological Society.                  299
       1213. That I might be sure of the sensibility and action of
 the apparatus, I made such a change in one as ought upon
 principle to increase its inductive force, i. e. I put a metallic
 lining into the lower hemisphere of app. i., so as to diminish
 the thickness of the intervening air in that part, from 0-62 to
 i '. i ;;.'. ofan inch : this lining was carefully shaped and rounded
 so that it should not present a sudden projection within at its
 edge, but a gradual transition from the reduced interval in the
lower part of the sphere to the larger one in the upper.
       1214. This change immediately caused app. i. to produce
 effects indicating that it had a greater aptness or capacity for
 induction than npp. ii. Thus, when a transferable charge in
 app. ii. of 469° was divided with app. i., the former retained
 a charge of 225°, whilst the latter showed one of 227°, i. e.
 the former had lost 244° in communicating 227° to the latter :
on the other hand, when app. i. had a transferable charge in
 it of 381° divided by contact with app. ii., it lost 181° only,
whilst it gave to app. ii. as many as 194° : —the sum of the di
vided forces being in the first instance less, and in the second
instance greater than the original undivided charge. These
results are the more striking, as only one half of the interior
of npp. i. was modified, and they show that the instruments
are capable of bringing out differences in inductive force from
amongst the errors of experiment, when these differences are
much less than that produced by the alteration made in the
present instance.
                                [To be continued.]
                  XL. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                            GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                            [Continued from p. 233.]
     May 23.—A memoir entitled, a Synopsis of the English series of
stratified rocks inferior to the old red sandstone—with an attempt
to determine the successive natural groups and formations, by the
Rev. Adam Sedgwick, Woodwardian Professor in the University of
Cambridge, commenced on the 21st March, was concluded.
     Introduction.—The author, after stating what was now offered to
the Society to he only a first approximation, involving many questions
of difficulty and doubt, pointed out the principles on which he had
undertaken the task. There are two elements of classification ap
plicable to stratified rocks of all ages, viz., physical structure and
order of superposition; one giving the mineralogical unity of a
group of rocks, the other their relative age. In addition to the two
former, are classifications founded on the organic remains in the
several groups. In the commencement of geology the last method
was only subsidiary to the two former. But after observations had

300         Geological Society : Prof. Sedgwick on the
been multiplied, laws respecting the distribution of organic types
were discovered, which not merely superseded, in many large for
mations, all classifications founded on mineral structure ; but often,
through wide regions, gave indications of succession which were
unsupported by the direct evidence of sections. As, however, the
(so called) laws respecting the distribution of organic types, are
mere general results grounded on actual observation, it is obvious
that they can never upset conclusions drawn from the clear and un
ambiguous evidence of sections. The two methods may be used
independently, and conspire to the same end ; but in their nature
cannot come into permanent collision.
   The author then points out some examples in which these principles
had been violated. (1) The attempt formerly made by some geolo
gists to arrange the Stonesfield slate in a tertiary group, merely from
the presence of certain fossils of a class not commonlyfound in second
ary rocks. (2) Some of the doctrines put forth in the papers of M.
Deshayes, which if pushed to their utmost extent would make the
evidence of sections of no value ; whereas without sections fossils
could never have led to any general laws of succession. (3) The
recent discussions respecting the age of the culm plants of North
Devon. The plants were assumed to be of the age of the greywacke,
from the mineral structure of the rocks in which they were imbedded ;
or the rocks were assumed to be of the carboniferous period by the
species of the imbedded plants : whereas true geological reasoning
required that, anterior to either of the preceding conclusions, the
true position of the culm measures should be determined by actual
sections.
   The author then goes on to point out the difficulty of classify
ing the vast series of schistose rocks below the old red sandstone
—from the great resemblance of their mineral type—from the
absence of well-defined beds of organic remains in many large re
gions—and from their entire disappearance in the last members
of the descending series. The Silurian system is almost the only
exception to this remark ; and even this system is developed
in many parts of England without any distinct succession of natural
groups. The mineral type is on the whole much more uniform in the
great series under notice than in the secondary system of England ;
but the frequent absence of organic remains, and of any succession
of distinct groups, is compensated by the enormous scale of deve
lopment, as shown in the natural sections : and the author concludes,
that it is not by hypothetical views and analogies, or by maintaining
one part of geological evidence at the expense of another ; but by
applying every kind of evidence in its proper place, and above all by
actual surveys and detailed sections, that we can ever hope to bring
into coordination the complicated phenomena of which he is only
attempting to give a brief synopsis.
              TWO CLASSES OF OLD STRATIFIED ROCKS, &C.
   The author first notices the older stratified series of Scotland, and
divides it into two classes.

English Stratified Rocks inferior to the Old Red Sandstone. 301
   (1.) The primary class (composed of gneiss, mica slate, quartz
rock, &c. &c.,) is largely developed in the Highlands.
   (2.) The second class (greywacke', greywackd slate, &c. &c.,) is
also largely developed in the Lammermuir hills, and in the whole
chain extending in the south of Scotland from St. Abb's Head to
the Mull of Galloway. It is shown, partly on mineralogical cha
racters, and partly on the evidence of sections, that the rocks of the
former class are inferior to those of the latter. For a zone of slate
rocks (the roches chloriteuses et quartzeuscs of Dr. Boue') is superior
to the crystalline slates of the Grampians, and is (at least pro
visionally) placed on the same parallel with the earthy and me
chanical slates of the Lammermuir chain. Both the preceding classes
are shown to be inferior, and generally unconformable, to the old red
sandstone ; which in the northern part of Scotland was once grouped
with the primary class ; but in the geological map of Scotland is now
put in its true place.
   After giving a series of sections to connect the structure of the
Lammermuir chain with the adjacent parts of the north of England,
he then proceeds to describe, in general terms, the expansion of the
rocks of the second class through various mountainous tracts of
South Britain. The frontier chain of Scotland—the slaty series of
the Cumbrian mountains—of North and South Wales—and of the
whole region between the eastern side of Devon and the western end
of Cornwall—as well as the slate rocks of some smaller unconnected
tracts, are all referred to one great class, the highest group of which
passes into the old red sandstone, while the lowest (where the de
velopment is complete) rests on the crystalline system of the first
class. Independently of the direct evidence from detailed sections,
the several regions are shown to be related ; 1st, by a common phy
sical structure ; 2ndly, by organic remains ; 3dly, by common lines
of strike ; tending to show that several disconnected tracts of wide
extent, having partaken of the same accidents, were once probably
connected and continuous deposits in a deep sea.
   In illustration of these views he shows that the prevailing strike
of the beds (as well as the prevailing direction of the anticlinal and
synclinal lines) in the Lammermuir system, in the Cumbrian system,
and in the system of all the highest chains of North Wales, is nearly
N.E. and S.W. and he further shows that the actual impress was
given to all these regions before the period of the old red sandstone.
In Cornwall the average strike is about W.N.W., but gradually
bends round to the E. and W., in which prevailing direction the
rocks cross Devonshire. In the southern parts of the slate regions
of South Wales the beds also have an east and west strike ; and
these parallel dislocations of Devonshire and South Wales are pos
terior to the carboniferous series and probably contemporaneous with
one another. Where the two preceding systems of strike meet, the
beds are thrown into inextricable confusion ; and on che outskirts of
Wales, and in the counties where the Silurian system has been most
largely developed, the dislocations are too irregular and complicated
to be reduced to any law. Lastly, he notices a system of dislocations

 802         Geological Society : Prof. Sedgwick on the
 that have brought up a portion of the older rocks (of the class here
 described) at Dudley, on both sides of the Warwickshire coal field,
 and in Charnwood forest. At all these localities the strike is the
 same, and the lines of greatest movement are nearly parallel— all being
 about N.N.W. and S.S.I''.. ; and all these movements belong to one
 epoch, having been completed after the deposition of the lower red
 sandstone, and before the period of the upper and gypseous marls.
 Hence we have three great systems of elevation, each marked by
 parallel lines of strike, and the three systems of strike indicating
 three distinct periods of elevation.
    The author then points out the importance of such facts to the
 broad speculations of geology, as well as the limitations under which
 they are to be applied. The dynamical powers of elevation appear
 to have been employed in three principal forms. 1st. In gradually
 raising up ridges through large spaces of the earth's crust. These
 will explain the correspondence of strike through very extensive
 regions ; and such elevations if continued beyond a certain limit must
 have produced longitudinal fissures and lines of volcanic vent. 2ndly.
 In the long-continued protrusion and eruption of igneous rocks along
 such lines of vent. 3dly. In local and partial eruptions and pro
 trusions, producing valleys of elevation, local derangements, and other
 phenomena that terminate in ordinary volcanic action. Elevatory
 forces, when considered in this general way, explain the phenomena
 of strike—the parallelism of great contemporaneous elevations—as
 well as the exceptions to the rule of parallelism.
                 GBOUP8 OF THE CUMBRIAN SECTION, &C.
   The author then commences the separation of the whole series of
rocks of the second class into natural groups, founded on sections ex
hibited in the several districts above noticed ; and after shortly dis
cussing two sections connecting the Cheviot bills with the formations
in the basin of the Tweed, he describes in some detail a transverse
section through the whole system of the Cumbrian mountains, which
exhibits the following groups in ascending order.
   (1.) The group of Skiddaw Forest, &c., the lower part of
which rests on the granite, and passes into a system of crystalline
strata resembling the rocks of the first class ; the upper part abounds
in a fine dark glossy clay slate, interrupted here and there by beds
of more mechanical structure. The whole is of great thickness, al
most without calcareous matter, and without any trace of organic
remains, and forms the mineral axis of the Cumbrian mountains.
    (2.) A group essentially composed of quartzose and chloritic roof
ing slates alternating with mechanical beds of coarser structure, and
also with innumerable igneousrocks (compact felspar, felspar porphyry,
brecciatcd porphyries, &c. &c.,) which partake of all the accidents
of the slates. It is of enormous thickness, and rises into the highest
mountains of the country ; and though chiefly developed on the
south side of the preceding group (No. 1 ), it also appears extensively
 on the north side of the lower group, which thus forms a mineral axis
—a fact not yet noticed in any of the published geological mapa.

 English Stratified Rocks inferior to the Old Red Sandstone. 303
Though abounding in calcareous matter, it has no organic remains.
 (Lower Cambrian system).
   (3.) A great series, expanded through Westmoreland and parts of
Lancashire and Yorkshire. Itis based on calcareous slates, passing into
limestone, and full of organic remains, and in its lower division are fine
roofing slates, but less crystalline than those of the preceding group.
Its upper division (not however separable by any very distinct zoologi
cal or mineralogical characters from the lower) abounds in arenaceous
flagstone, coarse quartzose greywacke', coarse slates with imperfect
cleavage, and not fit for use, and the series is incomplete, being cut
off by the unconformable deposits of old red sandstone and carboni
ferous limestone. Distinct beds of limestone are almost wanting in
this upper division, and organic remains are very rare, but they ap
pear here and there in very thin bands among the coarse siliceous
slates. Provisionally, the lower division is placed in the Upper
Cambrian system, and the upper division in the Silurian system ; but
without being separable into any further clear subdivisions. This
great group (No. 3.) does not appear on the north side of the
mineral axis of Cumberland, as was represented in the early geolo
gical maps.
                     SECTIONS OF NORTH WALES, &C.
   The author next discusses a series of sections illustrating the
structure of North Wales. One is drawn from the Menai Straits,
in a direction about E.S.E., so as to cross the Berwyn chain and end
in the carboniferous series near Oswestry. The others are drawn
from the Berwyn chain to different parts of the carboniferous lime
stone range on the north side of Denbighshire. The greater por
tion of the first section crosses the older beds (the Cambrian System)
which strike towards the N.E. The other sections intersect the
upper series (Silurian Syslem) which strike towards the N.W.,
passing (in some places unconformably) round the beds of the older
system. From a consideration of the whole evidence the rocks are
grouped in the ascending order as follows.
   (1.) Chlorite slate, quartz rock, and mica slate of Anglesea and
Caernarvonshire. These arc placed on the parallel of the first class ;
and nothing is discovered in the section that is perfectly analogous
with the Skiddaw slate, or first Cumbrian group, above described.
   (2.) The old slate series of Caernarvonshire and Merionethshire,
alternating indefinitely with bands of porphyry and felspar rock ;
many parts absolutely identical in structure with the second Cum
brian group above-described. It is of enormous but unknown thick
ness, and is bent into great undulations, the anticlinal and synclinal
lines of which are parallel to the strike of the chain. Through wide
tracts of country it is without fossils ; but at Snowdon and Glider
Fawr, cncrinitca, corals, and one or two species of bivalves have
been discovered in it. It ends with the calcareous beds which range
from Bala to the neighbourhood of Dinas Mowddy. This is called
the Lower Cambrian System.
   (3.) The next group (the Upper Cambrian System) commences with

304            Geological Society : Prof. Sedgwick on the
the fossiliferous beds of Bala, includes all the higher portion of the
Berwyns, and all the slate rocks of South Wales which are below
the Silurian System. Its slate beds are less crystalline, and its
general structure is more mechanical, than the preceding group, and
it contains incomparably more fossils, which (though there are many
extensive portions of the group without fossils) are disseminated
through the more calcareous beds in great abundance. Many of the
fossils are identical in species with those of the lower division of the
Silurian System, nor have the true distinctive zoological characters
of the group been well ascertained.
    In many parts of South Wales it is separated from the Silurian
System by great faults and derangements of the strata, marked by a
broad band of rotten non-fossiliferous schist. At the north end of
the Berwyn chain it appears to pass by insensible gradations into the
lower division of the Upper System (the Caradoc Sandstone).
    (4.) The last natural group (the Silurian System). Forall details
respecting this system the author refers to the abstracts of Mr. Mur-
chison's papers*, and to his forthcoming work. He then describes the
sections :
    (1 .) East of the Berwyns, in which the Caradoc Sandstone is finely
developed; containing the Llandeilo flagstone and other character
istic calcareous and shelly bands.
    (2.) The sections north of the Berwyns, connecting Montgo
meryshire with Denbighshire. The ascending series is described as
follows :—
    (1.) A series of beds several thousand feet in thickness, and ap
          parently forming a passage between the Upper Cambrian and
          lowest portion of the Silurian System.
    (2.) Bands of calcareous slate with numerous organic remains of
           the " Caradoc Sandstone."
    (3.) Scries of flagstones, more or less calcareous, with many or-
          thoceratites and two species of cardiola, overlaid by, and as
           sociated with, irregular masses of roofing slate with a trans
           verse cleavage.
    (4.) Flagstones and rotten slates, many parts in an imperfect
           state of induration, and the whole surmounted by the Car
          boniferous Limestone. —Of the preceding section the lower
           part of No. 3. is identical with the series of Long Mountain
           in the Silurian sections of Mr. Murchison ; but No. 4. is
           mineralogically unlike [any thing he has described, although
           it has been found to contain some of the fossils of the Upper
           Lvdlow Rock. It appears from these details that the Silurian
           System, although its subdivisions are obscure from the abs
           ence of the Wenlock and Ludlow limestones, is more fully
           developed than in the group (No. 3.) of the great Cumbrian
           section above described.
    The author then briefly notices the slate rocks of Charnwood Fo
 rest, which he refers provisionally to the Upper Cambrian System ;
   [* See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. iii. p. 224 ; vol. iv. p. 159. 228,
 370, 450 ; vol. v. p. 217 ; and vol. vi. p. 314, 376.]

English Stratified Rocks inferior to the Old Red Sandstone. 305
but from the imperfection of the sections and the absence of organic
 remains, their exact place is not determined.
   SECTION FROM THE NORTH TO THE SOUTH COAST OP DEVONSHIRE.
    I. North Devon section.—For details the author refers to a paper
by Mr. Murchison and himself, but enumerates the successive
groups for the purpose of adding some remarks, and of connecting
the system of Devon with that of Cornwall*. The ascending order
is as follows :
   (1.) A series of coarse arenaceous slates, not noticed in the for
         mer paper.
    (2.) The calcareous slates of the river Lyn.
   (3.) ~The coarse red flagstones, &c., of Exmoor Forest, and of the
         coast to the east of Combe Martin.
   (4.~) The calcareous slates and limestone bands of Ilfracombe.
   ?5.) The contorted slate 'zone south of Ilfracombe.
   (6.) The calcareous slates and irregular masses of limestone be
         tween the preceding group and the culm measures.
   The whole of the preceding series is placed in the Upper Cambrian
System with the exception of the upper portion of No. 6., which is
considered, both from its structure and its fossils, as near the doubt
ful limit between the Upper Cambrian and Lower Silurian Systems.
   II. Culm measures.—This series is described (as in a former paper)
to occupy a great trough, which ranges across the country in a di
rection bearing nearly east and west ; on its north side overlying
the preceding group (No. 6. of the North Devon section), and
on its south side rising up to the granite of Dartmoor, or overlying
the older slate system of Devonshire [and Cornwallf. Its subdivi
sions are enumerated as in the former paper ; and the author adds,
that during the summer of 1837 he ascertained that the lower beds
of the culm measures rest unconformably on a portion of the slate
rocks in the north of Cornwall, near Launceston. On the contrary,
in the cliffs near Barnstaple, the lower culm measures seem to gra
duate almost insensibly into the formation on which it rests. Hence
(independently of all other evidence) it is clear that the slate rocks in
the north of Cornwall are of an older epoch than the upper group
of the North Devon section.
   The author then considers the classification of the culm series, and
states his opinion that the base of it is lower than the base of the
ordinary English carboniferous series. The base line (in the former
paper) was intentionally left in an ambiguous position ; and the dif
ficulty of the subject has been subsequently increased by the supposed
discovery of some true carboniferous plants in the highest group
(No. 6.) of the North Devon section. In the upper part of the culm
measures all the fossil plants have been described as identical in spe
cies with plants of the carboniferous series ; and hence (unless some
   • See Proceedings of Geological Society, vol. ii. p. 556 et scq. [or L. &
E. Phil. Mag. vol. xi. p. 311.]
   t See Proceedings, vol. ii. p. 561. [L. & E. Phil. Mag. vol. xi. p. 315, 316.]
Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 82. Oct. 1838.                           X

306         Geological Society : Prof. Sedgwick oil tJie
conflicting evidence be discovered) the culm measures and common
coal measures must continue to be placed on the same parallel.
   Lastly, he states that, independently of any question of classifica
tion, the former paper by Mr. Murchison and himself first pointed
out the following facts in the general structure of the county :—
   (1.) That the Wavellite rock and culm limestone (of Barnstaple,
&c.) were in position, structure, and fossils distinct from all the other
calcareous groups of Devon.
   (2.) That the same group was repeated over again with a reversed
dip on the north side of Dartmoor, and entirely distinct from the calca
reous slates of Cornwall, with which it had no analogy in structure
or fossils.
   (3.) That the Holcombe Rogus limestone was a part of the culm
series.
   (4.) That the culmiferous system was superior to all the slate rocks
of Devonshire and Cornwall, and was overlaid by no older rock than
the new red sandstone. Whereas before, the portion of the culm
series near the granite had, from its metamorphic structure, been
confounded with the oldest rocks of Devonshire and Cornwall ; and
the position of whole series among the Devonian groups had been
misapprehended.
   III. South Devon section.—This section, in conformity with the
scheme given in the former paper, is as follows, in the ascending
order* :—
   (1.) A series of slate rocks subdivided into two groups,—the lowei
containing a few calcareous bands, the upper group more calcareous
and ending with the Plymouth limestone. The two are considered
as one formation ; and the name, Ashburton bands, which had been
given to the calcareous beds of the lower division, is now withdrawn,
as the position of the Ashburton lime rock is considered ambiguous.
The name of Ugborough bands is not liable to the same objection.
    (2.) A great group of coarse red flagstone and slate, identical in its
structure with No. 3. of the North Devon section, and containing
some corals that do not appear in the mountain limestone, but are
found both in the Cambrian and Silurian systems. This group is
provisionally identified with No. 3. of the North Devon section.
    (3.) A great group of slate rocks without beds of limestone, and
very rarely with any traces of organic remains. By the suppression
of No. 4., this group is considered as the equivalent of No. 5. of
the North Devon section.
   (4.) Mica and chlorite slate, anomalous in structure and position,
 and forming no part of the ascending series.
   The preceding identifications are only provisional, and many desi
 derata are enumerated ; but it is considered certain that the South
Devon section belongs, on the whole, to a lower series than the
North Devon. Neither of them are, however, supposed to descend
lower than the Upper Cambrian, or the higher part of the Lower
 Cambrian, group. To place the South Devon section above the North
   • See Proceedings, vol. ii. p. 562. [or L. & E. Phil. Mne. vol. xi. p.
316,317.]

 English Stratified Rocks inferior to the Old Red Sandstone. 307
 Devon, would be to violate all the analogies of structure derived from
other parts of England ; and would not, the author believes, be sup
ported by any specific evidence derived from fossils.
             CLASSIFICATION OF THE BOCKS OF CORNWALL.
   The author states, that the Plymouth limestone, in its range west
wards, gradually thins off, and comes to an edge about the middle
of Whitesand bay. The strike of the beds and the trending of the
coast prevent this limestone and all the upper groups of the South
Devon section from appearing again on the south-eastern side of
Cornwall.
   The inferior portion of the first group (No. 1 .) of the South Devon
section passes into Cornwall in a broad zone, gradually acquires the
strike of the Cornish rocks, and so runs along the S.E. coast; and
finally passes from Falmouth bay to Mounts bay ; rising on its north
side towards the granite, and on its south side dipping under the ser
pentine of the Lizard district. As in Devonshire, the group contains
beds more or less calcareous, and, rarely, thin beds of limestone.
   In the same way, though not with the same clear evidence, the
calcareous slates rising from beneath the culm-measures near Laun-
ceston, double round the granitic promontory of Rough-Tor, and
are thence expanded (though with considerable irregularities of
strike and modifications of structure) as far as St. Ives' Bay.
   The granitic ridge of the county is supposed to represent an in
terrupted mineral axis, on the N.E. and S.W. sides of which are
slaty groups of the same geological period. In all cases near the
granite the slaty groups change their structure ; but this change of
structure cannot be assumed as the ground of a classification depend
ent on the age of the deposit ; as it is shown by a series of sections,
that in several places the fossiliferous slates on the coast are of the
same date with the indurated metalliferous slates that rise to the
granite. Hence the crystalline and metalliferous slates of Cornwall
are considered as metamorphic, and in that respect agree with the
bottom culm series that touches on the Dartmoor granite.
   Of the rocks of Cornwall the newest are the granites ; next come
the serpentine and other ; rappean rocks ; and the oldest are the slate
rocks. These slate rocks (including all the killas of Cornwall of
whatever structure) appear to be an actual prolongation of the lowest
group of the South Devon section, and therefore, agreeably to what
is stated above, are provisionally arranged near the upper portion of
the Lower Cambrian System.
   Many of these rocks were formerly considered primitive ; but none of
them have any pretension to that class. Numerous fossils were found
by the author in the cliffs on both sides Loe bay, and on both sides
of tho Fowey river, and still further west in Gerrans bay. The Rev.
J. J. Conybeare found fossils many years since in the Tintagel slates ;
 and the author in 1828 traced the fossiliferous system into the cliffs
 west of Padstow. During M. De la Beche's survey he had (before
 the author's last visit to the N.W. coast of Cornwall) found fossils
 innumerable in that part of the county. The Cornish fossils are
                                   X2

308         Geological Society : Prof. Sedgwick on the
generally ill preserved ; but among them are some corals that are
common both to the Silurian and Cambrian systems. The fossils of
New Quay and South Petherwin are an exception to the remark ; as
many of them are well preserved. They consist of corals ; encri-
nites ; numerous specimens of the genera Terebratula, Orthis,vnd Spi-
rifer; of four or five species of Orthoceratites; Goniatites; and lastly,
three or four new species of a genus described by Count Munster
under the name Clymene, and by Mr. Ansted under the name En-
dosiphonites. As they occupy a position so much lower, so, as a
group, these fossils are distinct from those of the Silurian system.
   Conclusion.—The author here takes a retrospect of the preceding
description, and states that the classifications are founded on the
details of actual sections ; and that as far as such detailed sections
throw light on the several questions that may arise, there is not
much that remains to be done in England. Some of the generali
zations are, however, founded on imperfect evidence ; and to render
them more complete, it is now necessary to appeal to the organic
remains in the several groups. In this department little has been
yet effected, excepting in the higher part of the Silurian system,
where the upper divisions (at least in one part of the island) assume
definite mineralogical and zoological types. Whether definite zoolo
gical groups can be made out in any lower system still remains to
 be seen. The rigid determination of the Devon and Cornish fossils,
which are very numerous, and a rigid comparison of the Berwyn and
Bala fossils with those near the base of the third group of the Cum
brian section, give the fairest promise of an answer to the question,
and are pointed out as immediate desiderata.
   The difficulty of classification by organic remains increases as we
descend, and is at length insurmountable ; for in the lowest strati
fied groups, independently of metamorphic structure, all traces of
fossils gradually vanish; and the great range of certain species
through numerous successive groups, and the very irregular distri
bution of fossils even in some of the more fossiliferous divisions, add
greatly to the difficulties of establishing true definite groups even
within the limits of our island. The difficulties are indefinitely
increased in comparing the formations of remote continents. But
these circumstances are compensated by the magnificent scale of de
velopment of the successive groups, and their wide geographical
distribution. Taken together they have a great unity of character;
and even in remote continents they seem to form a common base,
from which we may hope to compute the whole series of secondary
and tertiary deposits that surmount them.
   The author then briefly touches on questions of structure and
cleavage ; on the indefinite alternations of trappean beds ; on meta-
morphic structure ; on the long duration of the deposits ; and on their
great disruptions and symmetrical dislocations, indicating a greater
violence of disturbing forces than is indicated in the secondary for
mations of this country. Following the geological scale of deposits
from top to bottom, we can trace a series of phenomena indicating
the same kind of causation differing at different times in intensity

 English Stratified Rocks inferior to the Old Bed Sandstone. 309
and degree. The mean intensity can therefore only be collected
by ascertaining the intensity during every geological period, and can
never be obtained by assuming the intensity of any one epoch, past
or present, as the arbitrary standard. Again, the successive organic
types indicate great physical changes ; and following the descending
scale they at length vanish ; conducting us, however, to the confines
of other investigations in exact science which must prove the ulti
mate basis of physical geology.
   Finally, the author gives a tabular arrangement of the several
classes and subdivisions agreeably to the system of the preceding
communication.
                 Class I.—Primary stratified Groups.
   Gneiss, mica slate, &c., &c. Highlands of Scotland and the
        Hebrides. Crystalline slates of Anglesea and the S.W. coast
        of Carnarvonshire.
   The scries generally without organic remains; but should organic
remains appear unequivocally in any parts of this class, they may be
described as the Protozoic system.
   Class 1.(«.) The crystalline slates of central Skiddaw forest, and
the upper Skiddaw slate series. The whole is inorganic and inter
mediate between Class I. and Class II.
                     Class II., or Palaozoic series.
   This class includes all the groups of formations between Class I.
and the old red sandstone ; and is subdivided as follows :—
   1. Lower Cambrian System.—All the Welsh series under the Bala
        limestone. The two great groups of green roofing slate and
        porphyry on the north and south side of the mineral axis
        of the Cumbrian mountains. A small part of the slates of
        Cornwall and South Devon. ? A part of the slate series of
        the Isle of Man, &c., &c.
   2. Upper Cambrian System.—A large part of the Lammermuir
        chain on the south frontier of Scotland. A part of the third
        Cumbrian group, commencing with the calcareous slates of
        Coniston and Windermere. The system of the Berwyns and
         South Wales. The slates of Charnwood forest. ? All the
        North Devon and a part of the South Devon series. The
        greater part of the Cornish series.
   3. The Silurian System.—The upper part of the third Cumbrian
        group, chiefly expanded in Westmoreland and Yorkshire. The
        flagstone series of Denbighshire. The hills on both sides
        of Llangollen. The region east of the Berwyn chain. The
        regions described in the papers of Mr. Murchison, from which
        the types of the system are derived. The lowest part of the
        culmiferous series. ?
   Over all the preceding comes the Old Red Sandstone—divided into
three great natural groups in the country bordering the Silurian
types of Mr. Murchison ; in the northern counties developed in a
less distinct manner, chiefly in the form of great unconfonnable
masses of conglomerate, appearing at irregular intervals between the
preceding groups and the carboniferous series.

310            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    Little notice is taken in the memoir of the crystalline unstratified
rocks associated with the several series. Any questions of classifi
cation, bearing on their geological epoch, can only be determined by
the effects, produced by them on the stratified series, which mark the
period of their first protrusion ; but for the present this subject is
not touched on by the author.
            XLI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
            CONTINUATION OF THE SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
           are glad to be enabled to announce that sufficient sup-
           port has been proffered by private individuals and
public bodies, to secure the continuation of the Scientific
Memoirs; and that the FIFTH PART, being the commence
ment of a Second Volume, is in the course of preparation.
                               SYNAITASIN.
    M. Robiquet has given the name of synaptase to the principle of
almonds, which possesses the singular property of reacting on amyg-
dalin, and of determining, under the influence of moisture, the
production of the oil of bitter almonds. The name of synaptasin is
derived from the power of reuniting, as a connecting link, amygdalin
and water. This substance possesses the following properties : it is
of ayellowish white colour, sometimes brittle, and possessing the ap
pearance of a varnish like dried gluten ; at other times it is opake and
spongy, like sarcocol. It is very soluble in cold water, but nearly
insoluble in alcohol ; when heated to about 140° Fahr. it is coagu
lated, when in solution in water ; it is not precipitated either by acids
or by acetate of lead, but readily by tannin; it does not like diastase
form a paste when heated in water to 140° Fahr ; upon amygdalin
 it acts strongly, even at 176° Fahr.; when the solution is heated in
contact with the air, it readily suffers a very evident decomposition,
it becomes every day more turbid, and acquires a fetid smell, and,
after a time, a very abundant flocky precipitate is formed ; when
 subjected to the action of heat, it tumefies, yields empyreumatic oil,
 and an acid which contains a little ammonia. This acidity induced
 M. Robiquet to suppose that it retained a little of the acetic acid
 used in preparing it ; when, however, it is put into contact with con
 centrated sulphuric acid, it undergoes a kind of softening, but neither
 acetic nor sulphurous acid is disengaged ; when a drop of tincture
of iodine is added to a solution of synaptasin, a deep rose-red colour
is produced, but without any precipitation.
     Synaptasin is obtained by the following process : almonds which
have been deprived of their oil by pressure, are to be mixed with
twice their weight of pure water, and the mixture is to be gradual
ly pressed. After two hours' maceration, the liquid is to be filtered,
the albumen is precipitated by acetic acid, and after filtration the
gum is to be separated by means of acetate of lead, and after again
filtering, the excess of acetate of lead is to be separated quickly by
hydrosulphuric acid, and the excess of hydrosulphuric acid is to be

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             311
got rid of by the air pump ; the sulphuret is to be separated by the
filter, and the synaptasin is to be precipitated by a sufficient quan
tity of alcohol. The sugar remains in solution, and the synaptasin
after washing with alcohol is to be dried in vacuo.
                           Journal de CMmie Medicale.—J\i\y, 1838.
                    COMPOSITION OF THE BLOOD.
   M. Lecanu states that the venous blood of man may be considered
on an average as composed of
                       Serum              869' 1547
                       Globules            130-8453
                                         1000-
Or of
               Water                                   790-3707
               Oxygen
               Azote
                Carbonic Acid
               Extractive matters
               Phosphorised Fat
                Cholestrine
                Serolin
               Free Oleic Acid
               Free Margaric Acid
               Hydrochlorate of Soda
                Hydrochlorate of Potash
                Hydrochlorate of Ammonia            >   10-9800
                Carbonate of Soda
                Carbonate of Lime
                Carbonate of Magnesia
                Phosphate of Soda
                Phosphate of Lime
                Phosphate of Magnesia
                Sulphate of Potash
                Lactate of Soda
                Salt of fixed fat Acid
                Salts of volatile fat Acid
                Yellow colouring matter
                Albumen of the Serum                     67'8040
                Globules                               130-8453
                                                      1000-
 The Globules are stated to be composed of
                 Fibrin                                   2-9480
                 Hematosin                                2-2700
                 Albumen                                125-6273
                                                        130-8453
                                                An. de Chimie, 67-64.

312           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
       ON THE IODIDE OF AMJDIV.         BY M. J. L. LASSAIGNE.
   In 1 833 the name of iodide of amidin was given by M. Lassaignc
to the compound of iodine and the internal and soluble portion of
fecula ; the properties of this singular compound were then stated,
and the decelerating power of heat was mentioned.
   The results obtained by M. Lassaigne induced him to believe that
this compound of iodine and amidin was soluble in water, contrary
to the opinion of some chemists, who, subsequently to his experi
ments, endeavoured to show that this blue compound is merely sus
pended in the liquid in a state of extreme division. The observa
tions made by M. La&saigne are confirmed by those which he has
since made :
    1st. A solution of iodide of amidin prepared in July 1833, by
pouring a solution of iodine into the soluble portion of fecula, ob
tained by treating the bruised grains with cold water, was placed in
a dark closet. This solution, examined monthly to the present
time during four years, has not yielded any deposit ; it has always
had the appearance of an homogeneous solution, equally coloured
throughout of a fine indigo blue ; and it has always had the appear
ance of freshly prepared iodide of amidin. The long time which
this solution has been kept, without any sensible diminution of in
tensity, proves that it exhibits all the properties of a true combina
tion ; for a simple solution of amidin in water underwent a complete
decomposition in some weeks, or at any rate it lost the property
of colouring a solution of iodine blue.
   2nd. The action of cold upon the above-described solution of io
dide of amidin corroborates the opinion which has been expressed
of its nature. It was exposed in the winter to a temperature of about
8° Fahr. ; it solidified and became of a black-blue. During one night
in January in which the temperature was about 10° Fahr., it was
exposed to the air, and became a solid mass, of a brownish yellow
colour, which it lost as the temperature became higher, and returned
to a deep blue ; placed in a warm room, it gradually liquefied, and
during this change the iodide of amidin was deposited in flocks at
the bottom of the bottle, the water remaining colourless.
   This coagulation of the iodide of amidin by the action of cold, and
its separation from the water which held it in solution before conge
lation, is attributed by M. Lassaigne to the cohesion of its molecules,
which modified its affinity for water; by heating this fluid, in
which the iodine was suspended and not dissolved, to about 60° Fahr.,
it re-dissolved and formed a fine blue coloured solution, and possess
ed all the characters which it had before congelation.
   This observation, added to the former, leaves no doubt that iodide
of amidin is really soluble in water at common temperatures, and
that it evidently separates when a physical cause produces the ap
proach of its molecules, or a chemical action determines its union
with other bodies, which then render it insoluble in water.
   It was found that a freshly prepared solution of iodine did not as
sume the brownish yellow colour, which the long prepared solution
did when exposed to a low temperature. This difference is attri

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               313
buted by M. Lassaigne to some change which had probably occurred
in the nature of the long-kept solution.
                           Journal dc Chimie Mtdicale.—May, 1838.
    NEW COMPOUND OF SULPHATE OF MAGNESIA AND WATER.
    M. Fritzche states that when a concentrated solution of sulphate
of magnesia is exposed to the temperature of freezing water, there
soon form, in the midst of small lamellar crystals of ice, a salt
white as enamel and in smaller or larger crystals, according as the
quantity of the solution is small or great. When large masses of this
solution are allowed to cool during the winter, the salt often se
parates in crystals of a finger's length, and by gently thawing the
liquid, they may be separated, for they undergo no change in water
at 32°.
    The enamel-white appearance which these crystals exhibit, arises
 from their consisting of a great number of still smaller crystals ; the
distinct crystals obtained by this process on the large scale have not
the enamel tint, but are limpid and transparent. When subjected
to a temperature above 32°, this compound soon begins to decom
 pose ; water separates ; the crystals become opake, and common
 sulphate is obtained with seven atoms of water. The new crystals
 retain their form, but the interior contains small crystals of the
 common sulphate. These crystals could not be dried even between
 folds of blotting paper without losing some water, and become
 slightly opake at the surface : submitted to analysis the crystals
 were found to consist very nearly of
         One eq. of sulphate of magnesia              60 = 35' 7 7
         Twelve eqs. of water                        108 = 64-23
                                                     168      100-
                                                 L'Institut, Fe>. 1838.
             ON CHLORETHERAL BY M. FELIX D' ARCET.
     When rough chloride of hydrocarbon is distilled in a water bath
 at 122°, there is readily obtained a liquor which boils at 185° Fahr.,
 and this is pure chloride of hydrocarbon ; the distillation then soon
 stops, and there remains in the retort a liquid of an oily appearance,
 which does not begin to boil until heated to about 284° Fahr., and
 its boiling point rises to 324°, and then remains stationary.
     This liquid is about one fourth or one fifth of the original product,
 according as the washing-bottles of the olefiant gas have been cooled
 with greater or less care.
     Several experiments yielded the same results, and they were per
 fectly identical.
     When freed from all extraneous matter, this substance is an ex
  tremely fluid liquid, colourless, limpid, and free from the smell of
  chloride of hydrocarbon. It has however a peculiar sweetish, ethereal
  odour, resembling that of sweet oil of wine ; it burns, when a taper
  is presented to it, with a green flame.

  SI*          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    The density of its vapour is 4'930 ; and by analysis it yielded :
                 Hydrogen                              5"41
                 Carbon                              34'45
                 Oxygen                              10-80
                 Chlorine                            4934— 100-
    The formula according to M. D'Areet is H" Ce O CI4.
                                                  Calculated.
                 H»                    50              5-5
                 Ca                   306            34-7
                 O                    100            105
                 CI4..'               442            49-3
                                      898           100-
    Excess of chlorine does not act upon this substance, or at any
 rate no new compound arises from their contact ; this is also the
 case with ammonia.
    This body appears to be, according to M. D'Arcet's nomenclature,
 the chloral of eether ; except that, according to the law of substitu
 tions, as the hydrogen which has disappeared, and which is replaced
 by chlorine, must belong to the water which constitutes the hydrate
 of the carburetted hydrogen of the a:ther, it ought not to be replaced.
    Do not the following formula;, inquires M. D'Areet, appear to ex
 plain the reaction ?
            C8 H" + H* O = C8 H10 O sulphuric aether.
            C8H'°0
               H*        C*       Ca
            CN H» C- O                chloretheral.
                             Annates de Chim. ct de Phys., [xvi. 108.
    [What is called the law of substitutions, about which no small pa
rade is made by some foreign chemists, when stripped of its name
means merely, I believe, what has been known ever since the doctrine
of definite proportions was first established by Dr. Dalton, that when
a definite quantity of any substance is displaced, that which re
places it is equally definite. I am not sure that I have rightly
understood the author, and shall give a part of his statement in the
original French : " Ce corps parait etre le chloral de l'dther ; seulc-
ment, d'apres la loi des substitutions, comme l'hydrogene qui a dis-
paru, et qui a 6te remplace' par du chlore, doit appartenir a l'eau qui
constitue l'hydrate d'hydrogene carbond de 1' ether, il ne devait pas
6tre remplaceY'
   The simplest view of the nature of this fluid is perhaps to consider
it as an oxichloridc of hydrocarbon, composed, according to the equi
valents usually adopted in England, of.
            Four cqs. of hydrogen                    4 or 5*5
            Four eqs. of carbon                     24 or 33'4
            One eq. of oxygen                         8 or 1 1 ' 1
            One eq. of chlorine                     36 or 50'
                                                    72    100-
                                                                   [R. P.]

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            815
                      FORMIO-BENZOIL1C ACID.
   M. Laurent states when Nordhausen sulphuric acid is made to act
upon the oil of bitter almonds, (hydruret of benzule,) they combine
with the extrication of heat, and solidify into a fibrous mass. If
water be poured upon it, two strata are formed, the lower one of
which is acid, and the upper one oily. The oily stratum, which gra
dually solidifies, is a constant compound of 2 Bz + f HQ O ; but it
may present itself under two different and incompatible forms.
   The liquid constituting the lower stratum, according to M. Lau
rent, is the formio-benzoilic acid. He says that it is formed at the
expense of the hydrocyanic acid, which is decomposed by the influ
ence of water and sulphuric acid, and gives rise to sulphate of am
monia and formic acid, which, being in the nascent state, combines
with the hydruret of benzule to form the formio-benzoilic acid.—
Journal de Chimie Medicals, November 1837.
                 PROPORTIONS OF GLUTEN IN GRAIN.
   M. Boussingault has made researches on the proportions of gluten
contained in the flour of different kinds of grain cultivated in the
Bame soil.
   He determined the quantity of gluten by ascertaining that of the
ammonia which each yielded ; this plan, it will be readily conceived,
will yield much more precise results than that of workmg the flour
between the fingers under a stream of water.
   The flour obtained from different kinds of corn, but cultivated in
the same soil, (that of the Jardin des Plantes,) yielded different pro
portions of gluten in the proportion of 15 to 21. The differences
dependent upon the influence of the soil and that of the climate arc
much more strongly marked, and M. Boussingault has observed them
to amount to from 1 to 4.—Journal de Chimie Mvdicale, November
 1837.                              .
                       OXIDE OF PHOSPHORUS.
   M. Le Verrier proposes the following method of obtaining pure
oxide of phosphorus, which he is of opinion has not been previously
 procured : take a glass globe, capable of holding about 2 pints, the
 neck of which is about 4 inches long and one inch wide ; pour into
 this a little chloride of phosphorus, then introduce of phosphorus,
 previously dried on paper, and cut into pieces of about 8 grains each,
 enough to form a stratum of four-fifths of an inch thick, at the bot
 tom of the globe : then add sufficient chloride of phosphorus to co
 ver the phosphorus, and expose the whole to the air; 8 or 10 globes
 thus prepared are required to obtain 30 grains of oxide readily.
    When about 24 hours have elapsed, a thick white crust of phos-
 phatic acid is formed at the surface of the solution, whilst below the
 stratum of phosphorus there may be seen, through the glass, a yel
 low substance attached to it at the bottom of the globe ; this is a
 compound of phosphoric acid and oxide of phosphorus, which the
 author calls phosphate of oxide of phosphorus.
    In 24 hours after the appearance of the whitish matter, the quan

316            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
tity of phosphate appears, in general, to be at its maximum. The
chloride of phosphorus must then be poured off to make it serve for
 a fresh operation ; the pieces of phosphorus which adhere together,
 at the bottom of the globe, must be detached, and gradually allowed
to fall into cold water. By this proceeding, the considerable increase
of temperature is avoided, which would otherwise occur, by a too
rapid solution of the phosphoric acid, and of the excess of chloride
of phosphorus ; this would occasion the decomposition of the phos
phate of oxide, as will presently appear. The water soon becomes
of a deep yellow colour by dissolving the phosphate of oxide ; and
by decanting and filtering to free it from the suspended phosphorus,
a perfectly limpid yellow liquid is obtained. By heating this solu
tion, the phosphate of oxide decomposes at about 177° Fahrenheit
into phosphoric acid, and a yellow, finely-divided, flocculent matter,
which, however, collects pretty rapidly at the bottom of the water.
 This substance is hydrated phosphoric oxide, which is nearly inso
luble in water. This hydrate may, in a short time, be washed upon
a filter with hot water ; but in order to have the product not soiled
by the paper, it must not be dried upon the filter, but it must be
removed from it, while moist, to a porcelain capsule, and dried, in
vacua, over sulphuric acid. The oxide not only loses the interposed
water, but also that which it contained in combination : the hydrate
is decomposed, and perfectly pure oxide of phosphorus remains; it
has the form of small grains, which are of a red colour ; but when
finely powdered, it is canary yellow.
    It was proved to contain no chlorine, by dissolving in nitric acid,
and finding none in the solution, and it contained no hydrogen ; for
by burning with oxide of copper, it yielded no water. By converting
this oxide into phosphoric acid, and that into phosphate of lead, it
was found to consist, very nearly, of
                 Oxygen             11'35 or 1 eq. 8
                 Phosphorus .... 88-65 or 4 eqs. 64
                                   100-              72
   This oxide is insoluble in water, alcohol and ether ; its density is
greater than that of water. At the moment of withdrawing it from
the vacuum, it has neither smell nor taste, and it remains in this
state, either in contact with the air or dry oxygen. But when these
gases are moist, it slowly acidifies, yielding a slight odour of phos-
phuretted hydrogen. It is not luminous in the dark under any cir
cumstances.
   Out of contact with the air it may be kept at a temperature of
about 570° without decomposing, but it becomes of a bright red
colour ; at a little below the heat of boiling mercury, it decomposes
rapidly, phosphorus distils, and perfectly white phosphoric acid re
mains. When heated in the air, it remains unchanged at a high
temperature, and it burns only when it disengages phosphorus.
Chlorine converts it into chloride of phosphorus and phosphoric acid.
Hydrochloric acid, whether gaseous or in solution, has no effect
on this oxide ; when heated with concentrated sulphuric acid, sul

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                 317
phurous acid is given out ; nitric acid converts it into phosphoric
acid.
    When mixed with chlorate of potash it gives a fulminating pow
der, which detonates, sometimes, during the mixture, and without
giving it any pressure ; a slight pressure always occasions it to ex
plode. The hydrate of phosphorus, which has been mentioned, de
composes in vacua, or by exposure to the air at common temperatures.
The quantity of water which it contains was determined by indirect
processes to be 20'5 per cent., so that it is composed of one eq. of
oxide 72 + 2 eqs., water 18 = 90, very nearly.—Annales de Chimie
et de Physique, Juillet 1837.
               BORATES OF POTASH.          BY M. LAURENT.
    The borates of potash were prepared by decomposing a hot solu
tion of carbonate of potash with excess of boracic acid. A part of
the salt was made to crystallize, and to the remaining solution a
little caustic potash was added, and crystallization was effected after
each addition of the alkali. The crystals which were formed were
kept separate and examined.
    Sexborate of Potash is deposited from a solution which is either
acid or neutral to litmus paper. The crystals belong to the right
prismatic system (right rhombic prisms) and are generally modified
on the edges or angles, and are occasionally tabular and thin. The
forms are not readily perceived on account of the crystals being
hemitrope.
    This salt is unalterable in the air ; very brilliant ; it is but slightly
soluble in cold water, but readily dissolved by boiling water; it is
neutral to litmus paper, or rather it blues it slightly.
    This salt was analyzed by passing gaseous hydrofluoric acid on
 the pulverized borate, moistened and placed in a platina crucible ;
the fluoride of potassium was converted into neutral sulphate by
 sulphuric acid, calcination, and the addition of carbonate of ammonia.
 The results of the analysis were—
                                    By Experiment.        Calculated.
               Boracic Acid     -  -    -   60'8            60-5
               Potash                       14-0            13-6
               Water                        25'2            25-2
                                          100-0
    The calculation was made according to the following formula : —
                       6B* O3 + KO -f 10 H* O.
    Taking Berzelius's recent atomic weight of boracic acid as B- O3,
 it will be seen that this salt, which is rather alkaline than acid, con
 tains, nevertheless, six atoms of acid.
     Triborate of Soda. On gradually adding potash to the preceding
 salt, the liquor becomes alkaline, and by evaporation it deposits at
 first a confusedly crystalline crust, which appeared, however, to be
 sexborate, and the mother waters eventually yielded biborate. Some
 times, and especially at the surface of the solution, there are
 formed very distinct crystals presenting the form of rectangular

318            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
prisms, the terminal edges being replaced by planes that produce
four-sided pyramids on each base.
   This salt consists of—          By Experiment.     Calculated.
              Boracic Acid - - - 46-4                    47'0
              Potash                     21G             210
              Water                      320             320
                                        1000            1000
   The formula is 3 B"- O3 + K O + 8 H9 O.
   These crystals are unalterable in the air, and, like the preceding,
they fuse readily, and swell but little.
   Rhombic Biborate of Potash. This salt, the composition of which
corresponds to that of octahedral borate of soda, possesses, neverthe
less, a different and an incompatible form ; it generally crystallizes
in hexagonal prisms, and rarely as an acute rhomboid—primary
form, an acute rhomboid occasionally with the lateral angles re
placed, or as a bipyramidal dodecahedron or hexagonal prism.
   This salt is alkaline, very soluble in cold and in boiling water ;
when fused it swells up like borax ; it is composed of—
                                   By Experiment.      Calculated.
              Boracic Acid ... 43 '7                     43 2
              Potash                     285             295
              Water                       278            278
                                        100-0           1000*
   The formula is 2 B* O3 + K O + 5 Ha O.
   Sexborate of potash does not precipitate magnesia, oxide of man
ganese or oxide of silver, from solution ; the following are the effects
which it produces in the annexed metallic solutions :—
      Barium      "] A white precipitate, which disappears on the
      Strontium > addition of excess of water; the solution
      Calcium J becoming slightly alkaline.
      Peroxide of iron, a rusty yellow precipitate.
      Copper,             bright blue ditto.
      Nickel,              greenish.
      Chromium,            green.
      Lead,                white.
      Silver,             white, which disappears on the addi
                             tion of excess of water.
                                      An. de Ch. et de Ph. G7—215
                          CYANIDE OF GOLD.
   M. Deferre prepares this compound by dissolving 16 parts of
gold, cut into small pieces, in 80 parts of aqua regia, heated in a
sand-bath ; to the solution there arc to be added 24 parts of cya
nide of mercury, dissolved in 24 parts of distilled water ; the whole
is to be evaporated to dryness, and the residue treated with 192
   * There is a mistake here in the original ; the substances amount to
loo-S.

                         Meteorological Obsovations.                            319
pnrts of distilled water ; agitate the mixture, allow it to remain for
some time, and then pour off the liquor from the cyanide of gold.
    To the mother water add 8 parts of cyanide of mercury, and
again evaporate to dryness ; again add 192 parts of distilled water
to the dry residue, and again agitate ; suffer to remain, and pour off
from the cyanide of gold j this may be repeated a third and a fourth
time, or until no more cyanide of gold of a fine colour is produced ;
the operation with the mother water may be repeated without its
being necessary to add cyanide of mercury every time.
    All the cyanide of gold obtained ought to be afterwards washed
with distilled water, till it comes away quite insipid, or until re
agents show that it is entirely free from bichloride of mercury.
    Every time the mother water is used, it should be slightly acidi
fied with a few drops of aqua regia ; without this the cyanide of
gold which separates would acquire by evaporation a yellow red
dish colour. During the evaporation to dryness on the sand-bath,
the solution should be constantly stirred with a glass rod, till it ac
quires a bright canary yellow colour ; the occurrence of this denotes
the formation of the cyanide of gold, mixed with bichloride of mer
cury, and an excess of cyanide of mercury undecomposed ; these are
got rid of by washing with distilled water.
     The new Codex recommends the employment of pure cyanide of
potassium as being essential to the success of the operation ; but the
 difficulty of procuring this salt in a pure state is well known. Be
sides, the instability of this salt, even when it is kept in well-stopped
 bottles, will always throw uncertainty on the results of the opera
 tion ; an objection which does not attach to the use of cyanide of
 mercury.—Journal de Pharmacie, xxiv. p. 27.
      METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR AUGUST 1838.
    Ckitwick.— August 1. Very fine : heavy rain at night. 2. Hain. 3. Fine. 4.
  Overcast : slight rain.     5. Cloudy. 6. Sultry, with showers. 7. Showery.
 8, 9. Fine. 10. Overcast. 11 — 1G. Very fine. 17. Hazy : slight rain. 18—20.
 Very fine.      21. Showery.     22. Hain.   23. Showery.      24. Cloudy and fine.
 25. Foggy : rain.        26, 27. Very fine.    28. Overcast : lightning at night.
  29. Cloudy and fine.       30. Clear and dry.     31. Very fine.
    Boiton. — August 1. Fine. 2. Cloudy: rain early a.m. 3. Rain. 4. Fine:
 rain p.m.     5. Fine.    6. Cloudy : rain p.m.     7. Heavy rain with thunder and
 lightning p.m. 8. Cloudy. 9. Fine : rain p.m. 10. Cloudy: rain p.m. 11,12.
 Cloudy.       13— IS. Fine.     16. Cloudy.    17, 18. Fine. 1 9, 20. Windy. 21.
 Windy: rain early a.m.: rain p.m.           22. Windy: rain p.m.        23. Stormy.
 24, 25. Fine.       26. Cloudy.     27. Cloudy : therm. 74° 6 p.m.     28. Cloudy.
 £9. Windy: rain early a.m* 30,31. Fine.
     Apjtlegarth Manse, Dumfries-slare. —August 1. Rain p.m.: warm and moist.
  2. Fine day throughout.        3. Fine day : occasional showers.     4. Moist and
 cloudy.      5. Heavy rain p.m.      6. Very heavy showers.     7. Showery all day.
  8. Fine summer day : cool p.m.         9. Wet throughout.      10. Fair a.m. : wet
 evening.       II. Drizzling rain a.m.: fair p.m.      12. Fair: shower p.m.     13.
  Fair: shower at noon.       14. Fair throughout. 15. Fine clear day. 16. Tem
  perate: cool.     17. Beautiful summer day.      18. Cloudy: moist p.m.      19,20.
  Showery all day.      81. Rainy all day : flood.     22. Showery all day.   23, 24.
  Fair a.m. : shower p.m. 25. Very moist: rain p.m. 26. Fair : warm : cloudy.
  27. Fair, but threatening.      28. Drizzling all day.    29. Clear and cool. SO,
   Temperate. 31. Mild though cloudy.

             point.                      Soc.
                                        Roy.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 Mean.   Ml.
Dew-                                              9a.m. ^56~ 60 60 62 59 60 57 60 58 60 62 63 63 56 58 58 55 60 62 57 60 55 56 57 54 58 60 65 60 51 55
                                                                                             2-53                                        0-57                                          2-33                                           0-60                                           6-03
               i.££§1Q                                                  ..                             .. .                    ..                                          ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¦mi    15                                                     •          2-05
                    d             ~           m                     •43               •09 ¦03             •09 ¦90          •06 •03                                         ..                        •04                 •02                              •15
Rain
                                                         ~-17                        ¦OR                                                                                                    03 09                                                                                   123
                         0   C                   0                  •11                     •12 ¦22 •04              •01                                                •01                                •12 ¦10 •04 •09
                                   Koy.Soc.
                                            9a.m.                                                                                                                                                                                    066                                         Sum.
                                                                                            •0G3
                                                                   •133 ¦061 •013                 •088 •338 •066                                                              •044         •008            •050 •088 •019                   ¦013
                    Jnuin-Ine*- shirc.
                   f|L                                          ' "                      *                            NNW.     *                                                                                                                                WW, sw.
                                                                                                                                                w
                                                                                                                                                                                                        •               »W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NW.          NW.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ralm                      NW. calm
                                                                                                                                                                                                     w      w.
 Wind.                                      2-110
                                                                                             sw. sw. sw. w.                                    sw. sw.            s.                         s. sw. sw.           KW.                       W. S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tr.           w.
                                                                160      59var.sw.
                                                                    var. 56j
                                                                  lsw.
                                                                   53                                                                                                                               var.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    w.                                                   var. Mi WNW.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N.
                Dumfries.1^d                9a.m.                                                                                                     NW,         WSW. NNI.16053
                                                                                                                                                                               wsw.                        wsw. 55      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NNW. 55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 51            52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NNW.1 504
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                wsw.  NW. NW. 5SW.
                                                                                                          w. w.                                w.                                            SW.
                                              9p.m
                                              9a.m.                                                    58f
                                                                                                        55i               58
                                                                                                                          |595 59        1
                                                                                                                                       56i                            55
                                                                                                                                                                      55i                                 54
                                                                                                                                                                                                          53i
                              «¦»1«•
                            „"^                                                     58 60
                                                                                   61}     156 56}56          }
                                                                                                              57
                                                                                                              56                61
                                                                                                                                 158               56}
                                                                                                                                                    52} 5950} 57 .49                       53 |53
                                                                                                                                                                                          56|!    55                                 157 59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     58    60 57^ 49 K 56                         53}
                                                          59
                                                        I54                                                        i54
                                                                                                                   56                        i
                                                                                                                                             57
                                                                                                                                             53
                                                                                                                                                                                     57
                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                     54*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 594
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               68-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       54 52 55                 564
                                                                                   66-5                575                                                      575                 645                               56-5
                  in                                     63 66 62                        62 64                59 60 66 70 65 63 59 59                                 56 60              62 62 58 68                         57 60 68                 56 54 58      43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50-7661-2
                                 3-.
Thermometer.                                Min. "57 56 59 52 56 52 50 42 55 60 57 61 41 46 39 53 54 56 46 56 51 50 46 41 48 54 59 56 39 38
                          ',..
                           1.
                           vn.
                          iI
                                            Max.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72-42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                56-4
                                                      75~ 69 74 71 72 70 70 69 70 73 75 78 76 72 71 75 70 76 76 71 72 66 67                                                                                     54-5 51-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       681    66     77 600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              49-7 540     81 82640 67 71 75
                 London
                  Roy.
                   Soc.
                    :                        1
                                           Mill.
                                           Max.                  710 58-7
                                                                592     69-0
                                                                         161-7           70-2 58-8
                                                                                   71-3 58-0    68-7 550 540 51-0 58-0 620 610 620 510 530 535 550                         580 595 60-6 595 54-2
                                                                                                                                                                      700 62-5                                                                         610 46-5 50-3
                                                       J 71-5
                                                         53-5
                                                                                                       630 680 670 090 720 72-5 756 71             0 68-5 67-0                      70-6 730 690 090 650 650 63-5 655 690 76-0 76-0 62-5 65-8                                   690
                                            9a.m. 63-7 66-6 64-7 66-8                ;!
                                                                                   29-36 2928 63-8 62-5 60-5 635 63-8 68-4 67-0 650 60-6 61-2 620 58-0 62-5 674
                                                                                         633
                                                                                         29-36                                                                                                           60-2 590 590 570 00-2 680 67062-455-460-6                             62-8
                                                                                                                                                                                         6l-2    6.V5
                                                                                                                          2974
                                                                                                                         29-78  29-73 29-90 3007 3007 30-
                                                                                                                           1 29-84                         10 30-04 3014 3000 29-63 29-27 28-96 29-17 2973 29-99 29-89 2989 29-92          2997 29-88                          2975
                                            9p.m. ~2973~ 29-45 29-52                             29-25
                                                                                                 29-32 29-53
                                                                                                        2|
                                                                                                         9-77 2993
                                                                                                              3007
                                                                                                               !                                                                                                                                  970 3008 30-10 29-93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2|
                                                                                                                   29-80
                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                   2993
                                                          29:91 5829 29-48 29-44                                                       29-89 2990 3009 3009 30-04 3012 30-  14 29-72 2953 2904 28-83 29-43 2990 29-98 29-92                            29-94 30-08 30-07      2975
                                            9a.m.
                           Boston. SJa.m.                29-47   ;9-17 29-05 2900 28-95 28-86 29-03 2943 2960 29-40 29-35 2938 29-42 2963 29-56 29-58 29-67 29-66 29-35 29-22 28-68 28-60 28-87 29-40 29-54 29-52 29-46 29-38 29-22 29-60 2960
                                                         29-904 229743                                                                                                                                                                                                        29-31
  uan imcri
                                                                        297 29-606 29531 29507 29682 30-027 30-104 30059 29966 30-077 30-075 142
                                                                        16                                                                         30- 30134 30082 30165 30-168 29890 29-481 29-325 29-249 29-438 29-952 30025 30-090 30-110 29-795 29784 30154 30-130       29-874
                                            Min.
                                                         30014 29-844 29-768 29782 29564 29-592 29-971 30-156 30-224 30-118 30-108 30-098 30-222 30243 30191 30133 30-248 30-249 3001
                                                                                                                                                                                    1 29-819 29398 29-313 29-816 30-097. 301 10 30-124 30-135 30073 30-175 30-197 30-183     29999
                                            Max.
                            Soc.
                           Roy.                         30-058 29844 29738 29690 29574 29524 29732 30056 30-236 30074                 120 30-094 30-262 30-158 30-
                                                                                                                                      30-                      146 30-190 30-254 30-012 29-832 29-358 29-252 29468 29-966 30-102 30-108 30132 30-086 29-830 30-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             190 30190      29-947
                  L :num.           9a.m.
                                                                                                                              SO096
    Uajsof Month.                   August.
                                                         1. 2. 3. 4- 0                   5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11.                            13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 020. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27.                                              29. 30. 31.            Mean.
                                                                                                                                     1d2.                                                                                                     2J8.

                              THE
             LONDON AND EDINBURGH
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                              AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                      [THIRD SERIES.]
                 NOVEMBER 1838.
XLII. On a Principle laid down by Clairaut./or determining
   the Figure of Equilibrium of a Fluid, the Particles of which
   are urged by acceleratingforces. (Theorie de la Figure de la
   Terre, premiere partie, chap. 5me.) By JAMES IVORY, K.H.,
   F.R.S.,$c.*
/^LAIRAUTTs principle alluded to, has all the precision
^-^ and elegance which are admired in the applications of
the ancient geometry, such as are found in the writings of
Archimedes. It might not be useless to inquire how it hap
pens that geometers, neglecting the elegant method of Clair-
aut, have so generally agreed in giving the preference to the
theory of Euler, grounded on the equality of pressure which
necessarily takes place in every fluid at rest, whatever be the
causes by which such a state is induced. It would, no doubt,
be found that this is owing to the great generality of the
equations of Euler's method, which are easily obtained, and
seem to embrace every proposed problem and to reduce it
immediately to a question of abstract mathematics.
   Clairaut begins with supposing a mass of fluid in equili
brium, thus laying a sound foundation for his reasoning. The
forces at the several points of the supposed mass, which may
be called A, being expressed in numbers, he next spreads
over the surface of A, a thin stratum 8 A, so as to fulfil the
condition, that the force at any point of the surface of A mul
tiplied by the thickness of 8 A at the same point, shall con
stantly make the same product. This being done, when the
quantities of the matter of the stratum on which the forces
act are taken into account, it follows that every infmitesimal
portion of the surface of A, will sustain a proportional press
ure; so that the intensity of pressure, estimated on a given
                  • Communicated by the Author.
  Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 83. Nov. 1838.         Y

322     Mr. Ivory on the Figure of Equilibrium of a Fluid,
surface, is invariably the same over all the surface of A.
Now the supposed equilibrium of A will not be disturbed by
pressures of the same intensity exerted at all the points of its
 surface ; and therefore a new body of fluid in equilibrium,
 namely, A + 8A, is obtained. Continuing to reason in like
 manner, the original mass A may be enlarged to any dimen
 sions by the addition of successive strata, at the same time
 that an equilibrium is preserved at every step. It is easy to
 make the procedure independent of the first supposition, that
 A is in equilibrium ; for as the reasoning holds whether A is
 great or small, we may suppose it so small that any forces
 inherent in its own particles and tending to change its figure,
 are overpowered and annihilated by the accumulated pressure
 of the incumbent strata.
     When the property of equilibrium, demonstrated in these
 few words, is put in equations as Clairaut has done, these
 equations are found to be the very same as those deduced
 from Euler's theory. Thus, in point of application, the two
 methods are entirely equivalent: if one is capable of solving
 a problem, the other may be used with equal success.
     The investigation of Clairaut is clear and definite. It evi
 dently assumes that there is no cause tending to disturb the
 equilibrium of A, except the action of the forces at the sur
 face of A upon the matter of 8 A. On this account his me
  thod fails when there is a mutual attraction between the mass
  A and the stratum 8 A. If the mass A attract the matter of
  the stratum '. A and cause it to press, it follows necessarily
  that the matter of 8 A will react, and, by its attraction, will
  urge the particles of A to move from their places. In this
  case therefore the equilibrium of A is disturbed by a cause
  which Clairaut has not attended to ; and unless the effect of
  this new force is counteracted, the body of fluid A + 8 A, will
  not be in equilibrium. The principle of the method suggests
  a remedy for this omission ; for it is easy to prove that the
  equilibrium of A will not be disturbed by the attraction of the
  stratum 8 A, if the resultant of that attraction upon every
  particle in the surface of A, be directed perpendicularly to
   that surface. And thus we arrive at the same two inde
  pendent conditions for the equilibrium of a fluid consisting of
   attracting particles, which have been found necessary in every
  other way of solving the same problem when nothing essen
  tial is neglected. (Vide this Journal for August last, p. 81,
   and for October, p. 274.).
      The principle of Clairaut's method, when enunciated ge
   nerally, lies in this, that the supposed equilibrium of A is not
   to be disturbed by the addition of a stratum ; and therefore

   the Particles of which are urged by accelerating Forces. 323
 in applying it, every force which is introduced by a stratum
and is capable of moving the particles of A, must be carefully
ascertained and made ineffective.
    The method of Clairaut, as it has been explained and ex
tended, will help us to form a just notion of Euler's theory.
A very little attention will show, that all the perplexities
that have ever attended this theory, originate in misconcep
tion of the manner in which a particle of a fluid in equilibrium
is made immoveable by the pressures which act upon it.
If we conceive a particle placed on one of the interior sur
faces in Clairaut's method, that is on a level surface, it is most
evident that all the pressure upon the particle is caused by
the action of the fluid above it, or on the outside of the level
surface. If the fluid without the level surface were removed,
there would be no pressure upon the particle, which would
only be subject to the action of the forces inherent in the sur
face on which it is placed. Now pressures of equal intensity
are impressed at all the points of a level surface; these press
ures are transmitted through the contained fluid to the par
ticles on the surface; so that every such particle is pressed
equally in all directions by the action of the fluid exterior to
the surface. It is therefore correct to say that a particle in
a level surface is not moved by the pressures caused by the
forces which urge all the fluid on the outside of that surface:
but this does not demonstrate that the particle is at rest by
the action of the whole mass. To complete the proof of an
equilibrium, it is further necessary to show, that the body of
fluid within the level surface is not liable to a change of its
form or position by the forces that act on its own particles.
The theory of Euler is therefore chargeable with mistaking
the action of a part only of the fluid, for the effect of the
forces that urge all the particles of the mass. If a canal be
drawn in any manner from a particle in a level surface to ter
minate in the upper surface, it will invariably exert the same
pressure upon the particle : but the nature of a level surface
is such, that a part of any canal within it presses neither
way ; so that the pressure upon the particle is produced solely
by the action of, the forces upon the part of a canal exterior
to the level surface. We may now safely affirm that the
great generality of Euler's theory arises from omitting what
is essential to an equilibrium ; and enough has been said to
show that, when the omission is supplied, we arrive at the
principles of Clairaut's method by a route which is different
indeed, but not so direct.
    One observation more it seems requisite to make. Euler
has investigated vhis theory in a memoir (Mem, de Berlin,
                                 Y2

324       Mr. Ivory on Ike Figure of Equilibrium, SfC.
1755) which cannot be enough admired for invention and all
the qualities of the highest mathematical genius, if we over
look the too precipitate adoption of a principle seducing by
its great generality. But the equality of pressure seems to
have been first used in solving this problem by Maclaurin.
If we strictly appreciate what that great geometer has proved
in his celebrated demonstration, it will be found not only not
inconsistent with what has been said, but to acquire force and
simplicity when stated according to the foregoing principles.
Taking any particle of the fluid spheroid, Maclaurin proves
that any rectilineal canal standing upon it and terminating
in tile upper surface, urges it to move with a force equal to
the effort of the fluid in the difference of the polar semi-axes
of the proposed spheroid and a similar one, the surface of
which passes through the particle. (Fluxions, § 639). Now
this does not prove that the particle is at rest by the equal
pressures upon it; but, on the contrary, that it may have any
position on an elliptical surface without any variation of the
pressures which urge it. It follows indeed that all the par
ticles on the same elliptical surface are in equilibrium rela
tively to that surface, that is, there is no force urging them
to move upon it; but, even when this is attended to, another
condition is still wanting to prove the immobility of the par
ticle relatively to the whole spheroid, which is, the stability,
both in form and position, of the elliptical surface which con
tains the particle. These observations being duly weighed,
it is obvious that all the inferences from what Maclaurin has
proved, are deducible from the equality of pressure at all the
points in the surface of every interior elliptical spheroid, con
centric and similar to the given one ; which is according to
 Clairaut's principle.
    In his work on the Theory of the Earth, Clairaut has
adopted the method of Maclaurin in preference to bis own
theory, of which he makes little use. In reality the equili
brium of a homogeneous planet in a fluid state cannot, by
strict reasoning, be deduced from his method according to
the exposition he has given of it ; because the reaction of the
strata on the masses on which they are laid is neglected.
   Oct. 15, 1838.                                 JAMES IVORY.

                              [   325   ]
 XLIII. On a new Compound of Sulphate of Lime with
      Water. By JAMES F. W. JOHNSTON, F.B.S., fyc. $c*
 T N the boiler of a steam-engine worked at Team Colliery
 .*. near Newcastle, and fed by water from the mine, a bright
 steel-gray granular deposit has been several times observed,
 which under the microscope appears to consist of small trans
 parent prismatic crystals discoloured by carbonaceous matter.
 The faces of these crystals are rounded, but according to
 Mr. Brooke, they are right rhombic prisms, the angles being
 undeterminable with any degree of accuracy.
     Heated in a close vessel these crystals give off pure water,
 becoming opake, and at a red heat in the air they lose their
 colour and become white. Heated to 220° Fahr. in the air
they lose a sensible quantity of water, and kept at 240° Fahr.,
for a couple of hours the whole of the water is driven off, so
 that at a higher temperature they undergo no further loss,
 except what is due to the combustion of the small quantity
 of carbonaceous matter they contain.
     Boiled in distilled water they are very sparingly soluble : the
solution gives white precipitates with chloride of barium and
 oxalate of ammonia.
    After drying at 212°, 19-424. grs. lost 1'2S = 6'435 per
 cent, when heated in a close vessel till all the water was driven
 off. The colour was still gray. Heated to redness in the air
 till it became white, the loss amounted to 6-728 per cent.,
 giving 0-293 per cent, for carbonaceous matter. A second
 portion of 25-194 lost 1-742 when heated to redness in the
 air = 6-914 per cent.
     Of the white salt thus heated in the air, fused with car
 bonate of soda, digested in distilled water, filtered, and pre
 cipitated by chloride of barium, gave
                                               Anhydrite by calculation
                                                     contains
         Lime                  41-734                  41-532
          Sulphuric acid ... 59'027                   58-468
    The salt therefore consists of
               Sulphate of lime               = 93-272
               Water                          = 6'435
               Carbonaceous matter            = 0-293           100-
     The formula Ca S -f iH gives
               Sulphate of lime              = 93'843
               Water                         = 6'157          100-
                     • Communicated by the Author.

326            Prof. Johnston on a new Compound of
   The specific gravity of the new sain =            and ?
      at 60 tahr                        J
   After heating to redness                = 2-936 and 2-929
   Its density, therefore, as we should expect, lies between
those of gypsum and anhydrite, and after heating to redness
it has precisely the specific gravity of the latter.
Density of gypsum = 2-310 Mohs, 2-322 Royerand Dumas.
             new salt = 2-757.
——— anhydrite = 2-899 Mohs, 2-96 Royer and Dumas.
           new salt"! _ _ „
     after heating / - - "
   The boiler in which this deposit is formed is worked under
a pressure of nearly two atmospheres, and to this among other
circumstances is probably due the formation of this sin
gular hydrate. When sulphuric acid is added to a dilute
boiling solution of chloride of calcium, crystals of gypsum
with the usual quantity of water are deposited. Added hot
to a solution ofchloride of calcium which boiled at 265° Fahr.,
an earthy precipitate fell, which after drying at 212° lost by
a red heat only 1-43 per cent. The temperature of a more
dilute solution boiling at a heat of 220° to 230° Fahr. falls in
stantly to 212° Fahr., on the addition of a drop of hot sul
phuric acid; the sulphate formed causing a copious evolution
of vapour. I have therefore not succeeded in my attempts
to form this salt artificially. The uniform high temperature
maintained under a higher pressure than that of the atmo
sphere may be the chief cause of the formation of the salt in
the steam boiler.
   Is this salt a simple hydrate 2 Ca S + H, or is it a com
pound salt Ca S + Ca SH, or 3 Ca S + (Ca S + 2 H) ? This
question is entirely theoretical, the properties of the salt
lending no direct support to either opmion. It is, however,
not without interest in the present state of our knowledge in
regard to the water contained in salts. The observation made
in regard to the superior affinity of many sulphates for one in
preference to the other atoms of water which their crystallized
hydrates generally contain, does not apply to the sulphate of
lime, and the existence of this halfhydrated crystallized com
pound—if considered as a simple salt 2 CaS + H—is equally
inconsistent with the idea expressed by the term saline water.
If by this term it is intended to denote that of the 6 or 7
atoms of water with which certain sulphates combine, one of
these equivalents performs a peculiar function, we have in
the present salt half an atom only remaining, and this driven

                   Sulphate of Lime with Water.              327
 off with nearly the same ease as any of the water is driven off
 from gypsum. It may however be a compound of anhydrite
 with gypsum or with the monohydrate Ca SH, in which case
 its constitution may be reconciled with the theoretical views
 of Professor Graham.
    That the relations of sulphate of lime to water do not form
 an exception to the general laws by which those of the other
 sulphates belonging to the same isomorphous group are re
gulated, may be inferred from the discovery by Mitscherlich,
 of a sulphate of iron (FeS + 2H) analogous in constitution
with gypsum, and like it possessed only of a sparing solubility.
 This analogy leads us rather to expect other compounds of
 sulphate of lime with water analogous to those observed in
 the sulphates of iron, magnesia, &c. and that the changes
produced on the analogous hydrated salts of each of the sul
 phates by heat and other agents should be generally the
 same.
    There are strong grounds for accepting it as a general con
clusion that whatever compound has been formed by one
member of an isomorphic, may be formed, under other circum
stances perhaps, by every other member of the same group.
If we compare what we know with what on this prinicple is
possible, we shall find our real knowledge to be unexpectedly
small. It is something, however, to know how much in a
particular line remains yet to be discovered. Even in the
branch of saline compounds which has received so general
an attention from chemists, and for so long a period, a com
parison of this kind is calculated to astonish us by the vast
number of compounds it exhibits as remaining yet to be
sought for.
    Let us take for example the class of hydrated sulphates to
which gypsum belongs, and compare the known with the pos
sible, as is done in the following table.
    In this table 81 compounds are indicated, while of these
only 18 are actually known to us, or less than one fourth
part, while many more may still be possible belonging to the
formula RS+ 4H, and the various formule intermediate be-
                                              . ...  t.      . ...
tween seven and twelve atoms of water (RS + 7H and RS
 + 12H).
    The general formula', at the heads of the columns indi
cate the crystalline compounds believed to be possible, the
special formulae underneath the crystalline compounds actu
ally known.

328               Prof. Johnston on a new Compound, 8$c.
Oxides.
of                HJ                                                                              I I, .
        ..£                                                                                      K c >
                   <5'                           ('6IS 'd             oB                         c,o .
                                                                                                 U    y O
                                                                     ^
a V,     X
           \
                  :CO
                   ^P-os paiEinins u Suisodxa /Cg
                   »^
                                 Ml|«J
                                    i--.
                                            £,£ oi uoiinj
                                            ^-^.
                                            t>»
                                                             CV.    J2
                                                                    JB
                                                                    £
                                                                     --T
                                                                    "3
                                                                        rs
                                                                                           55£:
                                                                                           £
                                                                                                mO -J
                                                                                                 If4
                                                                                                 C    = B
                                                                                                         -
                  :O3              ..(/}                     |        V
.3
   ?
Magni
'the
           \      .s :& .                                           '5
                                                                     9
                                                                      C
                                                                        o
                                                                                           s
                                                                                                II
        .X
         CO
                  ;| ;|||                   CO   CO
                                            .£ ' o
                                                                    £
                                                                       6-
           1                                                           ca
                                                                       01                  tc y -^ T- r"
                                                             O
  .$' .a                                                              Hc
  4J*
         m
                                                  . -3       i J3
                                                                       rsto
                                                      +                5
                          c      .     .             ;tn            .3
           1                                           2               =
1  "'.
                                                             6        j
  3 .a                 .ae-5                                        's
                                                                    IH
.3                     .+                     .suoijnios     cu       O
  3                    -(2     UJJ8AV    Ul oij paiisodaQ            •
ts         1            S                                           .e a                   „        .
 ^
4s
   I
   ?>
        .a    .a           . -a        .
                                              ; i
                                                              u
                                                                       M
                                                                       O
                                                                                           si*.
K:
  <f       1  'a
              .O
                       .a
                                «
                              -c*
                                       i      =   :          ^
                                                             o
                                                                    "—
                                                                       O
                                                                        Of
                                                                                           - S
        •BB
ii      .X             .S
                                              .
                                              :
                                                   : +
                                                  : ir/)
                                                  . .O
                                                             a.
                                                                    .aE>.
                                                                       a!
        .aHe*                                                          c
«5            .5,    :      :    :     :                     *         oc-
   ^     -(-
'.a     !ce                                                            o
                                                                        L-
S3      .as   .O     '     '     '     '                              o
                                                             «
  fe                                                         £      BOS
              ico    :     :     :     :      .   :     : ix
1 iOJ
  s .DS       .O     :     :     :     :                : -a  ^     "3•
                                                                      Ml
€e'                       %
                                                                       c
>«                        m                   :   :     :           "S
                          (0
f--.-      o
           I
                          1
                          SCO
                                            "S ^ «                  eposited
                                                                  D*from
£                   « °
                        2 2 .5 « 1 | «
                        w » s^, % O O J                       E
                                                                             r vQfnl i7prl
1        "B        'i «                                1 1
                                                             "S
3              III
               J -* 0.
                                    1
                                    O                        O
£

     Mineral Substances of Organic Origin. Guyaquillite. 329
    Suppose our actual knowledge of the almost countless
groups of salts already partially studied to be tabulated in a
similar manner, and thus compared with the unknown, how
few would the cultivated spots appear, how large the water
yet to be reclaimed ! And whenever we consider how very
few of the properties of the salts longest known have yet
been determined with any degree of accuracy, how mere a
skeleton does all our chemical knowledge appear ! We hasten
after new conquests without waiting to consolidate our do
minion.
    The existence and mode of formation of this salt throws
some light on a point of geological interest. As anhydrite
occurs only in connexion with rock-salt, it was suggested
by Berzelius that the latter might be an igneous and not an
aqueous deposit*. Deposited in water the sulphate of lime
ought, he reasoned, to be in the state of gypsum, and not of
anhydrite; but the formation of the hemihydrated salt above
described, shows that the quantity of water present in such
salts does not depend on the presence or absence of water
only, but on the united temperature also under which the
 crystals are formed. Had the pressure in the boiler been so
great as to raise the temperature to 260° Fahr. anhydrite
 would be formed in nature as it was formed on pouring sul
 phuric acid into a solution of chloride of calcium boiling at
 265° Fahr.
     Two fragments from the exterior of an apparently pure
 mass of anhydrite from Germany lost when heated to redness
about 6 per cent, of water. The interior of the mass lost a
mere trace. Does this show any tendency in anhydrite to
form the new compound ?
    Durham, June, 1838.
 XLIV. On the Composition of certain Mineral Substances
    of Organic Origin. By JAMES F. W. JOHNSTON, A.M.,
     F.R.SS. Land, and Ed., F.G.S., Professor of Chemistry and
     Mineralogy, Durham.^
                           VI. Guyaquillite.
 ¥ AM indebted to Mr. Brooke for a small quantity of a re-
 .*. sinous substance said to form an extensive mineral deposit
 in the neighbourhood of Guyaquil in South America, and for
 which I propose the name of Guyaquillite.
     Of this substance 1 have seen two varieties, one nearly ho
 mogeneous of a pale yellow colour, with no resinous lustre or
   • See note V in the preceding page. t Communicated by the Author.

 330        Prof. Johnston on the Composition of certain
 fracture, not compact, but as if made up of many small por
 tions adhering together. The other variety is mixed with a
 greater or less quantity of a dark brown, bituminous-like
 substance interposed between the small fragments of which
 the mass is composed.
    The pure mineral is opake, of a pale yellow colour, yields
 easily to the knife, may be rubbed to powder ; is very slightly
 soluble in water, and largely in alcohol, giving yellow solu
 tions which have an intensely bitter taste. This last property
 is highly characteristic. By slow evaporation the alcoholic
 solution yields pale yellow prisms. As it occurs in nature,
 the Guyaquillite has a sp. gr. of 1 '092 ; after fusion, it may
 possibly be a little heavier.
    It begins to melt at 1 57° Fahr., but continues viscid, and
 does not flow easily till near 212°. As it cools it adheres to
 the fmger and exhibits much tenacity, forming fine threads
 when drawn out. After fusion it is semitransparent, a little
darker in colour, and exhibits the resinous fracture and lustre.
 Heated in a close tube over a lamp, it darkens, is decomposed,
and yields empyreumatic products.
    It dissolves readily in a dilute solution of caustic potash and
less so in caustic ammonia, giving yellow solutions, from which
it is again precipitated by an acid. Sulphuric acid of com
merce dissolves it in the cold, giving a dark reddish brown
solution, from which water throws down the resin apparently
unchanged. Muriatic acid boiled over it becomes yellow, but
dissolves very little and does not appear to alter it. Strong
nitric acid by the aid of heat acts upon it with the evolution of
red fumes, becoming yellow. It dissolves it, however, in small
quantity only, and the solution becomes milky as it cools, and
deposits white flocks. It is also precipitated white by the
addition of water. I have had too little of the substance to
permit me further to investigate the nature of the change
produced by this acid.
   The action of liquid ammonia on the alcoholic solution of
this substance is characteristic. The pale yellow solution, by
the addition of a few drops of ammonia, gradually darkens,
and ultimately becomes dark brownish red. The alcoholic
solution gives a yellow precipitate, with a similar solution of
acetate of lead. With one of nitrate of silver it gives at first
none, but after standing for several hours a small quantity of
a very dark precipitate shows itself. The addition of am
monia determines a brown precipitate,which speedily darkens
and assumes a deep purple or black colour. This mineral
substance, therefore, like the resin of retin asphalt (retinic
acid), belongs to the class of acid resins.

Mineral Substances of Organic Origin. VI. Guyaquillite. 331
   Burned with oxide of copper from which the moisture had
been well pumped out,
   7'538 grs. gave 20-9 grs. of carbonic acid and 5-545 ofwater.
   8-415grs. — 23-54. grs.                         6'20H
These are equivalent to
            Carbon
            Hydrogen..,
            Oxygen       ,
                              100-            100-
   The formula C2QHn O, gives the proportions
                  20 C = 1528-750      = 76'783
                  13 H = 162-2348 =          8-148
                   8 O = 300-000       = 15-069
                           1990-9848      100-
   It is difficult to determine what is the rational formula of
this compound. It may either be an oxide
                           CM H13 + Oji,
or a hydrate               CM H10 -f 3 H O,
                                              {— 3H -Q in which
three equivalents of hydrogen are replaced by three of oxy
gen.
   The ratio of the carbon to the hydrogen, 20 : 13, renders it
unlikely that it is a simple oxide ; and that it is not a hydrate
is rendered very probable by the fact that the ratio of these
two elements remains the same in the guyaquillate of silver.
   Thus a portion of a silver salt of a dark colour gave on
burning with oxide of copper,
              Carbon            = 17-675 = 20 atoms.
              Hydrogen ...      = 4-754 = 13-22 atoms.
                                                  q T-T
                                                  _ Q or simply
 GSO H13 O,,, gives the most probable representation of the true
constitution of this substance. Of course the relation to oil
of turpentine indicated by the formula, though interesting and
agreeing with the doctrine of substitutions, must be viewed
with distrust, till the geological position and probable origin
 of the mineral be more fully investigated. It is easy to sup
pose it, like amber, of vegetable origin, and to occur in consi

332 Mineral Substances of Organic Origin. GvyaquiUite.
derable quantities on the site of ancient forests of resiniferous
trees; in which case the connexion with oil of turpentine
would be at once beautiful and easily understood; but if it
occur, as is said to be the case, in extensive layers, its imme
diate source is not so easily understood. Were it volatile
without decomposition we could also account for its sublima
tion like sulphur, or its distillation like petroleum by the
agency of the volcanic heat so extensively diffused beneath the
South American continent ; but as the affinity of its elements
appears to be overcome by a comparatively moderate tem
perature, we must still remain in doubt as to whether in its
present state it is to be considered as more immediately or
more remotely of vegetable origin. At the same time it is
worthy of remark, that this is not the only instance of a true
resin being said to occur in large quantity as a mineral pro
duct in South America. I have in my possession a specimen
of a peculiar dark-coloured resin, which, as my friend Mr.
Fryer of Whitley-house, informs me, is found in a species of
pitch lake in the desert of St. Juan de Barengela, and is
thence transported in large quantities to the coast for the use
of the shipping. Of this substance I shall give a description
and analysis in a future communication.
   Guyaquillate of Silver.—To determine the atomic weight
of this resin, I prepared several portions of the salt of silver.
It appears, however, to form, in common with most of the
acid resins, both neutral or acid and basic salts, as I have been
unable in the several trials which the quantity of the substance
at my disposal permitted me to make, to obtain two portions
of precisely the same constitution. This may also have arisen
partly from the necessity I have been under of using the less
pure variety for solution, as my supply of the unmixed was
exhausted. The mixture however consists in great part of
a bituminous matter insoluble in alcohol.
   1. Of a portion which had subsided gradually on the ad
dition of ammonia and was perfectly black, 6-719 grs. left
4'728 grs. of metallic silver = 75-573 percent, of oxide.
   2. A portion of a second preparation gave only 68 '861 of
oxide ; but this was evidently a mixture, for when boiled again
in alcohol and collected on the filter it gave 72-266 per cent.
of oxide of silver. These two results indicate an equivalent
= i (^20 H13 O3), since a compound represented by % (Cy,
H13O3) + AgO would contain 74-512 per cent. of oxide.
   3. The hot alcohol in which No. 2 was boiled, deposited
on cooling a brown precipitate, which gave on burning only
14-939 per cent, of oxide of silver.

       Mr. Laming oil the primary Forces of Electricity.                  333
   4 (CgoH^Og) + AgO contains 14-4 17 per cent, of oxide.
   4. A third portion separately prepared, which was brown
when precipitated, but had become black, gave 26'888 of
oxide of silver.
   2 (Cgo H,3 O3) + AgO contains 26'715 of oxide of silver.
   We may conclude therefore that this acid forms different
classes of salts with the same base, which possess different de
grees of solubility; the conditions necessary to ensure the
constant production of the same compound, and the determi
nation of which are the neutral and which the acid or basic
salts, will require further investigation.
   Durham, June, 1838.
       XLV. On the primary Forces of Electricity. By
               RICHARD LAMING, Esq., M.R.C.S.*
                         [Continued from p. 54.]
                                 Part II.
66. TT may be useful before we proceed to consider the
       JL origin and propagation of induction among the atoms
of contiguous bodies, to recapitulate some of the chief parti
culars in the new theory which are thought to be established
as facts in the preceding part of this paper.
    1st. The attraction which is reciprocal between electricity
       and common matter is definite with regard to quantity
       as well as force ; no kind of matter ever attracting either
       more or less of electricity than the quantity which con
       stitutes its natural equivalent (3.).
    2nd. Besides the above force, designated the major elec
       trical attraction, there is a second by which the atoms of
       electricity are associated together; and this we have
       called the minor electrical attraction (15.).
    3rd. The minor electrical attraction is the alone cause of
       bodies becoming plus or positively electrical (16.).
    4th. Electrical induction is immediately dependent on the
       definite nature of the major electrical attraction (7.).
    5th. The electrical condition of a body under induction
       virtually or really compensates the opposite electrical
       state of the inducing body (11.).
    6th. Induction, and consequently compensation, in all cases
       precede the sensible locomotion of matter caused by the
       action of the major electrical attraction ; whether it be
   • Communicated by the Author.—Erratum, p. 45. Art. 34, eighth line,
for " as the densities of the air directly," read '. as the densities of the air
 inversely."

 334                Mr. R. Laming on the -primary
       that of free electricity moving towards its minus com
       pensator, or of common matter, either plus or minus,
       moving towards other common matter in the converse
       electrical condition.
    7th. Electrical discharges are always more or less retarded
       by the action of the minor electrical force in the plus
       body (4.3.).
    8th. I-ree electricity maybe conducted by the inductive in
       fluence of the major force from plus to minus bodies
       (54. 55. 60. 61.).
    67. In addition to these several facts it was shown that the
 law of Coulomb is the law of the major electrical force ; and
 by necessary inference of electrical induction also. Hence it
 follows that no mass of common matter can be dispossessed
 of the least portion of its natural electricity by the major force
 of free electricity acting on it at a sensible distance ; and thus
 we learn at once that induction can only be established on
 contiguous atoms.
    The manner in which induction is originated will almost
 immediately be brought under consideration ; but we purpose,
 on the assumption of its existence, to trace first the mode of its
 propagation among contiguous atoms.
    68. We have seen that whenever by virtue of the minor
 force free electricity is attached to an insulated body, that
 body must be surrounded by an insulating medium either ac
 tually or virtually in a minus electrical condition (32.) ; if we
 conceive the plus body to be a sphere freely insulated in the
 atmosphere, the spherical stratum of aerial atoms immediately
 in contact with it will, in order to compensate its charge, nr-
 tually dismiss portions of their own natural quantities ; but
 the dismissal being only virtual and not real, this first stratum
 will become plus also (12.); a second spherical stratum of
 aerial atoms, by compensating the former, will in their turn
 become plus ; and these in like manner impress a similar con
 dition on a third ; the third on a fourth, and so on ad in-
Jinitum, or until the action be terminated by the presence of
 some uninsulated body capable of actually dismissing the re
 quisite portion of its natural electricity.
    69. Now if the uninsulated and really minus compensator
 be free to move, its common matter, being attracted by the
 virtually plus air compensated by it, will receive an impulse
 in the direction of the charged sphere. After moving a little,
 the uninsulated body will assume the compensation of, and
 therefore be attracted by, the inner portion of air next con
 tiguous; then moving again it will approach a third, and

                   Forces of Electricity, Part II.            335
other successive portions of air, until it is brought to rest
against the charged sphere itself, by which the whole line of
inductive action was occasioned.
   70. As it is with visible attraction, so also is it in the case
of electrical discharges ; the free electricity is attracted on
ward towards the uninsulated compensator by each of the
aerial strata in succession, until at length attaching itself to
the former it returns to a state of natural equilibrium.
   71. These principles enable us to understand that neither
the discharge of free electricity which we may observe to take
place from plus to minus bodies, nor the reciprocal attraction
of such bodies by one another, is affected by any direct action
they might be supposed to have on one another, but, on the
contrary, through the medium of intervening matter; conse
quently it is only in a restricted sense that we may speak
of distant bodies compensating or attracting one another.
Hence the law of Coulomb must be received only as conven
tional, for although it embraces phenomena with accuracy,
it is palpably fallacious in theory.
    72. We have it in our power, by a very simple method, to
verify the conclusion respecting the contiguous action of in
duction, to which we have thus been conducted by the theory.
It is in principle as follows : let a plus body be separated from
its compensator by an insulating medium of determinate
thickness, and the electrical condition induced in the com
pensator be estimated in the ordinary manner by an electro
meter. Then, if induction be independent of the insulating
medium, the merging of a second equally plus body, and also
of a second similar compensator, in the first respectively
should add nothing to the intensity of the induced charge;
or to reduce the case to practice, the capacity ofa Leyden jar
 should increase with the thickness of its metallic coatings,
 minus some little on account of the minute increase in their
 mean distances. Now 1 find, and I believe the fact to be suf
 ficiently notorious, that a given electrical charge on one of the
 coatings of a Leyden pane will exhibit precisely the same in
 tensity whether the coatings be composed of films of Dutch
 metal only, or the very much thicker leaf of tinfoil, even
 though it be several times repeated.
     73. The view of induction now presented opens up to us
 the cause of Coulomb's law ; thus advancing us in knowledge
 another step towards that incomprehensible link which con
 nects the immaterial impulse of the Divine Will with the
 material creation. To understand this cause let us imagine a
 quantity of free electricity to be accumulated in an insulated

336               Mr. R. Laming on the primary
point and surrounded by concentric strata of a compensating
atmosphere (68.) ; then, the strata being all of equal thick
ness, either will contain a number of electrical atoms varying
directly as the square of its distance from the centre. Now,
assuming, what is strictly agreeable to sound reasoning, that
the induction on any stratum is equally distributed among all
the atoms contained in it, and knowing from the definite na
ture of the major electrical force that the sum total of the in
ductive force exerted by the charge is a constant quantity in
each of the strata, it must of course follow that the force upon
any given atom, in either of the strata, is as the square of its
particular distance from the centre inversely.
    74. Having thus shown that induction is extended to bodies
at sensible distances by the intervention of others in imme
diate contiguity, we may proceed to investigate the manner of
its origin ; and for this purpose it is requisite to trace more
minutely than we have yet had occasion to do, the connection
of the electrical with common atoms.
   75. It will doubtless be admitted that if the principles we
have hitherto advocated be in the general consistent with
facts, each atom of common matter is enveloped in an atmo
sphere of electrical atoms; or as we shall find it convenient
to express it, each common atom constitutes a centre of major
electrical force to an electrosphere. Now without entering
here into the question of the relative volumes of these electro-
spheres, it will be sufficient for our present purpose to ex
amine the manner in which they generally are connected with
common atoms, and the reciprocal action under particular
circumstances of such as are of equal volume.
   76. In the first place it may be premised, that we have no
reason for asserting that the major force which is reciprocal
between a common atom and the electrical atoms which form
its equivalent electrosphere, observes the law of Coulomb : for
the inductive action on which that law depends obviously
commences at the surface of the electrospheres ; on the other
hand it will be admitted that this fact supplies no argument
against such a supposition ; and at all events we are quite
sure, whatever be the ratio, that those atoms of an electro-
sphere which are nearer to the central nucleus are attracted
with the greater forces ; for were it not so the retarding forces
to the compensation of successive increments of free electri
city to a plus body could not progressively increase as we
have already proved them to do (6.).
   77. This being understood we may proceed at once to our
task. Let us conceive the electrical equivalent of an atom of

                   Forces of Electricity : Part II.          337
common matter to surround it in the form of any number of
concentric strata; the major force of the central nucleus upon
all the electrical atoms will then vary in some unknown ratio
inversely as their distances respectively. Hence an atom of
free electricity attracted to the surface of such an electro-
sphere by the minor force, being necessarily the most distant
atom, and, so far as the equivalent of the common atom is
concerned, .supernumerary, could never become attracted by
that common atom ; under such circumstances, therefore, the
free atom would exercise no inductive action whatever to
cause any portion of the contents of the electrosphere to be
come liberated.
   78. Now let us suppose the preceding case to be repeated,
with this only modification, namely, that the outer stratum of
the electrosphere by which the electrical equivalent of the
common atom is completed were deficient some one or more
of the number of electrical atoms requisite to constitute it a
perfect shell; and we shall find the result to be very different.
To fix and simplify our ideas, let us imagine the electrical
equivalent to be completed by the existence of a single elec
trical atom on the surface of the last perfect stratum of the
electrosphere, and an atom of free electricity to be artificially
placed against that surface; in such a case two electrical
atoms would obviously be at the same distance from the centre,
and consequently the more proximate hemisphere of each
engage the major force of the common nucleus.
   79. In the next place let there be a second similar electro-
sphere in contact with the former one ; the tendency of the
two exterior electrical atoms, as also that of the added free
atom, under the influence of the minor force, will be to place
them all in a triangular position in a plane separating the
two electrospheres. Whether in this or any other situation,
/TOO of them will be equally held by the major force of the two
common nuclei, each of the latter acting on proximate hemi
spheres; the third atom of electricity being retained in con
nection simply by the minor force.
   80. But as in electrical investigations we experiment not
with atoms but with masses, we have to modify this view of
the positions of the exterior atoms of the electrical equivalent.
If a homogeneous body be composed of electrospheres similar
to those last imagined (78. 79.), the exterior electrical atoms
of the electrospheres, considered generally, will be equidistant,
or nearly so, from one another, being equally attracted in
opposite directions by the minor force in contiguous electro-
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 83. Nm. 1838.            Z

338       On the primary Forces ofElectricity: Part II.
spheres*; consequently the natural position of a line of such
electrospheres will be as shown in the annexed figure, in which
the points represent the nuclei of
common matter; the larger circles                        Fig. S.
the
 .
     boundaries
      .        -
                   ofthe *perfect
                             . ,
                                   strata. , of    1st. Jiui. 3rd. MIL Ma.
the electrospheres ; and the smaller              s^. /^"\/~\f~\.s~" t
circles the exterior atoms of electri- (V>tVlxxl/vL/^ '.
city by which the equivalents of the
common nuclei are completed.
   81. Now, on presenting to the first of such a line of electro-
spheres any body in a plus electrical condition, it is quite ma
nifest by the principles we are examining, that the major force
will induce the exterior atom of the first electrical equivalent to
take the place of the second, this of a third, and so on, to
the end of the line where the exterior atom will appear free ;
or otherwise it will be found at that place in the series where
it can obtain the most perfect compensation, and beyond
which of course the inductive process would not be con
tinued.
   82. If we conceive the last electrosphere in the line to be
so circumstanced, with regard to contiguous bodies that it can
give off its exterior and free atom as rapidly as it becomes
replaced, the inductive action just described may be repeated
an indefinite number of limes, or so long as the plus electrical
body at the other extremity retains a single free atom to com
plete the equivalent of the proximate electrosphere. In this
case the whole line performs the function of a conductor of
electricity.
   8:5. Inasmuch as induction and compensation are always
simultaneous they may in a certain sense be regarded as syn
onymous terms ; but for sake of theoretical precision it will
be useful not only to regard the latter as the effect of the
former, but also to subdivide compensation into virtual and
actual. By virtual compensation we should understand that
state of a given body, in which, though exactly retaining its
natural electrical equivalent, it exhibits under the influence
of induction the characteristies of a charged body ; and by
actual compensation we might describe that other condition
 in which a body is placed by induction when it really pos
 sesses a quantity of electricity different to its natural equiva
lent.
    84. If our explanation of the origin of the inductive pro-
   • The agency by which electricity is made elastic is here assumed to be
in operation , its nature will be the subject of a future communication.

        Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats ofthe Gases.      339
cess be expressive of the truth, we shall perceive, first, that
the susceptibility to induction in electrospheres will increase
with the number of electrical atoms in their external and im
perfect strata, so long as the number is not too great for all
of them to be equidistant from the two contiguous central
nuclei ; and, secondly, as the limited number will be greater
as the electrospheres are more voluminous, that the in
ductive susceptibility will be the more exalted as the electro-
spheres are larger. Now we have found reason to believe
that induction, as evidenced by compensation, increases with
the atomic weights of bodies (28.); and if this be true, the
conclusion to be deduced from the fact obviously is, that the
volumes of electrospheres vary as their weights, or in other
words, that the minor electrical force is the cause of gravita
tion.
   85. The justness of such a conclusion will be made more
apparent in the next part of this treatise ; in which we shall
endeavour to show that the principles we have promulgated
are adequate to explain all the phenomena of electrical ex
citation.
                         [To be continued]
XLVI. The Specific Heats of the Gases as deduced by Dr.
   Apjohn, compared isith the more recent Results of Dr.
   Suerman. By JAMES APJOHN, M.D., M.R.I.A., Professor
   of Chemistry in the Royal College ofSurgeons, Ireland.
                [Continued from p. 273, and concluded.]
 A T the close of the paper which I have submitted to the
.**. Royal Irish Academy, I have hazarded the following pro
positions, which would seem to be justified by the results of
my researches.
   1. The simple law so much insisted upon in modern times
by Haycraft, Marcet, and De la Rive, and others, that equal
volumes of the different gases have the same specific heat, is
not the law of nature.
   2. The more limited conclusion announced by Dulong,
that the simple gases have under equal volumes the same spe
cific heat, is probably not true in a single instance, and is al
together at variance with my result for nydrogen.
   3. The numbers at which I have arrived correspond tole
rably well with those of De la Roche and Berard except in
the case of hydrogen, to which I ascribe a specific heat greater
                                  Z2

340     Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases,
than that assigned to it by these philosophers in the ratio very
nearly of 5 to 3.
   4. There does not seem to he any simple relation between
the specific heats of the gases and their specific gravities, or
atomic weights, and philosophers in searching for such are
probably pursuing a chimera.
   From this exposition of my method, and summary of my
experiments, I now turn to the more recent researches of
Suennan. These researches have appeared in the form of
an inaugural essay, which was published by the author upon
the occasion of his taking a degree in the university of
Utrecht. He had, he informs us, for a long time determined
upon making the specific heats of the gases the subject of his
thesis; but when after many interruptions he had at length
begun ID provide himself with the necessary apparatus, he
was much chagrined at finding, upon looking .into a re
cent number of the Philosophical Magazine, that I had al
ready investigated the same question, and by the very method
which it was his intention to have employed. He would, in
fact, have turned to something else were it not for the per
suasions of Professor Moll, who urged him strongly to per
severe in his undertaking. This he was fortunately induced
to do, and the result has been a most elaborate and lucid hi
story of the various attempts which have been made towards
the solution of this very difficult problem in physics, followed
by a detailed account of a number of experiments instituted
by himself with a similar object.
   His method I have stated to be the same with that which
I had previously adopted. This is strictly true. The formula,
however, which he used in calculating his observations, and
which he stated to be due to Gay-Lussac, is slightly different
from that which I have employed. In part retaining the
notation already used, and slightly changing the form of his
expression, it will become
                           = fe        ~30
an equation differing in no respect from formula (C) which
I have used, save in tlie substitution of p—f for p I do not
of course admit the correctness of this expression ; p—f is
certainly the elasticity of the gas when saturated with vapour
at temperature if. But it is the pressure of the dry gas which
should enter into the formula, and this is p, provided p re
presents the height of the barometer at the time of the ex
periment. If this be a true view of the question, it is clear
that Suerman's results are all a little too high, and should, in

            as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.          341
order to their being comparable with mine, be multiplied by
P-f
  P
   The apparatus employed by Suerman was one of a very
ingenious but rather complicated description, and, as an exact
idea of all its parts cannot be well conveyed without a dia
gram, for a detailed account of it I must refer to his own
essay. The general principle, however, on which it acted is
easily explained. The air or gas which was the subject of
experiment was, under the pressure of a column of water
which was maintained constant by the well-known contrivance
of Marriotte, forced from a gasometer through oil of vitriol
contained in an adjacent Wolfe's bottle, and thence through
a tube packed with fragments of fused chloride of calcium.
Escaping from the tube in a state of desiccation, it was next
made to enter one of sheet tin, through the sides of which were
inserted a manometer, to show the interior pressure, and a
wet and dry thermometer ; and having traversed this it passed
on to a second gasometer, from whence it was made by the
same means, if necessary, to return to its original reservoir,
flowing in succession through the oil of vitriol, the chloride
of calcium, and the calorimeter or tube containing the mano
meter and thermometers. In the experiments on atmospheric
air, the pressure of water was employed ; but the other gases,
lest they should become contaminated by the air with which
water is naturally impregnated, were impelled through the
apparatus by the hydrostatic pressure of a saturated solution
of common salt, which was selected on account of the very
small amount of air which it is capable of absorbing. From
the sketch given of the apparatus (p. 270) the reader will have
perceived that when the air or gas has been forced from gaso
meter A into gasometer B, it is possible to continue the
current with scarcely any interruption, and cause it to return
from B to A, passing of course in both cases in a state of
perfect dryness through the tube containing the thermometers.
 It being, however, difficult to render the second current per
 fectly continuous, and identical in velocity with the first,
 Suerman completed his experiment in every instance while
 the elastic fluid was passing from A to B, by resorting to the
 simple expedient of cooling the wet thermometer before its
 introduction into the apparatus, by means of which the sta
 tionary temperature was attained long before the contents of
 gasometer A had been expelled. To this description it is only
 necessary to add, that, by the proper management of a stop
 cock placed< at the extremity of the tube containing the ther
 mometers, he was enabled so to regulate the blast during each

342     Prof. Apjohn on tJie Specific Heats of the Gases,
experiment that the fluid stood at the same level in the two
arms of the manometer, and that, therefore, the value of p
was given by the height of the barometer.
   The following are, in a tabular form, some of his observa
tions, the pressure being converted from centimetres into
inches, and the temperatures reduced from the centigrade
scale to that of Fahrenheit. The number of his experiments
with air was 12, with oxygen 9, with hydrogen 9, with car
bonic oxide 6, with nitrous oxide 6, and carbonic acid 8.
But two for each gas are given here, namely, that in which /
was a maximum, and that in which it was a minimum, for the
several results in each series are so consistent that it would
answer no useful purpose to quote them all.
                                                       Sp. Heat* under equal Weights.
                      i        1'       d          P         (Suennan,)        (J. A.)
 Atmosph. Air 1.    74-97    47-30    27-17     30-636 .30331 .3024 .^945
                a.  64-27    41-45    22-78     29-572 .3015 f
 Oxygen          1. 66-48    42-74    23-74     29-811 .27241                  .2670
                2.  65-52    42-57    22-95     30-016 .2754; .2739
 Hydrogen       1.  64-85    46-11    18-74     29-619 6-24901 6-2094 6-0189
                3.  63-16    45-05    18-11     29-813 6-1698 J
 Carbonic Oxide 1.  73-62    46-68    26-94     29-991 .3148 1 .3142 .3004
                2.  70-02    45-16    24-86     30-579 .3137J
 Nitrous Oxide 1.   70-25    46-11    24-14     30-017 .21561 .2184 ..2132
               2.   69-12    45-95    23-17     30-291 .2212/
 Carbonic Acid 1.   69-01    45-05    23-96     29-670 .21121 .2153 .2087
                2.  66-65    44-37    22-28     30-170 .2194;
   The numbers in the last column of preceding table, are
                                                              /"' c       30
those which result from the formula a = ,0 , x —, which
                                                             48 ds p
I have applied in my own researches, and they are all, it will
be seen, less than the corresponding numbers in the preceding
column, or those deduced by Suerman himself.
   The following table exhibits in adjacent columns the spe
cific heats of the respective gases under equal weights and
equal volumes as given by Suerman, and as deduced from his
experiments by my formula, the specific heat of air being in
both cases represented by unity.
                        Sp. Heats of equal Weights.    Sp. Hcnts of equal Volumes.
                          Suerman.           J. A.      Suerman.           J. A.
   Air                     1-0000          1-0000         1-0000          1-0000
                            .90S?            -9066         -9986          1-0000
                         20-533?          20-4376         1-4126          1-4061
   Carbonic Oxide          1-0390           1-0200         -9722            -9921
   Nitrous Oxide ...        .7222            .7233        1-1005          1-1035
   Carbonic Acid ...        .7106            .7086        1-0853          1-OS08

               as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.
     The accordance is here sufficient to justify the conclusion
  that the specific heats, as far at least as respects their relative
  values, are not materially affected by substituting my formula
  for that of Gay-Lussac employed by Suerman. We may
  therefore place, for the purpose of comparison, his mean re
  sults in juxtaposition with those at which I have arrived.
                    Sp. Hcat* of equal Volumes. Sp. Hcat* of equal Weight*. [ Air = 1.
                      Suernun.          J. A.     Suerman.             J. A.
   Atmospheric Air    1-0000          1-0000       1-0000            1-0000
   Oxygen               -9954          .8080        -9028              .7328
   Hydrogen           1-3979          1-4590     20-3191            21-3064
   Carbonic Oxide       .IW23          -9960       1-0253            1-0239
   Nitrous Oxide      M229            1-1930        .7354             .7827
   Carbonic Acid      1-0655          M950          .6975             .7838
    A glance at this table is sufficient to show that, (oxygen
 being excepted) the numbers of Suerman and mine are almost
 identical. His number indeed for carbonic acid is somewhat
 less than mine, but the difference is quite within the limits of
 the probable errors of observation in such experiments. And
 here I may observe that M. Suerman has given an erroneous
 statement of my results, for which, however, I am myself to
 blame. During the meeting of the British Association for
 the Advancement of Science in Dublin, I laid before the che
 mical section some experiments which I had just concluded,
 in reference to the subject under consideration, a brief account
 of which was published in the succeeding number of the re
 ports of the Association*. The numbers given there are set
down as the specific heats under equal weights, whereas the
division by the specific gravities having accidentally been
omitted, they were in reality the specific heats of equal vo
lumes.
    M. Suerman was aware of this omission, and has applied
the necessary correction. The numbers, however, at which
he has thus arrived do not still correctly represent my ex
periments, and for the following reason. The gases operated
upon by me having all contained some atmospherical air, a
correction, as has been already explained, had to be applied
to the specific heats obtained from my hygrometric expression.
Now the formula used for this purpose affected the correction
upon the supposition of the numbers to which it was applied
being the specific heats of equal weights, whereas they were
in point of fact the specific heats of equal volumes. This cir-
          [• See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vii. p. 385.]

344      Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases,
cumslance has been overlooked by M. Suerman, and he has
as a consequence deduced from my experiments numbers for
the specific heats of the different gases materially higher than
the true. This is the chief cause of the difference between
his numbers and mine as they appear in his thesis 6-89; but
the difference in question is also partly attributable to the
circumstance of his having had access only to my first series
of experiments.
    The numbers then which I have obtained are 8'6, the same
with Suerman's. This is true of them relatively but not abso
 lutely, for his values of a for air and the different gases are
 in every instance greater than mine. This is partly owing,
 as has been already explained, to the use of the division p—f
 instead ofp in his formula, and to his assigning to e a higher
 value than I have given it. The chief cause, however, is that
 in his experiments the depressions were in no instance as great
 as those which I obtained; and this brings me to observe
 upon what I consider as a great defect in the apparatus which
 he employed. The tube containing the thermometers was,
  I conceive, too large, and its shape badly chosen, so that from
  both circumstances combined, it was scarcely possible that the
 air brought once in contact with the moistened bulb should
  be with certainty immediately displaced. The current in fact,
  which swept by the thermometers, being intermixed with gas
  already in the tube in a state of comparative stagnation, and
  which gas had necessarily acquired moisture from the wet ther
  mometer, the depression indicated by the latter instrument
  was not that due to the elastic fluid in a state of perfect desic
  cation, but the feebler one caused by gas already charged with
  a certain amount of humidity. It is very true, as Mr. Suerman
  remarks, p. 23, that the diameter of the tube containing the
  thermometers cannot be reduced beyond a certain point, for in
  such case, unless indeed the rapidity of the current be greatly
  augmented, the effect of the radiation of the sides of the tube
  upon the thermometer would become very sensible, and cause
   the instrument prematurely to reach its stationary condition.
   My objection, however, is not so much to the absolute as to
   the relative magnitude of the tube in question. It was larger
   than that of the tubes which convey the gas into and from it,
   and hence the permanent contact of a certain quantity of
   moist air with the bulb of the wet thermometer was inevitable.
   In my experiments the two thermometers were placed length
   wise in a glass tube whose calibre was somewhat less than that
   of the other passages of the apparatus, so that the column of
   cas which it included was necessarily altogether successively

            as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.         345
thrust forward, and the wet bulb thus permanently subjected
to the action of a gaseous current in a state of perfect dry-
ness.
    Having stated this, which I consider as the gravest objec
tion to which the experiments of Suerman are exposed, I shall
next advert to, for the purpose of correcting, a couple of mis
takes into which he has fallen in reference to my researches
upon the subject of specific heats.
    In the first place then Suerman, p. 81, seems to think that
in my computations I have considered the caloric of the ela
sticity of vapour as an invariable quantity, whereas in point of
fact it is the sum of it and the sensible heat of vapour whose
value theory and experiment would seem to concur in proving
to be constant. This is a misapprehension. In my first paper
on the dew-point, p. 4, will be found the following sentence:
 " In strictness the number employed (to represent e, the
latent heat of vapour) should be 967 + 212— t, but it would
be easy to show that the uniform use of 1129 (the value of e
 at 50°) cannot give rise to any material error." The latter
 part of this sentence was intended to apply solely to the me
 teorological use of my formula, and not at all to it when em
 ployed in investigating the question of gaseous specific heat.
 Dr. Suerman has fallen into this misconception from the cir
 cumstance of his having seen only the abridged account of
 my first series of researches on this subject as published in
 the Reports of the British Association for the Promotion of
 Science. Had he however repeated the calculation of any one
 of my experiments, he would have seen that in the case of the
 specific heats I had adopted what he considers as the rigorous
 method of estimating the value of e, although I set down the
 sum of the sensible and latent heat of steam at every tempera-
 lure as somewhat less than was done by him.
     In reference to the second point, it is only necessary for
  me to recall to the attention of the reader the explanatory
  statement which I have already made.
     From the last table given above it will be seen that, if we
 except oxygen, Suerman's results and mine are almost co
  incident. This correspondence has been noticed and admitted
  by him, as is obvious from the following passage : " Siquidem
  ad diversissimum attendamus apparatum quo usus est, faten-
  dum : satis bene illis convenire experimenta D. Apjohn atque
  nostra. Utraque vero multum distant ab experimentis De
  la Roche atque Berard, ad que nostra propius accedunt, ra-
  tione fluidorum elasticorum elementariorum, experimenta D.
   Apjohn ratione aerum compositorum." The opinion here
  expressed cannot be considered as very well sustained by the

  346     Prof. Apjohn on the Specific Heats of the Gases,
  comparative view of our results which he gives at p. 89.
  There is in fact a material difference between his numbers
  and those which he ascribes to me; for to confine ourselves
  to a single example, the specific heat of hydrogen compared
  to that of an equal volume of air as determined by him is
  1-3979, and, by me (as he alleges) 1-8948. But if the
  reader will refer to my first series of experiments, which alone
  were seen by Suerman previous to the publication of his
  Thesis, he will find the result for hydrogen to be 1 '506, or
  but very little higher than that arrived at by the Dutch phi
  losopher. The number therefore I '8948 is not at all a con
 sequence of my experiments ; but it was nevertheless, as has
  been already fully explained, very natural that it should have
 been so considered by those who had merely seen the results
 of my researches.
    The full explanation of this point has been already given,
 so that it is sufficient for me to observe here that Suerraan
 was ignorant of it, and considering the numbers first published
 by me as correctly representing my experiments, was not en
 abled to see that the general correspondence which he recog
 nised between the results of our investigations amounted to
 an almost perfect identity.
    Having set myself right with the reader on these points,
 I have next to draw attention to some observations of Suer-
 man's of great interest and importance in relation to the prin
 ciple of the process which both he and I have adopted in in
 vestigating the question of the specific heats of the gases. In
 some preliminary experiments performed by him, in which
 a comparatively feeble pressure was employed, the experi
 mental depressions were much less than those which his for
 mula (that of Gay-Lussac) led him to expect. He therefore
augmented the pressure, with the view of augmenting the ra
pidity of the current, and found that the experimental value
of t — ( was thus increased. What is the cause of this? and
is there any reason to believe that it is in our power to give
such a degree of velocity to the current as to conduct in every
instance not only to the maximum difference between the in
dications of the wet and dry thermometers, but to such dif
ference as may be considered to be the accurate measure of
the specific heat or quantity which it is sought to investigate ?
   The cause of the superior influence of the augmented cur
rent is correctly assigned by Suerman. The caloric of ela
sticity of the vapour derived from the water of the wet thermo
meter comes chiefly from the air which impinges upon the
moistened bulb, but partly also by radiation from the sides of
the tube in which the instruments are placed. Now the caloric

             as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.            347
derived from the former source necessarily augments with the
rapidity of the gaseous current, and in a somewhat quicker
ratio, owing to the increased depression, while the heat de
rived from radiation is in its amount uninfluenced by the
speed of the blast save in as far as such speed affects the dif
ference between the stationary temperatures of the wet and dry
thermometers. The relative amount therefore of the caloric
obtained from the former source will obviously rise with the
velocity of the current of air or gas ; and ifthis velocity be ren
dered very great, it is easy to conceive that the caloric of radia
tion may be a negligible quantity, and that the latent heat of
the vapour formed may be considered without sensible error
as exclusively derived from the aeriform fluid which is the sub
ject of experiment. In this latter case the depression is a maxi
mum, and with a quick blast it is greater than with a slow one,
because in such case, the caloric of the vapour being derived
in greater relative quantity from the gas, this latter must be
cooled through a greater number of degrees in order that the
heat which it evolves should be larger in amount. So far the
 matter is sufficiently plain, and indeed presents no difficulty
 whatever. Doubts, however, may be entertained, whether,
 with any velocity of blast which can be conveniently employed,
 the radiation of the sides of the tube can be prevented from
 exerting an appreciable influence ; and whether, with a given
 velocity of blast, the reduction of the depression due to radia
 tion may not be different in the case of different gases.
     In reference to the first of these two points we are without
 any precise information. It is certain, as we have seen, that
 radiation must always tend to diminish the value nl'/— /', but
 the degree of its influence remains to be ascertained. In re
 lation to the second point M. Suerman has hazarded some
 opinions, in the correctness of which I certainly cannot con
 cur. It is well known that gases differ materially as to the
  mobility of their particles, and that this mobility follows some
  ratio reciprocal to that of the specific gravity, so that if the
  same heat be applied to equal volumes of hydrogen and car
  bonic acid, it is propagated through the former with much
  greater velocity than through the latter. This, as is well
  known, is one of the causes which renders the method of in
  vestigating the specific heats of gases by the velocity ofheating
  incapable of yielding accurate results. Now M. Suerman ex
  presses a strong opinion that this difference ofmobility between
  the integrant molecules of different gases has an influence also
  upon the cold of evaporation. " vix autem dubitandum vi-
   detur quin et frigus evaporationis aliquatenus him: pendeat."
   This is to me quite unintelligible. How can the difference

 348     Prof. Apjohn on tlie Specific Heats of the Gases,
 of mobility in question have any influence if the gases be all
made to move over the thermometers with the same velocity?
 If indeed a wet thermometer were to be immersed in atmo
spheres of the different gases either absolutely dry, or in the
same hygrometrical state, the depression might be expected
to be greatest in those whose molecules were most mobile.
 But it appears to me very obvious that in the methods of ex
perimenting adopted by M. Suerman, as all the gases, after
contact with the wet thermometer, are by the mechanical
means employed removed with the same degree of speed,
the reduction of temperature experienced by this instrument
must in every instance be altogether independent of any pecu
liarity in the constitution of the respective gases, in virtue
of which heat may be propagated through some with greater
facility than through others. But it is not necessary to insist
further on this point, for M. Suerman materially modifies the
opinion previously expressed by him, as will be seen by the
following extract from page 90 of his Thesis : " Corrigitur
quidem pro maxima park: hie effectus aucta motus celeri-
tate, num vero omnino ita tollatur, satis certo a(firman non
potest."
   But there is another position of M. Suerman's which ap
pears to me more untenable still. In his experiments all the
gases were driven over the thermometers with the same ve
locity, so that the quantities by weight which passed them
in a given time were necessarily proportional to their specific
gravities. Now in reference to this circumstance Suerman
has the following passage : " Relativus autem radiationis ex
cylindro continenti effectus hinc pendere debet. Qui, ut
idem esset, celeritas motus in diversis fluid is elasticis ita fuisset
modificanda, ut, ceteris paribus, rationem inversam servaret
ponderum specificorum." Here an influence is ascribed to mass
which I cannot comprehend, for it is asserted that the relative
effect of radiation is not the same for all the gases, unless the
same ponderable amount of each passes in a given time over
the wet thermometer. The very opposite of this proposition
appears to me to be the truth. We have already seen that
the ratio borne by the caloric which radiates from the sides
of the tube to that extricated from the air cooled by contact
with the moistened bulb, diminishes as the velocity of the
current increases. Surely then, in order that this ratio be
the same for the different gases, they must be all made to
move with the same degree of speed. I do not, in fact, see
what we have at all to do with the consideration of mass, and
its introduction appears to me only calculated to confuse and
mislead.

            as deduced by himself and Dr. Suerman.         349
   In my experiments, though the same degree of pressure was
applied to the different gases, they were driven from the one
gasometer to the other at very different rates, hydrogen much
quicker than nitrogen, air, or carbonic oxide, and these again
quicker than nitrous oxide or carbonic acid. Notwithstanding,
however, this difference of velocity, my results, as has been
shown, are relatively the same as those of Suerman, from
which we are entitled to infer that, provided the rate accord
ing to which the gases rush by the wet thermometer does
not fall below a particular point, a variation of it does not
sensibly affect the observed depressions.
   But it is time to terminate these remarks, and I shall do so
with the following series of propositions :
   1. The results of Suerman are relatively the same as those
at which I have arrived.
   2. His absolute specific heats are greater than mine, partly
because of a difference between our formule, and his attri
buting to the latent heat of aqueous vapour a higher value
than I have done, but chiefly because the depressions obtained
by him were uniformly less than mine.
   S. His apparatus though very ingenious was complex, and
in consequence of the dimensions and shape of the tube con
taining the thermometers could not give the maximum value
of t — t'. My apparatus was simple, very easily operated with,
and as it gave greater depressions miist have yielded results
closer to the truth.
   4. His apparatus was more perfect than mine in the cir
cumstance of its having attached to it a manometer, by which
he was enabled to ascertain the actual pressure of the current
of air or gas. In mine there was no such provision, but the
augmentation of pressure was in every instance the same, and
must also, from the manner in which the gasometers were
connected, have been necessarily very small in amount.
   5. All results obtained by the method which we have em
ployed must, theoretically speaking, be higher than the true,
as in consequence of the heat radiated from the sides of the
containing tube upon the wet thermometer, it is prevented
from reaching its extreme point of depression.
    6. Our researches completely refute the idea of the gases,
whether simple or compound, having under equal volumes
equal specific heats, and establish the very singular fact of
hydrogen having a specific heat very nearly once and a half
as high as that usually attributed to it.
    P.S. I shouldjiot omit to mention that Suerman has inves
tigated by the same method, and by means of a very simple
and admirable apparatus, the specific heat of atmospheric air

350 Mr. C. T. Jackson's Chemical Analysis of Meteoric Iron,
at pressures less than those of the atmosphere. Eighteen
experiments were performed, at pressures included between
27'208 and 12-583 inches of mercury, and the results were
found in very close accordance with his formula; but less
than the numbers deducible from the theoretic expression
~* = c / — )
             p\        !
                      * , given by Poisson in his Trails de Mcca-
          \ fj
nique, torn. ii. p. 649.
                                                 •
XLVII. Chemical Analysis ofMeteoric Iron, from Claiborne,
     Clarke County, Alabama. By CHARLES T. JACKSON.-J-
Aug. 5,        A/TR. F. ALGER handed me this remarkable
  1834. "~            mineral, which he had received from Mr.
Hubbard, who had obtained the specimen during his travels
in Alabama, and thought, from the bright streaks in it, that
it might be an ore of silver.
   On examining this substance, it soon appeared that it was
different from any metallic ore of terrestrial origin, and that it
is a very peculiar and remarkable meteorite.
   Having surmised its probable origin, I was desirous of see
ing the gentleman who brought it from Alabama, and at the
request of Mr. Alger, Mr. Hubbard called upon me and gave
me the following particulars as to its locality.
    He found the specimen on the surface of the earth, near
Lime Creek, in Claiborne, Alabama. The soil at that place
is composed of red marl, or clay, and the rocks in place are
sandstones, mostly of a gray colour. The mass from which
my specimen was broken, was of an irregular triangular shape,
rounded at the corners, and was 10 inches long by 5 or 6
inches in thickness. It was extremely heavy, insomuch that
he could not conveniently carry with him the whole mass, and
therefore employed a negro to break it with a sledge-ham
mer; which operation proving too difficult for him, Mr.
Hubbard took the sledge himself, and with the cutting edge,
 by many hard blows, he ultimately succeeded in detaching
 the portion in my possession. It is much to be regretted that
he did not bring with him the whole mass, and I desired him
to send for the remainder, but have not yet heard from him.
 He is of opinion, that there are many other similar masses
   * In this expression y is the specific heat of air under a constant press
ure when the height of the barometer is p, c the same when the height is
P, and K is the ratio between the specific heat of air under a constant
volume and a constant pressure.
   t From Silliman's American Journal of Science and Arts, vol.xjuuv,p.332,

           from Claibornc, Clarke County, Alabama.              851
near the spot where this was found ; but it is not probable
that they abound to the extent imagined. I beg leave, how
ever, to call the attention of travellers to the locality men
tioned, where the remainder of the specimen still exists neg
lected.
   Description of the Specimen.—It is of an irregular form,
rounded upon all the sides excepting on that where it was
fractured, which presents a rough hackly surface, with pro
jecting, bright, silvery streaks, and deep greenish and brown
eroded surfaces, from which an exudation of green hquid
takes place, on exposing the specimen to moist air.
    The rounded surface is coated with a thin layer of the sub-
chloride of iron, which being removed, the mass is found to
consist of metallic matter, resembling wrought iron, when the
specimen is filed bright. On attempting to break off a frag
ment, the mass was found to be extremely tough and mal
leable, so as to require the aid of a file and cutting-chisel.
    Sp. gr. on three separate fragments from different parts of
the mass, 5'750, 6'400 and 6'500. The whole mass weighs
28 ounces avoirdupois.
    Having washed the specimen in distilled water several
times, I filed one side of it bright, and left it exposed to the air
in my cabinet. In a few days, numerous grass-green drops
of liquid began to collect on its surface, and became externally
 conted with a thin brown film. This liquid had a slight alka
 line astringent taste, butgave noalkaline reaction with turmeric
 paper or Brazil wood solution. A few drops collected in a
 test tube and diluted with water, gave an abundant thick curdy
 while precipitate, with a solution of nitrate of silver, showing
 the presence of chlorine in combination. Ferro-cyanaie of
potash gave a blue precipitate, indicative of iron, and ammonia
 gave a precipitate of the hydrated peroxide of iron. Muriate
 of ammonia having been added to a little more of the exuda
 tion, the peroxide of iron was precipitated by ammonia, and
 the remaining liquid was of a pale blue colour, indicative of
 nickel, and on addition of pure potash, hydrate of nickel
 formed in a bulky green precipitate.
    Thus the green drops in question were proved to be com
 posed of the hydro-chlorates of nickel and iron, and they
 doubtless form from the action of the moisture of the atmo
 sphere upon the metallic chlorides contained in the meteorite.
    Analysis of the mass.— Several fragments of the specimen
 having been cut off by means of a steel chisel and hammer,
 their specific gravities were ascertained, and they were then
 subjected to analysis.
    Specimen 1. A fragment weighing 25 grains, sp. gr.

352 Mr. C. T. Jackson's Chemical Analysis of Meteoric Iron,
 = 5'750, being placed in a green glass flask, and pure nitric
acid poured upon it, no action took place until heat was ap
plied, when a violent effervescence, with extrication of nitrous
acid fumes, began, and the solution was rapidly and entirely
effected. The solution was then treated with a sufficient
quantity of the solution of muriate of ammonia, to prevent
the precipitation of the nickel, and then the peroxide of iron
was thrown down by means of liquid ammonia. When the
precipitate had subsided, the whole was thrown on a filter,
and the peroxide of iron was thoroughly washed, dried, ig
nited in platina capsule, and weighed = 23'5 grs. peroxide
of iron = 16'296 grs. metallic iron.
   The solution, which had passed the filter, was of a clear
blue colour, with a slight amethystine tint, indicative of nickel.
This solution and the mingled washings were evaporated in
a glass vessel to a small bulk, and then treated, while warm,
with a hot solution of pure potash, when a dense bulky green
precipitate of the hydrate of nickel was thrown down, which
being collected on a filter, washed, thoroughly dried and ig
nited in a platina crucible, weighed 8-8 grains = oxide of
nickel = 6-927 grains metallic nickel.
   Analysis—2d specimen. A fragment of the meteorite,
weighing 50 grains, was found to have a sp. gr. = 6'500.
   It was placed in a green glass flask, perfectly pure nitric
acid was poured upon it, and heat was gradually applied until
the solution was completed. It was then diluted with pure
distilled water, and a solution of nitrate of silver was added,
when an abundant curdy white precipitate of chloride of silver
took place. When the operation was complete, I filtered the
solution, collected the washed chloride of silver, and dried
and fused it in a small porcelain capsule. It weighed = 3
grains = chloride of silver = 0'74 gr. chloride, or 0'76 hydro
chloric acid.
   The solution was then cleared of nitrate of silver, by means
of hydro-chloric acid, and filtered. Then muriate of am
monia being added, the peroxide of iron was precipitated by
pure ammonia, and after washing, drying, and ignition,
weighed = 48 grains = 33'28 grs. metallic iron.
   'Ihe oxide of nickel was precipitated by means of a solu
tion of pure potash, and when 'collected, washed, dried,
and ignited, weighed 15'8 grains oxide of nickel = 31 '6 per
cent. = '^-i'708 per cent, metallic nickel. After the separa
tion of the metallic oxides, the solution was treated by means
of a solution of acetate of barytes, and a white precipitate of
sulphate of barytes was formed, which weighed, after washing
and drying, = 27 grains = 2 grs. sulphur.

           from Claiborne, Clarke County, Alabama.              353
   The presence of chrome and of manganese having been in
dicated, I took a separate portion of the meteorite, weighing
 10 grains, dissolved it in hydro-chloric acid, adding sufficient
tartaric acid to retain the oxides in solution, neutralized the
acid by ammonia, and precipitated the iron and nickel, by
means ofa current of hydro-sulphuric acid gas ; after h'ltration,
I evaporated the solution to dryness and burned off the tar
taric acid in a small platina capsule under the muffle, when a
small quantity of chromic acid was obtained, which was re
cognised by its characters before the blowpipe ; its amount
was estimated at 3 per cent. The manganese is also esti
mated.
   From the above analyses, it will appear that specimen 1st
of the meteoric iron, having a sp. gr. of 5-750, contains in
25 grains,
      Metallic iron                16-296 = 65-184 per cent.
        „ nickel                     G'9'27 =» 27'708 „
   And in specimen 2nd, having a sp. gr. of6'500 in 50 grains
we have                                         or in 100 grains.
   Metallic iron            '.      33-280            66-560
      „     nickel                  12-354            24-708
      „     chrome and manganese 1'625                  3-24-0
      „     sulphur                   2-000             4-000
      „     chlorine                    -740            1-480
                                    49-999            99-988
   It will be remarked, that this meteorite contains an unusual
proportion of nickel, and that the occurrence of chlorine, in
matter of celestial origin, is here noticed for the first time.
   I beg leave therefore to invite chemists to a careful review
of meteorites, since the occurrence of chlorine may have been
overlooked in former analyses.
   Its occurrence in meteoric matters is a fact of great im
portance, in accounting for their chemical phenomena, while
passing through our atmosphere.
   It must also be remembered, that chloride of iron is readily
volatilized at a high temperature, and that it is abundantly
exhaled from the craters of volcanos, in various parts of our
planet.
   Nickel, however, has not to my knowledge been discovered
amid volcanic sublimations, but it may be worth while to call
the attention of chemists to the subject, that it may be sought
for in volcanic craters.
   I am however far from believing that we shall be able to
 prove that all meteorites originate from volcanic sublimations,
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 83. Nov. 1838.            2A

 854     Chemical Analysis of Meteoric Ironfrom Alabama.
  for there are very evident reasons for believing that our planet,
  statedly in its course, passes amid numerous detached masses
  of matter or asteroids, which regularly meet the earth in its
  orbit on the 13th of November; at least such are the views
  of Prof. Olmsted, of Arago and Gay-Lussac, whose opinions
  appear to be supported by the facts which they have collected.
      Allowing that meteoric matters are projected from cometary
  masses, which statedly cross the earth's orbit, coming within
  the limits of its attraction, and are subjected to the oxidizing
  influence of the atmosphere, so as to take fire and fall in
  burning masses upon the surface of the earth, we can more
   readily account for the phenomena exhibited in their splendid
   coruscations, when we know that the meteors contain ingre-
' dients possessing remarkable decomposing powers, if brought
   into contact with water or aqueous vapour, and such are the
   effects of the chlorides of iron and nickel.
      In several instances on record, we find the meteor first
   discovering itself, bursting into fire, from the midst of a dark
   cloud, and throwing off brilliant coruscations of light, and
   ejecting ignited masses which fall to the earth; while the
   globe of fire, from which they were thrown off, traverses the
   heavens, and gradually becomes extinct. May not therefore
   the moisture of the atmosphere have first kindled the
   meteor in its passage through the humid clouds? I do not
   know whether they are generally too distant from the earth
   to come in contact with clouds, but from the rapidity of these
   apparent meteors they cannot be very distant, at the moment
   of their conflagration. Should chlorine prove to be a com
   mon or constant ingredient, 1 suppose, that we should have
   a ready solution of the phenomena involved in the problem.
      With respect to the specimen, which forms the subject of
   the present communication, if we consider its chemical com
   position, we are forced to regard it of celestial origin ; for we
   have no similar natural alloy in this world, and it contains
   elements, which are generally found in meteoric matters, be
   sides the new ingredient which I have discovered as one of
   its components. It is clearly impossible that this mass should
   have been factitious; for in all manufactured iron, we can
   readily detect carbon, which does not exist in our specimen,
   and the situation in which it was found is presumptive evi
   dence that it was not manufactured, and the rocks around,
   not belonging to the class bearing metallic ores, it is impos
   sible for it to have been derived from them, and it could not
   have been derived from the distant rocks by diluvial trans
   portation, for no such ores exist in any of our mines.

    Mr. Faraday's Experimental Researches in Electricity. 355
    Had it been an ore of iron, reduced by n blast of lightning,
we should not have found it alloyed with nickel.
    We are therefore led to conclude, that our specimen is
of celestial origin, and that it is a fragment of one of those
asteroids ol cometary matter, which wandering in space, oc
casionally cross our orbit, and being attracted by the earth,
so that they rush through our atmosphere, bursting into
fire and descending, take up their abode on this sublunary
sphere.
   Boston, May 29, 1838.
XLVI1I. Experimental Researches in Electricity. —Eleventh
   Series. By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq., D.C.L. F.R.S. Ful-
   lerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution, Corr. iMemb. Royal
   and Imp. Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Pctcrsburgh, Florence,
   Copenhagen, Berlin, fyc. #c.
                       [Continued from p. 299.]
                *|f iv. Induction in curved Lines.
1215.     A MONGST those results deduced from the mole-
         **. cular view of induction (1166.), which, being of
a peculiar nature, are the best tests of the truth or error of
the theory, the expected action in curved lines is, I think, the
most important at present; for, if shown to take place in an
unexceptionable manner, I do not see how the old theory of
action at a distance and in straight lines can stand, or how the
conclusion that ordinary induction is an action of contiguous
particles can be resisted.
    1216. There are many forms of old experiments which
might be quoted as favourable to, and consistent with the
view I have adopted. Such are most cases of electro-che
mical decomposition, electrical brushes, auras, sparks, &c. ;
but as these might be considered equivocal evidence, inasmuch
as they include a current and discharge, (though they have
long been to me indications of prior molecular action (1230.))
I endeavoured to devise such experiments for first proofs as
should not include transfer, but relate altogether to the pure
simple inductive action of statical electricity.
    1217. It was also of importance to make these experiments
in the simplest possible manner, using not more than one in
sulating medium or dielectric at a time, lest differences of
slow conduction should produce effects which might errone
ously be supposed to result from induction in curved lines,
                              2 A 2

 356 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
 It will be unnecessary to describe the steps of the investigation
 minutely; I will at once proceed to the simplest mode of
 proving the facts, first in air and then in other insulating
 media.
     1218. A cylinder of solid shell-lac, 0-9 of an inch in dia
 meter and seven inches in length, was fixed upright in a
 wooden foot (fig. 3.): it was made concave or cupped at its
 upper extremity so that a brass ball or other small arrange
 ment could stand upon it. The upper half of the stem having
 been excited negatively by friction with warm flannel, a brass
 ball, B, 1 inch in diameter, was placed on the top, and then
 the whole arrangement examined by the carrier ball and
 Coulomb's electrometer (1180. &c.). For this purpose the
 balls of the electrometer were charged positively to about 360°,
 and then the carrier being applied to various parts of the ball
 B, the two were uninsulated whilst in contact or in position,
 then insulated*, separated, and the charge of the carrier ex
amined as to its nature and force. Its electricity was always
positive, and its force at the different positions a, b, c, d, &c.
 (fig. 3. and 4.) observed in succession, was as follows :
            at a                above 1000°                 Fig. 3.
                b it was          ... 1 49
                c                        270
                d                        512
                                         I3O
    1219. To comprehend the full force of these
results, it must first be understood, that all
the charges of the ball B and the carrier are
charges by induction, from the action of the
excited surface of the shell-lac cylinder; for
whatever electricity the ball B received by
communication from the shell-lac,either in the
first instance or afterwards, was removed by
the uninsulating contacts, only that due to in
duction remaining; and this is shown by the
charges taken from the ball in this its uninsu-^
lated state being always positive, or of the
contrary character to the electricity of the. shell-lac. In the
next place the charges at a, r, and d were of such a nature as
   • It can hardly he necessary for me to say here, that whatever general
state the carrier hall acquired in any phice where it was uninsulated and
then insulated, it retained on removal from that place, notwithstanding
that it might puss through other places, that would have given to it, if un
insulated, u different condition.

                 Induction in curved Lines—in Air.             357
 might be expected from an inductive action in straight lines,
  but that obtained at b is not so : it is clearly a charge by in
 duction, but induction in a curved line; for the carrier ball
 whilst applied to b, and after its removal to a distance of six
 inches or more from B, could not, in consequence of the sixe
 of B, be connected by a straight line with any part of the
 excited and inducing shell-lac.
    1220. To suppose that the upper part of the uninsulated ball
 B, should in some way be retained in an electrified state by that
 portion of the surface which is in sight of the
 shell-lac, would be in opposition to whatwe know
 already of the subject. Electricity is retained
 upon the surface ofconductors only by induction
 (1178.); and though some persons may not
 be prepared as yet to admit this with respect
 to insulated conductors, all will as regards
 uninsulated conductors like the ball B; and
 to decide the matter we have only to place the
carrier ball at e (fig. 4.), so that it shall not
come in contact with B, uninsulate it by a
metallic rod descending perpendicularly, in
sulate it, remove it, and examine its state: it
will be found charged with the same kind of ^
electricity as, and even to a higher degree
(1224.) than, if it had been in contact with the summit
of B.
    1221. To suppose, again, that induction acts in some way
through or across the metal of the ball, is            Fig 5.
negatived by the simplest considerations ;              ®
but a fact in proof will be better. If in
stead of the ball B a small disc of metal ^ ^
be used, the carrier may be charged at, or '                    ^
above the middle of its upper surface; but
if the plate be enlarged to about li or 2
inches in diameter, C (fig. 5.), then no
charge will be given to the carrier atyj
though when applied nearer to the edge at
g, or even above the middle at //, a charge
will be obtained; and this is true though
the plate may be a mere thin film of gold-
leaf. Hence it is clear that the induction
is not through the metal, but through the air or dielectric,
and that in curved lines.
    1222. I had another arrangement, in which a wire passing
downwards through the middle of the shell-lac cylinder to the
earth, was connected with the ball B (fig. 6.) so' as to' keep it

358 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XL)
in a constantly uninsulated state. This was a very        Fig. 6.
convenient form of apparatus, and the results with
it were the same as those described.
    1223. In another case the ball B was supported
by a shell-lac stem, independently of the excited
cylinder of shell-lac, and at half an inch distance
from it ; but the effects were the same. Then the
brass ball of n charged Leyden jar was used in
place of the excited sTiell-lac to produce induc
tion ; but this caused no alteration of the pheno-
mena. Both positive and negative inducing charges
 were tried with the same general results. Finally,
 the arrangement was inverted in the air for the
 purpose of removing every possible objection to
 the conclusions, but they came out exactly the same.
     1224-. Some results obtained with a brass hemisphere in
 stead of the ball B were exceedingly interesting. It was 1'36
 of an inch in diameter, (fig. 7.), and being
 placed on the top of the excited shell-lac cy
 linder, the carrier ball was applied, as in the
 former experiments (1218.), at the respective
 positions delineated in the figure. At / the
 force was 112°, at k 108°, at I 65°, at m 35° ;
 the inductive force gradually diminishing, as
 might have been expected, to this point.
 But on raising the carrier to the position n
 the charge increased to 87°; and on raising
 it still higher to o, the charge still further
 increased to 105° : at a higher point still, p,
 the charge taken was smaller in amount, being
 f)8°, and continued to diminish for more
 elevated positions. Here the induction fairly
 turned a corner. Nothing, in fact, can better
 show both the curved lines or courses of the inductive action,
 disturbed as they are from their rectilineal form by the shape,
 position, and condition of the metallic hemisphere; and also
 a lateral tension, so to speak, of these lines on one another :
  all depending, as I conceive, on induction being an action of
  the contiguous particles of the dielectric thrown into a state of
 polarity and tension, and mutually related by their forces in
  all directions.
     1225. As another proof that the whole of these actions
 were inductive, I may state a result which was exactly what
 might be expected, namely, that if uninsulated conducting
 matter was brought round and near to the excited shell-lac
 stem, then the inductive force was directed towards it, and

           Induction in curved Lines—in Fluids, Solids.             359
could not be found on the top of the hemisphere. Removing
this matter the lines of force resumed their former direction.
The experiment affords proofs of the lateral tension of these
lines, and supplies a warning to remove such matter in re
peating the above investigation.
   1226. After these results on curved inductive action in air
I extended the experiments to other gases, using first carbonic
acid and then hydrogen : the phenomena were precisely
those already described. In these experiments I found that
if the gases were confined in vessels they required to be very
large, for whether of glass or earthenware, the conducting
power of such materials is so great that the induction of the
excited shell-lac cylinder towards them is as much is if they
were metal ; and if the vessels be small, so great a portion of
the inductive force is determined towards them that the lateral
tension or mutual repulsion of the lines of force before spoken
of, (1224.) by which their inflexion is caused, is so much re
lieved in other directions, that no inductive charge will be
given to the carrier ball in the positions k, I, in, n, o,p, (fig. 7.).
A very good mode of making the experiment is to let large
currents of the gases ascend or descend through the air, and
carry on the experiments in these currents.
   1227. These experiments were then varied by the substitu
tion of a liquid dielectric, namely, oil of turpentine, in place
of air and gases. A dish of thin glass well covered with a
film of shell-lac, (1272.) and found by trial to insulate well,
had some highly rectified oil of turpentine put into it to the
depth of half an inch, fmd being then placed upon the top of
the brass hemisphere, (fig. 7.) observations were made with
the carrier ball as before (1224.). The results were the same,
and the circumstance of some of the positions being within
the fluid and some without, made no sensible difference.
   1228. Last!y, I used a few solid dielectrics for the same
purpose, and with the same results. These were shell-lac,
sulphur, fused and cast borate of lead, flint glass well covered
with a film of lac, and spermaceti. The following was the
form of experiment with sulphur, and all were of the same
kind. A square plate of the substance, two inches in extent
and 0'6 of an inch in thickness, was cast with a small hole or
depression in the middle of one surface to receive the carrier
ball. This was placed upon the surface of the metal hemi
sphere (fig. 9.) arranged on the excited lac as in former cases,
and observations were made at n, o, p, and q. Great care
was required in these experiments to free the sulphur or other
solid substance from any charge it might previously have
received. This was done by breathing and wiping (1203.),

860 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
and the substance being found free from
all electrical excitement, was then used
in the experiment ; after which it was
removed and again examined, to ascer
tain that it had received no charge, but
had acted really as a dielectric. With
all these precautions the results were the
same : and it is thus very satisfactory
to obtain the curved inductive action
through solid bodies, as any possible
effect from the translation of charged
particles in fluids or gases, which some
persons might imagine to be the case, is
here entirely negatived.
   1229. In these experiments with solid
dielectrics, the degree of charge, as
sumed by the carrier ball at the situations n, o, p (fig. 9.),
was decidedly greater than that given to the ball at the same
Elaces when air only intervened between it and the metal
  emisphere. This effect is consistent with what will hereafter
be found to be the respective relations of these bodies, as to
their power of facilitating induction through them (1269.
1273.1277.)-
   1230. I might quote many other forms of experiment, some
old and some new, in which induction in curved or contorted
lines takes place, but think it unnecessary after the preceding
results; I shall therefore mention but two. If a conductor
A, (fig. 8.) be electrified, and an uninsulated metallic ball B,
or even a plate, provided the edges be not too thin, be held
before it, a small electrometer at c or at d, uninsulated, will
give signs of electricity, opposite in its nature to that of A,
and therefore caused by induction, although the influencing
and influenced bodies cannot be joined by a right line passing
through the air. Or if, the electrometers being removed, a
point be fixed at the back of the ball in its uninsulated state
as at C, this point will become luminous and discharge the
conductor A. The latter experiment is described by Nichol
son*, who, however, reasons erroneously upon it. As to its
             * Encyclopedia Britannica, vol. vi. p. 504.

         Induction in curved Lines— in Fluids, Solids.       361
introduction here, though it is a case of discharge, the dis
charge is preceded by induction, and that induction must be
in curved lines.
   1231. As argument against the received theory of induc
tion and in favour of that which I have ventured to put forth,
I cannot see how the preceding results can be avoided. The
effects are clearly inductive effects produced by electricity,
not in currents but in its statical state, and this induction is
exerted in lines of force which, though in many experiments
they may be straight, are here curved more or less according
to circumstances. I use the term line of inductiveforce merely
as a temporary conventional mode of expressing the direction
of the power in cases of induction ; and in the experiments with
the hemisphere (1224.), it is curious to see how, when certain
lines have terminated on the under surface and edge of the
metal, those which were before lateral to them expand and open
outfrom each other, some bending round and terminating their
action on the upper surface of the hemisphere, and others
meeting, as it were, above in their progress outwards, uniting
their forces to give an increased charge in the carrier ball, at
an increased distance horn the source of power, and influencing
each other so as to cause a second flexure in the contrary di
rection from the first one. All this appears to me to prove
that the whole action is one of contiguous particles, related to
each other, not merely in the lines which they may be con
ceived to form through the dielectric, between the inductric
and the inducteous surfaces, but in other lateral directions
also. It is this which gives the effect equivalent to lateral re
pulsion or expansion in the lines of force I have spoken of, and
enables induction to turn a corner (1304.). The power, in
stead of being like that of gravity, which relates particles
together through straight lines, whatever other particles may
be between them, is more analogous to that of a series of
magnetic needles, or to the condition of the particles consi
dered as forming the whole of a straight or a curved mag
net. So that in whatever way I view it, and with great
suspicion of the influence of favourite notions over myself, I
cannot perceive how the ordinary theory of induction can be
a correct representation of that great natural principle of
 electrical action.
    1232. I have had occasion in describing the precautions
necessary in the use of the inductive apparatus, to refer to
one founded on induction in curved lines (1203.); and after
the experiments already described, it will easily be seen how-
great an influence the shell lac stem may exert upon the

362 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
charge of the carrier ball when applied to the apparatus
(1218.), unless that precaution be attended to.
     1233. I think it expedient, next in the course of these ex
perimental researches, to describe some effects due to con
duction, obtained with such bodies as glass, lac, sulphur, &c.,
which had not been anticipated. Being understood, they will
make us acquainted with certain precautions necessary in in
vestigating the great question of specific inductive capacity.
     1234. One of the inductive apparatus already described
'. 1 1ST, &c.) had a hemispherical cup of shell-lac introduced,
which being in the interval between the inner ball and the
lower hemisphere, nearly occupied the space there; conse
quently when the apparatus was charged, the lac was the di
electric or insulating medium through which the induction
took place in that part. When this apparatus was first charged
with electricity (1198.) up to a certain intensity, as 4OO°,
measured by the Coulomb's electrometer (1180.), it sank
much faster from that degree than if it had been previously
charged to a higher point, and had gradually fallen to 4O00;
or than it would do if the charge were, by a second applica
tion, raised up again to 400°; all other things remaining the
same. Again, if after having been charged for some time, as
fifteen or twenty minutes, it was suddenly and perfectly dis
charged, even the stem having all electricity removed from it
(1203.), then the apparatus being left to itself, would gra
dually recover a charge, which in nine or ten minutes would
rise up to 50° or 60°, and in one instance to 80°.
     1235. The electricity which in these cases returned from
an apparently latent to a sensible state, was always of the
same kind as that which had been given by the charge. The
return took place at both the inducing surfaces ; for if after the
perfect discharge of the apparatus the whole was insulated,
as the inner ball resumed a positive state the outer sphere ac
quired a negative condition.
     1236. This effect was at once distinguished from that pro
duced by the excited stem acting in curved lines of induction
(1203. 1232.), by the circumstance that all the returned elec
tricity could be perfectly and instantly discharged. It ap
peared to depend upon the shell-lac within, and to be, in
some way, due to electricity evolved from it in consequence of
a previous condition into which it had been brought by the
charge of the metallic coatings or balls.
     1237. To examine this state more accurately, the appa
ratus, with the hemispherical cup of shell-lac in it, was charged
for about forty-five minutes to above 600° with positive elec

        Induction Apparatus—Effects of Conduction in it.      363
tricity at the balls // and B (fig. 1.) above and within. It was
then discharged, opened, the shell-lac taken out, and its state
examined; this was done by bringing the carrier ball near
the shell-lac, uuinsulating it, insulating it, and then observing
what charge it had acquired. As it would be a charge by
induction, the state of the ball would indicate the opposite
state of electricity in that surface of the shell-lac which had
produced it. At first the lac appeared quite free from any
charge ; but gradually its two surfaces assumed opposite states
of electricity, the concave surface, which had been next the
inner and positive ball, assuming a positive state, and the
convex surface, which been in contact with the negative coat
ing, acquiring a negative state; these states gradually increa
sing in intensity for some time.
   1238. As the return action was evidently greatest instantly
after the discharge, I again put the apparatus together, and
charged it for fifteen minutes as before, the inner ball posi
tively. I then discharged it, instantly removing the upper
hemisphere with the interior ball, and, leaving the shell-
lac cup in the lower uninsulated hemisphere, examined its
inner surface by the carrier ball as before (1237.)- In this
way I found the surface of the shell-lac actually negative, or
in the reverse state to the ball which had been in it ; this state
quickly disappeared, and was succeeded by a positive condi
tion, gradually increasing in intensity for some time, in the
same manner as before. This first negative condition of the
surface opposite the positive charging ball is a natural con
sequence of the state of things, the charging ball being in
contact with the shell-lac only in a few points. It does not
interfere with the general result and peculiar state now under
consideration, except that it assists in illustrating in a very
marked manner the ultimate assumption by the surfaces of
the shell-lac of an electrified condition, similar to that of the
metallic surfaces opposed to or against them.
   1239. Glass was then examined with respect to its power
of assuming this peculiar state. I had a thick flint glass
hemispherical cup formed, which would fit easily into the
space o of the lower hemisphere (1188. 1189.); it had been
heated and varnished with a solution of shell-lac in alcohol,
for the purpose of destroying the conducting power of the
vitreous surface. Being then well warmed and experimented
with, I found it could also assume the same state, but not ap
parently to the same degree, the return action amounting in
different cases to quantities from 6° to 18°.
   1240. Spermaceti experimented with in the same manner
gave striking results. When the original charge had been

364 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
sustained for fifteen or twenty minutes at about 500°, the re
turn charge was equal to 95° or 100°, and was about fourteen
minutes arriving at the maximum effect. A charge continued
for not more than two or three seconds was here succeeded by
a return charge of 50° or 60°. The observations formerly
made (1234.) held good with this substance. Spermaceti,
though it will insulate a low charge for some time, is a better
conductor than shell-lac, glass, and sulphur; and this con
ducting power is connected with its readiness in exhibiting
the particular effect under consideration.
   1241. Sulphur.—I was anxious to obtain the amount of
effect with this substance, first, because it is an excellent in
sulator, and in that respect would illustrate the relation of the
effect to the degree of conducting power possessed by the di
electric (1247.); and in the next place, that I might obtain
that body giving the smallest degree of the effect now under
consideration, for the investigation of the question of specific
inductive capacity (1277.).
   1242. With a good hemispherical cup of sulphur cast solid
and sound, I obtained the return charge, but only to an
amount of 17° or 18°. Thus glass and sulphur, which are
bodily very bad conductors of electricity, and indeed almost
perfect insulators, gave very little of this return charge.
   1243. I tried the same experiment having air only in the
inductive apparatus. After a continued high charge for some
time I could obtain a little effect of return action, but it was
ultimately traced to the shell-lac of the stem.
   1 244. I sought to produce something like this state with one
electric power and without induction; for upon the theory
of an electric fluid or fluids, that did not seem impossible,
and then I should have obtained an absolute charge (1169.
1177.)i or something equivalent toil. In this I could not
succeed. I excited the outside of a cylinder of shell-lac very
highly for some time, and then quickly discharging it (1203.),
waited and watched whether any return charge would appear,
but such was not the case. This is another fact in favour of
the inseparability of the two electric forces, and another argu
ment for the view that induction and its concomitant phaeno-
mena depend upon a polarity of the particles of matter.
   1245. Although inclined at first to refer these effects to a
peculiar masked condition of a certain portion of the forces,
I think I have since correctly traced them to known prin
ciples of electrical action. The effects appear to be due to
nn actual penetration of the charge to some distance within
the electric, at each of its two surfaces, by what we call con-
clucliun ; so that, to use the ordinary phrase, the electric

        Induction Apparatus—Effects of Conduction in it.        365
forces sustaining the induction are not upon the metallic sur
faces only, but upon and within the dielectric also, extending
to a greater or smaller depth from the metal linings. Let c
(fig. 10.) be the section of a plate of any dielectric, a and b
being the metallic coatings; let b be uninsulated,
and a be charged positively ; after ten or fifteen Fig. 10.
minutes, if a and b be discharged, insulated, and             p
immediately examined, no electricity will appear
in them ; but in a short time, upon a second ex
amination, they will appear charged in the same 5
way, though not to the same degree, as they were
at first. Now suppose that a portion of the po
sitive force has, under the coercing influence of
all the forces concerned, penetrated the dielec
 tric and taken up its place at
 the line p, a corresponding
 portion of the negative force
 having also assumed its posi
 tion at the line n; that in fact the electric at these two parts
 has become charged positive and negative ; then it is clear
 that the induction of these two forces will be much greater
 one towards the other, and less in an external direction, now
 that they are at the small distance np from each other, than
  when they were at the larger interval a b. Then let a and b
 be discharged ; the discharge destroys or neutralizes all ex
 ternal induction, and the coatings are therefore found by the
  carrier ball unelectrified ; but it also removes almost the whole
  of the forces by which the electric charge was driven into the
  dielectric, and though probably a part goes forward in its
  passage and terminates in what we call discharge, the greater
  portion returns on its course to the surfaces of c, and conse
  quently to the conductors a and b, and constitutes the re
  charge observed.
      1246. The following is the experiment on which I rest for
  the truth of this view. Two plates of spermaceti, d andy
   (fig. 11.), were put together to form the dielectric, a and b
  being the metallic coatings of this compound plate, as before.
   The system was charged, then discharged, insulated, ex
  amined, and found to give no indications of electricity to the
   carrier ball. The plates d and./ were then separated from
   each other, and instantly a with d was found in a positive state,
   and b with f in a negative state, nearly all the electricity
   being in the linings a and b. Hence it is clear that, of the
   forces sought for, the positive was in one half of the com
   pound plate and the negative in the other half; for when re
   moved bodily with the plates from each other's inductive in

366 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
fluence, they appeared in separate places, and resumed of
necessity their power of acting by induction on the electricity
of surrounding bodies. Had the effect depended upon a pe
culiar relation of the contiguous particles of matter only, then
each half plate, d and-/J should have shown positive force on
one surface and negative on the other.
    1247. Thus it would appear that the best solid insulators,
such as shell-lac, glass, and sulphur, have conductive pro
perties to such an extent, that electricity can penetrate them
bodily, though always subject to the overruling condition of
induction (1 1 78.). As to the depth to which the forces pene
trate in this form of charge of the panicles, theoretically, it
should be throughout the mass, for what the charge of the
metal does for the portion of dielectric next to it, should be
done by the charged dielectric for the portion next beyond it
again ; but probably in the best insulators the sensible charge
is to a very small depth only in the dielectric, for otherwise
more would disappear in the first instance whilst the original
charge is sustained, less time would be required for the as
sumption of the particular state, and more electricity would
re-appear as return charge.
    12+8. The condition of time required for this penetration
of the charge is important, both as respects the general re
lation of the cases to conduction, and also the removal of an
objection that might otherwise properly be raised to certain
results respecting specific inductive capacities, hereafter to be
given (1269. 1277.).
    I .' i:'. It is the assumption for a time of this charged state
of the glass between the coatings in the Leyden jar, which
gives origin to a well-known phenomenon, usually referred to
the diffusion of electricity over the uncoated portion of the
glass, namely, the residual charge. The extent of charge
which can spontaneously be recovered by a large battery, after
perfect uninsulation of both surfaces, is very considerable, and
by far the largest portion of this is due to the return of elec
tricity in the manner described. A plate of shell-lac six
inches square, and half an inch thick, or a similar plate of
spermaceti an inch thick, being coated on the sides with tin
foil as a Leyden arrangement, will show this effect exceed
ingly well.
    1250. The peculiar condition of dielectrics which has now
been described, is evidently capable of producing an effect
interfering with the results and conclusions drawn from the use
of the two inductive apparatus, when shell-lac, glass, &c. are
used in one or both of them (1192. 1207.); for upon dividing
the charge in such cases according to the method described

        Justification of the Contact Theory of Galvanism.      367
 (1 198. 1207.), it is evident that the one just receiving its hnlf
charge must fall faster in its tension than the other. For sup
pose npp. i. first charged, and app. ii. used to divide with it;
though both mny actually lose alike, yet app. i., which has
been diminished one half, will be sustained by n certain de
gree of return action or charge (1234.), whilst app. ii. will
sink the more rapidly from the coming on of the particular
state. I have endeavoured to avoid this interference by per
forming the whole process of comparison as quickly as pos
sible, and taking the force of npp. ii. immediately after the di
vision, before any sensible diminution of the tension arising
from the assumption of the peculiar state could be produced;
and I have assumed that as about three minutes pass between
the first charge of app. i. and the division, and three minutes
between the division and discharge, when the force of the
non-transferable electricity is measured, the contrary ten
dencies for those periods would keep that apparatus in a mo
derately steady and uniform condition for the latter portion
of time.
    1251. The particular action described occurs in the shell-
lac of the stems, as well as in the dielectric used within the
apparatus. It therefore constitutes a cause by which the out
side of the stems may in some operations become charged
with electricity, independent of the action of dust or carrying
particles (1203.).
                          [To be continued.]
   XLIX. Justification of the Contact Theory of Galvanism.
                       By G. Th. FECHNKR.
                        [Continued from p. 21 7.]
             II. Fads -which relate to the closed circuit.
 1. IT appears according to the theory of contact as if iron,
     .*. which when brought into contact with copper in water
or diluted acids exhibits positive electricity, must on the con
 trary be positive in all other fluids ; it acts however, never
theless, negatively in a solution of sulphuret of potassium
 (Schisefelleber). Other examples may be placed by the side
of this, in which also the electromotive condition of the metals
changes with the consistence of the intermediate fluid, for in
stance, that of tin and copper is in solution of ammonia the
reverse of what it is in pure water, and that of copper and
lead, in concentrated nitric acid, is the opposite of that in di
luted nitric acid, which immediately obviates the objection,

 368               G. Th. Feclmer's Justification of the
 that the different electromotive action of the various fluids
 upon the met.ils should call forth of itself an apparent reversion
 of the polarity, since in the latter experiment the fluid, disre
garding the degree of concentration, remains the same. Ac
cording to the chemical view all these cases are easily ex
plained by the general rule, that that metal which is most
strongly acted upon by the fluid, is always the positive one
(De la Rive in his Rec/ierches, p. 7.).
    To this objection I believe I have paid sufficient attention
in a detailed memoir respecting the reversions of polarity of
the circuit *, and with which undoubtedly De la Rive cannot
be acquainted. I have shown that when copper in a solu
tion of sulphuret of potassium is positive with respect to
iron, this is caused by a change (perceptible even to the eye)
of its surface, which takes place immediately on immersion in
a concentrated, gradually on immersion in a diluted solution
of sulphuret of potassium, whence therefore in a diluted so
lution the normal divergence also first takes place, and then
gradually passes over into the opposed. Besides, the copper,
changed in the solution of sulphuret of potassium, is even
positive towards iron in other fluids. I have further proved
that even in other concentrated fluids and with other metals,
in which an electromotive state opposed to the general one
may be observed, in general there exists a certain degree of
dilution of the fluid, below which the metals indicate at the
 beginning the normal state, which then gradually passes over
into the opposite (if the solution be not too dilute), which also
argues a change gradually produced in the surfacesofthe metals,
although it cannot in every case be demonstrated in a direct
manner. 1 have also shown by other different experiments that
in these cases the change of the fluid has no influence on the
effects. If, moreover, the positive metal happens to be the one
which is also always acted upon most strongly, then this coinci
dence of the two circumstances would in no degree determine
which of the two was to be considered as the cause of the other;
as, however, the cases given in my memoir did not include
those specifically related byDe la Rive of the reverse action of
tin and copper in ammonia and of lead and copper in concen
trated nitric acid, I have lately convinced myself that in fact,
if we unite tin and copper in officinal liquor ammonia:, lead and
copper in concentrated nitric acid, even when these liquids are
not diluted, the divergence in the beginning indicates the
normal positive condition respectively of the tin and the lead,
which however after a short time (accordingly as the change
   • Schweigger's Journal, vol. liii. p. 61 — 129, OP Biot's LehrbucJi (Precis)
vol. iii. p. 93.

                    Contact Theory of Galvanism.                       369
takes place in the metals) passes over into the negative. The
taking place of the change of the metals in these fluids may
also be proved by various other experiments, which however
I here omit as they may be brought forward in connexion
much better in another place.
   The changes which fluids produce in metals have certainly
not been sufficiently attended to and studied, and I shall often
have occasion in this memoir to return to this point. All the
experiments which Pfaffj Karsten, Becquerel, and others have
made on the production of electricity between fluid and solid
bodies are at least complicated by these changes and demand
in this respect a revision. It is not at all impossible that the
result of these experiments depends entirely on such changes.
Further experiments will, I hope, soon solve this part of the
question.
   2. Schoenbein has published in these Annalen (vol. xxxix.
p. 351*.) an experiment which he considers to be especially
decisive in favour of the chemical theory, and which chiefly
amounts to this, that an iron wire rendered passive by pre
vious immersion in nitric acid, then connected with the circuit
in a solution of sulphate of copper by means of a platinum
wire, precipitates no copper and produces no current, but
that a current immediately takes place if by any cause the
passive condition of the wire is destroyed, *'. e. if its chemical
state is again restored.
   With respect to this experiment we may state the fol
lowing :
   By previous experiments performed by Wetzlar, and lately
by myself, it has been sufficiently shown that the change (as
little explained in the sense of the chemical theory as in that
of the contact theory) which iron undergoes in nitric acid
and in a solution of concentrated nitrate of silver, renders it
considerably more negative than previously. That a highly
negative metal neither precipitates copper, nor gives with
platinum any perceptible current, (especially if the metals are
employed in the form of wire, and a multiplier is made use of,
of little sensibility,) certainly cannot be regarded as incompa
tible with the theory of contact, and as little, that a current
 immediately re-appears with the precipitation of the copper,
if by any cause that change of surface has been destroyed.
Where is the proof that the precipitation of the copper is not
rather the consequence than the cause of the restored electri
cal action i* Besides, it is possible that the peculiar change
which iron undergoes in nitric acid may also increase its
   [• See also L. and E. Phil. Mag., vol. x. p. 275 ; and also p. 167 of the
present volume.]
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 83. Nov. 1S38. 2 B

 370              G. Th. Fechner's Justification ofthe
  power of opposing the transfer of electricity. (Compare with
  No. 3.) I cannot find the least proof in this experiment. From
  the same point of view we must also consider the experiment
  ?ublished by De la Rive in these Annalent\vo\. xl. p. 368. If
    say that iron also undergoes a change of the same kind in
  caustic potash, that it becomes considerably more negative by
  its action than before, all that is there stated appears to me
  explained, although the change of the iron itself may still
  need an explanation not less when regarded according to the
  chemical theory than to the theory of contact. Among other
  circumstances, we find a proof of this change, that iron con
  nected with copper in caustic potash to form a circuit, at first
 gives the normal divergence of the multiplier, which diver
 gence makes the iron appear positive, but shortly after it
 changes. That, however, iron gives no current with platinum
 in caustic potash I did not find to be the case. On apply
 ing a very delicate multiplier the current was strong enough
 to place the double needle almost perpendicular to the
 coils.
     3. The following experiments belong to those which at first
 sight appear most strikingly to favour the chemical theory,
 and to which its supporters attach especial importance. Zinc
 with copper gives in distilled water, as also in concentrated
 sulphuric acid, closed, only weak electric currents ; in diluted
 sulphuric acid, n mixture of both fluids, very powerful ones.
 Since it is not probable that the proper conducting power of
 the fluids is changed by their mixture, there remains nothing
 more than to attribute the increased current to the increased
 chemical action which lakes place on diluting the sulphuric
 acid, which produces the increased development of electricity.
 Similar to this is the following experiment: platinum with
 gold gives in pure nitric acid, as also in pure muriatic acid,
 a weak and transient, according to De la Rive's statement, an
imperceptible current, but in aqua regia an apparently strong
one. Many similar examples are mentioned which all belong
to the same class. However, supposing that the mixture of
the fluids does not change their conducting power*, it is still
questionable whether the increased effect in all these cases
produced by increased chemical action does not depend merely
on this, that the opposition to the transfer decreases with the
increase of chemical action. In fact I have shown in my gal
vanic measurements that this opposition is smaller in power-
   [* It appears to us, on the contrary, that the chemical action which
ensues on the mixture of the nitric and muriatic acids, by which they are
both, in part, decomposed, must effect a corresponding change in their
conducting power.—EDIT.]

                    Contact Theory of Galvanism.              371
fully acting fluids. The following experiments will probably
be more decisive with respect to the subject now before us.
   If I bring a fluid between homogeneous plates, a current
ought not to originate according to any theory, on connecting
the plates with the multiplier, from the independent action of
this system; or if \interposea. fluid between homogeneous plates
in an active circuit, this interposition would, according to each
theory, influence the force of the circuit in no other manner
than by its opposing power as long as the plates are un
changed. It then appears: —
   a. That concentrated sulphuric acid inserted in an active
circuit between homogeneous zinc plates or muriatic acid
between homogeneous platinum plates, considerably weakens
the force of this circuit ; a proof that a strong opposition to
the conduction has arisen in the circuit.
   b. That in like manner distilled water inserted in the cir
cuit between homogeneous zinc plates or nitric acid between
homogeneous platinum plates considerably diminishes its
power.
   c. That, however, diluted sulphuric acid inserted in the cir
cuit between homogeneous zinc plates, or a mixture of mu
riatic and nitric acids between homogeneous platinum plates,
weaken the power but little in proportion ; a proof that from
the mixture (and that undoubtedly from the excited chemical
reaction) of the fluids the opposition to the conduction has
really diminished. The details of the experiments are as
follows.
    In the apparatus A a zinc and copper circuit K Z (of each
 plate 11-2 Parisian square inches immersed at 4 lines distance)
 was connected in highly acidulated water with the multiplier
 M (consisting of thick copper wire but not of many coils), and
 the interposed intermediate apparatus which contained the
 zinc plates a a, and either water or fuming sulphuric acid, or
 diluted sulphuric acid, as the exciting fluid. The distance of
 the plates a a was 14 lines, the immersed surface I'l square
 inch. The measure of the power of the current was always
 taken by the first oscillations of the needle, which was placed
                               2 B2

372              G. Th. Fechner's Justification of the
perpendicular to the coils, immediately after the closing, by
means of the method already sufficiently described elsewhere;
and the circuit, immediately re-opened in order to avoid as
much as possible the decrease of action. Moreover, before
each new measurement the active condition of the zinc and
copper circuit was not only restored by being kept long out,
(vide on this subject my measurements of the galvanic cir
cuit,) but even the zinc plates a a, were cleaned by filing.
If the power of the current without the interposed apparatus
was represented by 1000, it became on the insertion of the
intermediate apparatus :
   When
      j. -11thej water                                  . oa^,
                 interposed apparatus was filled withlr U'oz
      distilled                                       J       io
                     with fuming sulphuric acid . . 64'685
                     with diluted sulphuric acid . . S51'04
The last power could not be accurately measured 011 account
of the extreme velocity of the first oscillations, and probably
approaches much closer to the power without the interposed
 apparatus than as stated.
   For the preparation of the dilute sulphuric acid I took, by
estimation, 1 volume of fuming sulphuric acid and 3 volumes
of distilled water.
   On employing platinum instead of zinc plates in the inter
posed apparatus, 1 obtained the following relative current
forces according to the fluids it was charged with, by which,
the value of the current without the interposed apparatus
being again fixed at = 1000,
   When the apparatus was filled with concen-1 \ -7.701
      trated nitric acid                            J     '"'"''
                     with muriatic acid ....             2'5822
                     with nitro-muriatic acid . . 838'3+
   The nitro-muriatic acid was composed of about equal vo
lumes of each acid (I did not however take the sp. gr.). It
is remarkable that the action in the nitro-muriatic acid did
not immediately after closing the circuit attain the assigned
magnitude, but was considerably weaker, but very quickly
rose to thai magnitude, which circumstance I frequently ob
served; while, in the experiment with zinc, sulphuric acid and
water, the power here stated was attained immediately. The
change, on which this increase depended, was an action of
the closure itself, since it was even indicated when the pla
tinum plate had already stood for some time in nitric acid
previously to the closing, and was repeated at new closings
after intervening breaks. In the mean time it cannot be
ascribed to a gradual charging of the plate so far as by that
is understood a change of the electro-motive power, since by

                  Contact Theory of Galvanism.                 373
this the force of the circuit would only have decreased ; for
the platinum plate communicating metallically with the cop
per, indicated itself, not only by a development of gas bub
bles in the circuit, but even by a distinct experiment, the
circuit being made with it after some lapse of time between
the closings, as negative with relation to the copper. The
cause then of the gradually increasing action could only be
sought for in the decrease ot opposition gradually taking place.
    The experiment with the zinc plates was performed twice,
that with the platinum plates three times, on different days, with
results exactly corresponding. Moreover De la Rive affirms
that platinum connected in pure nitric acid with pure gold
produces no current, or rather one which quickly disappears,
which he ascribes to accidental impurities. I have not been
able any more than Marianini to find this circumstance con
firmed; although I employed gold of 'II- carats, and a nitric
acid which when properly diluted was not rendered turbid by
nitrate of silver. Fresh surfaces were given to the metals by
rubbing them with dry sand-paper (I expressly avoided treat
ing them with acids to clean them, because in this case pecu
liar variations of surfaces are to be feared). The divergence
which at the beginning was very lively, decreased, it is true,
considerably, very soon, but remained still constantly in
favour of the positive relation of the gold. A very sen
sitive multiplier of several thousand coils, however, was em
ployed. With the same instrument I have observed an ac
tion not inconsiderable between gold and platina in rectified
 muriatic acid, which however with a multiplier of a medium
 number of coils but of thicker wire, was scarcely percep
 tible. The reasons from Ohm's theory may be sufficiently
 well known with us to lead us to expect, that, in fact, in this
 case, where the circuit includes in itself a considerable op
 position, we can expect action only from a multiplier with
 numerous coils, even when of thin wire.
    Notwithstanding, however, that De la Rive, under the cir
 cumstances of his experiment, could observe no action of a
 gold and platinum circuit, he would undoubtedly have ob
 served it, if he had saturated this acid with nitrate of silver
 in excess, in which case, in fact, in all appearance opposed
 to the chemical theory, a not less considerable divergence is
 obtained than if gold and platinum are connected in a solu
 tion of nitrate of silver only. I am, however, far from giving
 these circumstances an importance against the chemical theory,
 equivalent to that which experiments of apparently an op
 posed kind are made to have in favour of it, for it is certain
 that a solution of nitrate of silver exerts a modified influence
 on the surfaces of gold and platinum, although this is op

374              G. Th. Fechner's Justification of the
posed to ihe common notions of chemistry. It now remains
only to determine whether this changing action of the fluid on
the metal is also the cause of the current. That a solution of
nitrate of silver really effects a change of electrical state in gold
and platinum, will be seen from the following circumstances:
    Gold is negative to platinum in a concentrated solution of
nitrate of silver ( 1 part salt to 8 water) as also in a solution
in some degree diluted, and finally also in nitric acid saturated
to excess with a solution of nitrate of silver; on employing a
solution of nitrate of silver greatly diluted a reversion occurs
           _           i             i
from platinum gold into platinum gold. There are many
other proofs of the resulting change of the platinum to
positive, which I shall here however neglect. Moreover, my
experiments have taught me that even the noble metals are
capable of undergoing the most remarkable electro-chemical
changes in fluids which have generally been considered as
devoid of action upon them. It would however lead us too
far were we to treat on this subject at present.
    It is evident from all of the above, that with the present
 state of science experiments on the weaker or smaller galvanic
 activity of circuits in fluids of apparently greater or smaller
 chemical activity cannot give certain results either favourable
 or unfavourable to the chemical theory. The principal ob
ject is to discover the cause of the peculiar changes which in
many cases the general condition of the metals would not
lead us to expect, that metals undergo in fluids, before we
 can make use of the condition so acquired for the explanation
of other circumstances.
    4. The following experiment against the chemical theory
 I made known a long time ago in Schweigger's Journal, vol.
 Ivii. p. 9, and I should not publish it anew if it had been
 noticed by any one of the supporters of that theory, which
 makes me suppose that it is but little known. This experi
 ment, so easily repeated, and which I annually perform as a
 class experiment, appears to me to be exactly an experimcntum
 crucis against the chemical theory.*
    Let an equal number of pairs of zinc and copper plates
 (I generally employ ten) be arranged in a cauronne des lasses
so as to form a compound circuit arranged as a pile; so, how
 ever, that the one half of the elements tends to produce a cur
rent opposed to that of the other. Let the conducting Suid
be water. If everything is the same in all the cells, the two
opposite currents will compensate each other in action at the
connecting multiplier and will produce no divergence. It
       * See Prof. Schoenbein's remarks on this experiment, in p. 162.

                 Contact Theory of Galvanism.                 375
happens at times that current equilibrium is obtained very ex
actly, and then this equilibrium continues even when any
quantity of muriatic acid is added to the fluid contained in
one of the systems; the one system may even be filled much
higher with dilute acid than that producing the opposite cur
rent is with water. It is true that an ascendency of the one
current is gradually developed, undoubtedly in consequence of
the changing action of the muriatic acid upon the plates, but
it is not the cells with acid, in which a tumultuous development
ofgas takes place, but the water-cells which obtain this ascend
ency. If on the other hand each half of the cells is con
nected by itself by the multiplier, that instrument experiences
from the acid cells a very stormy action, from the water-cells
a weak action merely. How then the result of this experi
ment is to be explained according to the chemical theory,
I cannot conceive. According to the theory of contact the
explanation is easy. For according to this the addition of
muriatic ncid increases the action only by diminishing the
opposition to the conduction present in the circuit, and this
diminution is of as great advantage to the electricity (which is
developed by contact in the cells without acid,) in its entire
circulation through the circuit, as the electricity of the pairs
of plates which are in the very acid fluid. We do not always
succeed in meeting with such homogeneous plates, that when
in the beginning everything has been equalized, equilibrium
shall exist between the pairs of plates of the one and the
other side. Frequently, previous to the addition of the acid
in the cells of the one system, a certain side, in which the
pairs have a somewhat more powerful electro-motive state,
has an ascendency, although if proper precautions have been
taken this is very weak. In this case, however, the experi
ment can be rendered available for our purpose quite as well
by adding at present the acid to that series of cells which ap
pears to be the weakest. According to the chemical theory,
the divergence of the multiplier should now quickly be re
versed, instead of which it increases in the very direction which
it previously had.
   I will add yet the following variation of this experiment,
connected with a measurement.
   On one side five pairs ofzinc and copper plates were arranged
in a couronne des tosses, on the other five pairs of zinc and tin
plates. The vessels of the first system were now filled only
a third part as high as those of the second, the first with
common spring water, the latter with strongly acidulated
water, which caused a very lively development of gas. The
first five plates connected by themselves into a circuit gave

376             G. Th. Fechner's Justification of the
a current which, measured by a multiplier by means of the
initinl oscillations, equalled 1'41 (reckoning the action of the
earth upon the needles of the multiplier =1); the second
system, forming a circuit by itself, produced a current, the
force of which measured in the same manner was expressed
by 44'7. When both circuits were combined into one with
opposed direction of the current, it was evident that the pairs
of zinc and copper plates still retained the ascendency. The
measure of the current resulting from the difference was
0-4.5.
   5. Although the increase of chemical action in common
circuits, not connected by too bad a conductor, indicates a
very remarkable influence on the increase of their power, yet
this favourable influence is lost in proportion to the increased
opposition in the connecting conductor ; thus, for instance,
 the power of the current of a circuit rose, by connexion with
proportionally short and thick wire, by the addition of a cer
 tain quantity of acid, in the proportion of 1 : 191. (The
 plates were newly filed before the introduction of the acid,
 and the power, as in the first case, measured by the initial oscil
 lations only.) As the same experiment was repeated, under
 quite the same circumstances, but by connecting the poles
 with a very long and thin wire which evinced about 7000
 times the opposition of the former, the power rose by equal
 strength of the fluid only in the proportion of 1 : l£ (other
 examples of this kind are enumerated in my galvanic mea
 surements). In the whole chemical theory 1 find no reason
 why the proportion of the increase of power should not be
 the same in both cases. With respect to the contact theory,
 according to which by increasing the strength of the fluid
 there is no increase in the quantity of electricity developed,
 but only a diminution of part of the opposition to the conduc
 tion existing in the circuit, no difficulty here presents itself,
 since thediminution ofa part ofthe entire conductive opposition
 must lose influence in increasing the power of the circuit, in
 the ratio of its smaller amount in proportion to the other parts
 of the opposition of the circuit. If we lengthen the con
 necting wire more and more, it may at last be diminished so
 greatly that the opposition of the fluid becomes insensible.
 III. On the Development ofElectricity by the Contact ofMetals
                           with Fluids.
    There still remains for me to notice some experiments
 which have been enumerated as bearing against the theory
 of contact, but which, properly speaking, merely prove (.per
 haps even appear merely to prove) :

                  Contact Theory of Galvanism.                  377
    1. That it is not solely the contact of metals, or, generally,
solid bodies with one another, which is capable of developing
electricity.
    2. That the excitation of electricity caused by the fluids,
whether from their mutual contact, or from contact with solid
bodies, does not follow exactly the same laws as that which
arises from the mutual contact of solid bodies. The first is
merely a generalization of the theory of contact, already made
by Volta; the latter is no objection against it, since we do
not know what influence the aggregate state has upon the still
obscure process of the development of electricity. Expe
rience certainly shows, undoubtedly, that fluids are not ame
nable to the same law of galvanic tension as solid bodies, or that
if such is the case, secondary consequences resulting from the
mobility of the particles, changes of metallic surface, or other
circumstances, modify the result. The latter is my opinion,
of which I have given a general explanation (although with
out paying sufficient attention to the changes ofmetals) in Biot's
Lehrbuch (Precis), Part III. p. 321. 372., and which, up to the
present time, I have found no inclination to abandon. Then,
almost all the facts recently published by Faraday appear to
me to be for this reason much more important than they are
 represented to be by his own statements. Be this, however,
 as it may, (lor I will force this view on no one) experiments in
 which we see electricity originate even without the contact of
 solid bodies, or so that this is of no influence, and, at the same
 time, thus observe the fluids acting a part different from
 that of solid bodies, cannot give proofs against the theory of
 contact. We must also consider, in this point of view, the
 following experiment by De la Rive, which 1 will relate, to
 gether with my own observations respecting it. It is found,
 with some little variation, in the Reckerches, p. 62.
     " To each end of a wooden cylinder, of from 1 0 to 12 cen
 timetres in length, and 1 to 2 centimetres in diameter, I fast
 ened a plate of zinc, which terminated outwards in a soldered
 brass point; taking at present the brass point of the one plate
 in my hand, I touched the condenser (also of brass) with the
 brass point of the other. According to the theory of contact,
 I ought to have obtained no sign of electrical activity, both
 the zinc and the brass plates lying opposite to each other,
 and being united by an insulated piece ofwood which perform
 ed the office of conductor between both plates. Because, how
 ever, the one end of the wooden cylinder was moister than the
  other, I obtained signs of electricity, the nature of which bore
  a constant ratio to the chemical action, which was excited by
 the contact of the carefully brightened zinc with the moist

378 G. Th. Fechner on the Contact Theory of Galvanism.
wood. These signs of electricity were negative, when I held
between the fingers the brass point of that zinc plate, the other
end of which was fastened in the less moist part of the wood.
For the success of this experiment, it is necessary that the
wood be somewhat moist ; the moisture which it attracts from
the air is perfectly sufficient ; care must also be taken that the
one end of the wood be kept drier than the other."
   The truth of the result of the following, certainly interest
ing experiment, has been doubted, but it is certainly correct,
as I have often convinced myself by a frequent and more care
ful repetition of it in the following easy manner.
    Upon the zinc surface of a soldered zinc and copper plate
were laid three or four equally large or somewhat larger leaves
of air-dried writing paper, the top one moistened with distilled
water, and upon this was placed, by the zinc surface, a
second soldered zinc and copper plate ; so that a system of
the following order was formed : copper, zinc, dry paper,
moist paper, zinc, copper. The zinc and copper were filed
quite bright, and I had convinced myself that if I tried the
system omitting the moist paper, at the copper condenser no
development of electricity could be detected. When, however,
 I now applied the system with the inserted moist paper to the
condenser in such a manner that the double plate lying on the
 moist paper came into connexion with it, while the other
 double plate stood in connexion with the earth by means of
 the fingers, either air-dried or sprinkled with distilled water,
 there was obtained, in accordance with De la Rive, a negative
 divergence, and a positive one on the contrary by reversion of
 the system. The same phenomena took place, if instead of
 distilled water I employed water acidulated by nitric acid for
 the purpose of moistening.
    These experiments I have also varied and simplified in the
 following way:
    Between two zinc plates, without copper, were arranged
 several layers of air-dried writing paper, and the one extreme
 layer on which lay the ainc plate was moistened with distilled
 or nitric-acidulate water. Sometimes the zinc plate situated
 on the dry, sometimes that situated on the moist layer of paper
 was put in connexion with a condenser of zinc. This expe
 riment, still more simplified, maybe performed as follows:
let a zinc rod be wound round at one end with air.dried
 blotting paper ; at the other, with blotting paper which has
 been moistened with spring or with distilled water. Accord
 ing now to the circumstance whether the dry or wet paper is
 discharged at the (brass) condenser, while at the same time
 the other paper is held with the fingers, do we obtain a posi

  Dr. G. Bird on certain Properties of Platina Electrodes. 879
live or negative divergence. The discharge took place in both
my cases on a leaf of writing paper moistened with distilled
water, which was applied to the inferior plate of the condenser,
while another leaf of moist paper covering the upper plate was .
touched with the fingers in order to make everything alike on
both sides with respect to the condenser. The most simple
form of the experiment might however be this ; that a zinc
condenser plate should be immediately touched with the moist
fingers, which, as others have already observed, is sufficient to
produce a negative shock. I do not say that this experiment
is as yet explained agreeably to the contact theory, but as little
could any one' find in it a proof of the chemical theory. More
over, this may be viewed in connexion with other much more
important experiments which promise at least a partial ex
planation of it, of which, however, it is not now my intention
to treat.
L.      Observations on some peculiar Properties acquired by
   Plates of Platina, which have been used as the Electrodes
    ofa Voltaic Battery. By GOLDING BIRD, M.D.F.L.S. F. G.S.,
    Sfc., Lecturer on Natural Philosophy at Guy's Hospital.
            influence of platina positive electrodes in effect-
       ing the combination of oxygen and hydrogen are well
known to philosophers ; some phenomena which may be pro
bably referred to the same class have lately fallen under my
notice, and are interesting from their appearing to prove that
metals which have served as electrodes retain a polar state
long after connexion with the battery is broken.
    It was stated some time ago in a philosophical journal that
when the platina plates of the ordinary apparatus used for ex
hibiting the decomposition of water by voltaic electricity on
the lecture table, were placed in conducting communication
with a piece of zinc immersed in the acidulated water with
which the apparatus was filled, the hydrogen evolved at the
surface of one plate was twice the volume of that given off at
 the other. The author of this statement added that he was
 unable to give any explanation of the fact, nor did he offer
 any remarks upon it. This phenomenon appeared to be of
 sufficient interest to deserve a more extended examination,
 and I have had the pleasure of observing several curious facts
 in connexion with it.
     Exp. 1. A glass basin was furnished with two equal sized
 plates of plalina passing through its bottom 1 '5 inches apart,
 each connected by copper wires to a brass cup for holding

380 Dr. G. Bird on certain Properties acquired by the
mercury ; these cups, and the platina plates connected with
them, may be called respectively A and B. The basin was
filled with dilute sulphuric acid, and a tube full of the same
fluid inverted over each plate of platina ; a rod of amalgamated
zinc, to one end of which was soldered two thin copper wires,
was immersed in the contents of the basin, and the ends of
the wires dipped into the cups of mercury A and B, by which
the rod became metallically connected with the platina plates.
Rapid decomposition of water instantly commenced, bubbles
of hydrogen being evolved from the platina surfaces : in five
minutes the tubes were examined, and instead of the gas col
lected being in equal volume in either tube, as would a priori
be expected, I found, ns stated by the original observer, that
one contained nearly twice as much as the other.
   Upon reflecting on this experiment, I suspected that as the
apparatus had been employed as a volta-electrometer a short
time previously, the platina plates might have assumed and
retained some peculiar state from their connexion with the
battery.
   Exp. 2. The basin filled with the dilute acid was connected
with a battery of six alternations of zinc and copper, separated
by jars of porous earthenware and excited by sulphate of
copper and sulphate of soda ; the cup A was connected with
the negative, and B with the positive wire : decomposition of
water was allowed to proceed for a few minutes, contact was
then broken with the battery ; the tubes filled with diluted
acid were inverted over the respective plates and the amal
gamated zinc immersed in the acid, its wires dipping into A
and B. Hydrogen was copiously evolved at the surfaces of
the platina, and in 10 minutes the zinc was removed.
   In the tube over the plate A was collected 1- inch hydrogen.
                              B                2-15
   During the evolution of gas, the difference in the appear
ance of the bubbles from the two plates was remarkable : those
from the plate B were large, rose rapidly to the top of the
tube, and were given off from isolated points of the electrode ;
whilst those from A were small, rose much slower in the
tube, and were given off from every part of the plate, re
sembling the bubbles of oxygen evolved in the voltaic decom
position of water. It is remarkable that the platina plate (A),
which when in connexion with the battery gave off the great
est volume of gas, (hydrogen) now evolved the smallest, and
that (B), which had evolved the smallest (oxygen), now gave
off twice the volume of the other. It is needless to state that
the gas in both tubes was hydrogen.
   Exp. a. The apparatus was refilled, again connected with

             Platina Electrodes of a Voltaic Battery.        381
the battery, the plate A to the positive and B to the negative
for a few minutes ; the connexions being broken, the zinc rod
was immersed as in the last experiment, its wires dipping into
the cups A and B ; hydrogen was again evolved ami collected
in the tubes.
            In that over the plate AB was found 2-11-0
    These experiments clearly pointed out, that the cause of
the difference in volume of evolved hydrogen was to be sought
in some change produced by connexion with the battery;
what that change consisted in was less obvious. I suspected
that a polar state might probably have been communicated to
the electrodes by the passage of the battery current.
    Exp. 4. The cups A and B were again connected with the
battery, A with the negative, B with the positive wire for a
few minutes ; the connexions were then broken, and a galvano
meter of very delicate construction connected with the cups.
The needles instantly deviated with considerable velocity to
90° ; the connexion was broken, and in 1 minute renewed with
the galvanometer ; the needles deviated to the same amount
but with less velocity. In o minutes, contact being again
made, a deviation of 85° ensued, and in 15 minutes the ex
periment was repeated and a deviation of only 4° took place.
    Exp. 5. The cup A was connected with the positive and B
with the negative side of the battery during 6 minutes, and
then the connexion was broken. On dipping the galvanometer
wires into A and B, deviation of the needles to 90° ensued as
in the last experiment, but in the opposite direction.
    In both experiments, that platina plate which had been in
connexion with the negative side of the battery and had then
 evolved hydrogen, appeared to be positive, deviating the gal
 vanometer needles in the same direction as a piece of zinc.
    The galvanometer made use of was extremely sensible,
 with light and nearly astatic needles suspended by a few fibres
 of unspun silk: the coil consisted of about 600 convolutions
 of well annealed and insulated copper wire wound on a frame
 on Nervander's construction. The frame being moveable on
 its axis could be brought into any position with regard to the
 needles.
    The temporary polar condition assumed by platina elec
 trodes after connexion with the battery has been before
 pointed out by De la Rive and other physicists, a rationale
 has also been proposed for it by Becquerel ( Traite de I'Elec-
 tricite, &c. 3. 109). This philosopher has only mentioned
 the case when the electrodes have been immersed in a saline
 solution, and alter the contact with the battery is broken, con

382     Dr. G. Bird on certain Properties acquired by the
nexion made with the galvanometer; the deviation of the
needles produced he attributes to minute films of acid and
alkali adhering to the electrodes, combining to re-form the
salt electrolyzed by the previous passage of the battery cur
rent, and thus give rise to a weak secondary current in a di
rection the I'everse of that of the battery. This explanation
will, I think, hardly apply in the above experiments, as the
electrolyte was dilute sulphuric acid, and no other elements
present, separable by the electricity, whose reunion could ex
cite a current except oxygen and hydrogen ; and even if the
polar state be attributed to the previous decomposition of in
finitely minute quantities of saline matter accidentally present,
still it would require more satisfactory evidence than we yet
possess to show that the recombination of the separated ele
ments of the salts would develop sufficient electricity to act
with such energy on the galvanometer, particularly as the
late experiments of Dr. Mohr, of Coblentz, have rendered it
very doubtful whether electric currents are ever set in motion
during the combination of an alkali with an acid except in the
solitary case of nitric acid, and which then may, perhaps, be
attributed to a very different cause*.
    For the purpose of discovering some clue to the cause of
this curious phenomenon, the following experiments were per
formed.
    Exp. 6. The cup A was connected to the negative and B
to the positive wire of the battery ; the connexion being re
moved, the deviation produced by connecting A and B to the
galvanometer was ascertained to be 90°: the glass basin was
then emptied of its acid, and set aside for 48 hours ; at the
expiration of that time it was refilled with dilute sulphuric
acid and connected again with the galvanometer; the needles
deviated to 6° in the same direction as in Exp. 5.
    Exp. 7. The galvanometer wires being removed, the amal
gamated zinc rod was immersed in the acid contained in the
basin, its two wires dipping into the cups A and B ; gas was
as before evolved from both platina plates; this was collected
in separate tubes and measured.
                                                  inches.
    In the tube over the plate A was found 1 -95 gas = 1 -O
                                  B               2-20 — = 1-13
    Exp. 8. The cups A and B were connected with the batten-
as in Exp. 6, for five minutes ; the apparatus was removed from
the battery, and set aside for 48 hours full of the acid. On
   • " Ueber Becquerel's Einfache Kette, cleren Strom ails dem Verbin-
tlnng von Sunre und Alkali enstehen soil."—Von Dr. Mohr, Poggeiatorf,
Annulen, xlii. p. 76.

              Platina Electrodes of a Voltaic Battery.          383
 then making a communication with the galvanometer, the
 needles moved to 30°.
    Exp. 9. The galvanometer being removed, the zinc rod
 was immersed as in Exp. 7, and the hydrogen given off col
 lected in separate tubes.
       In the tube over plate A was found 4-20 inches = I'O
                              B            fi-15       =1-23
    Exp. 10. The cup A was connected to the negative and B
to the positive side of the battery : decomposition of water was
allowed to proceed for 5 minutes; the wires were then re
moved, the basin emptied of its contents, and repeatedly rinsed
out with cold water. It was then refilled with dilute sulphuric
acid, the rod of amalgamated zinc immersed, its wires dipping
into the cups A and B : the hydrogen evolved was collected
and measured.
     In the tube over the plate A was found 1 '3 inches = I'O
                                TJ
                                L '
                                              i .7
                                              A  i      ~~
                                                           i .0
                                                           4  'J
    Exp. 11. The basin of the apparatus was filled with the
dilute acid, connected with the battery for 20 minutes,
emptied, washed out with cold water, refilled with acid and
connected with the galvanometer ; again placed in communi
cation with the battery for the same time, emptied, and
washed out with boiling water : this was repeated, the plates
of plntina being washed with a solution of potass, and in a
fourth experiment with nitric acid ; the basin being always
refilled with the same dilute sulphuric acid before being con
nected with the galvanometer. The deviations produced
were—
   After washing the electrodes with cold water            80°
                                        boiling water      73°
                                        solution potass ...45°
   ————————————— nitric acid                               4°
   Exp. 12. The basin of the apparatus was filled with a
solution of pure potass, sp. gr. 1'064 and connected with the
 battery during 5 minutes as in the preceding experiments.
On then dipping the galvanometer wires into the cups A and
B, the needles deviated to 45°. The basin was then emptied,
washed out with cold water, and refilled with the alkaline
fluid : on making connexion with the galvanometer, the needles
only indicated 5°.
   Exp. 13. The basin filled with the solution of potass was
again connected with the battery as in the last experiment; it
was then emptied, filled with dilute sulphuric acid and con
nected with the galvanometer: the needles instantly deviated
to 90° with, considerable velocity.
   In all these experiments the direction of the deviations was

 384'    Dr. G. Bird on certain Properties acquired by the
 constant ; the plate of platina, which had during connexion
 with the battery evolved hydrogen, always being positive, and
 acted on the galvanometer like a piece of zinc. No appreci
 able difference in the surfaces of the platina plates with regard
 to lustre, &c., was observed. From the results of these ex
 periments, we are, I think, hardly warranted in supposing with
  Becquerel, that the polar state of the plates arose from a
 film of acid and alkali adhering to them, although in other
 cases that this may be the cause of the polarized condition of
 the electrodes no one who has read the remarks of this distin
 guished philosopher on the battery of constant currents can
 doubt (Trails, 5. 219.), and perhaps Exp. 13 may admit of an
 explanation of this kind. The fact of the polar state being to
 a great extent retained after washing the plates with water,
alkalies, exposure to the action of acids for 48 hours, &c., is
 certainly opposed to the hypothesis of Becquerel, although I
 am aware that films of sulphuric acid cannot be entirely re
 moved from plates of platina by washing, as Dr. Faraday has
 satisfactorily shown. The direction of the secondary currents,
being opposed to that of the battery currents, appeared at first
to connect these phenomena with those of electro-dynamic
induction. The fact of the secondary current being continuous
for some time and gradually disappearing, instead of being
only of momentary duration, might be supposed to arise from
the badly conducting nature of the fluid connecting the plates
of platina ; this hypothesis, suggested by some experiments,
 was at once refuted by the secondary currents being detected
 by the galvanometer, after emptying the glass basin and
filling it viitlifresh dilute acid.
    The cause of the evolution of a double volume of hydrogen
from the positive plate is less mysterious, this being evidently
analogous to the phenomena observed by Dr. Faraday in his
researches on the action of platina plates in effecting the com
bination of oxygen and hydrogen gases ; he found that the
plates which had served for positive electrodes were very
energetic in producing this combination, whilst the negative
electrode was quite inactive, and this difference he attributed
to the surface of the positive plate being more polished,- and
freer from foreign matter than the negative. This view was
confirmed by the fact of the negative plates becoming active
by mechanically cleaning them. In the same manner I con
sider that the positive plates when connected metallically
with the zinc rod, evolved a larger volume of hydrogen in a
given time than the negative, because their surfaces were per
fectly free from accidental tarnish, which although not readily
appreciable by the eye, yet materially affects their electrical

             Platina Electrodes of a Voltak Battery.            385
condition. On this hypothesis the results of the other ex
periments may be explained: thus the volumes of gas evolved
from the plates became more equal after the platina had been
exposed to the action of those agents which would tend to re
move superficial impurities (Exp. 9, 10, &c.) ; and the intensity
of action on the galvanometer appeared to be connected with
a similar state (Exp. 11,) as the electric condition of the plates
became nearly equal, after washing them with nitric acid, a
deviation of only 4° taking place. What the substance is,
whose invisible deposition on the negative plate causes this
current, is conjectural ; that it is not an alkali, as Becquerel
has suggested, is I think proved by the positive electric con
dition not being removed by dilute sulphuric acid, as well as
from the almost infinitesimally minute quantity of saline mat
ter present in the electrolyte employed in my experiments.
That a very small quantity of foreign matter is sufficient to
produce a very considerable action on the galvanometer is
proved, by using for these experiments the dilute acid that
has been previously employed for the generation of gas from
the amalgamated rod, instead of fresh portions of that fluid ;
the minute and imperceptible portion of zinc reduced on the
negative electrode producing most intense action on a very
delicate galvanometer.
     The negative plate I found became capable of evolving as
 large a volume of gas as the positive electrode, by scouring it
 with nitric acid and fine sand, evidently proving its former
 comparatively inactive state to depend upon some superficial
 deposition ; the same result was obtained by employing both
 plates simultaneously as positive electrodes.
     Exp. 14. Two copper wires were for this purpose screwed
 upon the last copper plate of the battery, an end of each dip
 ping into one of the cups A and B, the wire from the last
 zinc plate dipping into the dilute acid in the basin ; under
 these circumstances both platina plates evolved oxygen, and
 were of course positive electrodes. On then breaking battery
 connexion and dipping the zinc rod into the acid, its wires
 being immersed into the cups A and B, equal volumes of gas
 were evolved, cazteris paribus, from both plates.
     From the results of this investigation I think I am justified
 in referring all the phenomena observed to the peculiar con
  dition of surface assumed by the platina plate that has served
  as the negative electrode, its inactive state quoad the evol ution
  of hydrogen, and its active state quoad the galvanometric cur
  rent, depending upon one and the same cause, viz. the depo
  sition of infinitesimally minute portions of foreign matter on
  it, which serves to diminish the rapidity of the evolution of
      Phil. Mag. S.3. Vol. 13. No. 83. Nov. 1838.          2 C

886                       Geological Society.
gas nt its surface, whilst, in consequence of its being attacked
and ultimately dissolved by acids, it causes the platina plate
covered by it to assume a positive state, and act as such upon
a delicate galvanometer. That the substance deposited is
not an alkali, or anything very soluble in water or acids, has
been, I think, quite proved ; perhaps it may differ according
to the nature of the electrolyte employed.
   22, Wilmington Square, Sept. 29, 1838.
              LI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                        [Continued from p. 310.]
   June 6th.—A paper was first read, " On Spirolinites in Chalk
and Chalk-flints ; " by the Marquis of Northampton, F.G.S.
   The fossils described in this memoir were chiefly found in the
flints of Sussex ; and though above two hundred specimens, more
or less perfect, have been discovered by the author in that county,
he has very rarely met with the genus elsewhere. They have been
also found in the same county by the Rev. G. Smith and Mr. Wal
ter Mantell. They occur more frequently in the grey than the black
flints; and are sometimes accompanied by innumerable minute frag-
ments of other organic bodies. The size of the beat-preserved spe
cimens, including the prolongation, is about one-third of an inch;
and the number of chambers or divisions varies in the same species.
    Of the six epecies described in the paper, one had been previously
named, by Mr. Mantell, Spirolinites Comptoni, and the other five have
been named by the Marquis of Northampton, S.Afurchisotii, S. Sloketii,
S. Lgellii, S. Mantellii, and S. Bucklandii; the author, however,
stated that it is exceedingly difficult to determine satisfactorily
specific differences, especially in such minute fossils, imbedded in
flint, and exposed only by accidental fracture.
    A communication was next read, entitled, " A Note to accompany
 Specimens of Quicksilver Ore from the mine San Onofre, near the
town of El Doctor, Mexico." By John Taylor, Esq., Treas. G.S.
    Though quicksilver had been known for some time to exist in
Mexico, yet few attempts had been made to ascertain to what ei-
tent, till the increased prices and demand induced the directors of
the Real del Monte and Bolaiios Mining Companies to have re
searches made. Ores of that metal have, in consequence, been dis
covered and traced in districts very remote from each other; but
Mr. Taylor confined his remarks to the locality at which the speci
mens presented to the Society were obtained.
    The ores of San Onofre are chiefly cinnabar, partly hepatic, bot
native quicksilver occurs, and native calomel. They are stated to
exist in a regular vein, two or three yards in width, the gangue
consisting of carbonate of lime, with sulphate of barytes, and a small
portion of silex. It traverses a limestone hill of considerable height,
and appears to have been worked in former times.

     Dr. Buckland on Fossil Fishes in the Bagshot Sands. 387
    Extracts were also read from a letter addressed to John Taylor,
 Esq., Treas. G.S., by Mr. Frederick Edmonds, explanatory of some
 specimens of obsidian from the mountain of Real del Monte, Mex
ico, collected by Mr. Frederick Edmonds, and presented to the
 Society by Mr. Taylor.
    About half a mile from the ancient obsidian mines is the Cerro
de las Navajas, in which several passages may be observed from
an earthy felspathic rock to perfect obsidian. Although no good
section is exposed, the obsidian is stated to occur in irregular beds,
 chiefly vertical, and Mr. Edmonds is of opinion, that it has been de
rived from the fusion of the felspathic rock under pressure. The
collection presented to the Society's museum, contained a specimen
of calcareous tuff from the thermal springs of El Grande.
    A notice was next read of a specimen of Jthe Oar's Rock, nine
miles south of Little Hampton, Sussex, by Roderick Impey Mur-
chison, Esq., V.P.G.S.
    The specimen consists of a calcareous grit, bearing no resemblance
to the Bognor rock, or other beds above the chalk, but agrees with
some of the beds in the green sands below that formation, or with the
Portland beds. Mr. Murchison's principal object in laying this no
tice before the Society was to point out that the Oar's Rock is be
tween the parallels of disturbance which traverse the Wealden of
Sussex on the north, and the Isle of Wight on the south, the inter
mediate space being also traversed by the protruded chalk-outliers
of Portsdown Hill, north of Portsmouth, and High-down Hill near
Worthing, described by Mr. Martin*. Mr. Murchison, therefore,
inferred that the Oar's Rock may indicate the protrusion of strata
at that point. He noticed likewise the earthquakes so frequently
felt at Chichester, which is situated intermediate between Portsdown
 Hill and Highdown Hill.
    A paper was then read, " On the discovery of Fossil Fishes in the
Bagshot sands at Goldworth Hill, 4 miles north of Guildford;" by
the Rev. William Buckland, D.D., F.G.S.
    These remains were recently obtained in cutting through the
 summit of Goldworth Hill, on the line of the London and South
ampton Railway, and their preservation is due to Mr. Sibthorpe of
 Guildford. The only organic bodies previously discovered in the Bag-
 shot sand are the casts of shells found near Chobham Park, and no
ticed in Mr. Warburton's account of the formation.-f The fossils
 described by Dr. Buckland, were obtained from a bed of greenish
 sand, the sixth from the top of the section ; and they consist of a
 few imperfect casts of marine shells, and the remains of marine
 fishes. The most numerous among the latter are the teeth of sharks,
 and the palates and teeth of rays, similar to those which abound in
 the London clay. One large tooth of a saw-fish, procured from the
 same bed, affords the nrst well-authenticated example of the discovery,
 in England, of the genus Pristis. In addition to these remains, three
    • Geological Memoir on part of Western Sussex, p. 93, 1828. [Or
 Phil. Mag. and Annals, N. S., vol. iv. p. 46.]
    t Geological Transactions, 2nd Series, vol. i. p. 48.
                                   2 C 2

S88                       Geological Society.
forms of cartilaginous fishes, and a few vertebre of bony fishes, resem
bling those procured in Sheppey, have been found , also three new genera
of fishes. For the latter Dr. Buckland proposes the names of Eda-
phodon, Passalodon, and Ameibodon. In the first genus the struc
ture of the teeth is nearly allied to that of the broad and flat palates
so common in the oolitic and carboniferous limestones. There were
three of these teeth in the upper jaw, and three in the lower on each
side, and they were disposed so as to form a pavement, arming the
interior of the mouth with powerful instruments for crushing shells.
Their surface is pitted with minute depressions, disposed in nearly the
same manner as in the genus Psammodus. The body of each tooth
also, as in Psammodus, is composed of hollow, long, cylindrical co
lumns, placed nearly at right angles to the working surface. The
bones to which the teeth are attached, are not granulated as in car
tilaginous fishes; but are cancellated after the manner of bony fishes.
The mode of insertion of the teeth in both jaws offers many pecu
liarities, as they are placed in nearly horizontal, long sockets, and
 maintained by continual growth from the posterior extremity of each
 tooth. Details were given of the genera Passalodon and Ameibodo* ;
 and it was stated that Edaphodon and Passalodon offer combinations
 of the characters of cartilaginous and bony fishes. In the stratum
 in which these remains were found, Mr. Sibthorpe has also dis
 covered portions of the carapace of an Emys, resembling that of the
 London clay; and Sir Philip Egerton possesses a fragment of a tooth
 found at Sheppey resembling the teeth of the Edaphodoa of Gold-
 worth Hill. From the agreement, therefore, in the fossils of that lo
 cality with those of the London clay, Mr. Lyell's opinion, that the
 Bagshot sand was deposited during the eocene period, has received
 additional support.
    A notice, by Dr. Buckland, was afterwards read " On the disco
very of a fossil wing of a Neuropterous Insect in the Stonesfield
 slate."           t
    The elytra of several species of coleopterous insects have been, for
some time, known to occur in the Stonesfield slate, but Dr. Buck-
land believes that this is the first discovery of any remains of Nevro-
ptera. The wings of Libellulie are not unfrequent at Solenhofen ;
 and a neuropterous wing, resembling that of a Corydalis, has been
discovered by Mr. Mantell in an ironstone nodule from Coalbrook
Dale. To the notice was appended a description of the wing by
Mr. Westwood, from which the following is an extract :—" I have
compared the fossil insect wing with the various genera of neuro
 pterous insects, both indigenous and exotic, but it agrees with none
 of them. I apprehend there can be no doubt that it belonged to a
 tetrapterous insect, and to the order Neuroptera."
    Dr. Buckland proposes to call the fossil insect Hemerobio'idet yi-
ganteus, from its being more nearly allied to the recent genus Heau-
robius than to any other at present known.
    The last paper read was on some species of Orthocerata ; by Charles
Stokes, Esq., F.G.S.
   In Dr. Bigsby's paper on the geography and geology of Lake

                      Mr. Stokes on Orthocerata.                            389
 Huron* some Orthocerata of peculiar forms are described ; but since
 the publication of that memoir, Mr. Stokes has received many
 other specimens, collected during the expeditions of Sir Edward
 Parry, Sir John Franklin, the late Capt. Lyon, and Capt. Back, and
 by Capt. Bayfield during his survey of the lakes and the river St.
 Lawrence. The object of the present communication is to describe
 some species indicating generic separations among the Orthocerata,
and to call attention to certain considerations respecting the relations
of the shells to the animals to which they belonged.
   The first generic distinction adopted by Mr. Stokes consists in a
large siphuncule, much dilated in each chamber, and contracted at
the parts where the septa are attached to it. Within the siphun
cule is a continuous tube which appears to have been capable of ex
pansion or contraction, and is furnished with radii in verticillations,
which connect the tube with the walls of the siphon. For this
genus he retains the name of Actinoceras, given by Bronnf to
figures 1 —3, PI. 25, vol. i. N.S. of the Geological Transactions.
Four species have been established by Mr. Stokes ; namely, Acti
noceras Lyonii from Igloolik and Ooglit ; A. Bigsbii from Thessalon
Island, in Lake Huron ; A. Richardsonii from Lake Winipeg ; and
A. Simmsii from Castle Espie, in the County of Down, Ireland.
   The character of the second genus is a siphunculus, similar in
external form to the preceding, but the inner part is divided into
portions corresponding in number with the chambers, and deeply
indented in the middle, where the septa of the shell are attached to
them ; so that «ne half of each division of the siphuncule is in one
chamber, and the other half in the next chamber. The opening or
interior passage is comparatively small, and the inner and outer
walls of these divided portions, which are separated by a consider
able space, are beautifully curved. From the resemblance of the
siphuncule to a row of beads, Mr. Stokes proposes to call the
genus Ormoceras. Three species were described, all of them ob
tained from Drummond Island in Lake Huron ; Ormoceras Bayfieldii,
O. Backii, and 0. Whitei.
   Among the fossils noticed in Ur. Bigsby's paper, were several which
Mr. Stokes then considered to be corals, from the internal plates, and
to which he gave the generic name of Hurania\. He has, however,
since discovered, that they do not possess the peculiar central struc
ture, exhibited by the greater number of the lamelliferous corals ;
but that they have a continuous central opening ; and, from the ex
amination of other specimens, he now considers that these bodies are
the siphuncules of true Orthocerata. He proposes, nevertheless, to
retain the generic name of Huronia; and has called the only species,
yet found with traces of the septa, Huronia Portlockii.
   Mr. Stokes then offered some remarks " respecting the relations
of the shell to the animal to which it belonged." From the si-
   • Geological Transactions, 2nd Series, vol. i. p. 195 etteq. Pis. 25 and 26.
   t Lethta gengnostica, vol. i. p. 98. tab. i. fig. 8. 1835.
   X Geological Transactions, 2nd Series, vol. i. p. 202, PI. 28.

390             Royal Geological Society ofCornwall.
phuncule being so often preserved without the external portion of
the shell, and the latter, including the septa, being, when retained,
extremely thin, he is of opinion that the shell must have been en
veloped in the animal to protect it from injury. This view of the
relation of the shell to the soft portions of the creature, he is of
opinion, receives confirmation from, his having observed only one
instance of a parasitic body being attached to Orthocerala. In this
instance, indeed, there are evidences that the parasite, a coral, must
have been formed after the death of the animal of the shell (Actuto-
ceras Simmsif), for the specimen exhibits in some parts, layers of
earthy matter, alternating with layers of the coral ; and, therefore,
the growth of the latter must have been more than once inter
rupted by the deposition of sediment. The memoir concluded with
some remarks on a peculiar subdivision in the septa towards the
outer wall of one side of the chambers, noticed by the author in
several specimens of Ormoceras, in an Ortkoceras from Russia, and
in Lituites; but he refrained from offering any opinion, whether
this character is common to the family of Orthoceratid*, or is con
fined to certain genera only.
   This being the last evening of the Session, the Society adjourned
to Wednesday, November the 7th.
            ROYAL GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF CORNWALL.
    At the Anniversary Meeting held on the 28th of September, 1 838,
the President, Davies Gilbert, Esq.. D.C.L., F.R.S., in the Chair,
the Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Council wa» read.
    After noticing Her Majesty's reception of the address of congratu
lation and condolence from the Society, and her consent to be its
 Patroness, the Council proceed as follows :
    " The Map (of what may perhaps not improperly be termed the
surface Geology) of Cornwall, executed by Mr. De la Beche, and the
 illustrative Memoir by which it is to be accompanied,—anticipated
 in the last Report,—have not yet appeared.
    " Unforeseen circumstances, chiefly on the part of the printer,
 have delayed the appearance of the Fifth Volume of the Society's
 Transactions ; but a considerable portion of it, embracing a \arst
 part of Mr. Henwood's Memoir on the Mines of the County, on which
 he has been more or less occupied for twelve years past, is now on
 the table ; and, the surveys being all completed, it will be published
 in the early part of the ensuing year.
    " Dr. Boase has been compelled to delay his Memoir on the di
 luvium and other transported matter of Cornwall ; but it is only de
 ferred, not withdrawn, and will occupy a prominent place in the
 next volume of Transactions.
    " The Donations to the Museum and Library, during the past year,
 have not been very numerous, but in value they have not been often
exceeded : among others, the Council desire to particularize the ex
 tensive collection of Organic Remains from the Chalk of Sussex,
presented by Mrs. Davies Gilbert ; an excellent series of the mag-
nesian limestone from Northumberland, by W. Mansel Twe«dy, Esq. ;

                Royal Geological Society of Cornwall.                 391
 a beautiful suite of Madrepore limestones from the neighbourhood
 of Torquay, by John Edward Lee, Esq. ; a second contribution il
 lustrative of the geology of India, by the Rev. George Pigott (late
 librarian to the Society) ; some splendid coal fossils from Radstock,
 by Henry Pendarves Tremenheere, Esq. ; the Rev. Canon Rogers's
 valuable suite of specimens from the Serpentine of Pennare Point,
 in this county ; an admirable series of the rocks and minerals of
 the Wherry Mine, by Richard Pearce, Esq. ; and some very beautiful
 minerals from Cuba, by John Garby, Esq.
    " The Council also notice with peculiar satisfaction the interest
 shown in the advancement of the Society, by the practical miners of
 the county ; and they refer particularly to the valuable donations
 of Messrs. William Francis of the Consolidated Mines, John Williams
 of the Virtuous Lady Mine, and John Lyle of the Carn Brea Mines ;
Mr. Peach has also, in the present year, made considerable additions
to the collection of organic remains which he presented at the last
anniversary.
    " The establishment of an Academy for Instruction in the Arts
and Sciences, connected with mining in Cornwall, has been a long-
cherished object of the Society ; but it is obvious that such an in
stitution is not likely to be formed, until the mining interest in ge
neral shall be convinced of its utility'and necessity, and shall express
their opinion in its favour. The Council rejoice in the belief that
this conviction is increasing ; and that it will not be long before,
either by the establishment of a kind of experimental college, or by
the periodical visits of the principal professors of the arts and sciences
connected with mining, the reproach which has been long and de
servedly applied to Cornwall, or rather to England, that, with the
richest and most instructive mining field in Europe, it is behind
almost every other nation in furnishing scientific information to its
mining population in general, and in providing the means of leading
those on whom the management of the mines principally depends,
into the higher parts of the sciences which bear upon the theory and
the practice of mining,—will be entirely wiped away.
   " During the meeting of the British Association at Newcastle, a
committee was appointed for the purpose of assisting different mining
districts in an united effort to originate a school for instruction in
the arts and sciences, connected with mining, on an enlarged scale ;
and the council embrace the present opportunity of calling on the
members, and all who are in any way connected with the mining
interest of this County, and the interests of science generally, to use
their best exertions to promote so important an object."
   The following papers have been read since the last Report. Notes
on the Serpentine of Pennare Point. By the Rev. Canon Rogers,
A.M., Member of the Society. Notice of a raised beach immedi
ately under a part of the Town of Penzance. By Joseph Came,
Esq.. F.R.S., &c. On the joints in the Chalk of Beachy-head.
By John S. Enys, Esq., Member of the Society. On the metal
lic copper found in the turbaries near Dolgelley, Merioneth. By
W. J. Henwood, F.G.S., London and Paris, H.M., Assay Master

392            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 of Tin in the Duchy of Cornwall. Secretary to the Society, and Cu
 rator of the Museum. On the assaying of copper ores by means
 of Galvanism. By Martyn J. Roberts, Esq., Corresponding Member
 of the Society. On the expansive action of steam in the cylinders
 of the Cornish Pumping Engines. By W. J. Henwood, F.G.S.,
 Hon. M.Y.P.S., &c. On the rocks associated with the metalliferous
 formations of the Wherry Mine. By Kit-hard Pearce, Esq., Member
 of the Society. On the organic remains in the slates of Paraver,
 Parr, Polkerris, Fowey, and Polruan. By C. W. Peach, Esq., As
 sociate of the Society. On the raised Beaches of Portscathoe. By
 John S. Enys, Esq., Member of the Society. On a section of the
 cliffs on the north coast of Cornwall, from Cligga Point to Lower
 Saint Columb Porth. By W. J. Henwood, F.G.S., Corresponding
 Member of the Plymouth Institution. On some improved methods
 of blasting rocks. By Martyn J. Roberts, Esq. An account of the
 Quantity of Tin produced in Cornwall and Devon, in the year ending
 with the Midsummer Quarter, 1838. By Joseph Carne, Esq., F.R.
 & G.S., M.R.I. A., &c. An account of the Quantity of Copper pro
 duced in Great Britain and Ireland, in the year ending 30th June,
 1838. By Alfred Jenkyn, Esq.
    The following Gentlemen have been elected since the last Report.
 Corresponding Members.— John Edward Lee, Esq., of Hull. Martyn
 J. Roberts, Esq. Ordinary Members.—Vincent Pryce, Esq., of
 Redruth. Frederick Rogers, Esq. The Rev. George Boraston, of
 Kenegie. The Rev. H. Comyn, of Sancreed. Edwin Ley, Esq.
 John Vigurs, Esq. Associates. —Captain John Lyle, of Camborne.
 Captain James Evans, of St. Agnes. John Garby, Esq., of Redruth.
    Officers and Council for the present Year. President. — Davies
 Gilbert, Esq., D.C.L., V.P.R.S., &c, &c. Vice-Presidents.—John
Basset, Esq. Day P. Le Grice, Esq. E. W. W. Pendarves, Esq.,
M.P., F.R.S., &c. Henry Woollcombe, Esq., F.A.S., &c. Secre
tary and Curator.—W. J. Henwood, F.G.S., London and Paris.
Treasurer.—Joseph Carne, F.R.S., F.G.S., &c. Librarian.—Richard
Hocking, Esq. Council.— Capt. Davies, R.N. Mr. James Flamank,
 Charles Fox, Esq. William Gibbins, Esq. Rev. H. E. Graham.
Edwin Ley, Esq. Richard Pearce, Esq. Major Robyns. W.
Mansel Tweedy, Esq., F.H.S., &c. John Vigurs, Esq. L. R. Wil-
lan, M.D. Wra. Williams, Esq.
           LII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
REAGENT FOR THE DETECTION OF SULPHUROUS ACID IN THE
       HYDROCHLORIC ACID OF COMMERCE.             BY G1RARDIN.
THE hydrochloric acid of commerce often contains sulphurous acid,
       especially when prepared on the large scale in the alkali manu
factories : this contamination cannot be detected by the odour, but in
the protochloride of tin we have an excellent test for its presence.
For this purpose, crystals of the chloride should be dissolved in the
suspected acid, which if free from sulphurous acid will dissolve the
chloride, with the production of a very insignificant troubling. If

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               393
this acid is present however, the hydrochloric acid becomes rapidly
brown, by repose depositing n precipitate of that colour, consisting
of an intermediate sulphuret of tin, of proto-sulphuret and of chloride
of tin insoluble in muriatic acid. This reaction depends upon a por
tion of the tin becoming oxidated at the expense of the sulphurous
acid, another portion uniting with the sulphur, while the oxide of
tin thus formed dissolves in the excess of muriatic acid to form an
insoluble chloride.—Journ.fur Pract. Chemie, 6. 81.
          PROCESSES FOR PREPARING LITHIA.             BY FUCHS.
    1. Lepidolite is to be ignited during two hours with l£ or 2 parts
of quicklime, and the mass left during two or three months exposed
to the air, it being kept constantly moist with water. The whole is
then to be powdered and treated with water, which dissolves out po-
tassa and lithia ; the solution is then saturated by a current of car
bonic acid gas and evaporated to dryness. The residue, which con
 sists of the carbonates of potassa and lithia, is digested with water
 containing a little alcohol, which dissolves the carbonate of potassa
 and leaves the carbonate of lithia.
    2. Seven parts of lepidolite are ignited with 2 of calcined vitriol,
 taking care that the mixture never melts. The mass when cold is
 powdered and boiled with water, which dissolves out the sulphates
 of lithia and potassa : the solution is then evaporated to dryness, and
 the suit of lithia dissolved out by water, to which a little alcohol has
 been previously added.—Jahres-Bericht der Phys. Wissenschaften
 16. 97.
    NEW DOUBLE SALT OF ZINC AND POTASSIUM.                BY ANTHON.
    When a solution of iodide of potassium is mixed with one of ni
 trate of zinc, a yellowish crystalline deposit of iodide of zinc falls,
 which dissolves on the addition of an excess of iodide of potassium,
 and by evaporation crystallizes in colourless octohedral or rhombic
 crystals, which are not altered by exposure to the air, and contain
 iodine, nitric acid, zinc, and potassa. By exposure to heat this salt
 evolves iodine, then nitrous acid, oxide of zinc and potassa being left ;
 it is readily soluble in water, insoluble in alcohol ; acids precipitate
 iodine from its solutions, tartaric acid separating bitartrate of potassa.
 —Buchner's Rcpertorium, 1. 115.
 REAGENT FOR NITRIC ACID AND NITROGEN.                  BY DESBASSAYNS
                             DE RICHEMONT.
    The mode of detecting the presence of nitric acid proposed by De
  Richemont is exceedingly delicate, and depends upon the fact, that
  a mixture of a concentrated solution of protosulphate of iron and sul
  phuric acid becomes coloured rose-red by the addition of deutoxide
  of nitrogen (Slickoxyd), or even purple if the latter is present in
 larger proportion : the quantity of the nitric oxide necessary for the
  production of this tint is so small that an exceedingly minute portion
  may be detected by it. To detect the presence of nitric acid, add
  to a small quantity of sulphuric acid the solution to be examined, ID

  394          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 such a proportion that the quantity added should equal three-fourths
 the bulk of the acid. When the mixture has become cool, drop in a
 concentrated solution of protosulphate of iron, which if any nitric
 acid is present decomposes it, causing the evolution of nitric oxide
 which produces the rose-red or purple tint above alluded to. This
 mode of operating will allow us to detect 1 part of nitric acid in
 24,000 of water.
    For the detection of nitrogen gas, De Richemont directs the gas
 under examination to be mixed with from 3 to 6 times its volume of
 a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen (in equal vols.) and the whole
 detonated in a Eudiometer by the electric spark. The fluid that
 bedews the Eudiometer after the explosion is to be mixed with sul
 phuric acid, to which a few drops of protosulphate of iron in solu
 tion have been added : the fluid will assume the rose-red tint if the
 minutest portion of nitrogen is present. It is of course necessary to
 avoid any source of fallacy arising from the presence of atmospheric
 air in the oxygen and hydrogen employed. The action of sulphuric
 acid in producing 1 , 1 i - rose colour is so remarkable that when we have
failed in detecting the presence of nitric acid by the ordinary process
 from its being present in too small a quantity to tinge the sulphate
of iron brown, the addition of concentrated sulphuric acid will deter
 mine the production of the rose-red tint, if any nitric acid existed
in the fluid under examination.—Journ.fiir Pract. Chcmie, 5. 207.
 FORMATE OF SODA, AS A REDUCING SUBSTANCE FOR METALLIC
                              POISONS (ARSENIC).
    Giibel has found that formate of soda furnishes the most ready
means of reducing metallic poisons, not only when in the state of
oxides but as sulphurets, and is therefore of extreme importance in
researches connected with medico- legal inquiry. The substance to be
examined is mixed with the formate and heated in the usual manner
in a small glass tube, over the flame of a lamp ; the arsenic if present
of course sublimes : in this way Gc'ibel has detected the presence of
orpiment in the golden sulphuret of antimony when present only in
the proportion of 1 part to 1 000 of the antimonial sulphuret.—Jahres-
Bericht der Phys. Wissenschaften, 16. 162.
        ON THE TRANSPARENCY OF CARBON.                    BY DEGEN.
    Degen has attempted to prove that charcoal in very thin layers
possesses a very considerable degree of transparency, and appears of a
yellowish-brown colour. To demonstrate this he placed a piece of
pine charcoal on burning coals in a small furnace, so close that very
little air could enter it, so that the piece of charcoal should undergo
combustion in an atmosphere loaded with carbonic acid : under these
circumstances the more porous portion burns, whilst the denser
portion, consisting of an aggregation of small vessels, is left : the walls
of these carefully examined under a microscope, appear translucent.
   If a piece of glass covered with lac-varnish and sprinkled with
charcoal powder is ignited in a crucible, so as to carbonise the
varnish, the thin layer (of carbon ?) left is transparent and yellowish
brown.—Poggendorjfs Annalen, 35. 468.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               395
  PREPARATION OF AR8ENIURETTED HYDROGEN.                   BY VOGEL.
  When two equivalents of zinc are melted and one equivalent of pow
dered metallic arsenic added, they combine after stirring the mixture,
which without any fresh application of heat becomes suddenly red
hot. A little arsenic volatilizes, which burns on the surface of the
mass with a blue flame. If we take equal equivalents of the two
metals, the same evolution of heat occurs, but not to so great an ex
tent, and the mixture cools more quickly. Antimony fused with zinc
does not produce this phenomenon. This alloy of arsenic and zinc
when pulverized and treated with hydrochloric acid, evolves arseni-
uretted hydrogen free from any traces of precombined hydrogen gas,
as it is completely absorbable by a solution of sulphate of copper ;
and therefore affords the readiest and most convenient mode of pro
curing this gas free from admixture.—Jovrn.fKr Pract. Chemie, 6.
343.
   [The Editors are obliged to Dr. Golding Bird for the preceding
notices from the German.]
              TUNGSTATE OF TUNGSTEN AND POTASH.
   M. Laurent prepared this salt by the method employed by M.
Wcehler for the corresponding salt of soda. This tungstate cry
stallizes in small needles, whilst the soda salt is in small cubes.
   M. Laurent states that the colour of this salt is extremely beau
tiful ; it is of a deep coppery violet colour, and very brilliant
when looked at in the sunshine ; it very perfectly resembles sub
limed indigo ; and, what is remarkable, when burnished it becomes,
like indigo, of a fine blue with coppery reflections. The corre
sponding salt of soda, whatever may be its colour, becomes blue by
friction.—An. de. Ch. et de Ph. Ixvii. 219.
    ANALYSIS OF SERUM OF BLOOD DRAWN FROM A DIABETIC
                    PATIENT. BY DR. G. O. REES.
       Water                                                 908-50
       Albumen (yielding oxide of iron and phosphate of
            lime by incineration)                             80'35
       Fatty matters                                           0'95
       Diabetic sugar                                          1 -80
       Animal extractive soluble in alcohol, and urea . .      2'20
       Albuminate of soda                                      0'80
       Alkaline chloride with trace of phosphate ...."]
       Alkaline carbonate, trace of sulphate, the results >    4'40
            of incineration                              J
       Loss                                                    1 -00
                                                            100000
                                     Cay's Hospital Reports, Oct. 1 838.
                   ANALYSIS OF THE LIQUOR AMNII.
    Four specimens of this secretion recently examined by Dr. G. 0 .
 Rees, and described in the Guy's Hospital Reports, have yielded

   396          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,
   precisely the same constituents. They were taken from different
  individuals at the same period of utero-gestation, viz. 7^- m onths ;
  their specific gravities were from T0086 to 1'007, and every speci
  men contained urea as an ingredient. The caseous matter, wii'ch
  is observed floating in the liquor, has been examined by Dr. U ^ -
  and shown to contain cholesterine. The salts of the liquor am nii
  are the same as those of the blood; the alkaline phosphate and sul
  phate exist however as a mere trace. We subjoin the analysis of
  one specimen ; the others differ from it merely in proportional con
  stitution.
                                Liquor Amnii.
       Sp. grav. 1008, strongly alkaline, contained in 1000 parts.
  Water                                                           984'98
  Albumen (with traces of fatty matter)                             1-80
                             {Salts 2-80.                      1
                                Organic matter, principally al- I
                                  h       f     Hi 1V'          f    6'02
                                  of soda, 3-22.               J
                          , f Salts 2-80.
                     1 BtelV Organic matter,
                              [- lactic acid ; urea.
                        Guy's Hospital Reports, Oct. 1838.
                     STEAROPTEN OF TURPENTINE.
     M. Brandes remarks that crystals have often been observed in
 rectified oil of turpentine, and these have been shown by several
 authors to be the stearopten of turpentine ; and other chemists have
 obtained an acid resembling succinic acid. M. Brandes also ob
 tained crystals from recently rectified oil of turpentine; they were
 collected on a filter, washed and dried; the quantity was small,
 amounting to only about 15 grains ; they were transparent, had a
 vitreous lustre ; some were dull ; some were isolated, and others
 stellated ; they were small, from half a line to three lines in length,
 and scarcely a quarter of a line thick ; the form was a quadri
 lateral prism ; with the assistance of a glass, the base appeared evi
dently to be rhombic, but differing but little from rectangular. The
 summit was dihedral. The crystals sunk in water.
    A small quantity being heated in a globe, they readily sublimed
in a fine filamentous mass, and in capillary crystals, some of which
were more than an inch in length ; when a larger quantity was
heated, a portion liquefied during sublimation, and solidified on cool
ing into a small cake, which being again heated, again became fluid,
and then sublimed without residue by the continued action of the
heat.
    The crystals are completely soluble in hot water, and dissolve
also in alcohol and scther; the alcoholic solution may be diluted
with several times its bulk of water, without becoming turbid ; oil
of turpentine had not so marked an action on the crystals when
cold as alcohol and ether, but heat caused it to dissolve them com
pletely, and the solution was not rendered turbid either by cooling

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,            397
or by agitation with water. The crystals were not sensibly soluble
in cold solution of ammonia or potash ; when heated they were dis
solved, and the solution was not rendered turbid by neutralizing the
alkali ; go that these substances appear to act only by means of their
water of solution. The aqueous solution was neutral to test papers.
    When rectified concentrated sulphuric acid is added to a small
quantity of these crystals, a deep red-coloured solution is obtained,
which, as has been remarked by Buchner and Hofner, has a smell
resembling that of artificial musk; and, according to M. Brandes,
an odour somewhat like naphtha, and also oil of fennel. Water pro
duces a white cloud in the red solution, and yellowish white flocks
gradually separate.
    Hydrochloric acid when cold has no sensible action on the cry
stals, but when heated, a white cloud is produced ; by boiling, the
liquor bumps with noise : a strong odour of oil of petroleum is de
veloped. After cooling, the liquor, which was milky white, becomes
clear, and a yellowish oil floats on its surface, which gradually
hardens. Acetic acid, even cold, dissolves the crystals ; the solution
is not rendered turbid by water, nor is it altered by boiling. Nitric
acid, when cold, dissolves the crystals slightly; but when heated
they are gradually decomposed ; a milky white cloud is formed in
the acid, and drops of yellow oil are observable on its surface ; it
then yields a very distinct odour, resembling that of a mixture of oil
of fennel, aniseed, and naphtha.
    Increase of temperature occasions a more vivid action ; the acid
becomes yellow ; nitric oxide is given out, with a smell more resem
bling camphor. The smallness of quantity of the crystals did not
admit of their analysis ; but the facts detailed agree with those pre
viously described by M. Buchner, and prove that the crystals were
the stearopten of turpentine.—Journal de Pharmacie, xxiv. 129.
                          METALLIC PECTATES.
    The metallic pectates analysed by M. Regnault are those of silver
and lead.
    Pectate of Silver. The pectate of ammonia employed in forming
this salt was prepared by dissolving pectic acid, which had been
precipitatecMrom solution by nitric instead of hydrochloric acid, in
 ammonia ; this was done to be certain that no trace of chloride of
silver might exist in the pectate.
    The composition of pectate of silver is naturally variable, accord
 ing to that of the pectate of ammonia which is employed in its pre
paration. The following were obtained :—
     1st. Pectate of silver, prepared by adding a solution of nitrate of
silver to a solution of pectate of ammonia, which had been boiled
 till it ceased to yield an ammoniucal smell. It consisted of—
                       Pectic acid           61'615
                       Oxide of silver       38'385—100-
     In this compound the author is of opinion there was excess of
 acid, which he thinks might happen from the mode in which the
pectate of ammonia was prepared.

398             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   Another pectate of silver was procured by pouring the solution of
pectate of ammonia into that of nitrate of silver. This was com.
posed of—
                       Pectic acid            63-05
                       Silver                 36-95—100-
    A second pectate of silver was formed by pouring a solution of
nitrate of silver into one of pectate of ammonia evaporated in vacno ;
this solution was neutral to test papers. It was formed of—
                       Pectic acid           59'612
                       Oxide of silver       40'388—100'
   A third pectate of silver, also procured from pectate of ammonia,
evaporated in vacuo, gave—
                       Pectic acid           58'983
                       Oxide of silver       41-017—100-
   Lastly, nitrate of silver was added to solution of pectate of am
monia in which the alkali was in excess ; as oxide of silver is soluble
in ammonia, it was hoped that neutral pectate would be precipi
tated ; but this was not the case ; for the affinity of the ammonia
for the oxide of silver counterbalanced that of the pectic acid.
   The results of two experiments were—
           Pectic acid                  61'52           63'32
           Oxide of silver              38'48           36'68
                                       100-           100-
    All these analyses, the author concludes, indicate the same com
position for pectic acid, but the capacity of saturation, he observes,
remains undetermined.
    [Taking, however, something near a mean of the results, and
comparing them with those of the direct analysis, it appears that
pectic acid is composed of—
              8 eq. of hydrogen             8     or     4'76
            12         carbon              72           42'85
            11         oxygen              88           52-39
                          Equivalent      168          100-
    And supposing pectate of silver to be composed    of one equivalent
of acid and base, it will consist of—
            1 eq. of pectic acid .... 168        or     59-15
            1        oxide of silver ..116              40" 85
                          Equivalent    284            100- R.P.]
    Pectate ofLeadvtas prepared by adding K solution of acetate oflead
 to one of pectate of ammonia, which was slightly alkaline to testpaper.
    This precipitate was composed of—
                       Pectic acid           51-256
                       Oxide of lead         48744— 100-
    [This would give very nearly 168 pectic acid to 160 oxide of
lead. It appears, therefore, that the excess of ammonia precipi
tated uncombined oxide of lead ; for a neutral pectate would consist
of 168 and 112 oxide ; if it had consisted of equal weights of acid

                        Meteorological Observations.                             399
and base, it would have been a subsesqui-pectate ; the author, never
theless, states that this salt gives the same composition for pectic
acid as the pectates of silver.— R.P.]
    Pectate of Copper was obtained by adding a solution of sulphate
of copper to one of pectate of ammonia ; the compound is a bright
green jelly, which, after drying till it loses no more weight, forms a
yellow mass. This salt was not of a constant composition. It was
also attempted to be procured by decomposing a very ammoniacal
pectate by sulphate of copper. The compound remained long dis
solved ; at last it formed in intense blue jelly, which could not be
obtained free from ammonia, even by long washing ; it was evidently
a double salt.—Journal de Pharmacie, xxiv. 205.
                       PORTRAIT OF PROF. FARADAY.
    Our readers will be gratified by learning that a half-length en
graving of Professor Faraday will be immediately published by
Mr. C. Turner, A.R.A., Warren-street, Fitzroy-square. The like
ness is most successful, and the expression admirable ; it gives us
 not only his character, but figure, and is taken as he is usually seen
 when delivering his lectures.
               PORTRAIT OF ROBERT BROWN, F.R.S., &C.
    We gladly also call attention to the portrait of our distinguished
 countryman Robert Brown, engraved with great success by C. Fox,
 from the excellent picture by Pickersgill, in the possession of the
 Linnaean Society.
     Copies of the Engraving may be obtained at the Society's House.
   METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR SEPTEMBER 1838.
    Chiswick.— Sept. 1 — 3. Very fine.       4. Foggy : very fine.     5. Fine : rain.
 6. Heavy rain. 7. Showery. 8. Cloudy and cold. 9— 12. Very fine. 13,14
  Overcast and fine.     15. Hazy: very fine.        16,17. Fogg)- in the mornings :
 very fine.    18. Fine: overcast.      19. Rain: very fine: drizzly. 20. Cloudy.
 21,22. Foggy: very fine.        23. Slight rain : fine: rain at night. 24. Foggy:
 heavy rain.     25. Hazy.      26. Foggy : fine.      27. Rain.      28. Foggy : fine.
 29. Foggy : rain. SO. Very fine.
    On the evening of the 16th, about 8 p.m., a luminous arch was observed
 ascending from the west and proceeding in an easterly direction ; terminating in
 the zenith, but with an attenuated broad train, bending towards the south.
    .Souon.— Sept. 1, 2. Fine.      3. Cloudy.     4,5. Fine.     6. Rain.   7. Fine:
 rain a.m. 8. Cloudy. 9—12. Fine. 13—15. Cloudy. 16. Fine: lively ap
 pearance of northern lights 8 p.m. 17,18. Cloudy. 19. Fine: rain early a.m.
  20,21. Fine.      22. Foggy.      23. Cloudy: rain at night.       24—26. Cloudy:
  rain p.m.   27. Rain.      28. Fine.      29, 30. Foggy.
    ¦dpplegarth Manse, Dumfriesshire. — Sept. I. Temperate.          2. Shower a.m.:
 fair p.m.   3. Fair a.m. : wet p.m.       4. Showery great part of the day. 5. Wet
 all day.    6. Dripping day.        7 — 9. Fine harvest days.      10. Cloudy.     11.
  Cloudy : moist p.m.      12. Showery throughout. IS. Dull : moist. 14. Moist
 and warm. 15. Mild: warm. 16. Fine harvest day : Aurora. 17. Finehar-
 vest day. 18. Fair till 6 p.m. rain. 19. Fair a.m. : rain. 20. Fair till 3 p.m. :
 rain and thunder. 21. Fair till 5 p.m. : rain. 22. Showery all day. 23. Fair
 all day.    24. Dripping day : cold.         25. Very moist.    26. Remarkably fine.
  27. Very mild : waim p.m.         28. Fine harvest day.     29. Rather moist. SO,
  Fine harvest day.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mean. !  53-2
Dew-                              Lond.:, 9a.m.
                                *ji-
                                                                          56 55 53 55 61 59 60 51 46 49 47 50 53 55 59 55 55 54 53 54 49 50 54 53 52 52 53 47 53 53
                                                                                                       135                                                   0-30. .                                            0-47                                    ,                          0-58
             i.                             1"                                                                                                                                    ..                                                    ..             ..                                                  ..       Q70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1-82
                 §1                                                                                      . . •08 •13 •11..                                                        .. ..                         •01 „                                        •1.1 •41 •10 ¦23 •62                           ..
nam.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               01                       *¦                      208
                                                                                                             14
             i »1                                                         •04                         ¦30            •10                ..              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •05 . . . . •01 •10 ¦75                                                           •01      •55           •02      ..
                    LS   d¦=on: RS
                      onDum-            oByolt.f.rSioc.
                                        i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2-247
                                                          9*-m-•hire.,                                                     036         •¦•                                                                               022                                                                                      Sum.
                                                                             . . •030                                                            .. ..                   .. .. .. .. .. .. ..                                                  ..          ¦038               . . ¦116 ¦783 . . •050
                                                                                                         •37*2 ¦050
                                                                                                                             SSW
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ebys
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ebyscalm Nt                                                      NNE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   750
                                                                            KW.
                                                                                   w.     W.  calm
                                                                                                s.     SI. NE. X.                    sw. w. s. sw. sw.                        SSW.
                                                                                                                                                                                      s. sw.                   'w-s»w.NW."I"1!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w.mw.calmsw.NW a. sw. sw.                        S.      a.     X,     i. s.
                                                                                   NW.
                                                                                        calm                                      calm ca,inw.calmw. calmw> ,calmsw. calmw calmNw. Cal,nNI. «•E.                                           calmsw.         calm„. calmw calmNlcalmNwcalm,calmxcalm
                                                                           w.                          w. w. w.              X.                                                                                                                     W>HE.
>vina.
             1¦*¦
                                                            8"                             "                                                                                                                                                                                                             N.
                    London: Koy.Soc.
                                                       1 9a.m.                                                SSW.          NKE.                                                                   MNE. ME. NNW.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SSW. NW.
                                                                           w.     NW. SW. SSW.        s.             a.             SW. NW. NW. SW.                          SW. NW. N.                                   SW. S. SSW.              s.       K. W.                        s.      N. MW.
                                                                                                                                                                      w.
1
               Dumfries                                    9p.m 52~ 48 52J
                                                                                             52 52 51 494
                                                                                                                   47i 42J        474
                                                                                                                           44 46 52 5b 56 58                                52'58    54 60 54           46
                                                                                                                                                                                                         50 52 48        50 48  46 50^     52} 52 54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          456
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50 52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  52      50 50*  54 52 54            52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "soi
                             shire.
                                                           9a.m 56" 56 501 56 56 56 49}                                                    48 46{ 56
                                                                                                                                                                                                  47
                                                                                                                                                                                                  58
                                                                                                                                                                                                  57J                                                                                           51 52J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               54i                 53
                                                                        60-5                        63-5                  52-5                                                                          56-5                                                                       53-5                            55-3
 1
 nermometer.
                §B
                                  n                                             60 69 60
                                                           Min. 54 45 38 43 5b 54 50 35 36 34
                                                                                                            59 60                 48 48 52 57 59 58 63 57                                                      57 51 51 48 59 52 55 51                                                   49           51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45-26
                    wick.                                                                                                                                  44 43 56 39 48 50 52 52 35 36 49 45 49 42 48 40 51 54 43
                                                                                                                                                   j;
               Soc.
                Roy.
                j :chif
               London                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   67-06
                                                           Min.
                                                           Max.                 71 53-0
                                                                        540" 570,
                                                                        73             73 76 52-0 8        75 70
                                                                                                   7595 58-0]             520 560
                                                                                                                   57-4: 56       445
                                                                                                                                  03 68    59'5 70
                                                                                                                                           46-5    450 72
                                                                                                                                                   595     600
                                                                                                                                                           47-5 66   51-5 69
                                                                                                                                                                   650     52-5 650
                                                                                                                                                                           640     70
                                                                                                                                                                                    590           553 64
                                                                                                                                                                                                 677
                                                                                                                                                                                                 70    67-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                        52-41 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                              60-4 546
                                                                                                                                                                                                              546        08 68 46-3 42-8,69 69    52-7 56  510 56-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  58 47-358 59          450 60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49-2 65      46-5 64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     56-4:
                                                                                                                                                                                          74
                                                                                                                                                                                           65-2
                                                                                                                                                                                         J50-8
                                                           Max. 695 68-6 680 690 690 69-0 645 68-0                                                                                                                      58-6              60-2 60-6 637                  55-3 58-3 54-V 61     0 59-2              62-6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6J-8
                                                             ga.m. 61     0 61-5 600 59-0 64-0 59-2 635 520 51-5 51-5 48-7 53-2 57-8 610 595 558 593 57-3 54-4                                                  2970 576
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2990      29-68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2970 2980
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50-7 537
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2985       2970 576
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29-84  29-63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2970|54-7 516 48-8 526 46-3 56-3 57-8                          55-9
                        Dumfriea-shire.                      9p.m.        29-92
                                                                  a.m.j 29971            2999 29-86
                                                                                        2998          29-51 29-26
                                                                                               2975 29-37     29-20 2933    2993 30-11
                                                                                                                     29-57 2976     30-22 3033       3035 30-26
                                                                                                                                              30-42 30-42             3000 2998
                                                                                                                                                             30-30 3015      2999 3000       30-05 30-11 3010
                                                                                                                                                                                     30-0-2 3003          3000                                              29 2987
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29-83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            81             2992 29-85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29-89 2987      29-92 2993
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3000 3002 30-29            2992
                                                                                  97
                                                                                  29i
                                                                                  3004
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3000 30-16        29-90
                              Boston. 8J                a.m.              29-49 29-52 29-58 29-43 2901 28-68 28-80 29-14 29-64       | 2993 3002 29-93 29-74 2957 2953 29-55 29-56 29-59 29845
                                                                                                                                   30-207                                                                       2929 2984529-3429-854       29-50 29-866
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 29-35 29-893               2944 29734
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2930 29975
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2929 29-750            29-53,29-841
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2946 29-48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         975 2958
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         29           30-197
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30014 29-68
  Barometer.
                                                                         30-076 30-123 30090 29636 29-374 29-272 29318 29627                 30-401 30-543 30-418 30-235 30069 30057 30037 30037 30017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1    29-944i1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29-46
                                                              Min.
               j  Ii:Ondo.,^n,ul                                                 30-140
                                                                                 30201 189
                                                                                        190 29-998
                                                                                        30-   29994,29612    29-321 |
                                                                                                     29605 29290    29-473 29-640
                                                                                                                    29344  30058,               , 30-547 30-500
                                                                                                                                            30406
                                                                                                                                             30-54930-548             30341 30-149 30082 30
                                                                                                                                                            30-515 30-328                   105 30-121 30-040 29-94-2 29-941 29-977 30005 29-928 29920 29-940 29982 29-933 30-072 30-138 30-303                    3006I
                                                              Max.
                                                                         30108
                                                                         30-111
                                                                         j                                                         j
                                                                                                                                   30-370
                                                                                                                                   30-220
                                  Roy.
                                  Soc.                                                                                                                                      30146 30088 30078 30-072 30056 29948 29-858 29-850 30000 29918 29-918 29-82029988 29-864                            30016 30-200      30-005
                                                        9a.m.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30O00
       of
      Days
             Month. 1838. Sept.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mean.
                                                                          1. 2. 3. 0          4. 5- 6. 7. 8. 9.                                     11.                                                        19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. (£26. 27. 28. 29. 30.
                                                                                                                                                            2. 13. M. 15. 16. 17.
                                                                                                                                                            ¦
                                                                                                                                            1J 0.                                                       1•8.

                                    THE
                LONDON AND EDINBURGH
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                    AND
           JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                          [THIRD SERIES.]
                     DECEMBER 1838.
 L1II. On the Galvanic Spark. By Prof. Dr. JACOBI. (Read
     before tJie Imperial Academy ofSciences of St. Petersburg,
     on the tlth of April 1838)*.
  jy/TIl. FARADAY (Experimental Researches, art. 915.f)
 .'.'-'. regards as an essential support of the chemical theory
 of the galvanic circuit, the galvanic spark, which is stated to
 be obtained by a process, which he subsequently describee in
 detail (art. 956.), at the closing of a single galvanic circuit
 " before contact of the different metals is made; in fact at that
 moment when chemical forces only are efficient as a cause of
 action." In a subsequent series of his experimental re
 searches (1074.) Mr. Faraday does not, it is true, formally
 retract this position, but he takes the opportunity of explain
ing the phenomena, which under certain circumstances are
exhibited on the closing of a galvanic circuit, in a different
manner, equally natural and ingenious. He observes, namely,
 " The moment they (two metallic surfaces) come in contact,
the current passes, it heats, ignites, and even burns the touch
ing points; and the appearance is as if the spark passed on
making contact, whereas it is only a case of ignition by the
current, contact being previously made, and is perfectly ana
logous to the ignition of a fine platina wire connecting the
extremities of a voltaic battery j." Immediately after the dis
covery of the so-called closing spark, I repeated these experi-
    * From the Bulletin Scientifiquc de I'Acad. Imp. St. Petersbourg, T. iv.
No. 7- From a copy kindly communicated by the Author. Translated
by Mr. W. FBANCIS.
   t Prof. Faraday's Eighth Series of Researches here referred to, will be
found in Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vi.
   % This extract is from Prof. Faraday's Ninth Series, of which an abstract
will be found in L. & E. Phil. Mag., vol. vi. p. 301.
     Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 84. Dec. 1838.                2D

402         Prof. Dr. Jacobi on the Galvanic Spark.
ments at Konigsberg, and found them confirmed in a very stri
king way if quicksilver was employed in completing the cir
cuit. However the closing spark appeared to me even at that
time doubtful, and in contradiction to many other experiments;
first because the free electrical tension at the poles of the vol
taic battery, and especially of a single circuit, is too weak to
be able to break through a stratum of air ; and then, when the
spark has once passed, no reason exists why this should not
take place in continuance ; in other words, a continual spark
must originate when the distance of the points remains the
same. By the subsequent explanation of Faraday, this subject
is perfectly settled ; however, in the Repertorium der Physit,
edited by Professors Dove and Moser, both in the first and
second part (I. p. 190. II. p. 113.) the closing spark is still
represented as something actual, and discussed as such. In
the same work, p. 190, several other experiments are enume
rated, in order to show, in the contractions of the frog, phse-
nomena analogous to the closing spark. These experiments
however, are too much confused to be of any importance with
respect to the subject in question or any other. It is further
stated as a remarkable difference, that the smaller the con
necting wire between the exciting plates, the stronger is the
spark at closing, and the more insignificant at breaking con
tact. This singularity is also reduced to a normal pheno
 menon by Faraday's explanation, as the phajnomena of
 combustion are always more intense when there is less oppo
 sition to conduction ; therefore a shorter wire in the circuit
 has the effect in question. Finally, one can scarcely consider
 the arrangement given by Linari for the production of a
 thermo-magnetic spark as an apparatus which, as is the case
 in the above-mentioned work, ii. p. 113, can be employed to
 decide this point, so important for the theory, but yet so iutri-
 cate, whether in reality a spark can take place previously to
 contact.
    It appeared to me more fit, since in the end all depends on
 a positive determination, to fix to a beam-compass (Stangen-
 zirkel) with a micrometer screw two very finely pointed
 wires, which in this way might be very accurately and gra
 dually approximated to each other. Their distance and the
  other phenomena were measured and observed with a micro
  scope with micrometrical apparatus. For the latter I am
  obliged to the kindness of M. Lenz, who was also so good as
  to witness the experiment. I employed a battery of zinc and
  platina consisting of 1 2 plates, each of 24 English square
  inches surface, which might also be connected into a single
  pair of plates by means 01 a 2' square surface of platina. The

            Prof. Dr. Jacob! on the Galvanic Spark.        40S
zinc plales were carefully amalgamated, and the charge was
composed of 100 measures of water and 8 of sulphuric acid.
   It resulted from frequently repeated experiments that the
points might be approximated to within a distance of 0-00005
English inch of each other without a spark passing : the bat
tery might be either connected into a single pair of plates,
or arranged as a pile of twelve pairs. Instead of the copper
points a small copper ball of 0-1 inch in diameter was now
screwed to one side, and even then no spark passed at the
above-mentioned distance ; the same was the case after the
ball had been amalgamated so strongly that a layer of
bright fluid mercury still adhered to it. It must therefore be
admitted that with a distance of the surfaces of contact of
0'00005" English, no evident spark yet passes, either on em
ploying a simple circuit, or with a battery of 12 pairs. I
also inserted in the galvanic circle a very sensitive galvano
meter (Nobili's) with double needle, at the distance of the
surfaces of contact above stated, when the needle was not in
the least aifected. Since however the prepared frog passes
lor a still more sensitive galvanometer, it would be desirable
to ascertain at what distance of the surfaces of contact this
would exhibit contractions. Not less desirable is it to know
the distance at which Professor Moser has seen the thermo-
magnetic spark and that of the Becquerel's circuit pass (ii.
p. 113.).
   If therefore, provisionally, a spark previous to contact is
not proved, the reason already stated falls to the ground, and
no other exists for concluding on a particular direction of the
particles of oxygen towards the zinc which takes place even
previous to complete contact (i. p. 190.).
   What takes place when the contact is completed and broken
again, is therefore simply a phenomenon of combustion. We
may, however, plainly observe how the surfaces of contact
immediately become coloured, or under circumstances red hot.
It depends therefore on the proportion of the heating power
of the current to the magnitude of the surfaces of contact,
whether immediately a larger or smaller particle is ignited
and detached. It is always observed that when immediately
at contact a spark has been produced, the surfaces of contact
have again, after the combustion, separated from each other.
The colour of the spark on employing copper points was at
first green ; if the experiment was frequently repeated, it ap
peared to me afterwards darkish red ; after more frequent re
petition, the layer of oxide formed prevented the metallic con
tact and no further spark appeared. This layer of oxide is pro
                               2D2

40*         Prof. Dr. Jacobi on the Galvanic Spark.
bably the cause also that at the opening ofthe circuit frequently
no spark is produced, when on making contact it had taken
place. On making contact, the external metallic surfaces melt
or soften together to a certain extent. By an adequate force
of the current it requires more revolutions of the micrometer
screw to separate them than was necessary to bring them into
contact; we can also perceive under the microscope particles
which, as it were, are drawn out in the form of a wire. As
soon as the dimensions of the particles answer to the heating
 power of the pile, they burn with the usual phenomena
 of combustion. We can therefore easily imagine conditions
 in which all these phenomena are absent; for instance, when
 the current is weak, or the surfaces of contact large and power
 ful conductors of heat. Sometimes we also perceive two sepa
 ration sparks, which probably are produced by two places of
 contact separated one after the other.
    The phenomenon may now also be explained, that the se
paration spark appears more intense by the use of an electro
magnet, or of an electro-magnetic spiral. For here the heat
ing effects of the electro-magnetic and magneto- electric cur
rents combine. The disappearance of the magnetism by
which, as is well known, a magneto-electric current is pro
duced, takes place, disregarding other circumstances inherent
in the qualities of the iron, for this reason, not instantaneously,
because contact can never be suddenly broken. For, the
 more the surfaces of contact are pressed closely together,
 forming what is usually termed perfect contact, the more do
 they also increase in extension, or the smaller is the opposi
 tion to conduction. If we break the contact, this, properly
 speaking, is merely a gradual diminution of the surfaces of
 contact. By this consequently the opposition to conduction
 is increased; with this decreases contemporaneously the force
of the galvanic current and of the electro-magnetism. The
magneto-electric current takes place in the surrounding spiral,
which however increases in intensity inversely to the decrease
 of the original magnetism, and is exalted until its heating
 power corresponds to the magnitude and other qualities of
the exterior metallic surfaces of contact. Then originates
the process of combustion, which, however, now also causes
the complete separation of the surfaces of contact, and thus
entirely interrupts the magneto-electrical circle. The com
bustion owing to the galvanic current takes place, we have
seen, on perfecting the contact, only when the points are
fine, or the surfaces of contact small ; in this case however the
current also becomes feeble, and the magnetism developed in

          On Crystalline Forms and Chemical Formula:.                    405
the spiral is weak only, and the part even which the magneto-
electric current plays in the process of combustion is also
slight. This part is, with regard to the opposed directions,
at the contact, of the galvanic and of the magneto-electric
current, even possibly negative. However, it may be difficult
to demonstrate by direct observation the modification which
connects the process of combustion, at the contact, when
an electro-magnet is situated in the circle of the circuit, pre
supposing, that is, that the power of the galvanic current is in
both cases the same, which equality must be produced by an
increase in some of the electromotors corresponding to the in
duced opposition of conduction of the spirals.
LIV. On some apparent Exceptions to the Law, that like Cry
   stalline Forms indicate like Chemical Formula. By JAMES
    F. W. JOHNSTON, M.A., F.R.SS. L.$E., F.G.S., Sfc. Sfc.
   Prof. Chem. and Min., University, Durham.*
"FOLLOWING up the subject of a former paper on a sup-
.*. posed analogy in atomic constitution between the earthy
carbonates and the alkaline nitrates f, I proceed to examine
certain other cases of isomorphous coincidence between sub
stances of which^the chemical formulae according to received
 views are wholly irreconcileable.
    The first exception to the law that substances which re
place each other may be represented by analogous formule
 was deduced by Mitscherlich from the observation that am
 monia with an atom of water (NH3+ HO) may replace pot
 ash (KO) in its salts, without changing their crystalline form.
 Six years have since elapsed and we are still without conclu
 sive proof of any other mutual replacement of substances re
 presented by unlike formule. There are indeed one or two
 cases in which appearances seem .to render such replacement
probable, but as yet no other case has been established.
    We are acquainted however with a considerable number of
 substances, which though unlike in constitution, and incapable,
 or not known to be capable, of replacing each other, yet cry
 stallize in forms which are almost or altogether identical.
 In the following table, extracted from my Report on Dimor
 phous bodies J, I have arranged all the cases which have hi
 therto come to my knowledge.
    • Communicated by the Author.          f See this Journal, xii. p. 480.
    t Report of the British Association, vol. vi. p. 175. In page 209 of the
  Report on Dimorphous bodies, line 5, for homorphitm read Iiomerirm.

                         1                              1                                              <
         Groups.                   Formula'.              Common Form.                Authority.
1 . Ammonia, with 1 1            NH3+HO                            J            Mitschcrlich.
      cquiv. of water. J
    Potash                            KO                            ?
2. Disulphuret of 1                                    r ^etohedrons and "1
                                      Cu,S            -1 Rhom.of71°S0'j II. and G. Rose.
     Sulpkuret of Sil- 1
                                      AgS                   Octohedrons.        They replace each
                                                                                   other in Fahlerz.
                                        S                    Ob. Rh. Fr.        Mitschcrlich.
3. Native Sulphur ...
     Bisulphate of "1
       Potash from V               KS+HS                           do.
4. Fused Bisulph. Pot.           ks+HS?'                     Ob. Rh. Pr.
                                  K 8+AlSi*                       do.
                                  CaO+CO,                     Rhomboid,
       Nitrate of Potash          KO+N05                          do.            Frankcnhcim (Peg.
                                                                                     Annul., xl. 447.)
       Nitrate of Soda...         NaO+NO.,                        do.            Mitscherlicb.
                                   CaO+COa                    Rt, Rh. Pr.
       Nitrate of Potash          KO+NOj                            do.
 7. Sulphate of Soda             Na O+S O,                    Ru Rh. Pr.
     Permangan. ofl              BaO+Mna07                          do.
                                                                                 f Brooke.L. and Ed.
                                Be Si'+2 Al Si              Ob. Rh. Vr.         i Phil. Mag, x.2S6
                                                                                 [ and xii. p. 406. t
                                Ca» Si-f2Al Si                     do.
                                      Si 0, ?             Rhomb of 94° 15'
                            , "                                                  1 Johnston, Ibid. ii.
                           Ca»                                                   f p. 166.
                           Na3
                                 .Si^+SAl'sP+lOH               do.      94° 46'  J
                           k» .
                                   Fe, Te. Fe ?                do.      73° 43"
                           Na Cl+(Na3 Si'+Ca' Si»
                                 + ZrSi+FeSi)                  do.      73° 4C
 11. Baryta Harmotomc ~"a ^Sf-t-7AlSi«+36H Rt. Rh.Pr.MM' Kohler, Pog. Ant.
                             Ca3J                             => 92° 41' 1            xxivii. 572.
       Lime      do.         ra3l              -
                                  ^Si«+4AlSi1!+18H                do.                       do.
                             k» J          ~
     Stilbite (Desmin.)      Ba3l
                                  >Si+AlSi'+ CH                do. 91°16'?j                 do.
                             Ca'J
   * I have marked this formula as doubtful, for though the abstract of Mitschcrlich's paper
 n PoggcndorfT's Ann. xxxix. p. 196, is silent on the subject, yet Berrclius (Arslfr'alttUr,
1837, p. 126) says that the fused crystals have a different composition. The Berlin Trans
 itions containing Mitschcrlich's entire paper have not yet reached this country.
    f The plane M on Euclase assumed by Phillips and Levy as the primary has not been
 >bserved on zoisitc, but when in like position the corresponding planes on the two minerals
 lave the same angular relations. Thus the two angles observed by Phillips in Euclase to
 measure 107 '20 and 121:50 respectively, were found by Brooke in Zoisite to be 107"21 and
 121°-<f 30*
          \rl. Both also possess the brilliant cleavage from which Euclase derives its name.
    \ Levy gives M on M in Harmotomc and Stilbite respectively 110,-0and94° 11'                     The
 former must obviously refer to other planes than these of Kuhler.

          On Crystalline Forms and Chemical "Formula.       407
    Supposing the law to be universally true that like forms in
dicate like formule, let us inquire what changes in the re
ceived formule for the several members of each of the above
groups it would be necessary to introduce, in order to re
move the discrepancies which they exhibit.
    1. If K O be replaced by N H4 O, it will be necessary to
suppose potassium a compound metal, and that it is tmly re
presented by a combination R R'4 of two perhaps hitherto
 unknown elements.
    2. The consequence to be deduced from the mutual re
placement of the sulphurets of copper and of silver has been
 stated at length in a former paper *. It appears to imply that
both sulphurets must be analogous in constitution, and as
leading to fewer changes, that the sulphuret of silver is a di-
sulphuret Ag2 S.
    This again implies that the received atom of silver must be
halved, as was already suggested by its specific heat ; and as
a consequence, that those of gold, soda, and potash must be
halved also. The facts on which this latter consequence rests
are stated in the paper above referred to.
    3. The next case, that native sulphur has the same form as
bisulphate of potash, seems to indicate only that sulphur, so
far from being a simple body, is more complicated in its con
stitution even than potassium, as indicated by the first group.
If water may replace potash, then the formula for the bisul
phate becomes R S, which, to bring it into conformity with
the supposed law, would require in sulphur a composition
represented by R R' + R" R'3.
   4. If from the two formule in group 4° we take away the
atom of potash common to both, we have 2 S + H, and
4 Si + Al respectively. By what hypothesis these two formule
are to be assimilated it is almost needless to inquire. Any
method we could adopt would be at least as much opposed to
received views as those suggested by the cases already con
sidered.
   5. Can the formula; for nitrate of potash and calc spar be
reconciled ? In this Journal, vol. xii. p. 480, will be found
a short paper in reply to this question. It is there shown that
if the atom of potassium be halved, as our second group sug
gests, and if that of Berzelius for nitrogen be adopted, the
formula for nitre would become K N, or taking the positive
elements together R4 Og. That of calc spar is Ca C, or taking
           • Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag. vol. xii. p. 324.

408 Prof. Johnston on apparent exceptions to the law that
the positive elements together R2 O3, when the ratio is the
same as in nitre on the above supposition. This would imply
that compounds may be isomorphous, may possibly replace
each other, of which the formule are only so far analogous
that the ratio between the positive and negative elements is
the same in both. How far this is true must be determined
by experiment ; it at least points out a new line along which
our inquiries may proceed.
    6. In the sixth group the formule have precisely the same
relation as in the fifth.
    7. In the seventh group the formula Na S has to be assi
milated to Ba Mn. This Dr. Clark proposes to do by doubling
the atom of sodium, and representing the anhydrous sulphate
of soda by Na S. The ratio of the positive to the negative
elements in this formula is the same (3 : 8) as in the perman
ganate of baryta.
    The analogy thus established between the formule is of the
same kind as that above arrived at in regard to the members
of the fifth group. It is obtained however by an inverse
frocess by doubling instead of halving the atom of sodium.
  t is of importance to mark this fact, as it shows that besides
the changes in received views which the reconciling of these
formule would require, they do not all suggest like changes,
and therefore any they do indicate ought to be looked upon
with great suspicion. Dr. Clark has not remained satis
fied with the distant analogy obtained by his method of re
conciling these two formule. He pushes it still further, and
 to bring, not the whole formule merely, but each member of
 them, into exact correspondence, he represents the composition
 of his two salts by the more rational (?) formule Na S and
 Ba Mn, supposing that the whole of the oxygen enters into
 the composition of the acid, and that this acid thus suroxidized
 combines directly with the metal. It is unnecessary thus to
 strain isolated facts, or to attempt to remodel our entire views
 in regard to the salts on the faith of one solitary exception.
 The most important conclusion at which we shall arrive from
 the study of the relations among the several groups in our
 table will be, that from none of them can we draw any posi
 tive knowledge, though all of them afford hints which may
 lead to new inquiries.
    8. The identity of the forms of euclase and zoisite, accord
 ing to the measurements of Mr. Brooke, has given rise to

    like crystallineforms indicate like Chemical Formula:. 409
some observations by my friend Mr. Richard Phillips *, as if
it in some way opposed the general doctrine of isomorphism.
   The second member of the formule for these two minerals
is identical, and may therefore be neglected ; the first mem
bers are Be Si2 and Ca' Si respectively. If from each we
take an atom of silica, then Be S should be capable of re-
       - Ca3 ; and if we suppose that glucina is not a scsgui,
but a protoxide, " the supposition," according to Mr. Phil
lips, " most favourable to the doctrine of isomorphism ;" and
that the Be of the formula should be written Be3, replacing
Ca5, we should still have an equivalent of silica Si in excess,
in the formula for euclase. It does not appear therefore that
the formule in the eighth group are at present to be re
conciled. Were this the only case of such disagreement in
formule, we might suspect that Mr. Brooke had mistaken
one or other of the minerals, euclase or zoisite; but the num
ber of examples which the table contains tends to remove
such suspicion from the mind of those who are not so well
acquainted with Mr. Brooke's accuracy and knowledge of
minerals as I have had the opportunity of becoming.
   9. If the forms of silica and chabasie be identical, their re
ceived formule appear irreconcileable.
   10. Mohsite has not been analysed, but it is not easy to
suppose its known constituents to be present in quantities,
such as to produce a formula analogous to that of eudyalite.
   11. The only relation observable among the formula? in
the llth group is, that the second and third added together
make up the first, or that the baryta harmotome may be sup
posed to consist of an equivalent of stilbite united to one of
lime harmotome. In what way the formule for these two
minerals are to be reconciled does not appear.
   From this discussion then of the mutual relations of the
formulae by which the substances contained in the above
groups are severally represented, we have arrived at three
conclusions :
   1. That some of them appear to be altogether irreconci
leable.
   2. That those which may be reconciled require the adop
tion of hypotheses which are much at variance with received
opinions; and,
   3. That these hypotheses may be directly the converse of
each other.
           • Lond. and Edin. Phil. Mag., vol. xii. p. 407.

 410 Prof. Johnston on apparent exceptions to the la's} t/iat
    Iftherefore we can depend on the chemical analyses and the
 crystalline measurements of the above substances, it is not uni
 versally true that like crystallineforms indicate like chemical
formula;.
    Does this conclusion invalidate the general doctrine of iso
 morphism, or present a stumbling-block in the way of re
 ceived opinions on that subject ? By no means. It forms, if
 correct, a distinct and independent as it is an important ac
 cession to our knowledge.
    To place this statement in its true light, let us consider
 what has been the general progress of the doctrine of isomor
 phism, and in what position it really stands.
    1 . It was observed that the sulphates, the carbonates, &c.
 of entire classes of bases crystallized in forms which were
 specific not to each base, as magnesia and baryta, but to each
 class of bases, two of which were represented by magnesia
 and baryta as their types.
    2. A similar observation was made in regard to certain
 salts containing different acids, as the arsenic and phosphoric ;
 the same form being observed not merely in the arseniate and
 phosphate of the same base, but in such salts also of each
 class of bases.
    3. It was therefore inferred, abstraction being made of
 what is common to the chemical constitution of such as have
 like forms, that the remainders have the same form also ; that
 the whole class of bases, for example, lime, magnesia, &c., had
 the same form, and that the class of acids, the arsenic, phos
 phoric, and antimonic, had also the same form, or were isomor-
 phous.
    4. This inference was confirmed by the subsequent obser
 vation that the several members of these and other classes of
 bases and acids might take the place of (replace) each other
 in quantities which might vary, but which were always pro
 portional to their equivalents, without affecting the form ofthe
 resulting crystal.
    5. But it was further observed that certain other sub
 stances appeared to replace each other, the forms of which
 had not been determined; that oxide of chromium, for ex
 ample, might replace alumina; and hence it was inferred
 that such compounds must also be isomorphous; an inference
 which in the case of the oxide of chromium was confirmed by
 the examination of the crystals of this substance subsequently
 obtained by Wohler.
    6. Now in all these cases, substances having the same form
 or replacing each other, were found, or inferred to be, ana
 logous in chemical constitution ; to be oxides, sulphurets, &c.

     like crystallineforms indicate like Chemical Fofnaila:. 41 1
which might be represented by the same general formula.
It was natural, therefore, to reason in an inverse order, and
to ask, if the same formula so generally follows or attends
upon the same form, may not all compounds of which the
form is alike be represented by like formulae ;—when put in a
rational form, should not the equivalents deduced from a cor
rect analysis give like formule for minerals alike in form ?
In this idea was presented a new and beautiful test of the
accuracy of mineral analyses. Guided by it, Abieh, under the
direction of Mitscherlich, examined the family of octohedral
minerals, of which magnetic iron is the type, and found that
spinella, gahnite, chrome, iron, &c. may all be represented
by the same general formula R It. Other cases of a similar
kind afterwards occurred, so that it began to appear, and to
be thought by many, that like forms always indicate like
formule.
    7. But then came forward one after another the anomalies
or exceptions to this generalization which are grouped to
gether in the above table, and in which the attendance of like
formula; on like forms cannot be distinguished.
    By these exceptions, however, the doctrine of isomorphism is
not touched, or the evidence in its favour in any way impaired.
 They establish, or seem to do so, merely the negative posi
 tion, that like forms do not always in compound substances
 indicate like formule; an important and independent truth,
 which points to some more general law we have still to
 seek for, but which is perfectly consistent with the fundamental
 and leading principles of the isomorphic doctrine.
    In the two papers published in former numbers of this
 Journal*, in reference to the second and fourth of the groups
 in the table, I was preparing the way for the consideration of
 the general question which has been the subject of the above
 remarks. The present paper I have delayed till after the
 publication of the 6th volume of the Reports of the British
 Association, that I might not anticipate my own report, of
 which the above table forms a part. Meanwhile my friend
 Mr. Richard Phillips, shocked at the changes which one of
 the cases I had considered seemed to indicate, hastened to
 publish his " Observations on Isomorphism-}-," some of the
 remarks in which, I am satisfied, he will now see to have been
 unnecessary. In reply to the fourth paragraph of these ob
 servations, the only one which calls for remark, I would ob
 serve, that judging from my own feelings, I am certain that
            • Vol. xii. pp. 324 and 480.     t Ibid., p. 407.

412 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XL)
none of its opponents are more anxious for the discovery of
truth than those whom Mr. Phillips has honoured with the
title of expounders of the doctrine of isomorphism ; we may
have an unfortunate prejudice in favour of collecting and col
lating all known facts, before we venture to pronounce a de
cided opinion upon a difficult question, but we will not yield
to them in love for the truth. We are willing to hope, how
ever, that though we seem at present to be searching for the
same truth in different directions, we may ultimately find our
paths converge to one point, at which point we shall all,
expounders and opponents, meet together, and at length
agree *.
    Durham, Sept. 13, 1838.
LV. Experimental Researches in Electricity.—Eleventh Scries-
      By MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq., D.C.L. F.R.S. Fullerian
     Prof. Client.Jloyal Institution, Corr. Memb. Royal and Imp.
     Acadd. of Sciences, Paris, Petcrsburgh, Florence, Copenha
     gen, Berlin, fyc. $c.
                     [Continued from p. 367, and concluded.]
       f v. On specific Induction, or Specific inductive Capacity.
1252. T NOW proceed to examine the great question of
             -i- specific inductive capacity, i. e. whether different
dielectric bodies actually do possess any influence over the
degree of induction which takes place through them. If any
such difference should exist, it appeared to me not only of
high importance in the further comprehension of the laws
and results of induction, but an additional and very powerful
argument for the theory I have ventured to put forth, that
the whole depends upon a molecular action, in contradistinc
tion to one at sensible distances.
      The question may be stated thus : suppose A an electri
fied plate of metal suspended in the air, and B and C two
exactly similar plates, placed parallel to and on each side of
A at equal distances and uninsulated ; A will then induce
equally towards B and C. If in this position of the plates
some other dielectric than air, as shell-lac, be introduced be
tween A and C, will the induction between them remain the
same ? Will the relation of C and B to A be unaltered, notwith
standing the difference of the dielectrics interposed between
them?
      1253. As far as I recollect, it is assumed that no change
     • If Mr. Phillips will look at the formula for chabasie given in the table,
his difficulty about the mutual replacement of potash and soda will or
,..-i'\/ii to disappear.

       Specific Induction, or Specific Inductive Capacity.        413
will occur under such variation of circumstances, and that
the relations of B and C to A depend entirely upon their di
stance. I only remember one experimental illustration of the
question, and that is by Coulomb*, in which he shows that
a wire surrounded by shell-lac took exactly the same quantity
of electricity from a charged body as the same wire in air.
The experiment offered to me no proof of the truth of the
supposition, for it is not the mere films of dielectric substances
surrounding the charged body which have to be examined
and compared, but the whole mass between that body and the
surrounding conductors at which the induction terminates.
 Charge depends upon induction (1171. 1178.); and if induc
tion relate to the particles of the surrounding dielectric, then
it relates to .-,'// the particles of that dielectric inclosed by the
surrounding conductors, and not merely to the few situated
next to the charged body. Whether the difference I sought
for existed or not, I soon found reason to doubt the conclu
sion that might be drawn from Coulomb's result ; and there
fore had the apparatus made, which, with its use, has been
already described (1187, &c.), and which appears to me well
suited for the investigation of the question.
   12S4,. Glass, and many bodies which might at first be con
sidered as very fit to test the principle, proved exceedingly
unfit for that purpose. Glass, principally in consequence of
the alkali it contains, however well warmed and dried it may
be, has a certain degree of conducting power upon its sur
face, dependent upon the moisture of the atmosphere, which
renders it unfit for a test experiment. Kesin, wax, naphtha,
oil of turpentine, and many other substances were in turn re
jected, because of a slight degree of conducting power pos
sessed by them ; and ultimately shell-lac and sulphur were
chosen, after many experiments, as the dielectrics best fitted
for the investigation. No difficulty can arise in perceiving
how the possession of a feeble degree of conducting power
tends to make a body produce effects, which would seem to
indicate that it had a greater capability ofallowing induction
through it than another body perfect in its insulation. This
source of error has been the one I have found most difficult
to obviate in the proving experiments.
   1255. Induction through Shell- lac,—As a preparatory ex
periment, I first ascertained generally that when a part of the
surface of a thick plate of shell-lac was excited or charged,
there was no sensible difference in the character of the induc
tion sustained by that charged part, whether exerted through
             • Mi-mmrci efe CAcademic, 1787, pp. 452, 453.

414 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Serin XI.)
the air in the one direction, or through the shell-lac of the
plate in the other; provided the second surface of the plate
had not, by contact with conductors, the action of dust, or
any other means, become charged (1203.)- Its solid con
dition enabled it to retain the excited particles in a perma
nent position, but that appeared to be all ; for these particles
acted just as freely through the shell-lac on one side as
through the air on the other. The same general experiment
was made by attaching a disc of tin foil to one side of the
shell-lac plate, and electrifying it, and the results were the
same. Scarcely any other solid substance than shell-lac and
sulphur, and no liquid substance that I have tried, will bear
this examination. Glass in its ordinary slate utterly fails;
yet it was essentially necessary to obtain this prior degree of
perfection in the dielectric used, before any further progress
could be made in the principal investigation.
    1256. Shell-lac and air were compared in the first place.
 For this purpose a thick hemispherical cup of shell-lac was
introduced into the lower hemisphere of one of the inductive
 apparatus (1187, &c.), so as nearly to fill the lower half of
 the space o, o (fig. 1.) between it and the inner ball ; and then
 charges were divided in the manner already described (1198.
 1207.), each apparatus being used in turn to receive the first
 charge before its division by the other. As the apparatus
 were known to have equal inductive power when air was in
 both (1209. 1211.), any differences resulting from the intro
 duction of the shell-lac would show a peculiar action in it,
 and if unequivocally referable to a specific inductive influence,
 would establish the point sought to be sustained. I have al
 ready referred to the precautions necessary in making the ex
 periments (1199, &c.); and with respect to the error which
 might be introduced by the assumption of the peculiar state,
 it was guarded against as far as possible in the first place, by
 operating quickly (1248.), and afterwards by using that di
 electric as glass or sulphur, which assumed the peculiar state
 most slowly, and in the least degree (1239. 1241.).
    12.57. The shell-lac hemisphere was put into app. L, and
 app. ii. left filled with air. The results of an experiment in
 which the charge through air was divided and reduced by the
 shell-lac app. were as follows :
                     App. '. Lac.     App. ii. Air.
                              Balls 255°.
                         0° ....
                             .... 304°
                             .... 297

             Specific Inductive Capacity of Shell-lac.          415
                 App i. Lac,         App. ii. Air.
                     Charge divided.
                   113° . . . .
                          .... 121°
                     0 ....                 after being discharged.
                         ....           7 after being discharged.
   1258. Here 297°, minus 7°, or 290°, may be taken as the
divisible charge of app. ii. (the 7° being fixed stem action
(1203. 1232.)), of which 145° is the half. The lac app. i.
gave 113° as the power or tension it had acquired after divi
sion ; and the air app. ii. gave 121°, minus 7 , or IN. as the
force it possessed from what it retained of the divisible charge
of 290°. These two numbers should evidently be alike, and
they are very nearly so, far indeed within the errors of ex
periment and observation. But these numbers differ very
much from 145°, or the force which the half charge would
have had if app. i. had contained air instead of shell-lac ; and
it appears that whilst in the division the induction through
the air has lost 176° of force, that through the lac has only
gained 113°.
   1259. If this difference be assumed as depending entirely
on the greater facility possessed by shell-lac of allowing or
causing inductive action through its substance than that pos
sessed by air, then this capacity for electric induction would
be inversely as the respective loss and gain indicated above ;
and assuming the capacity of the air apparatus as 1, that of
the shell-lac apparatus would be ^-ff, or 1-55.
    1260. This extraordinary difference was so unexpected in
its amount, as to excite the greatest suspicion of the general
accuracy of the experiment, though the perfect discharge of
app. i. after the division showed that the 113° had been taken
and given up readily. It was evident that, if it really existed,
it ought to produce corresponding effects in the reverse order;
and that when induction through shell-lac was converted into
induction through air, the force or tension of the whole ought
to be increased. The app. i. was therefore charged in the
first place, and its force divided with app. ii. The following
were the results :
                 App. i. Lac.      App. ii. Air.
                        ....           0°
                215°     ....
                204      ....

416 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
                 App. i. Lac.         App. ii. Air.
                       Charge divided.
                         .... 118°
                 118° ....
                         ....           0 after being discharged.
                   0 ....                  after being discharged.
    1261. Here 204° must be the utmost of the divisible
charge. The app. i. and ii. present 118° as their respective
forces ; both now much above the half of the first force, or
102°, whereas in the former case they were below it. The
lac app. i. has lost only 86°, yet it has given to the air app.
ii. 1 18°, so that the lac still appears much to surpass the air,
the capacity of the lac app. i. to the air app. ii. being as 1'37
to 1.
    1262. The difference of 1'55 and 1'37 as the expression of
the capacity for the induction of shell-lac seems considerable,
but is in reality very admissible under the circumstances, for
both are in error in contrary directions. Thus in the last ex
periment the charge fell from 215° to 204° by the joint effects
of dissipation and absorption (1192. 1250.), during the time
which elapsed in the electrometer operations, between the ap
plications of the carrier ball required to give those two re
sults. Nearly an equal time must have elapsed between the
application of the carrier which gave the 204° result, and the
division of the charge between the two apparatus ; and as the
fall in force progressively decreases in amount (1192.), if in
this case it be taken at 6 only, it will reduce the whole trans
ferable charge at the time of division to 198° instead of 204- ;
this diminishes the loss of the shell-lac charge to 80° instead
of 86° ; and then the expression of specific capacity for it is
increased, and, instead of 1'37°, is 1'47 times that of air.
    1263. Applying the same correction to the former experi
ment in which air was Jirst charged, the result is of the con
trary kind. No shell-lac hemisphere was then in the appa
ratus, and therefore the loss would principally be from dissi
pation, and not from absorption ; hence it would be nearer to
the degree of loss shown by the numbers 304° and 297°, and
being assumed as 6° would reduce the divisible charge to
284°. In that case the air would have lost 170°, and com
municated only 113° to the shell-lac ; and the relative spe
cific capacity of the latter would appear to be 1 '50, which is
very little indeed removed from 1 '47, the expression given by
the second experiment when corrected in the same way.

               Specific Inductive Capacity of Shell-lac.        417
      1 264. The shell-lac was then removed from app. i. and put
   into app. ii. and the experiments of division again made. I
  give the results, because I think the importance of the point
  justifies and even requires them.
                        App. i. Air.      App. ii. hac.
                                Balls 200°.
                       °    ....            0°
                    286     ....
                    283     ....
                         Charge divided.
                            .... 110
                    109 ....
                           . . . . 0-25 after discharge.
                 Trace ....                   after discharge.
     Here app. i. retained 109°, having lost 174° in communi
 cating 1 10° to app. ii. ; and the capacity of the air app. is to
 the lac app., therefore, as 1 to 1-58. If the divided charge
 be corrected for an assumed loss of only 3°, being the amount
 of previous loss in the same time, it will make the capacity
 of the shell-lac app. 1-55 only.
     1265. Then app. ii. was charged, and the charge divided
 thus:
                  App. i. Air.         App. ii. Lac.
                      0° ....
                           .... 256°
                           .... 251
                      Charge divided.
                   M-6 ....
                           .... 149
                a little ....              after discharge.
                          . . . . a little after discharge.
     Here app. i. acquired a charge of 146°, while app. ii. lost
only 102° in communicating that amount of force; the capa
cities being, therefore, to each other as 1 to 1'43. If the
whole transferable charge be corrected for a loss of 4° pre
vious to division, it gives the expression of 1-49 for the capa
city of the shell-lac apparatus.
    1266. These four expressions of 1'47, 1'50, 1-55, and 1-49
for the power of the shell-lac apparatus, through the different
variations of the experiment, are very near to each other ; the
average is close upon 1 -5, which may hereafter be used as the
expression of the result. It is a very important result ; and,
showing for this particular piece of shell-lac a decided supe
riority over air in allowing or causing the act of induction, it
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 84. Dec. 1838.             2E

418 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.}
proved the growing necessity of a more close and rigid exa
mination of the whole question.
    1267. The shell-lac was of the best quality, and had been
 carefully selected and cleaned ; but as the action of any coo-
ducting particles in it would tend, virtually, to diminish the
 quantity or thickness of the dielectric used, and produce
 effects as if the two inducing surfaces of the conductors in that
 apparatus were nearer together than in the one with air only,
 I prepared another shell-lac hemisphere, of which the matenal
 had been dissolved in strong spirit of wine, the solution fil
 tered, and then carefully evaporated. This is not an easy
 operation, for it is difficult to drive off the last portions of
 alcohol without injuring the lac by the heat applied; and
 unless they be dissipated, the substance left conducts too well
 to be used in these experiments. I prepared two hemispheres
 this way, one of them unexceptionable; and with it I repeated
 the former experiments with all precautions. The results
 were exactly of the same kind ; the following expressions for
 the capacity of the shell-lac apparatus, whether it were app.
 i. or ii., being given directly by the experiments 1'46, 1'50,
 1-52, 1'51 ; the average of these and several others being very
 nearly 1-5.
    1268. As a final check upon the general conclusion, I then
 actually brought the surfaces of the air apparatus, corre
 sponding to the place of the shell-lac in its apparatus, nearer
 together, by putting a metallic lining into the lower hemi
  sphere of the one not containing the lac (1213.). The di
  stance of the metal surface from the carrier ball was in this
 way diminished from 0'62 of an inch to 0'435 of an inch,
 whilst the interval occupied by the lac in the other apparatus
 remained 0'62 of an inch as before. Notwithstanding this
 change, the lac apparatus showed its former superiority ; and
 whether it or the air apparatus was charged first, the capacity
 of the lac apparatus to the air apparatus was by the experi
 mental results as !.•!•."» to 1.
    1269. From all the experiments I have made, and their
 constant results, I cannot resist the conclusion that shell-lac
 does exhibit a case of specific inductive capacity. I have tried
 to check the trials in every way, and if not remove, at least
 estimate, every source of error. That the final result is not
 due to common conduction is shown by the capability of the
 apparatus to retain the communicated charge; that it is uot
 due to the conductive power of inclosed small particles, bj
 which they could acquire a polarized condition as conductors,
 is shown by the effects of the shell-lac purified by alcohol;
 and, that it is not due to any influence of the charged state,

                Specific Inductive Capacity of Glass.         419
 formerly described (1250.), first absorbing and then evolving
electricity, is indicated by the instantaneous assumption anil
discharge of those portions of the power which are concerned
in the phenomena, that effect occurring in these cases, as in
all others of ordinary induction by charged conductors. The
latter argument is the more striking in the case where the air
apparatus is employed to divide the charge with the lac aj>-
paratus, for it obtains its portion of electricity in an instant)
nnd yet is charged far above the mean.
    1270. Admitting for the present the general fact sought to
be proved; then 1-5, though it expresses the capacity of the
apparatus containing the hemisphere of shell-lac, by no means
expresses the relation of lac to air. The lac only occupies
one half of the space o, o, of the apparatus containing it,
through which the induction is sustained ; the rest is filled
with air, as in the other apparatus; and if the effect of the
two tipper halves of the globes be abstracted, then the com
parison of the shell-lac powers in the lower half of the one,
with the power of the air in the lower half of the other, will
be as 2 : 1 ; and even this must be less than the truth, for the
induction of the upper part of the apparatus, i. e. of the wire
and ball B (fig. 1.) to external objects, must be the same in
both, and considerably diminish the difference dependent
upon, and really producible by, the influence of the shell-lac
within.
   1271. Glass.—I next worked with glass as the dielectric.
It involved the possibility of conduction on its surface, but it.
excluded the idea of conducting particles within its substance
(1267.) other than those of its own mass. Besides this it does
not assume the charged state (1239.) so readily, or to such
an extent as shell-Lie.
   1272. A thin hemispherical cup of glass being made hot
was covered with a coat of shell-lac dissolved in alcohol, nnd
after being dried for many hours in a hot place, was put into
the apparatus and experimented with. It exhibited effects so
slight, that, though they were in the direction indicating a
superiority of glass over air, they were allowed to pass as
possible errors of experiment; and the glass was considered
as producing no sensible effect.
   1273. I then procured a thick flint glass hemispherical cup
resembling that of shell-lac (1239.), but not filling up the
space o, o, so well. Its average thickness was 0'4 of an inch,
there being an additional thickness of air, averaging 0'22 of
an inch, to make up the whole space of 0-62 of an inch be
tween the inducting metallic surfaces. It was covered with
a film of shell-lac as the former was, (1272.) and being made
                               2 E 2

420    Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XL)
very warm, was introduced into the apparatus, also warmed,
and experiments made with it as in the former instances
(1257. &c.). The general results were the same as with
shell-lac, i. e. glass surpassed air in its power of favouring
induction through it. The two best results as respected
the state of the apparatus for retention of charge, &c.,
gave, when the air apparatus was charged first 1'336, and
when the glass apparatus was charged first 1-45, as the spe
cific inductive capacity for glass, both being without correc
tion. The average of nine results, four with the glass ap
 paratus first charged, and five with the air apparatus first
 charged, gave 1'38 as the power of the glass apparatus; 1'22
 and 1-46 being the minimum and maximum numbers with all
 the errors of experiment upon them. In all the experiments
 the glass apparatus took up its inductive charge instantly,
and lost it as readily ; and during the short time of each ex
 periment, acquired the peculiar state in a small degree onlj,
 so that the influence of this state, and also of conduction upon
 the results, must have been small.
    1274. Allowing specific inductive capacity to be proved
 and active in this case, and 1-38 as the expression for the
glass apparatus, then the specific inductive capacity of flint
glass will be above 1'76, not forgetting that this expression is
for a piece of glass of such thickness as to occupy not quite
two-thirds of the space through which the induction is sus
tained (1273. 1253.).
    1275. Sulphur.—The same hemisphere of this substance
was used in app. ii. as was formerly referred to (1242.). The
experiments were well made, i. e. the sulphur itself was free
from charge both before and after each experiment, and no
action from the stem appeared (1203. 1232.), so that no cor
rection was required on that score. The following are the
results when the air apparatus was first charged and divided:
                   App. i. Air.       App. ii. Sulphur.
                             Balls 280°
                          0° ...
                                 ....          0°
                      438 ....
                      434 ....
                          Charge divided.
                                 .... 162
                       164 ....
                               .... 160
                      162 ....
                                . . . . 0 after discharge.
                          0 ....                after discharge.

   Specific Inductive Capacity of Sulphur and Spermaceti.        421
    Here app. i. retained 164°, having lost 270° in communi
cating 1 62° to app. ii., and the capacity of the air apparatus
is to that of the sulphur apparatus as 1 to 1 '66.
    1276. Then the sulphur apparatus was charged first, thus:
                     App. i.           App. ii.
                           ....           0°
                    0° ....
                           .... 395
                          . . . . 388
                      Charge divided.
                  237 ....
                           .... 238
                     0 ....                     after discharge.
                          . . . .         0     after discharge.
   Here app. ii. retained 238°, and gave up 150° in communi
cating a charge of 237° to app. i., and the capacity of the air
apparatus is to that of the sulphur apparatus as 1 to 1'58.
These results are very near to each other, and we may take the
mean 1'62 as representing the specific inductive capacity of
the sulphur apparatus; in which case the specific inductive
capacity of sulphur itself as compared to air = 1 (1270.) will
be about or above 2-2<t.
   1277. This result with sulphur I consider as one of the
most unexceptionable. The substance when fused was per
fectly clear, pellucid, and free from particles of dirt (1267.),
so that no interference of small conducting particles confused
the result. The body when solid is an excellent insulator,
and by experiment was found to take up, with great slowness,
that state (1241. 124.2.) which alone seemed likely to disturb
the conclusion. The experiments themselves, also, were free
from any need of correction. Yet notwithstanding these cir
cumstances, so favourable to the exclusion of error, the result
is a higher specific inductive capacity for sulphur than for any
other body as yet tried; and though this may in part be due
to the sulphur being in a better shape, i. e. filling up more
completely the space 0,0, (fig. 1.) than the cups of shell-lac
and glass, still I feel satisfied that the experiments altogether
fully prove the existence of a difference between dielectrics as
to their power of favouring an inductive action through them ;
which difference may, for the present, be expressed by the
term specific inductive capacity.
   1278. Having thus established the point in the most favour
able cases that I could anticipate, I proceeded to examine
other bodies amongst solids, liquids, and gases. These re
sults I shall give with all convenient brevity.
   1279. Spermaceti.—A good hemisphere of spermaceti being

422 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
tried as to conducting power whilst its two surfaces were still
in contact with the tin-foil moulds used in forming it, was
found to conduct sensibly even whilst warm. On removing
it from the moulds and using it in one of the apparatus, it
gave results indicating a specific inductive capacity between
1-3 and 1'6 for the apparatus containing it. But as the only
mode of operation was to charge the air apparatus, and then
after a quick contact with the spermaceti apparatus, ascertain
what was left in the former (1281.), no great confidence can
be placed in the results. They are not in opposition to the
general conclusion, but cannot be brought forward as argu
ment in favour of it.
   1280. I endeavoured to find some liquids which would in
sulate well, and could be obtained in sufficient quantity for
these experiments. Oil of turpentine, native naphtha rectified,
and the condensed oil gas fluid, appeared by common ex
periments to promise best as to insulation. Being left in con
tact with fused carbonate of potassa, chloride of lime, and
quick lime for some days and then filtered, they were found
much injured in insulating power; but after distillation ac
quired their best state, though even then they proved to be
conductors when large metallic contact was made with
them.
   1281. Oil of Turpentine rectified.'—I filled the lower half of
app. i. with the fluid ; and as it would not hold a charge
sufficiently to enable me first to measure and then divide it,
I charged app. ii. containing air, and dividing its charge with
app. i. by a quick contact, measured that remaining in app. ii.:
for, theoretically, if a quick contact would divide up to equal
tension between the two apparatus, yet without sensible kus
from the conducting power of app. i. ; and app. ii. were left
charged to a degree of tension above half the original charge,
it would indicate that oil of turpentine had less specific in
ductive capacity than air ; or, if left charged below that mean
state of tension, it would imply that the fluid had the greater
inductive capacity. In an experiment of this kind, app. ii.
gave as its charge 390° before division with app. i., and 17S!'
afterwards, which is less than the half of 390°. Again, being
at 175° before division, it was 79° after, which is also less
than half the divided charge. Being at 79°, it was a third
time divided, and then fell to 36°, less than the half of 79°.
Such are the best results I could obtain ; they are not incon
sistent with the belief that oil of turpentine has a greater spe
cific capacity than air, but they do not prove the fact, since
the disappearance of more than half the charge may be due
to the conducting power merely of the fluid.

               Specific Inductive Capacity of Air.              423
     1282. Naphtha.—This liquid gave results similar in their
 nature and direction to those with oil of turpentine.
     1283. A most interesting class of substances, in relation to
 specific inductive capacity, now came under review, namely,
 the gases or aeriform bodies. These are so peculiarly con
 stituted, and are bound together by so many striking physical
 and chemical relations, that I expected some remarkable re
 sults from them : air in various states was selected for the first
 experiments.
    1284". Air, rare and dense.— Some experiments of division
 (1208.) seemed to show that dense and rare air were alike in
 the property under examination. A simple and better pro
 cess was to attach one of the apparatus to an air-pump, to
 charge it, and then examine the tension of the charge when
the air within was more or less rarefied. Under these circum
stances it was found, that commencing with a certain charge,
that charge did not change in its tension or force as the air
 was rarefied, until the rarefaction was such that discharge
across the space o, o (fig. 1.) occurred. This discharge was
proportionate to the rarefaction; but having taken place,
and lowered the tension to a certain degree, that degree was
not at all affected by restoring the pressure and density of
the air to their first quantities.
                            Inches of Mercury.
        Thus at a pressure of        30 the charge was        88°
        Again                        30 the charge was        88
        Again                        30 the charge was        87
        Reduced to                   14 the charge was        87
        Raised again to              30 the charge was        86
        Being now reduced to           3-4 the charge fell to 81
        Raised again to              30 the charge was still 81
    1285. The charges were low in these experiments, first
that they might not pass off at low pressure, and next that
little loss by dissipation might occur. I now reduced them
still lower, that I might rarefy further, and for this purpose
in the following experiment used a measuring interval in the
electrometer of only 15° (1185.). The pressure of air within
the apparatus being reduced to 1-9 inches of mercury, the
charge was found to be 293 ; then letting in air till the press
ure was 30 inches, the charge still 29°.
    1286. These experiments were repeated with pure oxygen
with the same consequences.
    1287. This result of no variation in the electric tension
being produced by variation in the density or pressure of the
air, agrees perfectly with those obtained by Mr. Harris, and

424 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (Series XI.)
 described in his beautiful and important investigations con
 tained in the Philosophical Transactions*; namely that induc
 tion is the same in rare and dense air, and that the divergence
 of an electrometer under such variations of the air continues
 the same, provided no electricity pass away from it. The
 effect is one entirely independent of that power which dense
 air has of causing a higher charge to be retained upon the
 surface of conductors in it than can be retained by the same
 conductors in rare air; a point I propose considering hereafter.
     1288. I then compared hot and cold air together, by raising
 the temperature of one of the inductive apparatus as high as
 it could be without injury, and then dividing charges between
 it and the other apparatus containing cold air. The temper
 atures were about 50° and 200°. Still the power or capacity
 appeared to be unchanged ; and when I endeavoured to vary
 the experiment, by charging a cold apparatus and then
 warming it by a spirit-lamp, I could obtain no proof that the
 inductive capacity underwent any alteration.
     1289. I compared damp and dry air together, but could
 find no difference in the results.
     1290. Gases.—A very long series of experiments was then
 undertaken for the purpose of comparing different gases one
 with another. They were all found to insulate well, except
 such as acted on the shell-lac of the supporting stem ; these
 were chlorine, ammonia, and muriatic acid. They were all
 dried by appropriate means before being introduced into the
 apparatus. It would have been sufficient to have compared
 each with air ; but, in consequence of the striking result which
 came out, namely, that all had the same power of, or capacity
Jbrt sustaining induction through them, (which perhaps might
 have been expected after it was found that no variation of
 density or pressure produced any effect,) I was induced to
 compare them, experimentally, two and two in various ways,
 that no difference might escape me, and that the sameness of
 result might stand in full opposition to the contrast of pro
 perty, composition, and condition which the gases themselves
 presented.
     1291. The experiments were made upon the following pairs
of gases.
             1. Nitrogen and                  Oxygen.
             2. Oxygen                        Air.
             3. Hydrogen                      Air.
             4. Muriatic acid gas             Air.
    « Philosophical Transactions, 1834, pp. 223, 224, 237, 244. [See L. and
 E. Phil. Mag. vol. iv. p. 436.—EDIT.]

           Specific Inductive Capacity of Gases—alike,      425
           5. Oxygen                    Hydrogen.
           6. Oxygen                    Carbonic acid.
           7. Oxygen                    Olefiant gas.
           8. Oxygen                    Nitrous gas.
           9. Oxygen                    Sulphurous acid.
         10. Oxygen                     Ammonia.
         11. Hydrogen                   Carbonic acid.
         12. Hydrogen                   Olefiant gas.
         13. Hydrogen                   Sulphurous acid.
         14. Hydrogen                   Fluo-silicic acid.
         15. Hydrogen                   Ammonia.
         16. Hydrogen                   Arseniuretted hydrogen.
         17. Hydrogen                   Sulphuretted hydrogen.
          18. Nitrogen                  Olefiant gas.
         19. Nitrogen                   Nitrous gas.
         20. Nitrogen                   Nitrous oxide.
         21. Nitrogen                   Ammonia.
         22. Carbonic oxide             Carbonic acid.
          23. Carbonic oxide            Olefiant gas.
         24. Nitrous oxide              Nitrous gas.
         25. Ammonia                   Sulphurous acid.
   1292. Notwithstanding the striking contrasts of all kinds
which these gases present of property, of density, whether
simple or compound, anions or cathions (665.), of high or
low pressure (1284. 1286.), hot or cold (1288.), not the least
difference in their capacity to favour or admit electrical in
duction through them could be perceived. Considering the
point established, that in all these gases induction takes place
by an action of contiguous particles, this is the more im
portant, and adds one to the many striking relations which
hold between bodies having the gaseous condition and form.
Another equally important electrical relation, which will be
examined in the next paper, is that which the different gases
have to each other at the same pressure of causing the reten
tion ofthe same or different degrees of charge upon conductors
in them. These two results appear to bear importantly upon
the subject of electro-chemical excitation and decomposition;
for as all these phenomena, different as they seem to be, must
depend upon the electrical forces of the particles of matter,
the very distance at which they seem to stand from each other
will do much, if properly considered, to illustrate the prin
ciple by which they are held in one common bond, and sub
ject, as they must be, to one common law.
   1293. It is just possible that the gases may differ from each
other in their specific inductive capacity, and yet by quan

 428 Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity,       (Series XL)
 titles so small as not to be distinguished in the apparatus I
 have used. It must be remembered, however, that in the
 gaseous experiments the gases occupy all the space o, o, (fig.
 1.) between the inner and the outer ball, except the small
 portion filled by the stem ; and the results, therefore, are
 twice as delicate as those with solid dielectrics.
     1294. The insulation was good in all the experiments re
corded, except Nos. 10, 15, 21, and 25, being those in which
ammonia was compared with other gases. When shell-lac is
 put into ammoniacal gas its surface gradually acquires con
ducting power, and in this way the lac part of the stem within
was so altered, that the ammonia apparatus could not retain a
charge with sufficient steadiness to allow of division. In these
 experiments, therefore, the other apparatus was charged ; its
 charge measured and divided with the ammonia apparatus
 by a quick contact, and what remained untaken away by the
division again measured (1281.). It was so nearly one half
of the original charge, as to authorize, with this reservation,
the insertion of ammoniacal gas amongst the other gases, as
having equal power with them.
    1295. Thus induction appears to be essentially an action
of contiguous particles, through the intermediation of which
the electric force, originating or appearing at a certain place,
is propagated to or sustained at a distance, appearing there
as a force of the same kind exactly equal in amount, but op
posite in its direction and tendencies (1164.). Induction re
quires no sensible thickness in the conductors which may be
used to limit its extent; an uninsulated leaf of gold may be
made very highly positive on one surface, and as highly ne
gative on the other, without the least interference of the two
states whilst the inductions continue. Nor is it affected by
the nature of the limiting conductors, provided time be al
lowed, in the case of those which conduct slowly, for them to
assume their final state (1170.).
    1296. But with regard to the dielectrics or insulating media,
matters are very different (1167.)- Their thickness has an
immediate and important influence on the degree of induc
tion. As to their quality, though all gases and vapours are
alike, whatever their state, amongst solid bodies, and -between
them and gases, there are differences which prove the exist
ence of specific inductive capacities, these differences being in
some cases very great.
    1297- The direct inductive force, which may be conceived
to be exerted in lines between the two limiting and charged
conducting surfaces, is accompanied by a lateral or transverse

                Summary : Nature ofInducthe Action.                   127
force equivalent to a dilatation or repulsion of these repre
sentative lines (1224.); or the attractive force which exists
amongst the particles of the dielectric in the direction of the
induction is accompanied by a repulsive or a diverging force
in the transverse direction (1304.).
    1298. Induction appears to consist in a certain polarized
state of the particles, into which they are thrown by the elec
trified body sustaining the action, the particles assuming po
sitive and negative points or parts, which are symmetrically
arranged with respect to each other and the inducting sur
faces or particles*. The state must be a forced one, for it is
originated and sustained only by force, and sinks to the
normal or quiescent state when that force is removed. It can
be continued only in insulators by the same portion of electri
city, because they only can retain this state of the particles
(1304.).
    1299. The principle of induction is of the utmost gene
rality in electric action. It constitutes charge in every or
dinary case, and probably in every case ; it appears to be the
cause of all excitement, and to precede every current. The
degree to which the particles are affected in this their forced
state, before discharge of one kind or another supervenes,
appears to constitute what we call intensity.
    1300. When a Leyden jar is charged, the particles of the
glass are forced into this polarized and constrained condition
by the electricity of the charging apparatus. Discharge is
the return of these particles to their natural state from their
state of tension, whenever the two electric forces are allowed
to be disposed of in some other direction.
    1301. All charge of conductors is on their surface, because
being essentially inductive, it is there only that the medium
capable of sustaining the necessary inductive state begins. If
the conductors are hollow and contain air or any other di
electric, still no charge can appear upon that internal surface,
because the dielectric there cannot assume the polarized state
throughout, in consequence of the opposing actions in different
directions.
    1302. The known influence ofform is perfectly consistent
with the corpuscular view of induction set forth. An elec
trified cylinder is more affected by the influence of the sur
rounding conductors (which complete the condition of charge)
at the ends than at the middle, because the ends are exposed
   • The theory of induction which I am stating does not pretend to de
cide whether electricity be a fluid or fluids, or a mere power or condition
of recognised matter. That is a question which I may be induced to con
 sider in the next or following series of these researches.

4'28    Mr. Faraday's Researches in Electricity. (SeriesXI.)
to a greater sum of inductive forces than the middle ; and a
point is brought to a higher condition than a ball, because,
by relation to the conductors around, more inductive force
terminates on its surface than on an equal surface of the ball
with which it is compared. Here too, especially, can be per
ceived the influence of the lateral or transverseTorce (1297.\
which, being a power of the nature of or equivalent to repul
sion, causes such a disposition of the lines of inductive force
in their course across the dielectric, that they must accumulate
upon the point, the end of the cylinder, or any projecting
part.
    1303. The influence of distance is also in harmony with
the same view. There is perhaps no distance so great that
induction cannot take place through it * : but with the same
constraining force (1298.) it takes place the more easily, ac
cording as the extent of dielectric through which it is exerted
is lessened. And as it is assumed by the theory that the par
ticles of the dielectric, though tending to remain in a normal
state, are thrown into a forced condition during the induc
tion ; so it would seem to follow that the fewer there are of
these intervening particles opposing their tendency to the
assumption of the new state, the greater degree of change
 will they suffer, i. e. the higher will be the condition they
assume, and the larger the amount of inductive action exerted
 through them.
    1304. I have used the phrases lines of inductiveforce and
curved lines of force (1231. 1297. 1298. 1302.) in a general
sense only, just as we speak of the lines of magnetic force.
 The lines are imaginary, and the force in any part of them
is of course the resultant of compound forces, every molecule
being related to every other molecule in all directions by the
tension and reaction of those which are contiguous. The
transverse force is merely this relation considered in a direction
oblique to the lines of inductive force, and at present I mean
no more than that by the phrase. With respect to the terra
polarity also, I mean at present only a disposition of force by
 which the same molecule acquires opposite powers on different
parts. The particular way in which this disposition is made
will come into consideration hereafter, and probably varies in
different bodies, and so produces variety of electrical relation.
   • I have traced it experimentally from a ball placed in the middle of
the large cube formerly described (1173.) to the sides of the cube six feet
distant, and also from the same ball placed in the middle of our large
lecture-room to the walls of the room at twenty-six feet distance, the
charge upon the ball in these cases being solely due to iuduction through
these distances.

             Summary : Nature ofInductive Action.                        429
All I am anxious about at present is, that a more particular
meaning should not be attached to the expressions used than
I contemplate. Further inquiry, I trust, will enable us by
degrees to restrict the sense more and more, and so render
the explanation of electrical phenomena day by day more
and more definite.
   1305. As a test of the probable accuracy of my views, I
have throughout this experimental examination compared
them with the conclusions drawn by M. Poisson from his
beautiful mathematical inquiries *. I am quite unfit to form
a judgement of these admirable papers ; but as far as I
can perceive, the theory I have set forth and the results
I have obtained are not in opposition to such of those con
clusions as represent the final disposition and state of the
forces in the limited number of cases he has considered. His
theory assumes a very different mode of action in induction
to that which I have ventured to support, and would pro
bably find its mathematical test in the endeavour to apply
it to cases of induction in curved lines. To my feeling it is
insufficient in its mode of accounting for the retention of elec
tricity upon the surface of conductors by the pressure of the
air, an effect which I hope to show is simple and consistent
according to the present view ; and it does not touch voltaic
electricity, or in any way associate it and what is called ordi
nary electricity under one common principle.
   1 have also looked with some anxiety to the results which
that indefatigable philosopher Harris has obtained in his in
vestigation of the laws of induction f, knowing that they were
experimental, and having a full conviction of their exactness ;
but I am happy in perceiving no collision at present between
them and the views 1 have set forth.
    1306. Finally, I beg to say that I put forth my particular
view with doubt and fear, lest it should not bear the test of
general examination, for unless true it will only embarrass the
Erogress of electrical science. It has long been on my mind,
  ut I hesitated to publish it until the increasing persuasion
of its accordance with all known facts, and the manner in
which it linked together effects apparently very different in
kind, urged me to write the present paper. I as yet see no
inconsistency between it and nature, but, on the contrary,
think I perceive much new light thrown by it on her opera
tions ; and my next papers will be devoted to a review of the
phenomena of conduction, electrolyzation, current, mag-
   * Memoires de flntlitut, 1811, torn. xii. the first page 1, and the second
paging 163.               t Philosophical Transactions, 1834, p. 213.

430        Mr. W. R. Grove on a new Voltaic Combination.
netism, retention, discharge, and some other points, with an
application of the theory to these effects, and an examination
of it by them.
   Royal Institution, NOT. 16, 1837.
                                                        Fig. 11.
                                              Omitted in page 365. (1246.)
LVI.      On a new Voltaic Combination. By W. R. GROVE,
                               Esq., M.A.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine andjownal.
        GENTLEMEN,
      N first hearing of porous porcelain being employed as a
        diaphragm for preventing the mutual precipitation of the
metals on each other in voltaic combinations, it struck me
 that one of the plates of metals usually employed might be
dispensed with by precipitation upon the other from a metal
lic solution. After some unsuccessful trials, I constructed a
 trough as following: a piece of common stout millboard of
 the length required, and of breadth sufficient to form the bot
 tom and sides, is separated lengthwise into three parallel divi
 sions by cuts one-third through ; it is then covered with a thin
 layer of cement and bent up into the form of a trough ; four-
inch squares of common sheet iron and unglazed porcelain
plates of the same dimensions are then warmed and slid alter
nately into the trough, as in Cruickshank's form, at about three
 tenths inch distance *. A solution of sulphate of copper and
 dilute acid being poured into the alternate cells, a very active
 series is formed by the precipitation of the copper on one sur-
    • Pasteboard is preferable to wood for the formation of these troughs: it
 has not strength sufficient by its warping to crack the cement, is mnch
 more easily constructed, and a better insulator; it should be thinly coated
 with varnish on the outside to prevent capillary absorption by accidentally
 touching liquids. The plates of porous ware here mentioned may be con
 veniently employed for rendering constant the common Cruickshank
 trough, being warmed sufficiently to melt the cement nnd slid into the
 cells.

Mr. Nevins on the Reduction of the Chlorides ofMercury. 431
face of the iron ; that which I formed was of twenty plates : the
shock, without coils or condenser of any description, was so
powerful as to be scarcely tolerable. When a wire was scraped
along the edge of the plate at one extremity, the other hand
touching the opposite end, the decomposition of water was also
rapid, though I have not yet accurately measured its powers :
its action continued unabated for nearly three hours without
 the addition of any acid or sulphate. If greater constancy
be required, the alternate cells can be filled up with coarsely
powdered sulphate, and some added as required. I was fearful
that upon a second trial the intensity would have much abated,
in consequence of the oxidated surface of the plates prevent
ing so uniform a deposition of the precipitate, but was grati
fied to find that, after having been suffered to dry and re
main at rest for several days, its action was as intense and
constant as upon the first trial. The advantage of this form,
where series and sustained power are required, I consider to
be its extreme occonomy, a single cheap metal being employed
instead of two expensive ones ; the greater durability of iron
as compared with zinc ; the cutting in squares, so that none is
wasted ; and the tiresome process of soldering being altogether
dispensed with. The diaphragms and solutions are common
to every form of constant battery: possibly very thin plates of
 deal might do as well as porcelain ; the durability of the latter
material, however, makes its expense unimportant. My ob
ject in this communication is not so much to vaunt this parti
cular form of battery as to direct increased attention to the
 porous filter as likely to form an important element in the
 analysis of the voltaic trough : it may possibly throw some
 light upon the organization of the torpedo.
     Hoping you will consider this letter of sufficient importance
 to merit insertion in the Philosophical Magazine,
                       I remain, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
 Swansea, Oct. 26, 1838.                         W. R. GROVE.
 LV1I. On the Reduction of the Chlorides of Mercury when
       mixed with Organic Substances. By JOHN B. NEVINs, Esq.
    To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        GENTLEMEN,
   A SHORT time since Mr. West, Lecturer on Chemistry
  .*.*. at the Medical School in this town, mentioned to me the
 fact, that if a mixture of Hg Cl with some vegetable substances
 be heated, metallic Hg is sublimed ; and recommended that
 the circumstances upon which this depended should be ex

  432 Mr. Kevins on the Reduction of the Chlorides qfMeraoy.
  amined. The results of some experiments on this subject I
  beg leave to hand you, and to request the favour of their in
  sertion in your Magazine.
      When Hg Cl and Hg Cl8 are mixed with vegetable snb-
  stances, as bread crumb, sugar, &c., and exposed to heat in a
  test tube, a series of decompositions more or less complex en
  sues, and metallic Hg sublimes.
     In both these cases the theory of the reduction seems to be
  the same. Water, or in some cases some other compound of H,
  is decomposed, and the H, when in the nascent state, com
  bines with the Cl in the compound, forming H Cl, which is
  driven off, and condensed by the water in the receiver, ren
  dering it distinctly acid to test paper, and which is proved to
  be H Cl by the usual tests. Water and empyreurnatic oil
  are also formed as in other cases of vegetable decomposition.
     The H would seem to be the only essential reducing agent,
  for when Hg Cl was mixed with pure charcoal, and a few drops
  of oil of lemons were added, the reduction took place very
  readily on the application of heat, with formation, as in other
  instances, of H Cl ; and the same result was obtained when the
  experiment was repeated with the omission of the charcoal.
     The effect of the presence of water in producing the re
  duction of the Hg was strikingly shown in the following ex
 periments. When dry Hg Cl and charcoal were mixed and
  exposed to heat, no decomposition ensued; but on the addition
 of a few drops of water, H Cl and C Oa were formed and
 Hg was sublimed.
     It seems probable that it is only while in the nascent
 state that H possesses the power of decomposing Hg Cl, for
 when a stream of H gas was passed over Hg Cl, heated either
 bv itself or when mixed with charcoal, no reduction took
 place ; while when Hg Cl was introduced into a vessel con
 taining the materials for forming H, it was decomposed si
 milarly to Ag Cl. When Hg Cr was subjected in a similar
manner to the action of nascent H, it was first converted into
 Hg Cl, and afterwards by continuing the process it was re
duced to the metallic state.
    The same results were obtained in all the experiments,
which were made with rhubarb, bread crumb, pure sugar
and other vegetable substances, and with moistened char
coal.
    In some of these cases, upon boiling the residue after the
sublimation of the Hg, a small quantity of Ca Cl was de
tected ; but as even in these cases free H Cl was evolved and
collected, it is evident that the Ca was not the reducing
agent.

        On the Bichromate of the Perchloride of Chrome. 433
    The lowest heat of a spirit-lamp is quite sufficient for effect
 ing the decomposition.
    So far as I have been able to observe, there are no differ
 ences in the phenomena exhibited in the reduction of Hg
from Hg Cl and Hg C1J, or in any of the circumstances con
nected with the processes, by which we can form any judge
ment as to which of these compounds we are operating upon.
                          I am, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
   Leeds, June 5, 1838.                         JOHN B. NEVINS.
 LVIII. On the Process for obtaining the Bichromate of the
    Perchloride of Chrome, as viewed under the Microscope.
    By the Rev. EDWARD CRAIG, F.R.S.E.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       GENTLEMEN,
 T OBSERVE in your Number for July, p. 78, a notice of
     the bichromate of perchloride of chromium, and of the
 process for obtaining it. It may perhaps be interesting to
 call attention to the exhibition of this process under the mi
 croscope, which certainly throws some light upon the action
going on. It presents one of the most beautiful objects ever
seen.
    Put a very small portion of the muriate of soda on a thin
flat glass, and add to it a drop of strong solution of bichromate
of potass; lay this on the port-object, and adjust it to the
focus of the microscope. Then place upon another flat glass
a drop of sulphuric acid, and turn it down upon the other
glass. The action commences. The'sulphuric acid is seen
attacking and breaking down the muriate of soda and setting
free the muriatic acid. Crystals ofsulphate of soda are speedi
ly formed. The sulphuric acid acts also on the bichromate
of potass, and sets free the chromic acid ; crystals of sul
phate of potass are also formed. Over these crystals of both
kinds a multitude of green particles are observed, which are
probably a chromate of potass, formed from one equivalent of
the chrome in the bichromate, and then the other equivalent
of the chrome combines with the disengaged chlorine, and
appears in large blood-red globules over the whole field. The
operation when steadily watched is very beautiful; and it is
one in which the microscope seems to develope with peculiar
interest a process whose specific features are lost sight of in
the retort. According to the view which is thus given of the
process, it seems natural to call the product chlorochromic
acid.                  I am, Gentlemen, yours, &c.
      Burton Latimer, Kettering, Oct. 20, 1838.   EDWARD CRAIG.
Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 84. Dec. 1838.             2 F

                               [ 434    ]
 LIX. On the Experiments detailed in Mr. Waldie's Paper
     on Combustion and Flame, inserted in the Loud, and Edin.
    Phil. Mag. for August 1838. By D. F. Gregory, Esq.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
  I ONLY observed yesterday, in your August Number, an
 ¦*¦ article on the subject of combustion, on which, though it
 be now rather late, I would beg to make some observations.
 The author of the paper, Mr. Waldie, does not seem to be
aware that almost all the experiments which he has there de
tailed were made several years ago, and are well known to
chemists, and frequently exhibited in public lectures. They
were originally due to that very ingenious chemist Mr. K.
T.Kemp ofEdinburgh, Chemical Assistant to Dr. Hope, who
first performed them in 1833. I do not know whether or
not Mr. Kemp communicated a paper on the subject to any
of the Journals, but I know that he communicated them freely
to other chemists, who as well as Mr. Kemp have exhibited
them frequently in their lecture-rooms since that time, so that
they must have become pretty generally known. And I am
surprised that Mr. Waldie, who seems to have directed his
attention to this branch of chemistry, should not have heard
of them before this. I may mention that one of the experi
ments, that of burning a jet of oxygen in an atmosphere
of hydrogen, I saw performed by Dr. Hope in his lecture-
room as far back as 1829 ; but if I recollect rightly, he did
not give the true theory of the experiment. Mr. Kemp did
this, and illustrated it not only by the experiments detailed by
Mr. Waldie, but also by others, which that gentleman does
not seem to have tried, such as the burning of chlorate of
potass or nitre in an electropositive atmosphere.
    If you think these remarks worthy of a place in your pages,
their insertion will much oblige,
                                  Gentlemen, yours, &c.
   Trinity College, Cambridge,                  D. F. GREGORY.
          Nov. 3, 1838.
LX. On a certain Diffictdtij connected with the Demonstration
                     of Euclid, Book I. Prop. 29. »
  A WELL-known difficulty connected with the demonstra-
¦^* tion of Euclid, Book I. Prop. 29, which has long been a
stumbling-block in the very threshold ofmathematical science,
                     • Communicated by the Author.

   On a Difficulty connected with a Demonstration of Euclid. 435
  may be removed in the following simple manner, by making
  an alteration in Euclid's definitions. It is a singular fact that
  the difficulty arose solely from his having adopted an obvious
  but inadequate definition of parallel lines. The fault of his
  definition is, that it specifies only a negative property of those
  lines, viz. that being produced ever so far both ways they do
  not meet; from which it is plain that nothing positive could
  be deduced. The following definition may be given in its
  place.
     If a straight line falling on two other straight lines, makes
 the exterior angle equal to the interior and opposite angle on
 the same side of it, those lines are said to be parallel.
     From the sixteenth pro
 position it may then be                                   ,0
 readily deduced that such                              /
 lines wiirnever meet ; for, if
 possible, let the parallel K
 lines A B, C B meet to-
 wards AC in K, then if
 G E F be the straight line
 falling upon them, we have
 by the definition
 but by prop. 16
             Z G E A is greater than the Z E F C;
 which is absurd, therefore the lines do not meet towards A C.
    In the same manner it may be proved that they do not meet
 towards B D ; and therefore they never meet. This proposi
 tion will supply the place of the old definition, and the twenty-
ninth proposition itself is nearly superseded, for the first part
of it is contained in the definition, and the second part follows
immediately by combining the definition with the thirteenth
proposition.
    These few lines may possess some interest for those who
are concerned in the controversy about axioms and defini
tions. It may be proper to state that the idea was suggested
to the author by reading Dugald Stewart's remarks on the use
and importance of definitions in abstract reasoning. It struck
him that the difficulty which Euclid attempts to remove by
the introduction of an axiom, should rather, if Dugald Stew
art's sentiments were correct, be obviated by some change
in the definitions. Whether Euclid's error arose from his
ignorance of the philosophy of his subject, or whether he was
afraid of offending the prejudices of his tyros by a strange de
finition of so simple a thing as parallel lines, the writer will
                                 '2 F 2

436       On a new heating Effect of a Constant Battery.
not pretend to decide. Of the justness of Dugald Stewart's
views on the subject he is himself fully convinced, but he has
not time at present to enter into a question, which indeed
appears to have been fully discussed already.
   Cambridge, Sept. 18, 1838.                            Z. Y.
LXI. On a remarkable Difference in the Heat attained, by the
   Electrodes ofa powerful Constant Battery. By J. P. GASSIOT,
    Esq. : in a Letter to Mr. Brayley.
      MY DEAR Siu,
          following result, obtained with an extensive series of
      the voltaic battery made on the principle of that of Prof.
Daniel), may, perhaps, not be uninteresting to you. The
battery consists of 160 half-pint earthenware jars, the zinc
elements being placed inside, the size permitting the use of
brown paper in lieu of membrane, the exciting liquids being
 saturated solutions of sulphate of copper and common salt.
    The effects were of the most brilliant description, and some
curious results were obtained, particularly as to its heating
power. The following is, I believe, entirely new, and as it
in some measure militates against the theory of a double fluid,
may, perhaps, be acceptable to the readers of the Philosophi
cal Magazine.
    On placing the ends of the connecting wires about two
inches from their extremities, across each other, and about
one-eighth of an inch apart, the usual appearance of flame
took place : on gradually withdrawing the wires at this con
nexion the flame could be increased to one-fourth of an inch
in length. In about half a minute the end of the positive wire
became red-hot ; it very shortly increased to a white heat,
until at last it could not bear its own weight, but turned over
as indicated in the figure.
 Considering that the effect
might possibly be due to
some peculiar property in
the wires, they were re
 versed ; but the effect was
 the same, the positive wires
 being invariably heated at
least two inches beyond the
 contact, while the negative "''
 remained cool. The experiment was repeated on a future
 evening with the same results.
    A variety of experiments were made with this battery, an
 account of which has since been presented to the Electrical

   Dr. Kane on the Composition ofcertain Essential Oils. 437
Society, and will be printed in the Transactions of that
body.                    Believe me,
                              My dear Sir, yours sincerely,
  Clapham Common, Oct. 19, 1838.                JOHN P. GASSIOT.
    Note on the preceding Communication, by Mr. Brayley.
   On the 20th of October I had the pleasure of witnessing the
remarkable and hitherto I believe unnoticed difference in the
temperature of the positive and negative electrodes, which is
described by Mr. Gassiot in the preceding communication; that
gentleman having then repeated the experiment many times,
in the presence of Professors Faraday and Daniell, Jonathan
Pereira, Esq., F.R.S., and myself. It having been suggested
that the effect might be due to the particular metal of which
the electrodes were formed, Mr. Gassiot afterwards changed
the copper wires usually employed, successively for wires ofpla-
tinum, iron, steel, and brass, when the same phenomenon
was exhibited in each instance, proving it to be due to a
cause primarily connected with the activity of the pile.
LXII. On the Composition of certain Essential Oils. By RO
          BERT KANE, M.D., M.B.I.A., Sfc. Sfc. $c*
     HE analyses, which constitute the material of this paper,
      were undertaken as the first step in a train of research,
which had for its object the solution of two problems in organic
chemistry, the importance of which will be at once recognised ;
namely, first, whether there exists a law connecting the com
position of the oils derived from the same natural family of
plants ? and secondly, what is the chemical nature of the
essential oils as a class ? is the oil of bitter almonds a type for
all ? Towards a decision of these questions some materials
have been collected; but the investigation embraces a field
so wide, that considerable time must elapse, before even such
general results, as have been already obtained, can be worked
into a form fit for publication. In the meantime I am in
duced to lay before chemists those conclusions with respect
to the composition of some of the oils, which may serve as
data in a solution of the first question, and as initiatory to the
more abstract considerations on their composition as a class.
               I. Composition of Oil of Rosemary.
    The oil of rosemary, obtained in its purest commercial
 form, is colourless, and possesses strongly the odour of the
                    • Communicated by the Author.

 438 Dr. Kane on the Composition ofcertain Essential Oils.
 fresh plant. Its specific gravity is given by Brande 0-9118.
 I found the oil of commerce to be 0-897 ; but like all these
 oils it differs according to seasons, from the variable quantity
 of stearopten it may nold dissolved. When submitted to
 rectification it distils over, the boiling point rising, but not
 rapidly ; and the last portion in the retort becomes brown,
 and of a thick consistence. By repeated distillations it can
 be rendered completely pure.
    Its specific gravity is then from 0-8854 toO'8875.' Berzelins
 states the specific gravity of the pure oil to be 0"8S9. It boils
 at a temperature from 332° to 334° Fahr. Its boiling point is
 almost absolutely constant,'—indeed much more constant than
 that of any other oil I have examined. It was analysed in
 the ordinary way by combustion with oxide of copper, and
 the carbonic acid collected, by potash, in Liebig's apparatus.
    A. Material = O'3OO gramme, gave
                      Water            = 0-315
                      Carbonic acid = 0-907
    B. Material = 0-247 gramme, gave
                      Water            = 0-261
                     Carbonic acid = 0-744
   Hence follows
                                  A.               B.
                Carbon        = 83-49            83-31
                Hydrogen = 11-66                11-66
                Oxygen        = 4-85              5-03
   These analyses, having been made with quantities of oil
distilled at different times, and coinciding so completely, ren
dered it unnecessary to increase the number.
   The above result is fully expressed by the formula C^ Ux
O2 , which gives
                    €45 = 276-3            83-63
                    H^ = 38-0               11-54
                    Oa = 16'0                4'83
                            330-3         100-00
   Evidently C« H^ O2 = 9 (C5 H4) + 2 HO ; that is, we
may consider oil of rosemary as a hydrate of one of those
numerous oils, agreeing in per cent, composition with oil of
turpentine. This relation induced me to make some experi
ments on the action of various bodies on it, the results of
which belong properly to a future memoir, but of which I
shall transcribe one here.
   When mixed with sulphuric acid, oil of rosemary becomes
black, and neutralized by lime gives a soluble salt, which
contains an acid belonging to the class composed of oxygen,

               The Oils of Rosemary and Marjoram.             439
sulphur, and an organic element. Ifthe mixture of oil of rose
mary and sulphuric acid be distilled, there is obtained a fluid
possessing an aromatic, yet alliaceous odour, resembling that
of mesitylene. When quite pure this fluid has a specific
gravity 0-8678, and boils at about 344° Fahrenheit. It gives,
on analysis, the same composition as oil of turpentine ; but
I shall defer the details to the memoir on the Chemical
Habitudes of the Oils as a Class. To this fluid I have given
the name of Rosmarine; but I have not determined its atomic
weight, so as to be able to say whether oil of rosemary be a
bi-hydrate of rosmarine, and its formula C45 H^ + 2 HO.
I use the word bi-hydrate here, merely in order to re
present the abstraction of 2 HO by the sulphuric acid, and
not wishing to involve any consideration of theory, which will
be discussed in its proper place in the memoir already al
luded to.
         II. Oil of Marjoram.—(Origanum vulgare.)
   This oil is found in commerce] nearly pure. Its specific
gravity is variable; Mr. Brande found it 0'909; while I ob
tained 0-8901. This arises from the quantity of stearopten
which it contains not being constant, though generally large.
By rectification several times, so as to deprive it of the solid
matter, it is obtained finally of the specific gravity 0-8673, the
boiling point being almost completely constant at 322° Fahr.
In this state it was analysed.
   A. Material = 0-368 gramme gave
                  Water              = 0-368
                  Carbonic acid = 1-154
   B. Material = 0-2907 gramme gave
                  Water              = 0-300
                  Carbonic acid = 0-906
   C. Material = 0-2854 gramme gave
                  Water             = 0-295
                  Carbonic acid = 0-891
   D. Material = 0-2881 gramme gave
                  Water             = 0-302
                  Carbonic acid = 0-898
Hence there is per cent.
                   A.            B.             C.           D.
 Carbon        = 86-71          86-08         86'33        86-18
 Hydrogen -= 11-11              11-44         11-44        11-64
 Oxygen        = 2-18            2-48          2-23         2-18
   These results are expressible by a very simple formula,
CJQ H^ O, or 10 {C5 H4} + O, which gives

440 Dr. Kane on the Composition of certain Essential Oils.
                  Cgo = 307               86-48
                  H40= 40                  11-27
                  O=8                       2-25
   The first analysis deviates a little from this result, in the
direction opposite to that generally taken by errors of ex
periment in organic analysis, but so trivially, that I am not
inclined to attribute to it any importance. From the re
markable relation of the formula to that of oil of turpentine,
it may, perhaps, be thought that possibly the oil of origanum
had the same composition, and that the two per cent, attri
buted to oxygen, arose from the loss consequent on an imper
fect combustion ; but that idea is disproved by—first, the uni
formity of the analyses which were made at different times
and on different quantities of oil ; and secondly, by the fact
that in only the fourth analysis does the hydrogen amount to
what oil oi turpentine should yield, that is 1 1 -55 per cent.,
the general error in analysis being to give too high a value
for the hydrogen. The stearopten of this oil would appear
to contain much more oxygen than the oil itself; as a quantity
of oil which contained some, and had consequently a boiling
point of 844°, gave the following results :
             Material = 0'360 gramme gave
                     Water              = 0-350
                     Carbonic acid = 1-100
   Hence per cent.
                     Carbon       = 84-481
                     Hydrogen = 10-80 \- 100
                    Oxygen        = 4-72 J
being a mixture, it admits of no formula,
                    III. Oil of Peppermint.
   This oil had been submitted to analysis by Blanchet and
Sell *, but their results having been communicated without
any detail, and the analyses being exceedingly discordant, I
was obliged to re-examine its constitution before I could satisfy
my mind. The result has been, that I have obtained a for
mula differing from that of the chemists before named.
   The oil of peppermint of commerce, particularly that sold
as American, is often adulterated by a large quantity of oil of
turpentine, from which, if once mixed, no number of rectifi
cations can completely purify it. The rough oil, when pure,
has, according to Brande, a specific gravity 0'907 ; I found it
0-9083. It contains a certain quantity of stearopten, though
not so much as the generality of oils; when freed from this
               * Journal de Pharmacie, vol. xx, 1834.

                    Oil of Peppermint.                      441
by repeated distillations it has a specific gravity of 0-8998,
and boils between 370° and 380° Fahr.
 " The following are the analytical results :
   A. Material = 0-2905 gramme gave
                    Water               = 0-318
                     Carbonic acid = 0*812
   B. Material = 0-3667 gramme gave
                    Water               = 0-407
                    Carbonic acid = 1-035
   C. Material = 0-3443 gramme gave
                     Water              = 0-375
                    Carbonic acid = 0-969
   Hence there is per cent.
                           A.            B.           C.
         Carbon       = 77*29           78-06      77-81
         Hydrogen = 12-11               12-32       12-01
         Oxygen       = 10-60            9-62       10-18
   The analyses A and B were made with the same specimen
of oil; the correct value for carbon is therefore that of B.
The analysis C was made subsequently with a different spe
cimen.
   The formula C21 H^ 02 gives
                C21 = 128-9            78'14l
                HM = 20-0              12-12 I 100
                Oa = 16-0               9-74J
    I cannot explain the difference between this result and that
 of Blanchet and Sell, as they give no account of the circum
 stances under which their analyses were made. They make
 no mention of having submitted their oil to rectification.
 Their result is C12 H10 O, and per cent.
                           Experiments.
       Carbon      = 79'63           79'53
       Hydrogen = 11-25               10-77      10-90 )- 100
       Oxygen      = 9-12              9-70
    Blanchet's result for the stearopten of oil of peppermint,
 though discordant with itself, yet approaches closer to mine
 for the oil. Thus he obtained for the solid crystalline stear
 opten C10 H10 O, and per cent.
                      Experiments.       Mean.
    Carbon     = 79-63        77*27       7S-45
    Hydrogen = 11-25          12-96       1-2-11   12-59 }* 100
    Oxygen = 9-12              9-77        9*44
    On analysing the first portion obtained in rectifying oil of
 peppermint, which had a boiling point about ten degrees

 442 Dr. Kane on the Composition of certain Essential Oils.
 lower than the general mass subsequently condensed, I ob
 tained the following result :
         Material = 0'337 gramme gave
                    Water             = 0-360
                    Carbonic acid = 0'969
 Hence per cent.
                    Carbon            = 79-53
                    Hydrogen          = 11-86
                    Oxygen            = 8-61
 This result might be considered as approximating to that of
 Blanche! ; but this portion could not be considered as being
 pure oil, as it constituted not a tenth of the quantity submitted
 to distillation. I attributed its different composition to an
 adulteration by oil of turpentine, which from its greater vo
latility came over in the commencement. If the oil of tur
pentine were in large quantity, a complete rectification could
not be obtained.
   Upon the whole, it is evident, that we cannot consider the
nature of the oil and stearopten of peppermint as being ab
solutely determined ; at the same time, I conceive myself
justified in placing some confidence in my results, from their
agreement, and the care with which the substance had been
purified.
          IV. Oil of Pennyroyal.—(Mentha Pulegium.)
   The oil of pennyroyal is stated by Mr. Brande to have a
specific gravity of 0-939. I could not obtain it in commerce
with a specific gravity higher than 0-9271. I consider, how
ever, the specimen having that specific gravity as being pure,
and that a higher density arises from dissolved stearopten.
The oil of 0-9271 having been rectified, left but little solid
matter ; and the pure oil after distillation had a specific gra
vity of 0-9255. Its boiling point could not be obtained quite
constant, fluctuating between 360° and 370° Fahr. At the
end of this paper a few remarks on the boiling points of these
oils will be found. It was analysed as follows :
        A. Material = 0-3607 gramme gave
                      Water             = 0-353
                      Carbonic acid = 1-020
         B. Material = 0-3014 gramme gave
                      Water             = 0-297
                      Carbonic acid = 0'861
Hence per cent.
                                   A.           B.
                   Carbon      = 78-2          79-0"|
                   Hydrogen = 10-8             10-9 [. 100-0
                   Oxygen      =11-0           10- ij

                         Oil of Pennyroyal.
These analyses give the      formula C10 H8 O, or
               Carbon        = 61"t            79'30
               Hydrogen      = 8-0             10-35
               Oxygen        = 8-0             10-35
                                77-4         100-00
    This result is exceedingly remarkable, as from it follows
that oil of pennyroyal has the same composition as camphor,
and as the new substance described by me in the memoir on
Acetone, and which I have termed Dumasine*. A very in
teresting problem, which I hope soon to be able to solve, will
be, to determine the relative changes which dumasine and oil
of pennyroyal undergo, in the circumstances under which
common camphor yields camphoric acid.
    Oil of pennyroyal is more frequently adulterated with oil
of turpentine, and to a greater extent, than any other oil that
I know of. I have found specimens, which delivered four-
fifths of their volume of pure oil of turpentine on rectification.
Thus, in the commencement of these experiments, I isolated
and analysed quantities of the product of rectification of com
mercial oil of pennyroyal, and stated verbally at a meeting
of the [Royal Irish] Academy, that I could not find any dif
ference between rectified oil of pennyroyal and oil of turpen
tine. I shall detail a couple of the analyses, made under those
circumstances, because the result may be used as a test for
the closeness of the other experimental results, and for the
legitimacy of the formule deduced from them.
    Fluid obtained by rectifying impure oil of pennyroyal, spe
cific gravity = 0-8673; boils constant at 315°.
            A. Material = 0-2183 gramme gave
                     Water                = 0-232
                     Carbonic acid ss 0-697
            B. Material = 0-2433 gramme gave
                    Water                = 0-260
                     Carbonic acid       = 0'779
Hence
                            A.              B.           Theory.
          Carbon        = 88-29            88-56          88-45
          Hydrogen = 11-78                 11-87          11 '55
    Its formula C II,. It was oil of turpentine.
   • It had been my intention to insert the account of the composition
and properties of Dumasine as an appendix to the memoir on Pyroacetic
Spirit, but it has been withheld in order, when further studied, to form
the subject of an independent paper. A notice of its discovery and com
position was published in the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy,
No. IV. page 61, and copied from thence into the Philosophical Magazine
 for 1838. (Lend, and Ed. Phil. Mag. vol. xii. p. 108.)

444 Dr. Kane mi the Composition ofcertain Essential Oils.
              V. Oil of Spearmint.—(Mentha viridis.)
   The oil of spearmint is stated by Brande to have a specific
gravity 0-939. That which I found in commerce hatl, in the
rough state, a specific gravity 0'9I42, and when freed by
distillation of a considerable quantity of stearopten, 0-876.
It boiled pretty constantly at 320° Fahr. It gave by analysis
as follows:
           A. Material = 0-3087 gramme gave
                    Water             =0-311
                    Carbonic acid = 0-954
           B. Material = 0-350 gramme gave
                    Water             = 0-350
                    Carbonic acid = 1-075
           C. Material = 0-4284 gramme gave
                    Water             = 0-439
                    Carbonic acid = 1-327
Hence the per cent, composition :
                         A.          B.          C.
         Carbon      = 85-44       84-94      85-66")
         Hydrogen = 11-19          11-11      11-38 \- 100-0
         Oxygen = 3-36              3-95       2-96J
   These results give the formula CK H^ O ; that is,
                C.,5 = 214-9          85-671
                HM= 28-0              11-15 }. 100-0
                O =       8-0          3-18J
                       250-9         100-0
   This formula, like that of oil of origanum, may be repre
sented by a multiple of oil of turpentine + oxygen = 7{C5 H4}
 + O. It is however impossible to make any deduction from
these facts with respecC to its nature.
           VI. Oil of Lavender.—(Lavandula spica.)
   The oil of lavender is remarkable for containing, probably,
more stearopten than any other essential oil, the quantity
itself being variable with the season and with the climate.
Thus, in the oil from the south of Europe (Murcia), it is said
to amount to more than one-half its weight, and I have often
found a fourth of the English oil to remain behind on distil
lation, so loaded with stearopten as to become quite solid on
cooling. These circumstances,—the quantity of solid matter,
and its not differing very much in volatility from the oil,—
present great obstacles to the obtaining oil of lavender in an
absolutely pure condition.

              TJie Oils ofSpearmint and Lavender.              445
   The oil examined by Mr. Brande, and which probably con
tained much stearopten, was found by him of a specific gra
vity 0'9206. In the specimen which I tried the specific gra
vity was 0-9 1 74. By repeated rectifications, by which as much
of the solid matter as possible was separated, it was obtained
0-8865, and then boiled at 370° Fahr. Another portion
equally rectified had a specific gravity 0*8745, and boiled at
365° Fahr. Saussure, who likewise examined this oil, states
its specific gravity, when pure, to be 0-877.
   A specimen of the commercial oil, the specific gravity of
which was 0*9172, was rectified, and the product received in
four different vessels, stopping when the residue in the retort
appeared to become thick.
         No. 1 had sp. gr. = 0-J86O AH boi]ed between
              I             =2-8884/ ™*™°-
              4             = 0-9050 boiled at 390°.
 The residue solidified by cooling. The difficulty of pro
 nouncing on the absolute purity of any one portion of oil of
 lavender is thus evident.
    The analysis of this oil was conducted in the usual way.
 Different portions of oil were selected, in consequence of
 their boiling points and specific gravities not being in ac
 cordance.
    A. Specimen sp. gr. = 0-8865 • boiling point = 370° F.
            Material = 0-4333 gramme gave
                      Water            = 0-441
                      Carbonic acid = 1-245
    B. Specimen sp. gr. = 0-8745 ; boiling point 365°.
            Material = 0-2835 gramme gave
                      Water            = 0"299
                      Carbonic acid = 0-819
     C. Specimen sp. gr. = 0-8864 ; boils at from 365° to 370°.
                      Material = 0-3788 gramme gave
                       Water           = 0-394
                      Carbonic acid = 1-079
     Hence the composition
                           A.             B.           C.
          Carbon        = 79-45         75-77         78-81
          Hydrogen = 11-30              11-73         11-55
          Oxygen        = 9-25          12-50          9-64
     As it is quite evident that, the heavier this oil is, the more
  stearopten it contains, and consequently, the less pure it is ;
  and as, by Dumas's analysis, stearopten, if not completely
  identical, has at least the same composition with common

 446 Dr. Kane on the Composition ofcertain Essential Oils.
 camphor, I am inclined to consider the high values for carbon
 in the oils used in analyses A and C as owing in great part
 to its presence, and to assign the analysis B as a closer ap
 proximation to the composition of the pure oil. With this
 idea agrees Saussure's old result, who from an oil of the sp.
 gr. 0-877 obtained the composition
                   Carbon       = 75'SOl
                    Hydrogen = 11-07 I ,nnn
                   Oxygen^ = 13-07 f W°'°
                    Nitrogen = 0-36J
    The nitrogen being now acknowledged to result from im
perfections in the method employed, the tendency of which was
also generally to give an under-estimate for the amount of
hydrogen, his result is found to agree with that of analysis 8;
 but whether from both oils being pure, or from both being
equally impure, I cannot undertake to say.
    Under such circumstances it is scarcely useful to attempt
the construction of a formula, as representing the result ob
tained. C15 H14 O2 = 3 Cs H4 + 2 HO, may, however, be
employed :
   Thus,          CIS    = 92-1
                  H,4 = 14-0
                 O2      = 16-0
                             122-1         100-0
   I must not be understood as stating positively this formula
to represent the truth.
   Additional llemarks.—There is a peculiarity in the method
of ebullition of these oils which renders it very difficult to fix
upon a certain fixed temperature as the boiling point, but
rather compels us to consider the oil as boiling within a limit
of temperature, sometimes extending to ten degrees of Fahr
enheit. Thus, in taking the boiling point of an oil in a tube,
a thermometer being immersed therein to some distance above
the bulb, the oil will enter into full ebullition apparently at
355°, and the temperature of the thermometer, on continuing
the boiling for five or ten minutes, will gradually rise to 360
or 365°, and will not then stop so completely, but that an
ebullition continued for five or six minutes more may pro
duce a further rise of a couple of degrees. If the oil be al
lowed to cool, and be then again heated, the same phaaio-
menon will be repeated, and so, as often as may be wished ;
but the most colourless oil, when thus frequently heated, gra
dually becomes brown, and then there is a permanent eleva
tion of the boiling point, arising from decomposition.

    Dr. Kane on the Composition of certain Essential Oils. 447
    I attribute this phenomenon to an unequal distribution of
heat through the mass, and to the heat being supplied by the
spirit-lamp too rapidly to be carried off from the oil by the
vapour formed at the limited surface of contact of the oil with
the air in the tube. This is supported by the fact, that by
moderating the heat the boiling point may be kept constant ;
but, by a suitable heat, it may be kept constant at any degree,
between the limits already alluded to. This is the reason why
the boiling points of the oils analysed are generally given
within a limit of a few degrees. Some cases where the boiling
points were almost really constant, I attribute to a closer ap
proach to absolute purity in the oil.
     A great deficiency exists in analytical results obtained
under circumstances such as those described in the present
 paper, from the total want of a control over their exactitude ;
 and one or two words on the nature of these controlling re
 sults, with reference to obtaining such in our experiments,
 may be here of use. There are four modes of control—1st,
 by synthesis, which is the most complete, but which in organic
 chemistry is attainable only in some very few cases. Of these
 few, the synthesis of urea, and that of acetic acid, may be
 taken as illustrations. 2nd, The method next in complete
 ness is the breaking up of the body into other compounds
 whose composition is already known ; as, formal into formic
 acid and methylic alcohol ; acetal into acetic acid and vinic
 alcohol : acetic acid into carbonic acid and acetone. 3rd, The
  determination of the atomic weight of the body, by the com
  pounds into which it enters with other well-known substances.
  Thus the composition of oxalic ether controls the analysis of
  sulphuric ether, and the salts of the vegetable alkaloids give
  the only means of verifying the composition of the base itself.
  The fourth method of control is limited to such bodies as pass
  into vapour without being decomposed, and then the density of
  the vapour should stand in some simple relation to the sum of
  the densities of the constituents, taken in the atomic propor
  tions given by analysis. Thus the discussion as to whether
  naphthaline was represented by the formula C5 Ha or C8 H3
  was decided by the vapour possessing a| density immediately
  following from the former, but inconsistent with the latter.
  That, however, we must not insist on very simple relations, is
  shown by the complex numbers found for some of the inor
  ganic compounds by Mitscherlich and Dumas.
      Now in examining the composition of the oils, we are de
  barred from efficiently exerting any of these methods of con
   trol :—1st, we cannot generate them by synthesis ; 2nd, we do
   not as yet know their chemical nature sufficiently to break them

 448 Dr Kane on the Composition ofcertain Essential Oils.
 up into other bodies with which we can get more definite re
 sults; and 3rd, their combinations with other bodies have
 not been as yet developed. Towards the application of these
 methods I have made some progress in the cases of oils of
 rosemary, lavender, and oil of turpentine, which all give with
sulphuric acid and a base, soluble salts, of which that from
turpentine alone has been completely analysed. The atomic
weight of turpentine from the salt of lime is found to be
 CJQ H16; the same as from artificial camphor; and the salt
has the composition SO3.CffO. + C^K,,;, belonging to a
series distinct from the sulpho-vinates on the one hand, and
thesulpho-naphthalates upon the other, and being probably an
analogue to the sulpho-mesitylic acid described in my memoir
upon Acetone. I mention these results, although they pro
perly belong to a different paper, in order to point out the
probable means of applying the methods of control to the
essential oils in future investigations. I attempted very often
to determine the densities of the vapours of the essential oils
with a bath of chloride of zinc, but I never obtained a result
on which I could with satisfaction rely. The residual oil was
evidently altered in its nature and appearance, and there al
ways remained in the globe a certain quantity of permanent
gas. I attribute the imperfect success of these attempts, to
the mutual action of the oil and air of the globe at the high
temperature necessary for the experiment ; but by a modifi
cation of the apparatus I may possibly at a future period suc
ceed.
   A circumstance connected with the purification of the oils
employed in the analyses detailed in this paper requires some
notice here, as it has not been adverted to under the special
heads ; namely, the means used to secure the perfect freedom
of the oils from water. This is the more important, as parti
cularly in the results obtained with the oils of marjoram and
spearmint, the small quantity of oxygen might be conceived
as being derivable from this source, unless proper precaution
had been taken. The oils, previous to rectification, were in
all cases digested for several days on recently fused chloride
of calcium; then poured off, and distilled; and the portions
selected for analysis allowed to remain in contact for about
twelve hours with a few pure fragments of chloride of calcium,
before being used. In no case did the oil appear to act on,
or dissolve any of the fused salt; and hence it was only ne
cessary to pour the oil off from the chloride, and not to again
distil it, in order to obtain it pure.

                             [ 449 ]
LXIII. OM the Motion and Rest of Fluids. By J. J. SYL
    VESTER, Professor ofNatural Philosophy in University Col
    lege, London.
TV!" OSTROGRADSKY's memoir on this subject inserted
I*A o jn t|,e Scientific Memoirs seems to have excited much
attention, and has been made the occasion of some annotations
by a distinguished writer in the Philosophical Magazine. Mr.
Ivory's recent papers in the same periodical must still more
tend to invest with a new interest all such speculations. It
seems to me desirable therefore to present the theory of fluids
in all the simplicity of which it is susceptible.
    I consider a fluid as a collection of particles subject to
some law of relative position other than that of rigidity.
These particles by their mutual actions maintain the con
nexions of the system. As to the law of force between them
we know nothing : but I assume it is a general principle of
nature, that for each instant of time the sum of the internal ac
tions (reckoned by the product of each particle into the square
of the space due to the internal force acting on it) is a minimum.
This in fact is Gauss's principle of least restraint. We may
if we please split this principle into two parts ; that is to say,
assume that the internal system of forces is always such as if
acting alone would keep the fluid at rest; and then again
assume that any equilibriating system offerees must be subject
to the law of virtual velocities. I say assume, because it is im
possible d priori to prove this.
    Lagrange's so-called demonstration is unworthy of his name,
and (albeit sanctioned by the powerful oral authority of an
ex-Cambridge Professor) contrary alike to sense and honesty.
 It is better therefore at once to proceed upon Gauss's principle.
 It might easily be shown that this is in effect tantamount
in all cases to D'Alembert's and Lagrange's principles com
bined.
     Before entering upon the investigation I may call attention
 to one point of great analytical interest, and relating to the
 difficult subject of the algebraical sign, viz. that if the density
 of a point (x, y) in any circumscribed space be expressed by the
            du       a' r
 quantity
  1          dx + -;—
          J —;—      dy so that the mass is
 that is not equivalent to
  Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 84. 1838.               2G

450      Prof. Sylvester on the Motion and Rest of Fluids.
/{udy + vdx), i.e. if we please / ( u -~ + v. —z— \ds
(where s is for clearness' sake and to avoid double limits taken
an element of the bounding curve) as at first sight it might ap
pear to be, but is in fact equal to
             A'-tS -' &) '-
     I shall demonstrate this point in the next number of the
Magazine. It at first caused me some trouble in conducting
the annexed inquiry. I shall also take occasion at some other
time to revert to a new species (as I believe) of partial dif
ferential equations ; that is to say, where there are fewer of
them than of the principal variables, which may be called
therefore Indeterminate Partial Differential Equations. A
complete solution of one of tliese appears in the subjoined
                           Investigation,
     For the sake of simplicity I take an incompressible fluid.
The method is nowise different for a fluid of varying density.
     Let Ax Ay Az be any displacement undergone by a
particle at the point z, //, z parallel to the axes z, y, z re
spectively ; it is easily shown that to satisfy die condition of
invariability of mass we must have
           d Ax d Am d Az              „            , .
           HT + ^T+-dT = °                          W
One relation between u, v, w the velocities parallel to x, y, z
is obtained immediately by putting uSt, vol, wSt for A x,
Ay, Az, which gives
            du dv dw            „              , ,
            rx + dy-+Tz = °                    M
as usual.
     Again, if X Y Z be the impressed forces, and Xy Y, Z,
the internal forces acting on any particle parallel to the axes,
we have
_,.     _.    du du           du        dw            ,„ ,
x' + x=rt + rx-u + drv + d-z-w                  •" (2°
T| + Y        *£+£.. + *•., + *¦..              ...   (3.)
   '          a t ax          ay        dz            v
„        „    dw    dw      . dw         dw             , .
z< + z=Tt+ds'u + ry-1, + di-v'                   -     <*•>
from the mere geometry of the question.

         Prof. Sylvester on the Motion and Rest of Fluids.  451
    Finally, Gauss's principle teaches us that
jyyds.dtf.ds.-lLXlAXt+YlAYl+ZlAz\ = 0...(P.)
    Now
          d(X + X,) d(Y + Yt) d(Z + Z,)
               dx            dy             dz
      ' \dz ' dy       dx ' dz      dy    dzj
as appears from the =n9 (1) (2) (3) (4), and hence
                 dAX, , dAY. , dAZ.
                   at        dy        dx
   The complete solution of which, free from the sign of inte
gration, is A X; AY, A Z,, being subject to no other restric
tions than such as are imposed by this equation
                   AX,=    p!—i*
                        ' dy dz
                    . v    da     d<&
                        '~ d z    dx
                   AZ/=1*-^
                       ' dx dy
a, $, ij> being any three independent functions of x, y, z.
   On substituting these values in =¦> (0) we obtain
This may be put under the form
    fd^ffdsdy.^X^f^Y,)}
   +fdyffd* dx • {h <<U+2666> z<> - h* x')}
                             2G2

452    Prof. Sylvester on the Motion and Rest of Fluids.
 Here it must be remembered that a, Q, 4/ are perfectly inde
pendent of each other. Also the values of the three first
written quantities depend upon the values of X, Y, Z, at the
bounding surface; the values of the three last-written depend
upon the general values of X, Y, Z,. It is clear therefore
 that each system of three equations and each member of each
system must be separately zero.
    The three latter equations give
           dy      dx
          dY,
           dz                                      (y.)
          dZ, ~       ,
   The three former require that for each section of the sur
face parallel to the plane xy
                                     =0
for each section parallel to y z,
         f« (Y, dy+Z,dz)
for each section parallel to z x,
                                  = 0.
and these equations are to hold good whatever           to may
be. From the equations (y.) we derive
                                                  (5.)
from equations (8) we obtain
$ = constant for all points in any section of the bounding
        surface parallel to the plane of xy
$ = constant for all points in any section of the bounding
        surface parallel to the plane of y z
$ = constant for all points in any section of the bounding
        surface parallel to the plane of z x.
                    * See remark at Introduction.

        Prof. Sylvester on the Motion and Rest of Fluids. 453
    Now by drawing through all the points in a plane parallel
to x y, planes parallel to y yt we may cover the whole surface ;
hence $ is constant all over the surface bounding the fluid.
   .-. X, dx + Y, dy + Z, d z = 0 for all va-"l               .- ,
riations of d x, dy, dz taken upon the surface . .j "" * '
   The equations 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 are coincident with those ob
tained by the usual method ; with this difference, that X, Y( Z,
here take the place of          =£-      f-         ^-.
                               ax       dy         dz
   Thus then we have obtained all the conditions requisite
lor determining the motion of fluids from the universal princi
ple of least constraint conjoined with the specific character of
the system in question.
                          General Remarks.
   In the case of equilibrium, i. e. in the case where no par
ticle moves, we have X; + X = 0, Y; + Y = 0, Z, + Z = 0.
Hence Xdx+Ydy + Zdz is a complete differential al
ways and zero for the surface.
   The above results have been obtained upon the principles
of the differential calculus, and the continuity of the forces
has been tacitly assumed. If now we were to suppose forces
of finite magnitude (as compared with the whole sum acting
upon the entire system) to be applied to a layer of single par
ticles or to a layer of a thickness of the same order of magni
tude as the distances between the particles themselves, (which
has been treated as an infinitesimal) it"would appear that our
results would be no longer applicable, just in the same manner
as it would be erroneous to apply the principle of vis-viva
(for example) without modification, to the case of impulsive
forces, because we had deduced it by the calculus in the case
of the motion being continuous, rfence the above equations
ought not strictly to apply to the motion or rest of a fluid
contained between physical surfaces ; for the pressure afforded
by these surfaces, whatever its actual value may be, we know
d priori is commensurable with the whole amount of force
acting on the fluid ; but the immediate application of this
pressure (alias repulsive force) is confined to the bounding
layer of fluid particles, or at most extends to a distance bearing
a low ratio to the distances between the particles themselves.
   According to the non-applicability of the equations for
free fluids to the case of fluids confmed at the boundaries and
to an independent investigation upon the minimum principle
for this class of problems, it is that I look for the true expla
nation of the phenomena of capillary attraction (vulgarly so
called).
  University College, Oct. 25, 1838.             J. J. SyLVESTEU.

                             [ 454 ]
LX1V. OH an extension of Sir John Wilson's Theorem to att
   numbers whatever. By 3. 3. SYLVESTER, Professor of Natu
   ral Philosophy in University College, London.
  To the Editors ofthe Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      GENTLEMEN,
     HE annexed original theorem in numbers will serve as a
      pendant to the elegant discovery announced by the ever-
to-be-lamented and commemorated Homer*, with his dying
voice, in your valued pages.
                              THEOREM.
   If N be any number whatever and
             Pii Pv Ps                               PC
be all the numbers less than N and prime to it, then either
             Pi . Pt . Ps                            PC + 1
orelse       pl . p^ . p3                           pe - I
is a multiple of N.
                              Yours with high respect,
  University College, London, Oct. 22, 1838.          J. J. SYLVESTER.
             LXV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY.
   June 21.—The following papers were read, viz.
   " On the structure of the teeth, the vascularity of those organs,
and their relation to bone." By John Tomes, Esq. Communicated
by Thomas Bell, Esq., F.R.S., Professor of Zoology in King's Col
lege, Londdn.
   The microscopical examinations which the author has made of the
structure of the teeth of man and various animals, lead him to the
conclusion that their bony portions are formed of minute tubes, dis
posed in a radiated arrangement, in lines proceeding everywhere
perpendicularly from the inner surface of the cavity containing- the
pulp. These tubuli are surrounded by a transparent material, which
cements them together into a solid and dense mass. He finds, by
applying the test of muriatic acid, that carbonate as well as phos
phate of lime enters into their composition. In man, the tubuli, du
ring their divergence from their origin at the surface of the central
cavity, send off a number of very minute fibrils ; and on approach
ing the enamel or the granular substance, which cover respectively
the crown and the fangs of the tooth, the tubuli divide into smaller
   * Homer's proof is highly valuable as a novel and highly ingenious form
of reasoning, but his theorem may be deduced with infinitely more cose and
brevity from Format's than he seems to have been aware of.

                              Royal Society.                         455
ones, which freely anastomose with one another, and then either are
continued into the enamel, or terminate at the boundary between
these two substances. Various modifications of this structure, ex
hibited in the teeth of different animals, in the class Mammalia and
Fishes more particularly, arc minutely described. The granular sub
stance appears to be composed of irregularly shaped osseous gra
nules, imbedded in the same kind of transparent medium which ce
ments the tubuli together. External to the granular portion, the
author finds another substance entering into the formation of the
simple tooth, and commencing where the enamel terminates ; and
which he describes as beginning by a thin and transparent layer con
taining only a few dark fibres, which pass directly outwards ; but
assuming, as it proceeds towards the apex of the fang, greater
thickness and opacity, and being traversed by vessels.
    External to the enamel, and in close connexion with it, in com
pound teeth, is situated the crusta petrosa, a substance very similar
to the bony layer of the simple tooth. It contains numerous cor
puscles, and is traversed by numerous vessels entering it from with
 out, and anastomosing freely with one another, but terminating in
 its substance. These investigations of the structure of the different
 component parts of teeth, furnish abundant evidence of their vascu-
larity and consequent vitality.
    " On the evolution of Nitrogen during the growth of plants, and
the sources from whence they derive that element." By Robert Rigg,
 Esq. Communicated by the Rev. J. B. Reade, M.A., F.R.S., &c.
    In this communication the author follows up his inquiry into the
 influence and importance of nitrogen in vegetable physiology, by
 noticing, in the first place, the experiments of Dr. Daubeny, M. De
 Saussure, Sir Humphry Davy, and those which he himself has made ;
 all of which tend to prove that nitrogen is evolved during the healthy
performance of the functions of plants ; that the proportion which
it bears to the oxygen given off is influenced by the sun's rays ; but
that owing to the necessary exclusion of the external atmosphere
 during the progress of the experiments, it is impossible, with any
 degree of accuracy, to calculate the volume of these evolved gases
 during any period of the growth of plants in their natural state.
     If to this indefinite quantity of nitrogen given off by plants there
 be added that definite volume incorporated into their substance and
 shown in the author's former tables*, the question arises, whence do
 plants derive their nitrogen, and does any part of it proceed from
 the atmosphere ? A problem which the author proposes to solve by
 a series of tabulated experiments upon seeds, and seedling plants,
 indicating a large excess of nitrogen in the latter, and under such
 circumstances of growth that he is compelled to fix upon the at
 mosphere as its source.
     By the same mode of experimenting, the author attempts to show
 that the differences which we find in the germination of seeds and
 the growth of plants in the shade and sunshine, are apparently due
 in a great measure to the influence of nitrogen. And he concludes
                       * See the present volume, p. 293,

  456                        Royal Society.
  by observing, that he does not touch upon the practical application
  of the subject wherein the real value of the inquiry consists ; it is
  his object to draw attention to an element which, though in some in
  stances go minute in quantity as to be with difficulty detected in
  our balances, has nevertheless been wisely assigned to discharge the
  most important functions.
     " On the decussation of fibres at the junction of the Medulla Spi-
  nalis with the Medulla Oblongata." By John Hilton, Esq. Com
  municated by P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
     The author first alludes to what usually happens in affections of
  the brain, namely, that the loss of voluntary power and of sensation
  manifest themselves in the opposite side of the body to that in which
 the cerebral lesion exists, a fact which has been attempted to be ei-
  plained by the crossing of the fibres at the junction of the medulla
 oblongata with the anterior or motor columns of the medulla spina-
 lis ; but such a structure, he observes, affords no explanation of the
 loss of sensation. The author then, referring to the communication
 of Sir Charles Bell to the Royal Society, in the year 1835*. descri
 bing a decussation connected with the posterior columns, or columns
 of sensation, mentions that the accuracy of these dissections was
 doubted by Mr. Mayo and other eminent anatomists. The author
 proceeds to state that the symptoms of cerebral lesion do not always
 take place on the opposite side of the body to that in which the le
 sion of the brain exists, but that they occur sometimes on the same
 side ; that the loss of power and of sensation, although confined to
 the same side, may exist in either the upper or the lower extremity;
 but that both are not necessarily implicated ; and that, in fact, cases
 occur where there are marked deviations from what may be consi
dered the more common occurrence. Having observed such cases,
and not being aware of any satisfactory explanation, the author ex
amined with care the continuation upwards of the anterior and pos
terior columns of the spinal marrow into the medulla oblongata, and
found that the decussation at the upper part of the spinal marrow
belonged in part to the columns for motion, and in part to the
columns for sensation ; and farther, that the decussation is only par
tial with respect to either of these columns ; thus elucidating by the
observation of the actual structure what before appeared very un
 satisfactory in pathology, and anomalous in disease.
    The paper is illustrated by drawings made from the dissections of
the author.
    " Description of a self-registering Thermometer and Barometer in
vented by the late James Coggan, Esq., and bequeathed by him to the
Royal Society." By Roderick Impey Murchison, Esq., F.R.S.,
V.P.G.S., &c.
    The self-registering thermometer used by Mr. Coggan is of Six's
construction, and consists of a siphon tube, open at one extremity,
and operating by the expansion and contraction of a large body of
spirit pressing on a column of mercury in the lower bend of the tube.
            * See Lond. and Edinb. Phil. Mag., vol. vii. p. 138.

                              Royal Society.                            457
 On the other side of the wooden frame to which this thermometer is
 fixed, a siphon barometer is attached ; and buth these instruments are
 made to act on iron-floats suspended by a thread, and counterpoised
 over a pulley. Transverse wires are affixed to these threads, and are
 forced against a sheet of ruled paper on a frame, which from its
 connexion with a clock is advanced a certain space each day, by a
 spring hammer forming part of the striking machinery of the clock.
     " On the action of light upon the colour of the River Sponge."
 By John Hogg, M.A., F.L.S., C.P.S., &c., Fellow of St. Peter's Col
 lege, Cambridge. Communicated by Thomas Bell, Esq., F.R.S.
     The author found that the green colour of the Spongilla fluviatilis,
 or river sponge, is acquired solely through the agency of light, and
 is lost when the sponge is removed from its influence. As this does
 not appear to be the case with Actinise, the Hydra viridis, or any
 other Polype, the author is disposed to consider this production as
 being nearer allied to the Alge or Fungi, than to any tribe belonging
 to the animal kingdom*.
     " Researches on the Tides. Ninth Series. On the deduction of
the Laws of the Tides, from short Series of Observations." By the
Rev. W. Whewell, M.A. Trin. Coll., Cambridgef.
     It is very desirable to ascertain whether it is possible to deduce
the laws of the tides from short series of observations ; since, if it
be so, not only does the construction of good tide tables for differ
ent places become more easy ; but also the value of tide tables is
much increased, if the predicted tides agree with those of each year
as well as with the mean of many years. The object of the author
in the present paper is to determine this point by the discussion of
several years' observations of the tides at Plymouth and at Bristol.
The calculations for the former place were executed by Mr. Dessiou
and Mr. Ross in the Hydrographer's Office at the Admiralty; the cal
culations for Bristol were performed by Mr. Bunt, in virtue of a
grant of money from the British Association. The result of these
discussions is, that a very regular form and good approximation for
the semimenstrual inequality may be obtained from the observations
of one year ; that the existence of the lunar parallax corrections ap
pears very clearly in the observations of one year ; and that its value
may be determined from a series of three or four years. The lunar
declination corrections are more irregularly given by short series of
observations ; but in a series of four or five years, the general form
and approximate value of the corrections become manifest. In the
course of these calculations such questions as the following were
proposed, and their solution attempted : 1. To which transit of the
moon ought we to refer the tide ? It appears that the transit which
produces the best accordance with theory, is that which Mr. Lubbock
terms transit B, which is an epoch about 42 hours anterior to the
high water at Bristol and Plymouth. 2. How does a change of
   * [Mr. Gray arrived at the same conclusion, but on physiological grounds,
some years since. See Zoological Journal, vol. i. p. 50.—EDIT.]
    i See Lond. and Edinb. Puil. Mag. vol. xii. p. 354. note.

458                         Royal Society.
the epoch affect, first, the semimenstrual inequality; secondly,
the parallax correction of the time ; thirdly, the decimation correc
tion of the times ; fourthly, the parallax correction of heights ; and
fifthly, the declination correction of the heights ? 3. Does the pa
rallax corrections of height vary as the parallax ? 4. Does the pa
rallax correction of time vary as the parallax ? 5. Does the declina
tion correction of the heights vary as the square of the declination ?
6. Does the declination correction of time vary as the square of the
declination ? 7. Can the laws of the corrections be deduced from
a single year ? 8. Are there any regular differences between the
corrections of successive years ? 9. Do the corrections at different
places agree in themselves ? It does not appear that any change
of the epoch will produce an accordance of the observed laws with
the theory, some of the inequalities requiring one epoch for this
purpose, and some requiring another. The inequalities in different
years and different places are also compared.
   Mr. Whewell remarks, that since it has now been shown that
good tide tables may be obtained from short series of observations,
his researches with regard to the determination of the lunar correc
tions may be concluded ; and the proper mode of farther prosecuting
the subject, would be to have tide observations at several stations,
each observatory reducing its own observations, and thus constantly
improving the tables, as is practised in other branches of Astro
nomy.
   " Researches in Embryology." First Series. By Martin Barry,
M.D., F.R.S.E., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in Edin
burgh. Communicated by P! M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S.
   This paper is divided into two parts. In the first part the author
describes the origin and structure of the ovisac, a vesicle common
to all vertebrated animals, but hitherto regarded as the inner mem
brane of the " folliculus Graafianus " in Mammalia, and by some
authors denominated the "chorion " in other Vertebrata. He site
describes the real nature of the " folliculus Graafianus," and it* re
 lation to the calyx of the Bird ; the germinal vesicle and its con
tents, as being the most primitive portion of the ovum ; the order of
formation of the several other parts of the ovarian ovum ; and the
true chorion of Mammalia as being a structure superadded within
the ovary.
    In the second part the author describes a granulous tunic of the
ovum of Mammalia not hitherto observed ; the manner of origin
of the " membrana granulosa " of authors ; the different situation? of
the ovum in the Graafian vesicle at certain periods ante coitum, not
hitherto observed ; and certain structures by means of which the
ovum is made to occupy these several situations.
   The following are the principal facts made known by Dr. Barry
in this memoir ; but other facts are also mentioned, which he in
tends to make the subject of a future communication. In Mammalia
and in Birds the germinal vesicle and its contents are those parts
of the ovum which are first formed. The germinal vesicle at an
early period is surrounded by peculiar granules, forming an envelope

           Dr. M. Barry's Researches in Embryology.                459
not hitherto described. The ovum of all vertehrated animals is con
tained in a vesicle (the " chorion" of some authors, found in Birds,
Amphibia, and Fishes), which is essentially the same in structure
wherever found, and which he thinks it desirable universally to
denominate an ovisac. This vesicle is the " couche interne" of
the Graafian vesicle, as described by Professor Baer. The Graafian
vesicle of Mammalia is nothing more than an ovisac that has
acquired a covering or tunic, susceptible of becoming highly
vascular, which covering is the " couche externe " of the Graafian
vesicle as described by Baer. The ovisac of Birds, Amphibia, and
Fishes ("chorion" of gome authors), acquires in like manner a
covering or tunic, susceptible of becoming highly vascular ; and by
the union of the ovisac with this covering, there is constituted a
structure analogous to the Graafian vesicle of Mammalia. The quan
tity of yelk in the former being large, that portion of the ovary
which contains the structure here referred to (as analogous to the
Graafian vesicle of Mammals) becomes pendent ; and now the united
coverings of the yelk-ball,—viz. the ovisac, its external tunic, the
ovarian stroma, and the peritoneal investment,—are together called
the calyx. From this it will be obvious that the Graafian vesicle
is not a structure peculiar to Mammalia, as it has been sup
posed.
   The ovisac has at first an elliptical or ellipsoidal form, becomes
more spherical, and in Mammalia is often met with somewhat tapered
at one end. The structure of the ovisac in some of the Mammalia
may be examined when it does not exceed in length the 50th or
even the 100th part of a Paris line, that is, in the latter case, the
 1125th of an English inch. Myriads of ovisaes with their contents
are formed that never reach maturity. Some of the ovisaes which
do not reach maturity are situated in the parietes of Graafian
vesicles in Mammalia, or of the corresponding structures in other
Vertebrata ; being sometimes formed in this situation, and sometimes
included within the covering which the larger ovisac acquires. The
minute ovisaes so situated the author proposes to denominateparasi/i'c
ovisaes. The ovisac is often found in a cavity proper to itself, with
the walls of which it has no organic union. The granules forming
the envelope of the germinal vesicle above referred to, and sub
sequently found in the fluid of the ovisac, are very peculiar in their
appearance, contain a nucleus, and sometimes also a pellucid fluid,
and are intimately connected with the evolution of the ovum. These
granules are present in largest quantity in the ovisac of Mammalia ;
yet granules essentially the same exist in an early stage in the ovisac
of Birds, and are sometimes met with in that of Fishes.
    A continual disappearance of ova, and a formation of others,
 are observable even at a very early age. The ovum of Mammalia
 when completely formed is at first situated in the centre of the
 ovisac. It is at this period supported in the centre of the ovisac by
 an equable diffusion of granules throughout the fluid of the latter.
 The ovisac about the same time begins to acquire a covering or tunic,

 460                          lioyal Society.
by which addition, as already stated, there is constituted a Graafian
vesicle ; and of the latter, the ovisac is now the inner membrane.
After this period, then, it is proper to speak, not of an ovisac, but of
a Graafian vesicle. The peculiar granules of the Graafian vesicle
arrange themselves to form three structures, viz. the membrana gra-
nulosa of authors, and two structures not hitherto described, one of
which the author proposes to name the tunica granulosa, and the other,
which is rather an assemblage of structures than a single structure,
the retinacula. The tunica granulosa is a spherical covering proper to
the ovum, and its presence explains why the outer line in the double
contour of the thick chorion has remained so long unobserved. At a
certain period this tunic, in some animals at least, is seen to have tail-
like appendages, consisting of granules similar to its own. The re
tinacula consist of a central mass containing the ovum in its tunica
granulosa, and of cords or bands extending from this central mass to
the membrana granulosa. These structures at a certain period
became invested by a membrane. The offices of the retinacula ap
pear to be,—first, to suspend the ovum in the fluid of the Graafian
vesicle,—next, to convey it to a certain part of the periphery of this
vesicle,—and subsequently to retain it in the latter situation, and
also to promote its expulsion from the ovary. The particular part
of the periphery of the Graafian vesicle to which the ovum is con
veyed, is uniformly that directed towards the surface of the ovary.
The mass of granules escaping with the ovum on the bursting of a
 Graafian vesicle under the compressor, is composed chiefly of the
tunica granulosa and the ruptured retinacula. The " cumulus "
of Professor Bacr is made up of the parts called by Dr. Barry the
 tunica granulosa and the central portion of the retinacula ; and the
 band-like portions, collectively, of what Dr. Barry calls the retina
 cula, mainly contribute to produce the appearance denominated the
 " flat disc " by Professor Bner.
    In Mammalia a thick and highly transparent membrane,—the true
chorion,—is formed external to the proper membrane of the yelk,
while the latter is in the ovary. The inner part of the substance of
the chorion in its early stages is in a fluid state, so that the yelk-
ball moves freely in it ; but it subsequently acquires more consistence.
There is not any structure corresponding to the chorion in the ovary
of other vertebratcd animals.
    The following appears to be the order of formation, as to time, of
the more permanent parts of the ovum and the Graafian vesicle in
Mammalia, viz. :
    1. The germinal vesicle, with its contents, and its envelope of
          peculiar granules.
    2. The proper membrane of the ovisac, which forms around this
          envelope of granules.
    3. The yelk, which forms around the germinal vesicle.
    4. The proper membrane of the yelk, which makes its appearance
          while the yelk is still in an incipient state.
    5. The chorion.

          Prof. Wheatstone on the Physiology of Vision.              461
       'The covering or tunic of the ovisac; and about the same
              time, the peculiar granules of the ovisac arrange them
              selves to form,
          f The tunica granulosa,
         < The retinacula, and
       I (- The membrana granulosa.
   Such of these structures as are present in the ovary of other Ver-
tebrata, appear to originate in the same order as to time.
   " Contributions to the Physiology of Vision." By Charles Wheat-
stone, Esq., F.R.S., Professor of Experimental Philosophy in King's
College, London. Part the First. "On some remarkable and hitherto
unobserved Phenomena of Binocular Vision."
   The author first shows that the perspective projections of an ob
ject upon the two retine differ according to the distance at which
the object is placed before the eyes ; if it be placed so distant that
to view it the optic axes must be parallel, the two projections are
precisely similar ; but if it be placed so near that to regard it the op
tic axes must converge, a different perspective projection is present
ed to each eye ; and these perspectives become more dissimilar as
the convergence of the optic axes becomes greater. Notwithstand
ing this dissimilarity between the two pictures, which is in some
cases very great, the object is still seen single ; contrary to the very
prevalent metaphysical opinion, that the single appearance of ob
jects seen by both eyes is owing to their pictures falling on corre
sponding points of the two retine. After establishing these prin
ciples, the author proceeds to ascertain what would result from pre
senting the two monocular perspectives, drawn on plane surfaces, to
the two eyes, so that they shall fall on the same parts of the two re
tine as the projections from the object itself would have fallen. Seve
ral means are described by which this may be accomplished ; but the
author especially recommends for this purpose an apparatus called by
him a stereoscope, which enables the observer to view the resulting
 appearances without altering the ordinary adaptation of the eyes,
 and therefore without subjecting these organs to any strain or
fatigue. It consists of two plane mirrors with their backs inclined
to each other at an angle of 90°, near the faces of which the two
monocular pictures are so placed that their reflected images are seen
by the two eyes, one placed before each mirror, in the same place ;
 the apparatus has various adjustments by means of which the mag
 nitude of the images on the retinas may be varied, and the optic
 axes differently converged. If the two monocular pictures be thus
 presented one to each eye, the mind will perceive, from their com
 bined effect, a figure of three dimensions, the exact counterpart of
 the object from which the pictures were drawn ; to show that this
 curious illusion does not in the least depend on shading or colouring,
 the illustrations principally employed are simple outline figures,
 which give for their perceived resultants skeleton forms of three di
 mensions. Each monocular outline figure is the representation of two
 dissimilar skeleton forms.one being the form which it is intended to re
 present, and another, which Prof.Wheatstone calls its converse figure.

 462     Royal Society : Prof. Faraday's Fourteenth Series
Viewed by one eye alone the outline may with equal ease be ima
gined to be either ; but when the two monocular pictures are -viewed
one by each eye, the proper or the complemental form may be fixed
in the mind ; the former, if the right and left pictures be presented
respectively to the right and left eyes ; and the latter, if the right pic
ture be presented to the left eye, and the left picture to the right
eye. Many new experiments are then detailed, and a variety of in
stances of false perception of visual objects, some new, others former
ly observed, are traced to the»e principles ; among others, the well-
known apparent conversion of cameos into intaglios. The author
next proceeds to show that pictures similar in form but differing in
magnitude within certain limits, when presented one to each eye,
are perceived by the mind to be single and of intermediate size ; and
also that when totally dissimilar pictures, which cannot be combined
by the mind into the resemblance of any accustomed objects, are
 presented one to each eye, they are in general not seen together, but
 alternately. The memoir concludes with a review of the various hypo
 theses which have been advanced to account for our seeing objects
 single with two eyes ; and the author states his views respecting the
 influence which these newly developed facts are calculated to haw
 on the decision of this much-debated question,
    " Experimental Researches in Electricity," Fourteenth Series.
    On the general nature and relation of the Electric and Magnetic
Forces. By Michael Faraday, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., &c. &c.
    The author commences by observing that the theory of electrical
 induction, which he had set forth in the llth, 12th, and 13th se
ries of researches*, does not assume or decide anything as to the
 real nature of the electric forces, but only as to their distribution ;
the great question respecting the existence of any electric fluid, or
of one, or of two fluids remaining untouched. He then states what
the theory does assume ; as, for instance, that all particles, whether
of insulators or conductors, are, as wholes, conductors ; that, being
conductors, they can readily be charged either bodily or pokrly ;
that contiguous particles being on the line of inductive action can
communicate their forces more or less readily; that those doing so
most readily constitute the bodies called conductors, and those do
ing so least readily those called insulatorf, &c.
   Having thus given a brief summary of the conclusions drawn
from the previous investigations, the author proceeds to consider
the particular condition of the particles which, in an insulating
body, are considered as polarized ; and after showing that the
theory requires that they should be able to polarize in any di
rection, he states his expectation that a greater facility to polarize
in one direction than another would still be found to belong to
them, and proceeds experimentally to determine this point. His ex
periments were made by observing the degree of inductive force
across cubes of perfectly crystallized bodies, as rock crystal and
   • Prof. Faraday's Eleventh Series of Researches will be found at large,
in the present volume, at p. 281 et seq. ; and abstracts of the Twelfth and
Thirteenth Series, in vol. xii., p, 426 and 430.

                    of Researches in Electricity.                  463
Iceland spar; these being cut so as to have the axil of the crystal
parallel to the line joining two opposite faces of the cube ; but
the experiments, which are laborious, require extension, and he hns
not as yet been able to prove or disprove the expected result.
   The author then considers whether in compound bodies it is the
ultimate and elementary particles or the compound particles which
polarize as wholes. He concludes that it is the latter which assume
that state ; and shows how this point bean upon the electrolyzution
of such bodies as are separated into simpler substances, or otherwise
altered by the action of the voltaic current.
   He then proceeds to certain experiments bearing upon the nature
of the relation of the electric and magnetic forces, giving his view
of the character of this relation -, and concludes his paper by briefly
stating what he thinks is more satisfactorily explained by the theory
which refers inductive action to an action of contiguous particles
than by the old theory.
   "Experiments on the Vibration of the Pendulum." By W. J.
Frodsham. Communicated by Francis Beaufort, Capt. R.N., F.R.S.
   The object of this paper is to show the advantages that may re
sult from attaching to the top of the pendulum a brass tube, which
the author terms " an isochronal piece," about five inches in length,
fitting the pendulum very nicely, and slit so as to form a spring for
about an inch at the bottom, sliding rather stiffly on the rod, so that
its position, and consequently its influence on the action of the
pendulum, maybe varied at pleasure; and that unequal ares of vibra
tion may be made to correspond to equal intervals of time.
   "An Account of some Experiments on the Blood in connexion
with the Theory of Respiration." By John Davy, M.D., F.R.S.,
Assistant Inspector of Army Hospitals.
   The author has investigated, experimentally, several of the im
portant questions connected with the theory of respiration and of
animal heat ; and arrives at the following results. He finds that
the blood is capable of absorbing oxygen both from atmospheric air,
and from oxygen gas, independently of putrefaction. After blood
has been agitated in common air, a trace of carbonic acid, not ex
ceeding one per cent., is found in the residual air; but when pure
oxygen is employed, no carbonic acid can be detected in it by the most
carefully conducted trials. When pure carbonic acid is brought
into contact with blood, or serum, over mercury, and moderately
agitated, the absorption of gas exceeds the volume of the fluid.
Both arterial and venous blood are rendered very dark, and serum
more liquid by the absorption of this gas to saturation. Serum, in
its healthy state, is incapable of absorbing oxygen, or of immediate
ly furnishing carbon to form carbonic acid : and after it has ab
sorbed carbonic acid, only one-tenth of the absorbed gas is expelled
by successive agitation with atmospheric air, or with hydrogen. The
author is inclined to think that the alkali in the blood, in its
healthiest condition, is in the state of a sesquicarbonate. In the
majority of trials manifest indications of the disengagement of air
from blood in vacvo were obtained ; but as it occasionally happened

               Royal Society : Prof. Moseley on the
that no air could be thus extricated, the author is induced to believe
that the quantity of air contained in the blood is variable : and he
has found this air to consist solely of carbonic acid gas. It would
also appear, from the experiments detailed in this paper, that a pot.
tion of oxygen exists in the blood, not capable of being extracted
by the air-pump, yet capable of entering into combination with ni
trous gas ; and existing in largest proportion in arterial blood. The
absorption of oxygen by blood is attended with an increase of tem
perature.
   The experiments of the author tend to show that the lungs are
absorbing and secreting, and perhaps also inhaling organs, and that
their peculiar function is to introduce oxygen into the blood and
separate carbonic acid from the blood : and they favour the idea that
animal heat is owing, first, to the fixation or condensation of oxygen
in the blood in the lungs during its conversion from venous to arte
rial ; and secondly, to the combinations into which it enters in the
circulation in connexion with the different secretions and changes
essential to animal life.
   " On the Geometrical Forms of Turbinated and Discoid Shells."
By the Rev. H. Moseley, Professor of Natural Philosophy and As
tronomy in King's College, London. Communicated by Thomas Bell,
Esq., F.R.S.
   This paper is occupied by an investigation of certain mathemati
cal principles which the author considers as governing the formation
of turbinated and discoid shells. According to these views, all such
shells may be conceived to be generated by the revolution about a
fixed axis of the perimeter of a geometrical figure, which, remaining
always similar to itself, increases continually its dimensions. The
spiral lines which are observable on the opercula of certain classa
of shells, taken in connexion with the well-known properties of the
logarithmic or equiangular spiral, appear to have suggested the idea,
that not only the boundary of the operculum, which measures the
sectional expansion of a shell, but also the spiral lines, which in
general are well marked both externally and internally in the shell
itself, are curves of this nature.
   From an examination of the spirals marked on opercula, it appears
that the increase of their substance takes place on one margin only;
the other margin still retaining the spiral form, and acquiring an in
crease of length by successive additions in the direction of the curre.
As in the logarithmic spiral the distances of successive spires, mea
sured on the same radius vector produced from the pole, from
each other, are respectively in geometrical progression, if similar
distances between the successive whorls on the opercula of shells be
found to observe the same law, it will follow that these whorls must
have a similar form ; and that such is the case, the author shows by a
variety of numerical results obtained by careful measurements on
three different opercula of shells of the order Turbo. That such is
the law of nature in the formation of this class of shells is rendered
probable by the instances adduced by the author, in which a con
formity to this law is found to exist.

     Geometrical Forms of Turbinatcil and Discoid Shells. 465
   From the known properties of the logarithmic spiral the author
concludes that the law of the geometrical description of turbinated
shells is, that they are generated by the revolution about a fixed
axis, (namely, the axis of the shell,) of a curve, which continually
varies its dimensions according to the law, that each linear incre
ment shall vary as the existing dimensions of the line of which it is
the increment. If such be the law of nature, the whorls of the shell,
as well as the spires on the operculum, must have the form of the
logarithmic spiral ; and that this is likewise the case is shown by
the almost perfect accordance of numerical results, deduced from the
property of that curve, with those deduced from a great variety of
careful measurements made of the distances between successive
whorls on radii vectores drawn on shells of the Turbo duplicatus,
Turbo phasianus, Buccinum subulatum, and in a fine section of a
Nautilus pompilius. The author further states that, besides the results
given in the paper, a great number of measurements were similarly
made upon other shells of the genera Trochus, Strombus, and Mitrex,
all confirmatory of the law in question.
   One of the interesting deductions which the author has derived
from the prevalence of this law in the generation of the shells of a
large class of mollusca, is that a distinction may be expected to arise
with regard to the growth of land and of aquatic shells, the latter
serving both as a habitation and as a float to the animal which forms
it; and that, although the facility of varying its position at every
period of its growth may remain the same, it is necessary that the
enlargement of the capacity of the float should bear a constant ratio
to the corresponding increment of its body ; a ratio which always
assigns a greater amount to the increment of the capacity of the shell
than to the corresponding increment of the bulk of the animal.
   Another conclusion deducible from the law of formation here con
sidered is, that the growth of the animal, corresponding to a given
increment in the angle of the generating curve, will always be pro
portional to the bulk it has then attained : and if the physical vital
energies of the animal be proportional to its actual bulk, its growth,
in any given time, will be proportional to its growth up to that time.
Hence the whole angle of revolution of the curve generating the
shell will be proportional to the whole corresponding time of the
animal V growth ; and therefore, the whole number of whorls and
parts of whorls will, at any period, be proportional to its age.
   The form of the molluscous animal remaining always similar to
itself, the surface of the organ by which it deposits its shell will
vary as the square of the linear dimensions ; but as the deposition
of its shell must vary as the cube of the same dimensions, there must
be an increased functional activity of the organ, varying as the sim
ple linear dimensions.
   Since to each species of shell there must correspond a particular
num-ber expressing the ratio of the geometrical progression of the
similar successive linear dimensions of the whorls ; and since the
constant angle of the particular logarithmic spiral, which is affected
by that species of shell, is deducible from this number, the author
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 13. No. 84. Dec. 1838.          2H

466                           Royal Society.
 considers that, connected as the form of the shell is with the cir
 cumstances of the animal's growth and the manner of its existence,
 this number, or the angle of the particular spiral, detenninable as
 it is in each case by actual measurement, may be available for the
 purposes of classification, and may suggest relations by which,
 eventually, they may become linked with characteristic forms, and
 modes of molluscous existence.
    The concluding portion of the paper contains a mathematical dis
 cussion of certain geometrical and mechanical elements of a con-
 choidal surface. These are, the extent of the surface itself; the TO-
fume contained by it ; the centre of gravity of the surface, and aim
 of the volume, in each case, when the generating figure revolves
about a fixed axis without any other motion, and also when it has,
besides this, a motion of translation in the direction of that axis;
 and, lastly, the angle of the spiral. The author states that his ob
ject in this inquiry is the application of these elements to a discussion
 of the hydraulic theory of shells. The constant angle of the spiral,
which each particular species affects, being connected by a necessary
relation with the economy of the material of the habitation of each,
with its stability, and the condition of its buoyancy, it is therefore
necessary to determine the value of this angle.
    " On the relative attractions of Sulphuric Acid for water, under
particular circumstances ; with suggestions of means of improving
the ordinary process of manufacturing Sulphuric Acid." By Henry
H. Watson, Esq., Corresponding Member of the Manchester Philoso
phical Society. Communicated by John Dalton, D.C.L., F.R.S., &c.
    The object of the inquiry detailed in the present paper is to de
termine at what degree of concentration the affinity of sulphuric
acid for aqueous vapour is equal to that of anhydrous space for the
same vapour at given temperatures. It has long been known that
concentrated sulphuric acid abstracts moisture from the atmosphere,
but the amount and the rate of this absorption have never been as
certained with accuracy ; and consequently, in applying this acid to
purposes of exsiccation, the experimenter has often been at a Iocs to
know whether the acid was sufficiently strong to render the space
in which it was confined perfectly anhydrous. By placing portions
of the acid, previously weighed, and diluted with known quantities
of water, under the receiver of an air-pump, with equal portions of
concentrated acid, of the specific gravity 1'8428, in similar dishes,
the author ascertained that the dilute acid could be concentrated to
the specific gravity 1'814, at a temperature varying from 65° to
57° : whence he concludes that acid of such strength is capable
of drying a vacuum when the temperature does not exceed 57". By
making similar experiments in air, the author compared together the
weights lost by ten grains of dilute sulphuric acid of the specific
gravity 1'135, at three different periods of the day for six days,
taking note of the dew-point and the temperature ; and infers that
when the affinity of space for vapour, or the evaporating force, u
equal to 0- 1 5 of an inch of mercury, it is just able to balance the
affinity for water of sulphuric acid of the specific gravity 1-249.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              467
   The author next instituted a series of experiments to ascertain
whether the evaporation of water from dilute sulphuric acid is capa
ble of being carried on to the same extent in air as in vacuo, and
found that the evaporating force of air exerted upon such acid is less
than that of a vacuum at the same temperature. He observes that
his experiments offer conclusive evidence that the evaporation of
water is not owing to the existence of a chemical affinity between
the vapour of the liquid and atmospheric air ; but thinks that they
favour the notion that the obstruction to this process in the open
atmosphere is rather owing to the pressure than to the vis inertia
of the particles of air. He ie also of opinion that improvements will
hereafter arise from this inquiry with regard to the economical
management of the process of manufacturing sulphuric acid, which
process would be greatly expedited by the regulated admission of
steam into the condensing chambers kept at a constant high tem
perature.
   The Society then adjourned over the long vacation to meet again
on the 15th of November.
         LXVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                           XYLOIDINE.
THIS name was given by M. Braconnot to a substance produced by
     the action of concentrated nitric acid upon starch and lignin ; the
composition of this substance, and of other* which accompany its
formation have not been examined ; and its principal properties have
been either imperfectly described or quite unknown. M. Pelouze
has lately undertaken the investigation of its properties, and the prin
cipal results of his experiments are the following :
   If a mixture of starch and nitric acid of sp. gr. 1-5 be made, the
starch entirely disappears in a few minutes ; the liquor preserves the
yellow tint of the concentrated nitric acid, and no elastic fluid is
evolved : when immediately treated with water the xyloidine is en
tirely precipitated, and the filtered liquor when evaporated yields a
scarcely perceptible residue.
   If instead of effecting the precipitation by water, immediately
after the solution of the starch, the solution is allowed to remain in
a close vessel, it becomes gradually coloured, and assumes the various
tints of a mixture of nitric acid and nitric oxide. Water then forms a
precipitate of xyloidine, the quantity of which diminishes with time ;
after two days, and sometimes even after some hours have elapsed,
water ceases to render it turbid : the xyloidine is destroyed and com
pletely converted into a new acid, which is by evaporation procured
in the form of a white, solid, uncrystallizable, deliquescent mass,
the weight of which is much greater than that of the starch submitted
to experiment ; but neither carbonic acid nor oxalic acid is produced
 during this reaction.
   The xyloidine, the first product of nitric acid upon starch, results
from the combination of these two bodies ; it is common starch con
 taining an atom of water, which is replaced by an atom of nitric acid.
The starch is entirely converted into this substance ; and this per
                                 2H2

468           Intelligence and Miscellaneotis Articles.
fectly explains the considerable increase of weight which is found
when the xyloidine is precipitated by water immediately after the
disappearance of the starch in the nitric acid. As nn excess of nitric
acid converts the xylo'idine into a very soluble substance, which is the
new acid above-mentioned, it explains the different result obtained
by M. Braconnot, who procured an equal weight of xyloidine from a
given weight of starch, which according to M. Pelouze was occasioned
by the decomposition of a portion of it ; by long delaying the precipi
tation, not the slightest trace of xylo'idine is obtainable.
    When the mixture of acid and starch, instead of being allowed to
remain by itself, is boiled, the starch is decomposed in a few minutes,
 and converted into a deliquescent acid, which is obtained pure and
 in a large quantity by evaporation in a water bath. This acid con
 tains no azote ; it has some resemblance to oxalhydric acid (nitro-
 saccharic acid) but the composition is different. A moderate heat
 converts it into another acid of a black colour, which is soluble in
 water, and susceptible of reconversion by nitric acid into the white
 acid from which it is derived.
    Boiling concentrated nitric acid attacks it with the greatest diffi
 culty. When cold it slowly changes it into oxalic acid without pro
 ducing any carbonic acid. Thus by slow oxidizement, determined
 by the use of a proper quantity of nitric acid, the starch is success
 ively converted into xyloidine, deliquescent acid, and oxalic arid
 without the carbon suffering the displacement of the other elements
 of these substances. These curious reactions go on spontaneously
 in the cold, or in close vessels.
    It has been stated that the xyloidine results from the combination
 of the starch with the elements of nitric acid. It is a kind of salt
 in which starch acts the part of base to the nitric acid. It is very
 combustible ; at 236° Fahr. it takes fire and burns vividly, leaving
 but little residue. This property led the author to an experiment
 which appears susceptible of several applications, particularly in ar
 tillery. When paper is immersed in nitric acid of sp. gr. 1-5, and
 left there time enough to be penetrated by the acid, or about two
 or three minutes, on taking it out of the acid and washing it with
 a great quantity of water, a kind of parchment is obtained, which is
 impermeable by moisture and extremely combustible : the same
 happens with cloth made of linen or cotton.—L'Institut, October 18th
 1838.
                DETERMINATION OF IOD1XE IN KELP.
    M. Lassaigne remarks that the extraction of iodine from kelp is
 now so extensively pursued on account of its numerous applications
 in medicine and the arts, that by several processes employed in dif
 ferent manufactures, the whole quantity is extracted from commercial
 products ; it cannot therefore, he observes, be unimportant to be able
 to determine by simple and easy means, the proportion of iodine that
 different products may furnish.
    Several methods may be employed, which are in fact known by all
 chemists, and often practised by them : thus in precipitating an aque
 ous solution of kelp, saturated with nitric or sulphuric acid, by ni

                  Polarization ofPlatina Electrodes.                  469
Irate of silver, a mixed precipitate of chloride, bromide, and iodide of
silver is obtained ; the two first are dissolved by ammonia, whilst the
iodide remains insoluble ; the weight of it then determines that of the
iodine contained in the sample.
    The new method proposed by M. Lassaigne is founded on the great
insolubility of iodide of palladium, which is such that Tini'inin1'1 °f an
alkaline iodide is not only detected by the nitrate or chloride of pal
ladium, but the resulting iodide is precipitated in brown flocks, in
twelve or sixteen hours, and may be collected on a weighed filter.
The weight of the dried iodide indicates that of the alkaline iodide ;
it is composed, according to M. Lassaigne, of two atoms of iodine and
one of palladium.
     [In English weights of 1 eq. iodine 126+54, 1 eq. palladium
= 180, therefore 180 of the iodide of palladium =126 iodine.]
    The method of proceeding is that of treating a certain quantity of
kelp with repeated portions of water, mixing the solutions, saturating
with weak nitric acid and adding nitrate or chloride of palladium,
when the liquor becomes immediately brown by the iodide of pal
ladium formed. When the quantity is considerable it is readily de
posited, but when small, as already noticed, it requires from twelve
 to sixteen hours to deposit; this reagent is capable of detecting
 quantities of iodine which are not shown by starch, chloride of pla-
 tina, or nitrate of silver.— Journ. de Chem. Med., August, 1838.
               POLARIZATION OF PLATINA ELECTRODES.
     M. Matteucci has communicated the following results of his ex
 periments to the Academic Royale des Sciences.
     1 . Plates of platina, used as electrodes in water, become covered
 with traces of oxygen and hydrogen, which they retain for a certain
 time.
     2. Plunged into oxygen or hydrogen, platina plates acquire and
  preserve for some time a coating of these gases.
     3. Plates thus treated and immersed in distilled water develope an
  electric current moving from the hydrogen to the oxygen plate.
     M. Schcenbein also communicated the following remarks on the
  same subject.
     A tube curved in the shape of the letter U and filled with pure
  hydrochloric acid having a plate of platina plunged into each leg,
  was placed in communication with the ends of a voltaic battery.
  After a few minutes the electrodes were removed and fresh plates
  immersed; a feeble secondary current, detectable by a very delicate gal
  vanometer, was discovered ; this passes in a direction opposed to that
  of the battery. A similar result occurs when dilute sulphuric acid
  is substituted for hydrochloric acid. From these circumstances M.
   Schcenbein concludes that electrolytes are capable of becoming vol-
   taicatly paralysed under the influence of a current. He also stated
   that he does not agree with M. Becquerel in his explanation of the
   phenomena of polarized plates, because he has observed electrodes
   to assume the property of polarization when they have conveyed a
   current of too feeble intensity to decompose iodide of potassium. For

470            Intelligence and, Miscellaneous Articles.
 the purpose of explaining this circumstance, M. Schccnbein imagines
 that although currents of very low intensity may, as Faraday has
 shown, traverse electrolytes without decomposing them, still he con
 siders that they must produce some effect, and this he conceives to
be a weakening of the bonds of affinity holding together the molecules
of the electrolyte ; thus in the case of hydrochloric acid the atoms of
 chlorine and hydrogen become separated to a certain distance from
 each other, and their mutual affinity diminished, the effect of the
 current being also to turn the hydrogen molecules towards the nega
tive, and the chlorine towards the positive electrode. In this manner
 M. Schoenbein explains the secondary current, which on this hypo
 thesis arises from the re-combination of the partially separated atoms
of the electrolyte.—L'Institat, 252.
    [It will be observed that the facts, detailed in the above notice,
 have for the most part been anticipated by Dr. G. Bird in his paps
in the last number of this Journal.—ED.]
   SULFHOCYANIDE OF POTASSIUM AS A TEST FOR STRYCHNIA.
    M. Notus having proposed the above-named salt for the use men
tioned (Annals of British Medicine, Feb. 1837.) M. O. Henry has
made the following observations on the subject. He added the sul-
phocyanide, prepared as directed by M. Notus, to neutral and pure
solutions of the acetate of quina, cinchonia, codeia, brucia and strych
nia ; the three first gave abundant white curdy precipitates, whilst
the salt of strychnia yielded silky brilliant crystals, diffused through
the liquid. The solutions of acetate of morphia, narcotin, and vera-
tria gave only a slight flocculent cloud, and that of codeia, at first
limpid, gave in about a quarter of an hour very fine pearly crystals.
All these effects were produced in watch-glasses and were very di
stinct.
   Each precipitate was then gradually heated ; those of quina, cin
chonia, and codeia disappeared in a short time, but those of brucia,
and especially of strychnia, dissolved much more slowly ; by gradual
cooling they all reappeared with more or less distinct crystalline
forms, and the precipitates formed with codeia and strychnia pre
sented their silky appearance.
   These precipitates drained and dried on filtering paper were soluble
in hot alcohol ; with the persalts of iron they produced a crimson
colour, like the sulphocyanides ; and the bitterness of each was more
or less distinguishable.
   These results agree with those of M. Notus.and withthe characters
already known of strychnia : the sulphocyanide of potassium may
serve to detect it. It must at the same time be admitted, that several
other organic bases give precipitates with it, the properties of which
bear great resemblance to those of strychnia ; the sulphocyanide
of potassium cannot therefore alone be considered as a sufficient in
dication of this powerful alkali in judicial proceedings, but it adds a
new character to those already knowo.—Journal de Pharmacie,
xxiv.— 194.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                 471
          ANALYSES OF PECTIC ACID. BY M. V. REGNAULT.
     The properties of pectic acid were carefully studied by M. Bra-
  connot, who first extracted it in a pure state from the roots and barks
  of trees. But the composition of this acid, which acts so important
  a part in vegetable organization, is entirely unknown to us.
     M. Regnault obtained pectic acid nearly by the process given by
  M. Braconnot.
     White turnips freed from their rind were reduced to as fine a pulp
  as possible, and then washed seven or eight times with rain water.
 After each washing, the pulp was pressed in small cloth bags.
 The pulp thus completely lost its smell and taste ; it was then boiled
 for three quarters of an hour with 10 or 12 times its weight of water
 and a tenth of carbonate of soda ; after which it was collected upon
 a cloth, washed with a small quantity of water, and pressed.
     A solution of chloride of calcium was poured into the solution of
 pectate of soda, which occasioned an abundant precipitation of gela
 tinous pectate of lime, mixed with much carbonate. This precipi
 tate was for a long time washed upon a cloth, pressed, and then
 dried in the air. It was this impure pectate of lime which afterwards
 served for the preparation of the pectic acid and pectates. To separate
 the peclic acid from it, it was digested for 8 or 10 hours at a tem
 perature of 1 12°to 140°F.in very dilute hydrochloric acid. The pectic
 acid set free was collected on a filter and washed with distilled water ;
 it was of a deep colour, and was dissolved in ammonia ; the solution
 was very gelatinous, and could not be filtered, and was put to digest
 for 24 hours with animal charcoal at a temperature of 140° to 1 76° F.
     By this it became quite colourless, lost its viscidity, and readily
 passed through the filter. On supersaturating the ummoniacal so
 lution with hydrochloric acid, fresh pectic acid was separated, which
 was now in the state of a perfectly colourless jelly. This jelly
 ought to be washed for a long time, first with water acidulated with
 hydrochloric acid, then with distilled water. It is however rarely
thus obtained quite pure ; it usually leaves after burning a small re
sidue of earthy matter, which adheres to it with the greatest obsti
nacy. It is to be redissolved in ammonia or its carbonate, and to be
again precipitated from solution. Gelatinous pectic acid cannot be
pressed through a cloth, but must be dried in u stove. When dry
it is homy, colourless and translucid, extremely hard, and difficult
to reduce to powder. It has a slightly acid taste. When digested
in hot water it softens, swells a little, but never regains its original
gelatinous state. Gelatinous pectic acid is perfectly insoluble in
cold water ; it appears to dissolve in small quantity in hot water,
and especially by long digestion. For if it be boiled for several hours,
the filtered solution gives a soluble precipitate with chloride of cal
cium ; but it does not precipitate any thing by mere cooling. When
pectic acid is heated, it melts, swells, and leaves a charcoal difficult
to burn.
    Dilute nitric or hydrochloric acid, even when heated, does not
act upon it; strong nitric acid attacks it rapidly, and oxalic and
mucic acid are formed. Cold concentrated sulphuric acid does not
appear to act upon it, but when heated decomposes it readily.

472             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   Caustic potash at a temperature above 392° F. acts strongly on
pectic acid, and Gay-Lussac has remarked that much oxalic acid is
formed. Pectic acid dried at 284° F. yielded by analysis
                       Hydrogen                4'71
                       Carbon                 43-21
                       Oxygen                 52-08—100.
                                        Journal de Pharmacie, 24, 201.
           PECTATES OF POTASH, SODA, AND AMMONIA.
   M. Regnault states that pectic acid combines very perfectly with
bases, and in general forms gelatinous compounds. The pectates of
potash, soda and ammonia are alone soluble in water; all others are
insoluble and form transparent jellies, more bulky and firm than the
acid itself, and they may be pressed through a cloth when they have
been precipitated from cold solutions ; when precipitated hot they
are not firm, but are like the acid itself.
   It is extremely difficult, and perhaps even impossible, to obtain
the pectates in a state of determinate saturation ; all efforts to obtain
them failed. This difficulty is derived from the impossibility of always
procuring definite soluble pectates.
    If a solution of potash be digested with an excess of gelatinous
pectic acid, it dissolves in large quantity, the liquor loses its alkaline
 reaction, and after a certain time, it even becomes slightly acid,
 evidently owing to an excess of the acid. If alcohol be added to a
solution of pectate of potash or soda, a gelatinous precipitate is
formed, which appears to be a sub-pectate. This jelly when washed
with alcohol loses alkali, and probably becomes neutral pectate, when
the washing is sufficient ; but it is difficult to determine the exact
 point.
    Neutral pectate of ammonia is not obtained more readily ; if pectic
 acid be dissolved in excess of ammonia, a solution is obtained, which
 by long boiling becomes acid to test paper ; this when evaporated
 in vacuo leaves a transparent mass, which when dissolved in water
 has also an acid reaction ; in both these cases, we obtain a pectate
 with excess of acid. The insoluble pectates leave very hard horny
 masses, and which it is extremely difficult to powder ; it is therefore
 also very difficult to burn them with oxide of copper. To obtain
 the combustion perfectly, it is necessary to put a certain quantity of
 chlorate of potash mixed with oxide of copper at the bottom of the
 tube.
    When heated in contact with the air, dry pectates take fire, and
 continue to burn till all the organic matter is destroyed. The pec-
 tates retain the last portions of water with considerable force ; they
 must be heated to 284° or 302° F. to render them perfectly dry; they
 do not begin to decompose till heated to about 392° ; the dry pectates
 are very hygrometric ; when they are to be analysed they must k
 quickly weighed, and dried afterwards in the combustion tube, and
 kept at a temperature near 21 2°.—Ibid.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              473
ON THE DECOMPOSITION OF SILICEOUS MINERALS BY MEANS
                      OF HYDROFLUORIC ACID.
    The reason this method of decomposing siliceous substances,
first pointed out by Berzelius, is so seldom adopted, no doubt arises
from the necessity of preparing pure hydrofluoric acid in platina
retorts, with which few chemists are provided. In order to over
come this difficulty, Mr. C. Brunner has proposed to place the si
liceous substance to be acted upon, in an atmosphere of hydro
fluoric acid, which for this purpose he
prepares in a leaden vessel of this "form :
the diameter is about 6 inches, and the •
 other dimensions in proportion. In the
middle of this vessel, supported by leaden
feet, a very flat platina dish is placed, in
which is spread the siliceous substance reduced to the finest
powder and moistened with a little water. The bottom of the
leaden vessel is covered to the depth of £ to ^ of an inch with a
mixture made to the consistence of a paste, of fluate of lime, and
sulphuric acid. A small flat cover with a wooden handle closes the
 vessel. So provided it is submitted to the gentle heat either of a
sand-bath or small lamp. By means of the hydrofluoric acid gas
 thus given out a quantity from 20 to 30 grains of siliceous mineral
 is completely decomposed in the space of one or two hours. During
 the progress the powder must be twice moistened with a few drops
 of water. If the powder is well spread out at first, it is seldom
 necessary to stir it. When this operation is finished a quantity of
 concentrated sulphuric acid is added, drop by drop, to the powder as
 long as any hydrofluo-silicic acid is given olf, at the same time it is
 to be warmed by a spirit-lamp, and finally the excess of sulphuric
 acid is driven off by a continued heat and evaporation to dryness.
 The dry residue after being moistened with muriatic acid is boiled
 in water, and further examined in the usual way.
     This method is particularly applicable to the examination of such
 minerals as contain alkalis.—Poggendorjfs Annals, No. v. 1838,
 p. 134.
  ON THE SEPARATION OF COMPOUNDS OF OXIDES OF ANTIMONY
                                AND LEAD.
     During some experiments on the decomposition and preparation
  of a colour known in commerce by the name of Naples yellow,
  Mr. C'.. Brunner found the greatest difficulty in separating this com
  pound. Upon most of the samples, acids had very little or no ac
  tion, nor did heating with alkalis effect his purpose. He then
  thought of converting them into sulphurets in the following man
  ner, which completely succeeded. About 30 grains were carefully
  mixed with 75 grains of sulphur and 150 grains of recently heated
  carbonate of potash, and the whole melted in a glass retort. As
  soon as it was uniformly liquid and the dark brown mass had cooled
  the retort was filled with water. The sulphuretted solution con
  tained all the antimony and the undissolved residue contained all the

  47*           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  lead as a sulphuret (Pb S.). The latter was dried and the quantity
  of lead calculated. The solution, containing' the antimony in the
  state of a sulphuret, was carefully neutralized by dilute muriatic or
  acetic acid, and the precipitate collected upon a weighed filter, dried,
 weighed, and a portion of it reduced to the metallic state by means
 of a stream of dry hydrogen gas, as described by Rose, Analytical
  Chemistry, vol. ii. After the quantity of each metal was thus
  ascertained, the state of the oxidation of the antimony was still re-
  quired. For this purpose the lead found was calculated as an oxide.
 This weight added to the weight of the antimony, deducted from
 the weight of the sample examined, gives the quantity of oxygen
 combined with the antimony.
     The experiments which were performed upon several different
 samples of this colour as usually found in commerce, proved it to
 be a compound of oxide of lead with antimonious acid (Antimon
 eaure). But one sample received from Paris of great beauty turned
 out to be a mixture of white lead and sulphuret of cadmium Poy.
 gender/"* Annals, No. V. 1838, p. 135.
   EXTRACT FROM A LETTER FROM PROFESSOR JOHNSTON ON
                    THE ANALYSIS OF THE RESINS.
                                                  Durham, Oct. 27, 1838.
     MY DEAR PHILLIPS,—I am desirous of acquainting you with the
 partial results of an investigation in which I am occupied, and
 which I think will prove very interesting. I have been analysing:
 some of the resins, and so far as I have gone, I think they may
 all be represented by a modification of the formula C<0 HS5, that for
 oil of turpentine, the carbon being constant and the hydrogen vari
 able. You are aware, probably, that the three resins hitherto ana
 lysed agree with this view, thus :
         «  i t.               f C.,0 H,., (X. Rose.
         Colophony       =     (c;°Hi3X.         Liebig and Laurent.
         Crystallized elemi      CJOH.,iO,,. Rose.
         Crystallized animi      C40 H33 O. Laurent.
    Circumstances have led me to examine various other resins, with
the following results :
                       Middletonite        C40 Hs: O.^
                       Gamboge             C40 Hoi Os ?
                       Guyaquillite        C40 H.^ OB
             £. India Animi           1 p u ri
                       Copal B       / ^"""3
                       Highgate resin C,,, H,S O
                       Mastic        I r „ n
                       Copal A       / U« H« "^
    The sparingly soluble part of copal is B. That which easily dis
solves is the same as the easily soluble part of mastic. The small
difficultly soluble part of the latter differs from copal B, at least in
properties.           Berengclite            C40HHO8
                      General formula = C4<) H3O+ Jc Oy.
    This last resin is one said to occur abundantly in a kind of pitch

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              475
lake at St. Juan de Berengela in South America. You will be
struck by the analogy between the Highgate resin and the annul of
Laurent ; they are probably the same. I have not been able to get
any animi having that composition : various resins seem to find
their way into the market under that name.
                      ANALYSIS OF COMPTONITE.
   On account of the rarity of comptonite it has not yet been ana
lysed, and mineralogists have been uncertain what place it ought
to occupy ; it is found in the lava of Vesuvius, and in the basalt
near Eisenach in Saxony, and also in Bohemia. A specimen from
Ellenbogen in Bohemia, analysed by M. E. Melly, gave
                   Silica                      37
                   Alumina                     31'07
                   Lime                        12-60
                   Soda                          6-25
                   Water                        12-24
                   Trace of iron and loss - 0'84            100'
   It is therefore a hydrous silicate of alumina, lime and soda. —
L'lnstitut, 27th Sept. 1888.
               ACTION OF CHLORINE ON ACETIC ACID.
   M. Dumas states that he had long since obtained, by the action of
solar influence on dry chlorine and crystallizable acetic acid, a chlo-
rated, volatile, crystallizable acid, with other products which were
separated with difficulty. On dissolving the acid in water and di-
stUling the dry residue on anhydrous phosphoric acid, the new acid
was obtained in a pure state. Its analysis gave the following for
mula : C8 Hs C6 O* ; the analysis of this acid was verified by that of
its alcoholic and methylic ethers, and also by its salt of lime.—L'ln
stitut, 30th Aug. 1838.
           ACTION OF CHLORIDE OF ZINC ON ALCOHOL..
   M. Masson, Professor of Physies at the Royal College of Caen,
distilled a mixture of alcohol and chloride of zinc at a temperature
of about 322° Fahr., by this he obtained an oil, the production of
which did not cease till the temperature reached 392°. He com
pared it with the sweet oil of wine, and observed that it was sepa
rable into two products of unequal volatility ; the less volatile boiled
at about 572°, when freed from all extraneous matter. It possessed
all the characters of the light sweet oil. By analysis it yielded,
                   Hydrogen                      12'8
                   Carbon                        88' 1      100'9
which corresponds to H7 C8.
   The most volatile product boiled below 212°. It is very fluid.
Its smell resembled that of naphtha. Its composition is remarkable,
for it is the most hydrogenated of the liquid carburetted hydrogens.
It consists of
                   Hydrogen                       15'7
                    Carbon                       84'5       100-2.

476           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
From which its formula appears to be H9 C8 ; but according to the
density of its vapour which is equal to 4' 18 it may be represented
by H™ C32.
   There are therefore in the oil in question two carburets of hydro
gen, on adding which together the carburetted hydrogen from which
they are derived is reproduced.—L'Institut, 30th Aug. 1838.
              COMBINATION OF AZOTE WITH METALS.
   The experiments of Thenard and Despretz seem to have proved
that certam metals absorb azote at a high temperature ; it is, how
ever, observed by M. Pfaff, that Berzelius has remarked that the
experiments of Despretz are incomplete : and Pfaff states that it
appeared to him that a different mode from that followed by Des
pretz might be adopted, to prove the absorption of azote by certain
metals at a red heat. It is well known that ammoniacal gas when
resolved into its elements, is converted into a mixture of three
volumes of hydrogen and one volume of azote. In the decomposition
of ammoniacal gas, as effected during its passage over red-hot metals,
the same relation ought to exist between the volumes of hydrogen
and azote, if the azote is not absorbed by them; and if the remark
able alteration which their properties undergo does not depend on
the absorption of this gas, there ought, on the other case, to be an
increase in the proportion of the azote. In order to perform these
experiments, M. Pfaff selected good porcelain tubes, in which was
placed a copper wire, two lines in diameter, and of considerable
length. The ammoniacal gas was disengaged from sal ammoniac by
lime, and conducted over caustic potash, exposed to a strong red
heat ; the other end of the porcelain tube was made to communicate,
by a tube bent at a right angle, with a Woulf's bottle containing
water to absorb the undecomposed ammoniacal gas. The experiment
was continued several hours, to decompose a great quantity of ammo
niacal gas. The gas was received in separate portions ; at the close
of the experiment the copper wire exhibited beautiful iridescence,
and those parts of it which had suffered most change were extremely
friable. The gas disengaged was examined in a Volta's eudiometer.
   The following were the results of the examinations of the portions
of gas, in the order in which they were received :
   First portion.—400 volumes were detonated with 200 volumes of
oxygen gas ; the residue was 200 volumes, consequently 400 volumes
had disappeared, of which 26Gj were hydrogen; so that the 400
volumes of the gas analysed contained only 26Gj of hydrogen gas.
From the following experiments it may be concluded that this first por
tion was mixed with a portion of the atmospheric air of the vessels.
   Second portion.—300 volumes of this gas were detonated with 300
volumes of oxygen gas ; the residue was 213, there had consequently
disappeared 387, of which 258 were hydrogen. These 300 volumes
of gas decomposed, if they were composed of hydrogen and azote in
the proportion of 3 : 1, ought to contain only 225 volumes of hydro
gen and 75 of azote; there was, therefore, an excess of 33 in 300, and
the azote amounted to only about one-seventh, instead of one-fourth.
   Third portion.—300 volumes were detonated with 300 of oxygen

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            477
gas; the residue was 210 volumes; 390 had therefore disappeared.
Of this number, 260 were hydrogen, which indicates a loss of azote
nearly equal to that of the second portion.
    As the excess of hydrogen cannot be attributed to the decom
position of the vapour of water, since it is well known that copper
does not decompose water at a red heat, and as the requisite means
for drying the ammoniacal gas were adopted, the only explanation
of the facts which can be given, is that a strong red heat sufficiently
increases the affinity of copper for azote to cause their combination,
and consequently it is owing to this that the physical properties of
the copper are altered, as first remarked by Thenard and confirmed
by Despretz.—Journal de Pharmacie, Aug. 1838.
        SOLUBILITY OF BINOXIDE OF MERCURY IN WATER.
    The solubility of binoxide of mercury, which has been stated to
exist by some chemists, has been objected to by others, be
cause the oxide employed might be supposed to contain some nitrate
of mercury. To obviate this objection, M. Boudet employed some
precipitate per se, which was prepared by Deyeux, and had been
kept in the matras in which it was prepared. A portion of this
oxide was triturated in a mortar to an impalpable powder, was rub
bed with distilled water at 50° Fahr. ; when filtered, it rendered a
weak solution of syrup of violets decidedly green ; but hydrosul-
phate of ammonia produced no effect. On the contrary, boiling
 water took up so much oxide, that it made syrup of violets of a de
 cided green colour, and restored the colour of reddened litmus ;
 hydrosulphate of ammonia rendered the solution brown, and eventu
 ally flocks of a blackish precipitate were deposited.—Journal de
 Pharmacie, tome xxiv. 253.
        DECOMPOSITION OF L1THIC ACID BY NITRIC ACID.
    MM. Woehler and Liebig have found that by decomposing lithic
 acid by nitric acid, two new compounds are formed, which they ob
 serve have no analogy in chemistry. They both crystallize, but one
 is very soluble and the other slightly so ; reducing the equivalents
 to the English standard, the soluble is composed of 5 eqs. of hy
 drogen, 8 of carbon, 10 of oxygen, and 2 of azote; while the
 slightly soluble contains one equivalent less of hydrogen. One of
 these products is easily converted into the other ; by heating the
 soluble one with nitric acid, one equivalent of hydrogen is removed,
  and the less soluble is obtained. When, on the other hand, the less
 soluble is treated with hydrosulphuric acid, sulphur is deposited aud
 hydrogen added, so as to reproduce the compound containing 5 eqs.
  of hydrogen.
     These are the two substances which, when they are mixed with
  ammonia, produce what is called purpurate of ammonia, one of the
  most brilliant preparations of organic chemistry. Separately taken
  neither furnishes the purpurate of ammonia. The composition of
  this substance is then extremely complicated ; it is a new kind of
  amide. The authors have been able to arrive at a complete and
  satisfactory explanation of its production.

 478            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    It is impossible not to be struck with the analogy of the soluble
 compound with orcin, and that of purpurate of ammonia with orcein.
 By heating orcin with dilute nitric acid, and adding ammonia, the
 solution assumes a very deep red colour, which, however, is never
 so fine as that of the orcein of M. Kobiquet.—L'Institut, March 1838.
                           LACTATE OF UREA.
    MM. Cap and Henri by treating lactate of lime with oxalate of
urea obtained lactate of urea, which crystallizes in very white pris
matic needles, and possesses very distinct chemical characters. This
lactate has also been found by them in a natural state ; after having
separated the free lactic acid from urine by an excess of hydrate
of zinc, they obtained this salt in crystals, and perfectly identical
with that prepared by direct combination.—L'Institut, March 1S38.
                        CAOUTCHOUC IN PLANTS.*
    The substance caoutchouc is a widely disseminated constituent of
vegetable fluids. It has hitherto, I believe, been found only in plants
with milky juice, although its presence in all plants yielding such
fluid remains to be proved. The presence of caoutchouc in silk has
been, I believe, attributed to the nature of the fluids of the plants
on which the caterpillars feed ; but this, although applicable to the
mulberry plants, can scarcely hold good with the various species of
Tetranthera on which the Moonga feeds, or with the castor-oil plant,
the chief food of the Eria, which in Assam does not appear to yield
milk. Milky juice is often characteristic of certain families, but
often not ; its presence is frequently of importance, as it often af
fords valuable indications of affinity. It is remarkable that it is al
most unknown in the grand division of Monocotyledonous plants.
The families in which its presence may be said to be universal are
Apocquea, Asclepiadea, Campanulacea, Sobeliacea and the great divi
sion of Composite, Chicoracea, of which the lettuce is a familiar ex
ample. It is of common occurrence in Evphorbiacea and Tulicea,
which orders may be looked on as the grand sources of caoutchouc.
Thus, in addition to our Indian plants, the American caoutchouc is
supposed to be produced by Cecropia peltala, which belongs to Ur-
ticea, and the ule tree of Papantla, from which the caoutchouc of that
country is obtained, is supposed to belong to the same orders. I
must, however, observe that Baron Humboldt objects to the suppo
sition of Cecropia peltata yielding the American caoutchouc, as its
juice is difficult to inspissatef.
   The order Euphorbiacea would likewise appear to supply a large
quantity. Thus Dr. Lindley informs us that the true caoutchouc is
furnished by Siphonia elastica, Hevia quiancusis of Aublet, a Surinam
and Brazilian tree ; and it is from a tree of this order that a substance
resembling caoutchouc is procured in Sierra Leone.
    Some Apocquea are also reported to produce good caoutchouc J ;
thus Aricola elastica produces the caoutchouc of Sumatra, and it is
   • From Mr. Wm. Griffith's Report. Journ. of the Asiatic Soc. of Bengal.
   t Lindley's Introduction to Natural System of Botany, p. 170.
   % Lindley's Instructions, p. 300.

                           Meteorological Observations.                            479
from this plant that caoutchouc has been produced in Penang and
exported to England *. Willughbeia edulis is likewise an Indian
plant from which caoutchouc has been produced, but Roxburgh says
it is of indifferent quality : unless I have been misled, good caoutchouc
is obtained from Nerium grandiflorum of Roxburgh.
     It is probably equally abundant in Asclepiadea ; one plant of which
order Cynanchum albiflorum has been stated to yield it of excellent
quality in Penang. Mr. Royle seems inclined to attribute the great
tenacity of the fibres of some plants of both these orders to its pre
sence, but this supposition seems to me of very doubtful accuracy t-
                            NEW ANOMALOUS REPTILE,
     Dr. John Natterer, the industrious collector, who has lately re
 turned to Vienna from South America with his large collections, has
 published in the ' Annals of the Vienna Museum' (ii. p. 167.) under
 the name of Lepidosiren paradoxa, a new anomalous reptile, which
 has much the appearance of an eel, but is covered with large netted
 scales, and the body is furnished with four simple elongated taper
 ing legs ; the front pair being placed on the back edge of the upper
 part of the spiracles, and the hinder pair on the under side of the
 hinder part of the body. The jaws are furnished with strong trun
 cated teeth, and the vent, which is circular and plaited, is placed on
 the left of the centre of the under side of the body, just behind the
 base of the left hind leg. It was discovered in the Brazils near the
 river Amazon, and grows to three feet in length. They had two spe
 cimens in the Vienna Museum ; one of them has been put into the
 hands of Professor Th. Bischoff for the purpose of being dissected.—.
 Ann. of Nat. Hist. No. X.
      METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR OCTOBER 1838.
      Chiswidc. — Oct. 1. Hazy.      2. Cloudy : fine.    3. Fine.    4. Very fine.   S.
  Hazy : fine. 6,7. Overcast. 8,9. Bleak and cold. 10. Cloudy. II. Cloudy
  and fine.     12. Clear and cold : slight snow.        13. Clear: showery : frosty at
  nigbt. 14. Overcast :"showery : frosty at night. 15, 16. Cloudy. 17, 18. Fine.
  19. Overcast: clear and fine. 20. Kain: overcast. 21 —24. Cloudy and fine.
  25. Foggy : clear at night. 26. Fine. 27. Cloudy : stonny and wet at night.
  28. Hazy: heavy rain : violent hurricane from s.w. during the night. 29. Clear
  and windy.       30. Fine.     31. Heavy rain.
      BoUan.— Oct. 1. Cloudy. 2, 3. Fine. 4. Cloudy. 5. Fine. 6, 7. Cloudy.
  8. Cloudy: rain p.m.        9— 11. Cloudy.       12. Stormy: snow r.M.      13. Fine:
  ice this morning one-eighth of an inch thick. 14. Cloudy: rain p.m. 15. Cloudy.
   16. Cloudy: stonny p.m. 17,18. Fine: stormy p.m.             19—21. Fine. 22,23.
   Cloudy. 24. Cloudy : rain early a. m.         25. Cloudy.     26. Cloudy : rain early
  a.m.       27. Fine: stormy with rain p.m.        28. Fine: rain p.m. 29. Stormy:
   rain early am. 30. Fine. 31. Cloudy.
      AppUgarth Manx, Dumfriesshire.— Oct. 1,2. Fine harvest days. S. Ditto,
  but cloudy : frosty p.m. 4, 5. Very warm : frost rime. 6. Warm : not a breath
  of wind.       7. Mild day, but cloudy.       8. Fine harvest day.      9. Ditto, but
  threatening rain.       10. Still lowering and threatening rain.      11. High wind:
  slight shower.       12. Dry and cold.      13. Ditto: snow showers passing.       14.
   Wet all day. 15. Moist and stonny. 16. Wet all day. 17. Drying day. 18.
   Wet all day.      19. Drying again.       20. Clear and drying.       21,22. Moist:
   showers p.m. 23. Fair a.m. : came on rain. 24. Showeiy. 25. Very wet p.m.
   26. Rivers in flood : drying r.M. 27. Showery all day : flood again. 28. Hoar
   frost a.m. : fine p.m.    29. Partial showers. 30. Fine day : slight rains.       31.
    Fair : wet afternoon.
       * Royle's Illustrations, p. 329, under Euphorbiacea, and p. 270, under

Q g       Q £'^ I iOiOIO'*rT,*T'«S"*1,T'*t''^'"*rOCO''*'*fin-<1,iOiOiOIO'mCiO*OTTT'
       ¦OJIl|S
   -wi-ymiiQ                      :S                                                                                 :&
    •uowa
   '^iMsiqj ! O
                                                                                                        ••00
                                                                                                           o o —
                                                                                                                          .COO
                                                                                                                         •¦ oo
                                                                                                                            -res
                                                                                                                                       . <T5
                                                                                                                                 n •• «¦-c«    ^1
                                                      ||| i £ i £ i i *\ % i« itfl &(O i-»! ¦. *Bft                              * * *
                                         E S E E s                                               .SEE. . . J k- E S
     •urd x                           i A it li s j.' £ fe > .• i .• •£ i ¦¦ £
   •W«»I«IJ          * * * * ¦* 5                                                                      » * J £ i iiss»
      C >>«
      BOO)                * S * *    S£i* »'££*,:     ¦ 9 * * « *                                               s I          S > H X
                                                                                      k »
                   22.22.2lotoc                 sow foooocTw oiooaoa)
                   ^t ¦*? ^ ^**ioTTin-'i,-*fc3r"3-*TiniO'«T'*r                           ffo   e» <N<NOOO<MOC<0'0 0<
                                                                                                   iOiO'<riO'*r"'T''1,'T<^>^
                   SB 52. o o o'deTo cTo o^fo ^ft^fsao
                I 'Oini'^'^'D^ioinioio^rT^inin                                              in <n
                                                                                  rr rr -*r is ir> loinin^m-ffj**- —r                       -'
    •UTUfg if)              ip                               ' \r> ~~                          *P                     in         m
                   roaoih— ftNwooo OM^»cb- -« io ** u"> <s oo in
    'uoiiog linioinio^^i'iO'i'iOTrin^Tn^ioioiOTi'.ninm
                                                                                                   cscf o\oo o r-m*o o cs
                   0(N»0««CMNCOOO CftCO^OC ^fX i/JO Ci C IT^GOt^C OOCf t-C
    I M
     >.          j*p*o rr c* oo to <co\r^ipnr>.r)Oco **"¦ 9 ^ "T <p V^ *n o'O a\(N nc c< T*P
    ^ --
     a    M Si>6 -^ ob o Tf-tiJ^r-.-rfas6 u*} o 6\ ~ cSdb 6> r-5
          3 « J iOiOu^*OTTtOiOiOu^u^TOTtO*O^T*OiOiO»0»Ou^u'i'^"**OTl*Tl»T '
    A
        £     E     "r*ipi/)^TC0'rfr'3<pC* o c^ioco d c«5 © yr co oo O COO »pop VT^^^r5^? I*
                  , 6 66 6 6 6 6 6666^c\ai6»<S6\OM3M^6 6^o><^6t6\6\c>cS6\o>
                                                                                    ihTiMn-oopnnn'or»c«
                                                                                    > r- 17*00  p   a  r*  *p  9\  ^#  ^t    ¦*» •? T1*  T*
                  | © © © © 6 6 6 6 6 6^^cSc^^<^^CN^6>66NO\cS(?>cSoc^c>cr>c^
                  |r^(^C^(^O(^C0C^c^orNC<C^C<CNC4C^C<CNC^f0C^C^CNCN0*(N^CiC«C«t
                    ^ ..  _    -^  _ w i ^ i ^ * j. \. -~ -^ %,^ -^j- -4- \_/ -^^ i^uj   -f ii; *^ m j ^j- i_^ '.^ —^   -** '—' m — *• *   ^
        09 ao       C<C^COC*C<OIC<C<C^CJfNC<C^C<^C4CMCS(NCI'NC'CtCJC4C<CM^C<C*C«
                    cox'OoooofO'-'O OlO^^¦o^¦'0(^^ r)F-rm-ninwr>-imnTrocc\
                    — to r^-^r-.-rio© io»o>oo c^— TCTi"© rirsoo -r^o ttomoooo -tio
                    cTiTTfonnnnn- oo *o oo ¦fo tcsoood o^o>o t^t-ot^t^tc* r*r*
                    r-"-r-*Tu"5*o o tors h-'i'Ott incite too nroaic>o f«o«cc
                    ir-io-rfCNO — oo -cno >rji>ci vnoo t^- r-^^-^rNdiTN c^— C*                                                      »-_j
                                                                                                                                 ^- t^   -T
                    P!fT,lT3TfT1'9'!!;rP'?,r i^o>o\*o«'po9-ci'7' cfto^ooiapfr^h-oo
                    06666 66 6 6 666m3m^6ict>^66 6 ooo^oocso^cs^ono
                    pic's c*>e*jc«3 co cjcococ^ c^ci « c« cS w w c^f*} n ^—-                      5C*3CSC*COCNCNCSCNC*CI
                    Q0'O00Tj,<NrM^C*OOtOC<'N I'TTW'tOQO'OOOOWOCiaOOO^
                    OtOC* OMOM>.iO(OnOMClO O t^»— CMO-X CMOW T«00dC7%iO-1,e<
                    6 666 6 6 6 6 6 6 o^^^a^c^6^6^c^6c^6 6 6 6^6^6c^c^c^c^c^6^
 ui ** 00 «l             'C*nTtioiois»ff,o-cirT»in>oi^ooc^o^cioi'iniO[vQoo>o ^
 <U+25BA>,gn u                                             -----^---¦-ciciciwMciciwciffnn
 n o 00O
                             O                       «                                •                            «

                                              481
                       INDEX to VOL. XIII.
ACETIC ACID, action of chlorine                  Azote, in plants, examination of, 154 ;
   on, 475.                                        its combination with metals, 475.
Acids:—Acetic, 475 ; formio-benzoilic,           Barometer, Coggan's self-registering,
  315; hydrochloric, 392 ; hydrofluoric,           456.
  473; lithic, 477 ; nitric, 393, 477 ; or       Barry (Dr. M.), researches in embryo
  ganic, 25 ; oxalic, 25 ; pectic, 471 ;           logy, 458.
  sulphurous, 28, 392.                          Bell (A.) on rotatory motion, 224.
Air, specific inductive capacity of, 423.        Bermuda, meteorological observations
Airy (G. B.) on the errors in the no               made at, 12.
  menclature of certain stars in Groom-         Binks (C.) on the laws ofaction ofvoltaic
   bridge's catalogue, 233.                        electricity, and on the construction of
Albumen, on the nature and properties              voltaic batteries, 54, 135, 171, 276.
   of, 15.                                      Bird (Dr. G.) on the nature and pro
Alcohol, action of chloride of zinc on,            perties of albumen, 15 ; on certain
   475.                                            properties acquired by the platina elec
Amidin, on the iodide of, 312.                     trodes of a voltaic battery, 379.
Ammonia, pectate of, 472.                       Bitumen, elastic, composition of, 22.
Ammoniacal and other basic compounds            Black (Dr.) on a fossil stem of a tree
   of the copper and silver families, 156.         found near Bolton-le-Moor, 229.
Amnii liquor, analysis of the, 395.             Blood, on the presence and effects of pus
Analyses :—of coal, 125 ; of chlorides,            in the, 193 ; composition of the, 311 ;
   132; of sulphates, 134; of soluble              from a diabetic patient, analysis of,
   salts, qualitative, 202 ; of serum of           395 ; in connection with respiration,
   blood from a diabetic patient, 395 ;            experiments on the, 463.
   of the liquor Amnii, 395 ; of metallic       Blowpipe, on the action of the, 86.
   pectates, 397 ; of the resins, 474 ; of      Bones, human, proportion of animal and
   Comptonite, 475 ; of pectic acid, 471.          earthy matter in, 155.
Anthon (M.) on a new double salt of             Books:—the Lifeof Sir S. Morland, 221 ;
   zinc and potassium, 393.                         Rara Mathematica, 221 ; Scientific
 Antimony, oxides of, and lead, separa             Memoirs, 310.
    tion of compounds of, 473.                   Borates of potash, 317.
 Apjohn (Dr.) on a new compound of               Boussingault (M.) on the action of plants
   iodide of potassium, iodine, and the            on the azote of the atmosphere, 154 ;
   essential oil of cinnamon, 113; on the          on the proportions of gluten in grain,
    specific heats of the gases, 261, 339.         315.
 Arsenic, formate of soda as a reducing         Bowman (J. E.) on the Silurian rocks of
    substance for, 394.                            the north coast of Denbighshire, 225.
 Astronomical refractions, on the theory         British Association for the advancement
    of, 147.                                        of science, 224.
 Atmosphere, action of plants on the azote       Brown (R.), portrait of, 399.
    of the, 154 ; on the constitution of the,    Buckland (Dr.) on the discovery of fossil
    241.                                            fishes in the Bagshot sands, 387; on
 Austen (R. A. C.) on the origin of the            a fossil win? of a neuroptcrous insect,

482                                   INDEX.
Caoutchouc in plants, 478.                  Donne ( M .) on the cause of the circula
Chara, cause of the circulation in the,        tion in the Chara, 153.
   153.                                     Draper (J. W.) on the constitution of
Chemical formula: and crystalline forms,       the atmosphere, 241.
   405.                                     Dunbar( Rev. W.),metcorologicalobser-
Chemical reactions of water, 234.              vations for June, in Dumfriesshire, 239.
Chlorides of mercury, on the reduction      Durham University, education in civil
   of the, 431.                                engineering and mining at, 1.
Chlorine, its action on acetic acid, 475.   Electricity :— Prof. Faraday's researches
Chloretheral, on, 313.                         in, 147, 281,355,412; ontheprimary
Chrome, bichromate of, on the process          forces of, 44, 333 ; on induction, 281 ;
   for obtaining it. as viewed under the       on the absolute charge ofmatter, 284 ;
   microscope, 433.                            electrometer and inductive apparatus,
Chromium, bichromate of perchloride of,        288 ; induction in curved lines, 355 ;
   78.                                         on certain properties of platina elec
Cinnamon, essential oil of, iodide of po       trodes, 379 ; on specific induction, or
   tassium, and iodine, a new compound         specific inductive capacity, 412; na
   of, 113.                                    ture of inductive action, 427 ; new
Circulation in plants, cause of the, 153.      voltaic combination, 430 ; on a new
Civil engineering, school of, in the Uni       heating effect of a constant battery,
   versity of Durham, 1.                       436 ; on the electric and magnetic
Clairaut's principle for determining the       forces, 462 ; polarization of platina
   figure of equilibrium of a fluid, on,       electrodes, 469.
   321.                                            , voltaic, phenomena and laws of
Coal, on the composition of, 121.              action of, 54, 135, 171, 276 ; on the
Combustion and flame, researches on,           construction of voltaic batteries, 54.
   86, 424.                                  Electrometer, Coulomb's, 289.
Comptonite, analysis of, 475.                Embryology, researches in, 458.
Conic sections, on a property of the, 83.    Emmett (Lt. Col.), meteorological ob
Cooper (E. J.) on shooting stars, ob           servations made at Bermuda, 12.
   served in August 1838, 254.               Engineering, scale of geometrical equi
Cornwall, classiiication of the rocks of,       valents for, 32.
   307; Royal Geological Society of,         ——, civil, school of, in the University of
   390.                                         Durham, 1.
Coulomb's electrometer, 289.                 Equations, cubic, new and general so
Craig (Rev. E.) on the process for ob           lution of, 217.
   taining the bichromate of chrome,         Euclid, on a difficulty connected with a
   433.                                         demonstration of, 434.
Crystalline forms, on, 405.                  Faraday (Prof.), researches in electricity,
Cyanide of gold, 318.                           11th series, 147, 281,355, 412; 14th
Cyanogen, action of light on a solution         series, 462 ; portrait of, 399.
    of, 77.                                  Fcchner (M.), discussion of his views of
Dalton (Dr.), remarks by Mr. Draper on          the theory of galvanism, 161 ; on the
    the constitution of the atmosphere,         contact theory of galvanism, 367 ; jus
    addressed to, 241.                          tification of tlie contact theory of gal
D'Arcet (M.) on chloretheral, 313.              vanism, 205, 367.
Davy (Dr.), experiments on the blood in      Flame, experimental researches on, 86,
    connection with the theory of respi         424.
    ration, 463.                             Fluid, on Clairaut's principle for deter
Decomposition of siliceous minerals by          mining the figure ofequilibrium of,321 .
    hydrofluoric acid, 473.                  Fluids, incompressible, theorem relating
Denbighshire, on the Silurian rocks of          to the equilibrium of, 274; on the
    the north coast of, 225.                    motion and rest of, 449. .
Depolarization of heat, 106.                 Forbes (Prof.), researches on heat, 97,
 Derbyshire, on the clastic bitumen of, 22.     180.
 Devonshire, origin of the limestones of,    Formio-bcnzoilic acid. 315.
    228 ; on llie stratified rocks inferior  Fossils, 226, 227 ; on the state of ani
    to the old red sandstone of, 305.           mal matter found in, 231 ; fish, 387 ;

                                        INDEX.                                      483
Fritzche (M.) on a new compound of             Grove (W. U.) on a new voltaic com
    sulphate of magnesia and water, 313.          bination. 430.
FrocUham (W. J.) on the vibration of          Gulliver (G.), researches on suppura
    of the pendulum, 463.                        tion, 193.
Fuchs (M.) on preparing lithin, 393.          Guyaquillite, a new composition of or
< 'ulv.niism, on M. Fechner's view of            ganic origin, 329.
    the theory of, 161 ; justification of     Hare (Dr.) on the reaction of the es
    the contact theory of, 205, 367 ; Prof.      sential oils with sulphurous acid,
    Sacobi on the galvanic spark, 401.           28.
Gases, on the specific heats of the, 261,     Heat, on the unequally polarizable na
    330; specific inductive capacity of,         ture of, 97; depolarization of, 106;
    424.                                         on the refrangibility of, 180.
Gassiot (J. P.) on a new heating effect       Hemerobioides gigantcus, a fossil in
    of a constant battery, 436.                  sect, 388.
Geological Society, 225, 299, 386.            Herschel (Sir J. F. W.), festival in com
Geology :—Plesiosaurm macrocephalus,             memoration of his return from South
    225 ; on the Silurian rocks of Aber-         ern Africa, 75.
   gele, 225 ; fossils, 226 ; on the Weal-    Hilton ( J.) on the decussation of fibres
    den strata at Linksfield, 226 ; origin       at the junction of the medulla spinalis
    of the limestones of Devonshire, 228 ;       with the medulla ohlongata, 4£0.
   fossil stem of a tree, 229 ; distribution  Hogg (J.) on the action of light upon
   W organic remains in the oolitic se           the colour of the river Sponge, 457.
   ries of Yorkshire, 229 ; state of ani-     Holtzapffel (C.) on a scale of geometri
   rmil matter found in fossils, 231 ;           cal equivalents for engineering and
    Prof Sedgwick on the English stra            other purposes, 32.
   tified rocks inferior to the old red       Hydrochloric acid, reagent for the de
   sandstone, 299 ; on spirolinites in           tection of sulphurous acid in, 392.
   chalk, 386 ; quicksilver of San Ono-       Hydrofluoric acid, decomposition of sili
   fre, 386 ; obsidian from Real del             ceous minerals by, 473.
    Monte, 387; Oar's rock, 317; fossil       Hydrogen, arseniuretted, preparation of,
    fish of the Bagshot sands, 387; fossil       305.
    wing of a neuropterous insect, 388;       Iodide of amidin, on, 312.
    on some species of Orthocerata, 388.      Iodine in kelp, on, 468.
Geometrical equivalents for engineer          Iodine, iodide of potassium, and the es
   ing, scale of, 32.                            sential oil of cinnamon, 113.
                forms of turbinated and       Iron, on the cause of the peculiar con
   discoid shells, 464.                          dition of, 257 ; meteoric, 350.
Girardine (M.). reagent for the detec         Ivory (J.) on the equilibrium of a ho
   tion of sulphurous acid in the hydro          mogeneous planet in a fluid state,
   chloric acid of commerce, 392.                81 ; on the theory of astronomical re
Glass, specific inductive capacity of, 4 1 9.    fractions, 147; remark on an article
Gluten in grain, on the proportions of,          by M. Poisson, 274; on Clairaut's
   315.                                          principle for determining the figure
Gold, cyanide of, 318.                           of equilibrium of a fluid, &c., 321.
Graham (Prof. T.) on the constitution         Jackson (C. T.) on the chemical analysis
   of salts, 219.                                of meteoric iron from Claiborne, Ala
Grain, on the proportions of gluten in,          bama, 350.
   315.                                       Jacobi (Prof.) on tho galvanic spark,
 Graves (J. T.) on a new and general             401.
   solution of cubic equations, 217.          Johnston (Prof. J. F. W.) on the com
Gregory (D. F.) on Mr. Waldie's expe             position of elastic bitumen, 22; on
   riments on combustion and flame, 424.         the separation of the oxalic from
 Griffin (J. J.), arithmetical analysis of       other organic acids, 25; on a new
    mixed salts of potassium and sodium,         compound of sulphate of lime with
    1 32 ; instructions for the qualitative      water, 325 ; on crystalline forms and
    analysis of soluble salts, 202.              chemical formule, 405 ; on the ana
 Groombridge's Catalogue, errors in the          lysis of the resins, 474.
    nomenclature of certain stars in, 233.    Kane (Prof.) on the ammouiucal and
                                                                  212

 484                                     INDEX.
     other basic compounds of the copper        Mining, school of, in the University of
     and silver families, 156 ; on the com         Durham, 1.
     position of certain essential oils, 437.  Moseley (Prof.) on the geometrical
  Kelp, determination of iodine in, 4G8.          forms of turbinated and discoid
 Kuhlman (M.) on the chemical re                  shells, 464.
     actions of water, 234.                    Murchison (R. I.) on the Oar's rock,
  Lactate of urea, 478.                            Sussex, 387 ; description of Coggan's
  Laming (R.) on the primary forces of            self-registering thermometer and ba
     electricity, 44, 333.                        rometer, 45 (i.
 Lassaigne (M.) on the iodide of ami-          Naphtha, specific inductive capacity of,
     din, 312; determination of iodine in         423.
    kelp, 468.                                 Nevins (J. B.) on the reduction of the
 Laurent (M.) on the borates of potash,           chlorides of mercury, 431.
    317.                                       Newton's (Sir I.) explanation of the
 Lavender, oil of, its composition, 444.          rainbow, on, 9.
 Lead and oxides of antimony, separa           Nitric acid, reagent for, 393; decom
     tion of compounds of, 473.                   position of lithic acid by, 477.
 Lecanu (M.) on the composition of the         Nitrogen, its influence on the growth of
    blood, 311.                                   plants, 223 ; on its evolution during
 Lepidosiren paradoxa, a new anomalous            the growth of plants, 455.
    reptile, 479.                              Nitrogen gas, reagent for, 393.
 Levels carried across Northern Syria,         Northampton (Marquis of) on spiroli-
    account of, 146.                              nites in chalk and chalk-flints, 386.
 Light, its action on solution of cyano        Oil of rosemary, composition of, 437 ; of
    gen, 77 ; on the dispersion of, 222 ;         marjoram, 439 ; of peppermint, 440 ;
    its action upon the colour of the river       of pennyroyal, 442 ; of spearmint and
    Sponge, 457.                                  lavender, 444.
 Lime, sulphate of, and water, new com         Organic acids, on the separation of, 25.
    pound of, 325.                             Orthocerata, on some species of, 388.
Lithia, processes for preparing, 393.          Owen (R.) on a specimen of Plcsiosau-
 Lithic acid, its decomposition by nitric        rus macrocephalus, 225.
    acid, 477.                                Oxalic acid, on its separation from
Lubbock (J. W.) on a property of the             other organic acids, 25.
    conic sections, 83.                       Oxide of phosphorus, method of obtain
Magnesia, sulphate of, and water, new            ing it pure, 315.
    compound of, 313.                         Pectates, metallic, 397 ; of potash, soda
Malcolmson (J.) on the occurrence of             and ammonia, 472.
    Wcaldcn strata at Linksfield, 226.        Pectic acid, analyses of, 471.
Marjoram, oil of, its composition, 439.       Peligot (M.) on sugars, 237.
Matteucci (M.) on the polarization of         Pennyroyal, oil of, its composition, 442.
   platina electrodes, 469.                   Peppermint, oil of, its composition, 440.
Mercury, on the reduction of the chlo         Phillips (11.), remarks on chloretheral,
   rides of, 431 ; binoxide of, its solubi       313.
   lity in water, 477.                        Phosphorus, method of obtaining pure
Meteoric iron from Claiborne, analysis           oxidc?of, 315.
   of, 350.                                   Physiology of vision, 461.
Meteorological observations, for May,         Planet, fluid, on the equilibrium of a,
   79; for June, 159; for July, 239;             81.
   for August, 319; for September, 399 ;      Plants, cause ofcirculation in, 153 ; their
   for October, 479.                             action on the azote of the atmosphere,
Meteorological observations made at              154; the influence of nitrogen on the
   Bermuda, 12.                                  growth of, 223 ; caoutchouc in, 478.
Metereological Table:—for May, 80;            Platina electrodes, on certain properties
   for June, 160; for July, 240; for             of, 379 ; polarization of, 469.
   August, 320; for September, 400;           Plesiosaurus macrocephalus, 225.
   for October, 480.                          Poisons, metallic, on reducing, 394.
Minerals, siliceous, decomposed by hy         Poisson (M.), remark by Mr. Ivory on
   drofluoric acid, 473.                         an article of, 274.

                                        INDEX.                                     485
 Polarizable nature of heat, 97.               fied rocks inferior to the old red sand
Potash, borates of, 317; pectate of, 472 ;     stone, 299.
   potash and tungstate of potash, 395.     Shell-lac, specific inductive capacity of,
Potassium, iodide of, iodine, and the es       415.
   sential oil of cinnamon, a new com       Shells, turbinated and discoid, on the
   pound of, 1 1 3.                            geometrical forms of, 464.
Potassium, sulphncyanide of, as a test      Since (A.) on the state of animal mat
   for strychnia, 470.                         ter found in fossils, 231.
Potassium and sodium, arithmetical          Societies, Learned; — Royal Society, 146,
   analysis of mixed salts of, 132.            222, 454 ; Geological Society, 225,
Potassium and zinc, new double salt of,        299, 386 ; Royal Geological Society
   393.                                        of Cornwall, 390; British Association
Potter (It.) on the primary and second         for the Advancement of Science, 224.
   ary rainbows, 9.                         Soda, formate of, as a reducing substance
Powell (Rev. B.) on the dispersion of          for arsenic, 394 ; pectate of, 472.
   light, 222.                              Sodium and potassium, arithmetical
Quetelet, (M.) on the shooting stars in        analysis of mixed salts of, 132.
   August 1838, 252.                        Spearmint, oil of, its composition, 444.
Quicksilver of Sau Onofre, in Mexico,       Spirolinites in chalk and chalk-flints,
   386.                                        386.
Rainbows, on the primary and second         Spermaceti, specific inductive capacity
   ary, 9.                                     of, 420.
Rees (Dr. G. O.) on the proportion of       Stars, shooting, on, 254.
   animal and earthy matter in human        Stearopten of turpentine, 396.
   bone?, 1 55 ; analysis of the liquor     Stokes (C.) on some species of Orthoce-
   Amnii, 395 ; analysis of serum of          rata, 388.
   blood from a diabetic patient, 395.      Strychnia, sulphncyanide of potassium
Refractions, astronomical, on, 147.            as a test for, 470.
Refrangibility of heat, 1 80.               Succisterin, on, 238.
Regnault (M.) on metallic pectates, 397;    Suennan (Dr.) on the specific heats of
   analyses of pectic acid, 471 ; on the       the gases, 261, 339.
   pectates of potash, soda and ammo        Sugars, M. Peligot on, 237.
   nia, 472.                                Sulphate of lime and water, new com
Reptile, new anomalous, 479.                   pound of, 325.
Resins, analysis of the, 474.               Sulphur, specific inductive capacity of,
Respiration, experiments on, 463.              420.
Richardson (T.) on the composition of       Sulphurous acid, on the reaction of the
    coal, 121.                                 essential oils with, 28 ; reagent for its
Richemont (M. De), reagent for nitric          detection in the hydrochloric acid, 392.
    acid and nitrogen, 393.                 Suppuration, researches on, 193.
 Rigg (R.) on the influence of nitrogen     Swiss Association for the advancement
    on the growth of plants, 223 ; on the      of Natural Science, 233.
    evolution of nitrogen during the        Sylvester, (Prof.) on the motion and rest
    growth of plants, 455.                     of fluids, 449 ; on an extension of Sir
 Rosemary, oil of, its composition, 437.       J. Wilson's theorem to all numbers
 Royal Geological Society of Cornwall,         whatever, 454.
    390.                                    Synaptasin, M. Robiquet on, 310.
 Royal Society, 146, 222, 454.              Syria, Northern, account of a line of
 Salts, soluble, instructions for the quali    levels across, 146.
    tative analysis of, 202 ; on the con    Taylor (J.) ou the quicksilver of Mex
    stitution of, 219.                         ico, 386; on the obsidian from Mexico,
 Schcenbein (Prof.) on Fechner's views         387.
    of the theory of galvanism, 161 ; on    Teeth, on the structure of the, 454.
    the cause of the peculiar condition of  Thermometer, Coggan's self-registering,
    iron, 257.                                 456.
 Scientific Memoirs, notice respecting,     Thomson (W. T.) account of a line of
     310.                                      levels across Northern Syria, 146.
 Sedgwick (Prof.) on the English strati     Tides, deduction of the laws of, 457.

486                                  INDEX.
Tomes (J.) on the structure of the teeth,  Water, on the chemical reactions of, 234.
  454.                                     Wheatstone (Prof.) on the physiology
Tungsten, tungstate of, and potash, 395.      of vision, 461.
Turpentine, stearopten of, 396 ; oil of,   Whewell (Rev. W.) on the deduction of
  specific inductive capacity of, 422.       the laws of the tides, 457.
Urea, lactate of, 478.                     Williamson (Mr.) on the distribution of
Verrier (M.), method of obtaining pure        organic remains in the oolitic series
  oxide of phosphorus, 315.                  of Yorkshire, 229.
Vision, physiology of, 461.                Xyloidine, on, 467.
Vogel (M.), preparation ofarseniurctted    Yorkshire, distribution of organic re
  hydrogen, 395.                             mains in the oolitic series of, 229.
Voltaic batteries, on the construction of, Z. Y. on a difficulty connected with a
   54, 135, 171, 276; on the platina         demonstration of Euclid, 434.
   electrodes of, 379.                     Zinc and potassium, new double salt of,
      combination, new, 430.                 393.
Waldie (D.) on combustion and flame,       Zinc, chloride of, its action on alcohol,
   86, 424.                                  475.
                   END OF THE THIRTEENTH VOLUME.
                                    LONDON:
                   PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,
                          RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.

              GENERAL INDEX
                        TO THE
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                 FROM 1832 TO 1838.
              ADVERTISEMENT.
  THIS General Index to Volumes I. to XII. of the
present Series of the London and Edinburgh Philo
sophical Magazine and Journal of Science, extend
ing from July 1832 to June 1838, may at pleasure
be either bound up at the end of the 12th volume,
or along with the General Index to the preceding
Series, printed in a separate form in 1835, copies of
which are to be had of the publishers, and the two
will then constitute a General Index from June
1827 tq June 1838.


              GENERAL                          INDEX
                                     TO THE          '
                LONDON AND EDINBURGH
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                       AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
 BEING A CONTINUATION OF TILLOCH'S PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
                            NICHOLSON'S JOURNAL,
               AND THOMSON'S ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY.
                    For VOLUMES I. to XII.
                   FROM JULY 1832 to JUNE 1838.
                                 LONDON:
PRINTED BY R. AND J. E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
sold by longman, orme, brown, green, and longmans ; baldwin and cra-
  dock; cadell; sherwood, gilbert, and piper; sjmpkin and Marshall;
  b. pellowes ; s. highi.t. v ; whittaker and co. ; and j. b. bailliere, london :
     and by a. and c. black, and thomas clark, edinburgh ; smith and son,
  glasgow: miliken and son, and hodges and m' arthur, dublin: agent
  in paris, g. w. m. reynolds, french, english, and american library,
  55, rue neuve st. august1n.
                                     1839.


                           GENERAL INDEX
                                            TO THE
                    LONDON and EDINBURGH
    PHILOSOPHICAL                                         MAGAZINE
                                              AND
                      JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                                  THIRD SERIES.
      The numeral letters refer to the volumes, the figures to the pages.
AM. II., description of the harvest                399,— preparation of, iii. 313; fumar,
      • bug, ix. 15.                               xi. 164; gallic, vi. 319; xi. 323; hy-
A. R., on Newton's rings, vii. 363, 474.           driodic, viii. 191; ix. 76; hydrobromic,
Abbott ( II.) on the variation of a triple         ix. 149; hydrochloric, viii. 353 ; ix.7S,
  integral, xii. 363.                              151,255; hydrocyanic, vi. 97; vii. 400;
Abel's theorem, on some elementary ap             ix. 314 ; hydrofluoric, ix. 77, 107, 152;
  plications of, vi. 116; exposition of           hydroleic, ix. 153; hydrostearic, ix.
  his argument respecting equations of             153; hydrosulphuric, ix. 255, 316;
  the fifth degree, xii. 1 16.                    bydroxanthic, ix. 317; hyponitrous.ix.
Absorption, on, viii. 58.                          77 ; hypophosphomesitylous, xii. 101;
       of light, on Von Wredc's theory of,        iodic, ix. 76; X. 93; xi. 219; iodous,
  xii. 114.                                       iv. 392; lactic, iv. 233 ; xii. 142 j lam-
Acacia, on the strength of, i. 17.                pic, xi. 512 ; lithic, v. 465; malic, iv.
Acalepha, proposed distribution of the            74; margaric, ix. 153; mellitic, x.
  families of, vii. 68.                            159; metamargaric, ix. 153 ; molshdic,
Acetate of copper, new species of, ix. 395.       ix. 232; monohydrated sulpho-carbe-
Acetic acid, formed from carbonic oxide           theric, ix.317; muriatic, vii. 400 ; ix.12,
  and hydrogen, ii. 155.                          232, 233,—in fluor spar, v. 78 ; new, xii.
Achromatic lens, negative, its application        220; nitric, ix. 12,53, 77, 113, 122,259;
  to telescopes, &c. v. 452.                      1.172, 269, 276, 326 ; xi. 554 ; nitrohy-
— light in solar and oxyhydrogen mi               drochloric, ix. 113; nitrosulphuric, x.
  croscopes, x. 184.                              489; oenanthic, x. 418, 422; organic, a
— object glass, double, vii. 161.                 new, xi.564;oxalhydric,iv. 74; xi. 142;
       microscope, viii. 70.                      oxalic, v. 445 ; ix. 78, 155 ; paratarta-
Achromatism of the eye, vi. 161, 247.             ric, xii. 605; periodic, x. 325; pho
Acids ;—acetic, ix. 78, 1 1 1 ; xi. 513. clif.    sphoric, ix. 75, 154, 261 ; x. 217, 218 ;
  ference between and formic, iii. 73;            phosphovinic, iii. 73 ; ix. 396 ; picric,
  ambreic and cholesteric, iii. 382 ; am-         x. 325; polygalic, xi. 561; pyroge-
  pelic, ix. 406; anchusic, analysis of,          nous, iv. 385; pyromucic, vii. 429;
  iii. 382 ; anilic, x. 325 ; apochrenic,         pyrotartaric and tartaric, v. 397 ; re-
  v. 238 ; arsenious, vi.237 ; ix. 230; xi.       tinic, xii. 560 ; suberic, viii. 443 ; suc
  482; arsenovinic, viii. 447; benzoic, ix.       cinic, vii. 238 ; sulphindylic, x. 320 ;
  78; bombic, x, 323; boracic, x. 419;            sulphocarbic, ix. 318; sulphocelic, ix.
  bromine, new acid of, viii. 588 ; cam            154 ; sulphocyanic, ix. 443 ; sulpho-
  phoric, xii. 297,—anhydrous, xi. 221 ;          leic, ix, 153; sulphomargaric, ix. 153;
  camphovinic, xi. 221 ; carbonic, viii.          sulphomethylic, vii. 397 ; sulphonaph-
  446; ix. 12,77,78,111, 153; x. 158;             talic, xi. 565 i sulphopurpuric, x. 324 ;
  cholesteric, iii. 382; chloro-carbonic,         sulphostearic, ix. 153 ; sulphovinic, ix.
  iv. 385; chloro-chromic, ix. 12; cliloro-        154,318 ; sulphuric, vi. 97 ; ix. 12, 78,
  clomic, ix. 152 ; chrenic, v. 238 ; chro        87, 152, 153, 154,261, 322, 396; x.324,
  mic, ix. 152; xi. 489,—compounds of,             —anhydrous, x. 157; xi. 321,566,—
  with metallic chlorides, iii. 235; citric,       Knglish, vii. 235,—manufacture of, iii.
  xii. 381 ; formic, vi. 399; ix. 149; xi.         115; sulphurous, ix. 543 ; x. 235,—an-

                    GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1              12 OP THE
  hydrous, xi. 321, 566; tartaric, xii.381 ;    different refractive powers, i. 400 ; ir.90 ;
  tartaric and pyrotartaric, v. 397 ; tel       remarks on Mr. Potter's experiment on
  luric, iv. 76; titanic, vi. 113, 201 ;        interference, ii. 161, 451 ; reply to, ii.
  tungstic, ix. 232 ; valerianic, v. 396 ;      276; researches into the numerical va
  xamhomethilic, x. 488.                        lue of the mass of Jupiter, ii. 314 ; iii.
Acoustic figures, ii. 144.                      233 ; iv. 383 ; account of an aurora bo-
Acoustics, on the production and propa          realis, ii. 315; answer to Sir D. Brew
   gation of sound, vi. 25.                     ster on the tindulatory theory of light,
Adam (Dr. W. ) on the osteological forms        ii. 419 ; Report on the progress of as
   in adults of the human species, iii. 457 ;   tronomy during the present century, ii.
   on human osteology, vi. 57.                   457; deductions founded on observa
Addams (R.)on a peculiar optical phe             tions of the aurora borealis of Septem
   nomenon, v. 373 ; on the repulsive ac         ber 17 and October 12, iii. 461 ; on
   tion of heat, vi. 415; on the action of       the solar eclipse, July 16, 1 833, v. 305;
  cold air in maintaining heat, xi. 446.         on the position of the ecliptic, v. 307 ;
Addison ( W.) on an extraordinary me             on the parallax of a Lyre, xii. 280; on
   teor seen at Malvern, iii. 37.                the intensity of light in the neighbour
Aerial currents, on Mr. Whcwell's instru         hood of a caustic, xii. 452.
   ments for registering, xi. 474.            Albumen, new combinations of, ix. 109;
yF.ther, formation of, viii. 258 ; by fluo       nature and properties of, x. 85 ; action
   ride of boron, ii. 77.                        of electricity on, x. 357.
       , hydrocyanic, v. 397 ; hydrosulphu-            and bichloride of mercury, com
   ric and hydroselcnic, ix. 318; iodic,         pound of, x. 420.
   ii. 415 ; ccnanthic, x. 418 ; sulphurous,  Alcohol, a new acid formed by its com
   xii. 474.                                     bustion around an incandescent pla-
       , spark during the freezing of            tina wire, xii. 220.
   water by, iv. 156.                                  and indigo, their analogy consi
       , action of bromine upon, ix. 149;        dered in their combination with sul
   facts relative to, ix. 395.                   phuric acid, x. 324.
./Ethereal oils, preparation of, xi. 159;     Aldchyd, a new compound, viii. 83.
   elementary constituents of, xi. 161.       Alepisaurus, a new genus of fishes, iii.
 /Ethers action of chlorine on, xii. 297.        379.
.rEtherine, sulphate of, xii. 474.            Alg.T, their mode of generation, xi.
Africa, on the ring money of, xi. 132.           385.
Afxelius (A.) notice of, x. 470; xii. 279.    Algebraic equations, viii. 402.
 Agassiz ( Dr.) on the growth and bilateral           elimination, viii. 538 ; theorem of,
   symmetry of Kchinoilermatn, v. 369 ;          ix. 28.
   on the classification of fish, v. 459 ; on Alison (Dr.) on the vital powers in arte
    Eepisosteus, vi. 384 ; on fossil fishes,     ries leading to inflamed parts, and on
    vii. 485 ; on the principles of classifi     the cause of death in asphyxia, vii. 510.
   cation in the animal kingdom, vii. 491 ;           (K. E.) on the earthquake of Chili,
    on the fossil beaks of four species of       Feb. 20, 1835, viii. 74.
    Chimsrra, viii. 6 ; on fossil fish found  Alkalies, vegetable, ammonia in, vi. 78 ;
    in English collections, viii. 72 ; the       action of iodine on the, x. 500. xi.216.
    Wollaston Medal awarded to, viii. 310.            and metallic oxides, on the com
 Agnew on the pyramids of Gizeh, xii.             binations of sugar with the, xi. 152.
    379.                                      Alkaline nitrates and earthy carbonates,
 Air, its action on lead, v. 81 ; vibration      analogy in atomic constitution be
    of in a cylindrical tube, vii. 300 ; in      tween, xii. 480.
    fluence of its artificial rarefaction and Allan (Thomas), memoir of, iii. 317.
    condensation in some diseases, viii. 62;  Allanite, analysis of, vi. 238.
    action of mushrooms on, viii. 82.         Alloys, fusing points of, i. 264.
        , atmospheric, on the quantity of     - ofiron and copper, vi. 81.
    oxygen in, xii. 401.                      Almonds, hitter, composition of oil of,
        , compressed, its effects on the hu       iii. 389. iv. 70,
    man body, ix. 147.                         Aloe plant of Socotra, x. 226.
        , heated, its conducting power for     Alum, a new variety of, xii. 103, 124 ;
    electricity, ix. 176, 452.                    chrome alum, newmethod of obtaining,
 Airy (Prof.) on a new analyser, and its          xii. 218.
     use in experiments of polarization, i.    Aluminum, atomic weight of, vii. 75.
     75 ; on the phenomena of Newton's         Ambreine, on, iii. 382.
     rings formed between substances of        America, researches in the geology of,

           LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832—1838.
  »». 453 ; appearance of elevation of                phuric and sulphurous acids, combi
  land on the west coast of, vii. 318.                nation of, xi.S2I.
America, North, on the carboniferous               Anions, v. 429.
  series of, ii. 124, 407 ; on the ancient         Animalcula, on the minuteness of, ii. 64.
  Mate of, ii. 20 1 ; on the western coast of,     Animals, on the structure of, vi. 4,90;
  xi. 31.                                             on the hereditary instinctive propensi
        . South, geology of, xii. 516.                ties of, xi. 96; on the crystalline lenses
Amiilone, solubility of, x. 247.                      of, after death, xi. 97 ; thermometer
Ammonia and formic acid formed from                   for determining minute differences in,
   hydrocyanic acid and cyanurets, i. 83.             viii. 57.
^— and carbonic acid, on the combi                 Anorthite and hiotinc, identity of, x. 368.
    nations of, iii. 457.                          Antelope, Abyssinian, ix. 142; Indian,
 —— , in the vegetable alkalies, vi. 78 ;             ix. 306 ; Chiru, ix. 306.
    muriate of, its action on certain sul ¦        Anthon (M.) on the employment of me
    pbates, vi, 235 ; muriate of, ix. 232;            tallic sulphurets in analysis, xii. 137.
    hydrochlorate of, solubility of carbo          Antimoniuretted hydrogen, x. 343.
     nate of lime in, ix. 540; iodate of, ix.      Antimony, the reflective powers of glass
     443 ; solvent action of muriate and              of, iv. 6 ; on ox \ chloride of, vii. 332 ;
     nitrate of, x. 95, 176, 333.                     on a supposed new sulphate and oxide
           , its action on the chlorides and          of, viii. 476 ; crystallized oxychloride
      oxides of mercury, viii. 495.                   of, viii. 585.
          • with anhydrous salts, on the com       Antimonial copper, ix. 149.
      binations of, xi. 141.                       Antrim, geology of the county of, i. 228.
  ——, sulphate of, its action on glass,            Apjohn (Prof. J.) on the dew-point,
       xii. 608.                                      vi. 183; vii. 266, 313,470; formula
   Amniotic acid, on the true source of,              for inferring the specific heat of gases,
       4c, i. 319.                                    error in, viii. 21 ; on certain statements
   Ampelic acid, xi. 406.                             relative to his hydromctrical researches
   Ampelin, on, xi. 407.                              made by Dr. Hudson, ix. 187 ; exa
   Ampere (M.) on heat and light as the               mination of eblanine, xii. 98 ; on the
       results of vibratory motion, vii. 342.         specific heats of the aeriform fluids, xii.
    Amphibole, analysis of, x. 238.                    101 ; on a new variety of alum, xii.
    Amylum, experiments on, xi. 442,                   103, 124; on the specific heats of cla
    Analyser, a new, and its use in experi             stic fluids, vii. 385.
       ments of polarization, i. 75.               Apochrenic acid, in the mineral waters
    Analyses : — employment of insoluble               of Porta, v. 238.
       salts in, vi. 79; of osmiridium and al-      Arachnida, on a new species of, i. 190.
       lanite, vi.238 ; of a mineral water from     Arago (M.) on shooting stars, xi. 567.
       the island of St. Paul, vi. 312.             Araneida?, undescribed genera and spe
    Analysis, a new theorem in, x. 28 ; on             cies of, iii. 104, 187, 344, 436 ; v. 50 ;
        the employment of metallic sulphurets          viii. 481 ; x. 100.
        in, xii. 137; chemical, xii. 229; of        Arch, oblique, x. 74, 167.
        some double salts of mercury, xii. 235.            , skew, construction of, viii. 299.
    Analysing organic compounds, method             Architecture, Gothic, progress of, vi. 395.
        of, xii. 31,232.                                   , on the entablature of Grecian
    Anatifa vitrei, on its occurrence on the           buildings, viii. 430; Gothic, viii. 449.
        Irish coast, xi. 135.                       Argonauta, Linn., x. 303; on the animal
     Anchor, found at Seaton, x. 10.                    of, vi. 385.
    Anchors, Pering'simprovemeutsin, i. 74.                   hums, Lam., description of the
     Andrews (Dr.) on the conducting power              shell and animal of, ix. 301.
        of certain flames and of heated air for     Aricina, M. Pelletier on, iii. 31 1.
        electricity, ix. 176; on the action of      Armadillo, on the weazel-headed, ii.69.
         nitric acid on certain metals, xi. 554 ;           , on tileartificial
                                                    Arragonite,       formation   of, xii.of,465.
                                                                                crystals       it. 230.
         on the action of nitric acid upon bis
         muth, &c, xii. 305 ; on thermo-elec        Arscniates, phosphates, and modifications
         tric(T.)
              currents,
                    on the
                         x. 433.
                             blood of cholera pa        of phosphoric acid, iii. 451, 459.
                                                    Arsenic in English sulphuric acid, vii.
         tients, i. 295.                                235 ; in phosphorus, vii. 331 ; va
     Anemometer,
              and rainnew,
                         gauge,
                              vii. 315.
                                    on a new regis      porization of, viii. 190; Marsh's test
                                                        for, x. 353.
         tering, xi. 476.                                   , vegetation in a solution of, x. 324.
     Anhydrous camphoric acid, xi. 221 ; sul         Arsenical copper, xii. 217.

6                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1 — VI OF THE
Arsenious acid, reducing powers of, ii.          nia, viii. 256 ; solar eclipse of May 1 5,
  230; solubility of, xi. 482; peroxide           1836, viii. 293, 589, 590; ix. 73; x.
  of iron, an antidote to, vi. 237.               15, ISO; aurora borealis. ix. 44, 73,
Arsenovinic acid, viii. 447.                      230; x. 75, 76, 77, 2C5, 491, 495; xi.
Arteries leading to inflamed parts, on            194; meteors in India, ix. 74; on the
  the vital powers in, vii. 510.                  latitude of Mr. Snow's ob--crvatory -at
Artesian wells, temperature of, v. 237.           Ashurst, ix. 291 ; transits of the
Artificial crystals and minerals, method         moon and stars observed at Argos, ix.
   of making, ix. 229, 537.                      292 ; transit of Mercury over the sun's
            , results of experiments on the      disc, May 5, 1832, ix. 293 ; Denmark
  production of, x. 171.                         royal medal for comctary discoveries,
Artificial substance resembling shell, x.        ix. 294 ; Sir J. Herschel's catalogue
   SOI.                                          of double stars observed at Slough, ix.
Ascent of mountains, on the, x. 261.             295 ; Wrottesley's catalogue of the
Ashes of plants, ou structure in the, xi. 1 3.   right ascensions of 1 3 1 8 stars, x. 227 ;
Asia, on the negroes of, i. 466.                 projections of maps and charts, x. 229 ;
       Minor, geology of, x. 68.                  Struve's work on the measure of dou
Asparagin and aspartic acid, analysis of,        ble stars, x. 229; remarkable pharnu-
   ii. 481.                                      menon that occurs in ccliji-.es of the
Asphyxia, on the cause of death in, vii.         sun, X. 230 ; on shooting stars, xi. 268.
   510.                                          567 ; determination of the constant
Assay of silver, vii. 425.                       of lunar nutation, xii. 110 s on the pa
Astronomical Society, grant of a royal           rallax of m Lyra;, xii. 280 ; on a very
  charter to the, i. 234; proceedings of,        ancient solar eclipse observed in China,
  ii. 222, 378, 475; v. 300; vi. 221, 305,       xii. 282 ; on the repetition of the Ca
  449 ; vii. 69 ; ix. 291 ; x. 227.              vendish experiment for determining
Astronomy, researches in physical, i. 69;        the mean density of the earth, xii.
   Dr. Pearson's introduction to practi          283 ; remarkable increase of magni
  cal astronomy, i. 370, 450 ; on the pro        tude of the star n, xii. 521, 526; value
   gress of, during the present century, ii.     of the mass of Uranus, xii. 522 ; Ion-
  457 ; latitude and longitude of the            gitude of the Edinburgh observatory,
   Cape observatory, iii. 231 ; positions        xii. 525.
  of stars near the south pole, iii. 231 ;     Atkinson, (J.) on Sir G. S. Mackenzie's
   on the mass of Jupiter, iii. 233 ; on the     remarks on certain points in meteor
   visibility of stars by day, iii. 238 ; on     ology, viii. 187.
   the attraction of spheroids, iii. 235,      Atmosphere, impregnations of, near the
  282 ; the elements of { Bootis and of          sea, iii. 465 ; composition of the, vi. 3 1 9;
   y Virginis, iii. 290 ; on a standard of       action of mushrooms on the, viii. 82;
   optical power, iii. 291 ; Dr. Olbcrson        action of plants upon, viii. 4 1 5 ; on the
  the return of Halley's comet, vi. 45 ;         constitution of the, xi. 195; xii. 158,
  astronomical refractions, vi. 142 ; Dr.        397 ; on carbonic acid in the, xi. 225.
   Halley's astronomical observations, vi.            of a white-lead manufactory, expe
   221 ; some particulars of the life of         riments on, vii. 77.
   Dr. Ilalley, vi.S06 ; an equal altitude     Atmospheric pressure, fluctuations of the
  instrument, vi. 449 ; letter from Sir          height of high water due to changes in
  John Herschel, dated Cape of Good              the, xi. 195.
   Hopc,vi. 450; Prof. Encke on Olbcrs's       Atomic weights, on some, i. 109; iii. 448.
  method of determining tlio orbits of                constitution of elastic fluids, v. S3.
  comets, vii. 7, 123, 203, 280; cata                 confusion, ix. 317.
   logue of comets, vii. 36 ; Snow's ca              constitution, supposed analogy in,
  talogue of 76 stars, vii. 69 ; comets          between the earthy carbonates and al
  observed at .I'araniata, vii. 69; Halley's     kaline nitrates, xii. 481.
  comet, vii. 139, 236 ; viii. 148, 173; ix.          weight of aluminum, vii. 75.
  292; ephemeris of Halley's comet, ix.        Atropia, iii. 464 ; composition of, iv.
  296 ; new method of reducing lunar             239.
  observations, vii. 241 ; viii. 373 ; im      Attraction, electrical, vii. 304 ; magnetic,
  proved astronomical clock, viii. 71;           vii. 439.
  Newton and Flamstead, viii. 139, 211,        Augite, analysis of, x. 237.
  218, 225 ; the aurora borealis of Nov.       Aurora Borealis, on the, vii. 304 ; X. 75,
   16, 1835, viii. 134, 236, f>50,412,439 ;      76, 77, 265, 494, 495 ; of No . 1 6, 1 8:W.
   Dr. Brinkley, viii. 155 ; Mr. Trough-         viii. 134, 236, 350, 412, 439; ix. 73,
  ton, viii. 155 ; new observatory at Cata       230.

            LOND. AND ED1N. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                         1838.
Aurora Borcalis, phaMiomena of, xi. 194;            a remarkable phenomenon that occurs
    |>liatiomenon connected with Uic, ix.           in total and annular eclipses of the sun,
    -1-1 : nature and origin of, vi. 59; seen       x. 230.
    at Woolwich, vi. 230; at Bermuda,            Baker (Lieut.) on the fossil jaw of a gi-
     xii. 42; on two arches of the, 233;            gauticquadrumanous animal, xi. 33.
    •ven at Cambridge, March 1 Sth, 1 333,       Bakcrian lecture for 1833, remarks on,
    ii. 315; on a brilliant arch of an, iii.        iv. 208.
    -122; deductions founded on observa-         Balani, observations on, iv. 65.
     t ions of those of Sept. 17 and Oct. 12,    Bale (ltev. S.), notice of, x. 464.
      1833, iii. 461.                            Ball ( It. ) on Pen tacrinus Europanis and
 Austen (It. A. C.) on the raised beach              a species of Bcroe, vii. 495 ; on the
     near Hope's Nose, Devonshire, vi. 63;           Seals of Ireland, x. 487.
     on the geology of part of Devonshire        Ball- Pendulum, on the theory of the, iii.
     between the Ex and Berry Head and               185.
      the coast and Dartmoor, ix. 495 ; on       Banffshire, on some elevations of the coast
      the geology of Devonshire, xii. 564.           of, xi. 209.
  Australia, on the quadrupeds of, xii. 95;       Barium, peroxide of, ii. 77.
      projectile weapon of the Australians,      Bark, its structure and growth, xii. 54.
      xii. 329.                                  Barker (Dr. W.) on electric currents
 Azote, origin of, in animal substances,                  (Prof.
                                                     passing      F.) onplatinum
                                                                through            wire, vii. pro
                                                                          certain chemical    388.
      iv. 237 i mode of obtaining, iv. 315 ;
      presence of in seeds, iv. 389.                 cesses, vii. 407.
           , phosphuret of, vii. 158 ; sulphuret  Barlow ( P.) on the application of the ne
      of, xii. 134.                                  gative achromatic lens to telescopes,
                                                       &c, v. 452; on the theory of gradients
  BD. on the path of the boomarang,                  in railways, viii. 97 ; on Lecount's trea
           • xii. 329.                               tise on iron rails, viii. 291 ; on gra
  Babbagc (Mr. C.) on the economy of                 dients on railroads, ix. 380 ; on the
       machinery and manufactures, i. 208 ;          electro-magnetic conducting power of
       on the Temple of Serapis at Pozzuoli,          wires, and on the efficiency of the gal
       v. 213; views respecting geological            vanometer for determining the laws of
       cycles, v. 215; notice of a remarkable         its variation, xi. 1.
       paradox in the calculus of functions,               (P., jun.) experiments on Acacia, i.
       Mr. Graves' explanation of, ix. 334,           1 7 ; experiments on timber, remarks
       413 ; on some impressions in sand              on, i. 116; on the motion of steam-
       stone, x. 474.                                 vessels, v. 453.
   Itabel and Babylon, on the distinction                  (W. H.), experiments on Drum-
       between, xi. 68.                               mond's light, viii. 238 ; on different
   Babington (Dr.), notice of the late, iv.           modes of illuminating light-houses, xi.
                                                      94.
        442.(C. C.) on new British and Euro       Barometer, periodical oscillation of, i.
        pean plants, viii. 345 ; on some species      388; on a water, i. 387; summary of
        of Polygonum and Fagopyrum, x. 223 ;          the state of, at Kendal, for 1832, ii.
        structure of Cuscuta europxa, xii.            238; 1833, iv. 398 ; self-registering,
        531.                                          viii. 67; new, belonging to the ltoyal
    Babylon and Babel, non-identity of, viii.          Society, xii. 204.
        506; ix. 34.                               Barton (J.) on the inflexion of light, ii.
    li.icilluria\ doubtful nature of the, xi.          263; remarks on, ii. 424 ; on the in
        387 ; notice of new discoveries of             flexion of light, in reply to the Rev. B.
         Ehrenberg respecting the, xi. 448.            Powell, iii. 172; Rev. B. Powell's re
    Baggy Point, on the raised beaches of, xi.         marks on, iii. 412; on the influence of
         117.                                          high and low prices on the rate ofmor
    Baily's (I".) paper on the pendulum, i.            tality, v. 278 ; on the physical causes
        379 ; report on Capt. Forster's pendu         of the phenomena of heat, x. 342.
        lum experiments, iv. 230; account of       Barytes, carbomethylate of, xi. 143.
        the astronomical observations made by              and strontia, hydrates of, vi. 52 ; ix.
         Dr. E. Halley, at the Observatory,            87 ; xi. 301 ; separation of, viii. 259.
         Greenwich, vi. 221 ; description of the   Baryto-calcite, dimorphism of, vi. t ;
         ltoyal Society's new barometer, xii.          composition of the, x. 373; on the right
         204 ; on the repetition of the Caven          rhombic, xi. 45.
        dish experiment for determining the        Basalt, of the Tilterstone Clce Hill, i.
        mean density of the earth, xii. 283 ; on       231.

8                    GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                12 OF THE
 But, on a new genus of, iv. 300.                  of the ocean, xii. 211; on a species of
       , long -eared, habits of, viii. 265.         Glaucns, xi. 118.
Bate ( Mr.) on an improvement in medal-         Bennetts (John) on the electro-magnet
    luling, ii. 288.                               ism of veins of copper-ore in Cornwall,
Bath, geological table of strata in the vi         iii. 17.
   cinity of, ii. 46 ; on the gases of certain  Benson (Mr.) on the importation of the
   springs at, iv. 221, 225.                       living Cerithium Telescopium, vi. 70.
Bats, habits and oeconomy of, vi. 388.          Bentham (G.) on the genus Hosackia
Batten (Dr.), notice of the late, xii. 277.       and the American Loti, vi. 221 ; on
Baup (M.) on kinic acid and some ki-               the Kriogoneie, vi. 379 ; on the Mora
   nates, ii. 479.                                 tree of British Guiana, xii. 532.
Bayfield ( Capt.), on the transportation of     Benzin, production of, xii. 460.
   rocks by ice, viii. 558.                    Benzoic acid, action of iron at a high tem
Beaumont's ( M. de) theory of the paral           perature on, xii. 460.
   lelism of contemporaneous lines of ele      Berberin, xi. 338.
   vation, iv. 404 ; remarks on, i. 118.       Berger ( Dr.), notice of the late, iv. 444.
Beck ( Dr. ) on the geology of Denmark,        Bermuda, on the carbonic acid in the at
   viii. 553.                                     mosphere of, xi. 225 ; meteorological
Becquerel (M.) on the reduction of me             observations taken at, in 1836, xi.449.
   tals by electricity, x. 154; on an electro  Bernoulli's solution of the problem of
   magnetic balance, and on a battery with        shortest twilight, Mr. Davis on, iii. 179,
   invariable currents, x. 358; on sili            277 ; theory of the tides, vii. 457.
   ceous and calcareous products, xi.          Bero'e, species of, vii. 495.
   403 ; Copley medal awarded to, xii.         Berthier (M.) on the magnetic action of
   348.                                            manganese, ix. 65.
Beke (C. T.) on the Gopher-wood of the         Berzelius (Baron) on chemical formula;,
   Scriptures, iii. 103 ; on the former ex        remarks on, iv. 9 . discovery of chrenic
   tent of the Persian Gulf, iv. 107 ; re         and apochrenic acids in the mineral
   ply to Mr. Carter on the Gopher-wood,           waters of Porta, v. 238 ; preparation of
   iv. 280 ; reply to his papers on Gopher-        pure tellurium, vii. 539 ; on the pro
   wood, and former extension of Persian           perties of tellurium, viii. 84 ; symbolic
   Gulf, v. 244; on the advance of the             notation first introduced by, viii. 101;
   land in the Persian Gulf, vi. 401 ; vii.       on Faraday's supposed sulphate and
   40; on the Persian Gulf, and on the            oxide of antimony, viii. 476 ; on me
   non-identity of Babylon and Babel,              teoric stones, ix. 429 ; a Copley medal
   viii. 506 ; ix. 34 ; xi. 66 ; on the com       awarded to, x. 212; reply to Dr. Hare's
   plexion of the ancient Egyptians, xi.          remarks on his chemical nomenclature,
   344.                                           xi. 179; on xanthophylle, xii. 135.
Bell (Dr.) geology of Mazunderan, xii.         Bevan (B. ) on the cohesion of cements,
   571.                                           i. 53 ; on the strength of timber, i. 1 16 ;
         (Sir C.) on the functions of the         on the difference of level between the
   brain, v. 451 ; on the spinal chord, vii.      sea and river Thames, i. 187 ; on the
   138.                                           dimensions and value of the measures
        (T.) on two reptiles hitherto un-         used in Covent Garden market, i. 472 ;
   described, iii. 375 ; on die neck of the       ii. 405 ; on certain defects in the Bri
   Three-toed Sloth, iii. 376 ; description       tish Almanac, ii. 30; on the modulus
   of Cyclcmys, a type of a new genus of          of elasticity of gold, iii. 20 ; table of
   the freshwater tortoise, v. 143 ; on the       sines to centesimal parts of the versed
  genus Galictus, xii. 529.                       sine, iii. 99.
Bennett (£. T. ) on the new genus La-          Bianchi (Prof.) on a new sidereal cata
  gotis, iii. 149; on Felis viverrinus, iii.      logue, x. 67.
  294 ; on a peculiar species of monkey,       Bible, on the different kinds of wood
  iv. 61 ; on several rodent animals, ix.         mentioned in the, ii. 412.
  68 ; remarks on the Indian antelope,         Bibliographical Bulletin, xii. 208.
  ix. 306, 310 ; on the brush.tailed kan       Bibiomide of mercury, ix. 148.
  garoo, ix. 388 ; notice of, x. 465.          Bichromate of the perchloride of chrome,
—s— ( F. D. ) on the anatomy of the sper          xii. 83.
  maceti whale, xi. 196.                       Biela's comet, i. 401; v. 301, 310 ; obser
       (G.) on the habits of the King            vations on, ii. 222.
   Penguin, v. 231 ; natural history and       Bimana, Quadrumana, and Pedimana,
   habits of the Ornitliorhynchus para           on the natural affinities which subsist
   doxus, vi. 307; on the phosphorescence        between the, ix. 302.

          LOND. AND EUIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832— 1838.
Binks (C) on the pliienomcna and laws              the tricuspid valve of the heart on the
   of action of voltaic electricity, and con*      circulation of the, vii. 207; on the re
   struction of voltaic batteries, xi. 68.         gulation of the quantity of blood with
Biiiney (£. VV.) on a patch of red and             in the heart, vii. 21 2 ; notice of certain
   variegated marls, viii. 571.                    appearances in, vii. 410 ; on the gases
Biotine and anorthitc, identity of, x. 368.        contained in the, xii. 300.
Birch, structure and growth of the bark         Blow-pipe, a new oxy-hydrogen, i. 470.
   of the, xii. 55.                             Blue colours, preparation of, vi. 1 56.
Bird ( Dr. G.),on the existence of titantic     Boase(Dr. H. S.), on the structure of
   acid in Hessian crucibles, vi. 113; on          rocks, vii. 376, 445 ; on Mr. Hopkins's
   certain new combinations of albumen,           " Researches in Physical Geology,"
   with an account of some curious pro             ix. 4, 10, 14; Mr. Hopkins's reply to,
   perties of that substance, ix, 109 ; x. 85 ;    ix. 171,366; on the composition and
   on the action of electricity on albumen,       origin of porcelain earth, x. 348.
   x. 357 ; on electric currents of low ten     Boddington ( B. ) on the effects of a stroke
   sion, x. 376 ; on induced electric cur         of lightning, i. 191.
   rents, with a description of a magnetic      Bog timber, on, vii. 499.
   contact-breaker, xii. 18 ; on indirect       Bonaparte (C. L.) on the arrangement of
   chemical analysis, xii. 229.                   the vertebrate animals, xii. 92.
Birds, notes on various, ix. 66, 139, 141,      Bonsdorflf (Dr.), on the solubility of
   142, 147,227,503,511,512,552; geo              oxide of lead in water, xi. 221.
   graphical range of, vii. 418, 493; on        Bones of the rhinoceros and hyena in the
   the diving of aquatic, i. 23.                   Cefn caves, discovery of, i. 232.
        of passage, notice of the arrival of,   Bonomi (Mr.) on the ring money of
   &c, ii. 96 ; iv. 336 ; vi. 424.                 Africa, xi. 132.
Bin (W. It.), meteorological observations       Bonn, meeting of the Scientific Associa
   made during the solar eclipse of May           tion of Germany at, vii. 157.
    15, ix. 393.                                Bonnet (G.) on the reducing powers of
Bischoff (Prof.), analysis of plenakite,          arsenious acid, ix. 230.
   vii. 540.                                    Books, new, notices respecting, vii. 541 ;
—— (J.) on the cause of the grave and             ix. 4; xi. 481, 548; xii. 127,202,263,
   acute tones of the human voice, vi. 372 ;      379, 536, 602.
   on the physiology of the human voice,        Boomarang, on the path of the, xii. 329.
   ix. 201, 269, 342.                           Booth (J.) on the conic sections, xii. 104.
Bismuth, peroxide of, iii. 387 ; chlorosul-     Boron, preparation of, x. 419.
   phuret of, xi. 560 ; on the peculiar vol     Boroughs, on a formula for the relative
   taic condition of, xii. 48 ; action of ni      importance of, i. 26.
   tric acid upon, xii. 305.                    Bostock ( Dr. ) analysis of a mineral water
        and iron, on the peculiar voltaic in      from the island of St. Paul, vi. 312.
   activity of, xi. 544.                        Botanical alliances, origin of the, xi. 247.
         and cadmium, separation of the                classification, on the present state
   oxides of, vi. 235.                            of, xi. 48.
        and lead, separation of, iii. 389.      Botanical Society of Edinburgh, viii. 44a
 Bitumens, constitution of, ix. 487.            Botany : —deviations from the ordinary
 Blackburn (C.) on the modern tele                structure in Telopea speciosiasima, v.
   graphs, v. 241,365; analytical theorems        70 ; female flower and fruit of Raffle-
   relating to geometrical series, vi. 196.       sia, v. 70 ; structure of Hydnora, v.
 Blackball (J.) on the diving of aquatic          70 ; internal structure of plants, v.
   birds, i. 23 ; observations on the house       1 1 2, 1 8 1 , 284 ; action of tannin on the
   spider, i. 95 ; on a new species of            roots of plants, v. 157 ; a newly ob
    Arachnida,i.l90;on someundescribed            served property in plants, vi. 164 ;
    Araneidoe, iii. 104, 187, 344, 436 ; v.       on the genus Hosackia and the Ame
    50 ; viii. 481 ; X. 100.                      rican Loti, vi. 221 ; on the classifica
 Blake (J.) on the electrical currents            tion of vegetables, vi. 379 ; on the Eri-
    produced during the processes of fer          ogoncc, vi. 379 ; on the species of Fe-
    mentation and vegetation, xii. 539.           dia, vi. 380; of the Himalayan moun
 Blewitt (().) on an erroneous statement          tains, vii. 132; on the formation of
    respecting Mr. Faraday, iv. 261.              wood, vii. 498 ; notice of a yew found
 Blood of cholera patients, researches on         in a hog, vii. 499; notice of a yew at
    the, i. 295.                                  Macros*, vii. 499 ; on bog timber, vii.
       , its circulation in insects, vi. 300 ;    499 ; Oxalis tuberosa, Solatium tube
    titanic acid in, vi. 201 ; influence of       rosum, Cevndilla, Amole, Cestruin
                                                                       B

10                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1             VI OF THE
   M utisii, vii. 500 ; pericarp and nuts        " Flora of Jamaica", xii. 263; struc
  of the Palo de Vaca, vii. 501 ; Indian         ture of Cuscutaeuropwa, xii. 531 ; on
   Gentianere, viii. 75 ; two species of the     the mosses of Upper Assam, xii. 532 ;
   genus Pinus, viii. 255 ; on the Ne-           Mora tree of Guiana, xii. 532 ; exist
   phrodiurn rigidum, viii. 255 ; varieties      ence of storaata in mosses, xii. 533.
   of Erica ciliaris and Tetralix, viii. 256 ; Bottinger (M.) on the colours of metals,
   on several new British and European           xii. 298.
   plants, viii. 345 ; on a species of Agave,  Botto (Prof.) on the chemical action of
   viii. 346 ; Cooper's botanical rambles,       magneto-electric currents, i. 441.
   viii. 41 1 ; action of light upon plants,   Boue (Dr.) notice of his "Guide du
   and of plants upon the atmosphere,            Geologque Voyageur", vii. 541.
   viii. 415; on the ovula of Santalum         Boulderstone, on a large one in Argyle-
   album, viii. 423 ; W. Sherard and Dil-        shire, i. 232.
   lenius, viii. 424 ; Botanical Society of    Boussingault (M.) on suboxide of lead
   Edinburgh, viii. 440; on the green            and protoxide of tin, v. 79 ; on the sup
   colour of plants, viii. 469; on germi         posed compound of hydrogen and pla-
   nation, viii. 491; ix. 17, 371, 372;          tina, v. 155.
   classification of vegetables, X. 37, 108 ;  Bowerbank (J. S. ) account of a deposit
   a grass (Spartina glabra) new to the          containing land-shells, at Gore Cliff,
    British Flora, x. 7 1 ; on the Esula major   Isle of Wight, xi. 103.
    Germanica of Lobel, x. 71 ; on the         Bracon not ( M . ) on isomeric modification
   tree from which the Indians prepare the       of tartaric acid, i. 83.
   poison called wooraly or ourury, x. 72 ;    Brain of tile negro, on the, ix. 527.
    Aphyteia, Hydnora, and Cynomorium                , analysis of the, v. 392 ; on the
   coccineum, x. 73 ; descriptions of two        functions of the, v. 451.
   species of ConiferK, x. 73 ; notice of           ¦, human, x. 286 ; on the accumula
    M. Jussieu, x. 153; descriptions of          tion of fluid in the, x. 316; in marsu
   Polygonum and Fagopyrum, x. 223 ;             pial animals, x. 222.
   Polygonum dumetorum and Epipactis           Branch, on the structure of the, ii. 120.
   purputata, x. 225 ; manna of Mount          Brande (Mr.) on chemical notation, ii.
   Sinai, dragon's blood tree and aloe           309.
   plant of Socotra, x. 226; on the ab         Brayley (E. W., jun.) on the history of
   sorbent powers of the roots of trees, x.      certain suggestions respecting the dark
   488 ; on the hymenium of fungi, x.            spaces in the solar spectrum, ix. 522,
   492 ; ascent of the sap, x. 494 ; on           note ; on M. Lent's paper on the con
   structure in the ashes of plants, xi. 13,     ducting power of wires for electricity,
   413 ; on botanical classification, xi. 48,    xi. 11, note; letter to, from Mr. Fara
   137 , Anatifa vitrea, of the Irish coast,     day, on some former researches on the
   xi. 135; progress of pliytochemistry in       peculiar voltaic condition of iron, ix.
   reference to the physiology of plants,         122 ; on the history of certain pointa
   xi. 156; origin of botanical alliances,       in magneto-electricity, ix. 237, note ;
   xi. 247 ; progress of vegetable physi         on the origin of certain sounds, iii. 329,
   ology, xi. 381, 435, 524; botanical           note; note on Prof. Challis's paper
   affinities of Orobanche, xi. 409; com         on capillary attraction, viii. 172; re
   position of vegetable membrane and            marks on by Prof. Challis, viii. 289 ;
   fibre, xi. 421 ; combination, structure,      on the history of our knowledge of the
   and contents of the cells of plants, xi.      oscillation of the centre of gravity of
   435 ; Bacillariae, xi. 448 ; cow tree of       Saturn's rings round that of the body
   South America, xi. 452; on the system         of the planet, iii. 1 29 ; on the appear
   of circulation in vegetables, xi. 528 ;       ance of birds when seen in telescopic
   milk vessels of the Euphorbiacea? and         observations on the sun, i. 333, note ;
   Asclcpiadea:, xi. 529 ; internal struc        on the importance of comparative ana
   ture of the wood of palms, xi. 553 ; on       lyses of the allantoic fluid and the
   the conservation of living plants, xi.        urine of the young animal after birth,
   566 ; on the structure and growth of          i. 322 ; on the true source of the amnio
   the more perfect plants, xii. 53 ; on the     tic acid of Vauquelin (allantoic acid of
   stem of plants, xii. 62 ; Cucubal us bac-      Lassaigne), i. 319 ; on the supposed
   cifer found in the Isle of Dogs, xii. 93 ;    amalgam of mercury with a metallic
   fossil ferns, xii. 95 ; Laminaria digitata,   substance (ammonium) derived from
   xii. 96 ; on the genus Chara, xii. 97 ;       ammonia or its elements, vi. 217; on
   development of the organization in             the relations of iodine to the conduc
   phamogamous plants, xii. 172,241,292;         tion of heat, vii. 441, note; viii. 130,

        LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                         1838.       11
 »*a*« ; on the black precipitate of pla        the fall of meteorites at Magdeburg in
 tinum, and on platinum ponder, vi.             the year 998, iii. 454, note ; review of
 362, 363, notes ; on the discovery of          the Report of the First and Second
 silicuret of platinum, i. 267, note; on         Meetings of the British Association,
 the protection of steel from the action        ii. 455; iii. 129; of Mr. Conybearc's
 of the atmosphere by zinc, vii. 392,            Report on Geology, iv. 427 ; of Mr.
  note ; on the nature of a fluid obtained       Lubbock's Mathematical Tracts, iv.
  in the manufacture of pyroxylic spirit,       218; of Abstracts of Papers printed
  as described by Mr. Scanlan, vii. 396,        in the Philosophical Transactions, iv.
. note ; table of high temperatures cor         47 ; of the West of England Journal
  rected from Prof. Daniell's pyrometri-        of Science and Literature, vi. 293.
  eal researches, vi. 249; seexii. 535, note; Breath, on holding it for a lengthened
  letter to, from Mr. Prideaux, on the dew-     period, iii. 241.
  point, on the detection of foreign mat      Breccia and iodine, xi. 216.
  ters in the atmosphere, xi. 54 ; his re           , hydriodate of, xi. 216; iodatc of,
  vised edition of " Parkes's Chemical          xi. 217.
   Catechism," review of, vi. 214 ; on the    Breithaupt's Mineralogy, notice of, v.
  origin of thediamond, iii.220, note; on       237 ; viii. 173.
  bydrocarbonate of lime, iii. 86, note ;     Brett (R. H.) on the existence of titanic
  v. 1 96, 197, notes ; on the formation of     acid in Hessian crucibles, vi. 113; on
   Entophyta in the vomica; and bron            the solvei. t action of muriate and ni
   chial tubes of a Flamingo, as described      trate of ammonia, x. 95, 333 ; on the
  by Mr. Owen, ii. 71, note; discrimina         bromo-cyanide and chloro-cyanide of
  tion between the two Javanese poisons         potassium and mercury, xi. 340; ana
  usually confounded together under the         lysis of some double salts of mercury,
   name of Upas, vi, 218; remarks on            xii. 235.
  Sir E. F. Bromhead's paper on bota          Brewster (Sir D.) on M. Rudberg's me
  nical classification, xi, 137,253, note;      moir on crystals, i. 6, 146, 415; on a
  proposal to employ the word affinal in        new species of coloured fringes, i. 1 9 ;
  natural history, v. 206, note ; on the        on the effect of compression and dilata
  affinal connexion of mammalia with            tion on the retina, i. 89; letter to, from
  birds through the Ornithorynchus, &c,         M. Kupffer, on magnetical discove
  as indicated by the structure of the cry      ries, i. 129; on magnetical and meteor
  stalline lens, iii, 447, note ; notice of a   ological observations made at Pekin, i.
  memoir on the natural laws which ap            130; on his formula for mean tempe
  pear to regulate the distribution of the      rature, i. 135 ; on undulations excited in
  powers of producing heat and light            the retina, i. 169; notes on Prof. Kupf-
  among the different groups of the ani         fer's observations on the temperature of
  mal kingdom, vi. 24 1 ; on the natural         Nicolaieffand Sevastopol, i. 135,260;
  history of the Papuans, or Asiatic ne         letter to from Prof. Necker, on certain
  groes, i. 466 ; on the tendency to a cir      optica) phenomena seen in Switzer
  cular succession of affinities in the         land and on viewing the figure of a geo
  group of Simia?, vi. 462, note ; on the       metrical solid, i. 329 ; on the action
  frequent deficiency of the ungueal pha        of heat on glauberite, i. 417 ; observa
  lanx in the hallux of the orang ou-           tions on the isothermal lines, i. 43 1 ; on
  tang, vii. 72; on the maneless lion, iv.      a Chinese mirror, i. 438 ; on the mean
  379, note ; on a gigantic carp, xi. 223 ;     temperature of Irkoutsk, ii. 3 ; Prof.
  on the silent flight of Musca vomitoria,      Airy on his experiments on the polari
  x. 327 ; on the relation between the          zation of light by the diamond, ii. 29 ;
  extinct and living animals confined to        letter to from Mr. Forbes on Fourier's
  America, xi. 208, note ; on the equiva        demonstrations relative to the mathe
  lent, in the Danish island of Seeland,        matical law of heat, ii. 103 ; on a singu
  of the coralline crag of England, vii.        lar fog-bow, ii. 151 ; on the action of
  413, note; on the denudation of val           light on the retina, ii. 168; on the un-
  leys, i. 339, note ; on the agency of         dulatory theory of light, ii. 360; Prof.
  heat in the consolidation of the new          Airy's answerto, ii. 419; on the dia
  red sandstone, vii. 515, note ; on the        mond, iii. 219; on certain changes of
  porphyritic amygdaloid of Devonshire,         colour in the choroid coat of the eye,
  xii. 568, note ; on the theory of volca       iii. 289; reply to by G. II. Fielding,
  no*, xii. 533, 588, note ; on the state       iv. 14; on the crystalline lens, iii. 446 ;
  of knowledge and theory on the al             on Mrs. Griffiths's paper on the vision
  leged periodical meteors, xi. 273 ; on        of the retina, iv. 46 ; on the blood-ves-
                                                                   B2

12                  GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1               12 OK THE
  sels of the eye, iv. 115; award of the       Bromhead (Sir E. F.) on the present
  royal medal to, iv. 133 ; on the influ          state of botanical classification, xi. 48 ;
  ence of successive impulses of light on         remarks on his paper on botanical
   the retina, iv. 241 ; on a rhombohe-           classification, xi. 137 ; on the origin of
  dral crystallization of ice, iv. 245 ; on       the botanical alliances, xi. 247.
  accidental colours, iv. 353 ; notice of      Bromine, proportion of, in the waters of
   the optical properties of a new mi             different seas, vi. 321 ; on its conduct
   neral, vi. 133; on the achromatism of          ing power for electricity, viii. 130,400;
   the eye, vi. 161 ; Prof. Powell in reply       new acid of, viii. 588 ; preparation
   to, vi. 247 ; on peculiarities in the          of, x. 499 ; its action upon aether, ix.
   double refraction and absorption of            149.
   light, exhibited in the oxalate of chro     Broino-cyanide of potassium and mer
   mium and potash, vi. 305 ; vii. 436 ; on       cury, xi. 340.
   the structure and origin of the dia         Brooke ( H. J.), mineralogical notices on
   mond, vii. 245 ; on the crystalline            symbolic notation, viii. 101 ; on thulite
   lenses of animals, viii. 195, 416; on the      and stromite, viii. 169; on the crystal
  lines of the solar spectrum, and on those       lographies! identity of certain mine
   produced by the earth's atmosphere,            rals, x. 170; on the intersection of cry
  and by the action of nitrous acid gas,          stalline minerals, x. 278 ; on the iden
   viii. 384 ; on the colours of natural bo       tity of phacolite and levyne with cha
  dies, viii. 468 ; on the optical property       basie, xi. 12 ; on murio-carbonate and
   of a substance resembling shell, viii.         muriate of lead, xi. 175; on the cry
   545; examination of, x. 201; on the            stalline form of pyrosmalite, xi. 261 ;
  optical properties of chabasie, ix. 170;        on an apparent case of isomorphous
   x. 201 ; on the connection between the         substitution, xii. 406.
   phenomena of the absorption of light        It rough ton (J. D.\ notice of, xii. 278.
  and the colours of thin plates, xi. 95 ;     Brown ( li.) on the impregnation of the
  on the crystalline lenses of animals af          Orchideas and Asclepiadess, i. 70; on
   ter death, xi. 97 ; on a singular deve         the structure, &c. of Cephalotus, i. 314;
  lopment of polarization in the crystal          on the new genus Limnanthes, iii. 70;
  line lens after death, and on cataract,         on the female flower and fruit of Raf-
  xii. 22 ; on Von Wrede's theory of the          flesia, v. 70.
  absorption of light, xii. 1 15 ; on an op    Bruit de Soufflet, mechanism of, vii. 508.
  tical phenomenon seen in the Gram            Bryce (J:) list of the simple minerals of
  pians, and on Poisson's theory of the           the North of Ireland, iii. 83; v. 196.
  atmosphere, xii. 123; on the colours         Buckland (Rev. Dr.) on the structure of
   of mixed plates, xii. 355.                     the sloth, ii. 308 ; notice of a newly
Bridges, skew, construction of, viii. 299 ;       discovered gigantic reptile, vii. 327 ;
  oblique, x. 74, 167. '                          on the fossil beaks of four extinct spe
Brinklcy (Dr.), notice of, viii. 155.             cies of Chimirra, viii. 4 ; on silicified
British almanac, on defects in the, ii.           trunks of trees in the new red sand
   30.                                            stone, x. 475 ; " Bridgewater Treatise,' '
British Association, ii. 319; Reports of          x. 410; on the keuper sandstone in
  of the meetings of, ii. 455; iii. 151; iv.      the upper region of the new red sand
  319; xii. 110; proceedings at Edin              stone formation, xi. 106.
  burgh, v. 386 ; suggestions respecting       Bud, structure of the, ii. 125.
  the ensuing meeting, vii. 118; Dublin        Buenos Ayres, on the discovery of three
  meeting, vii. 71, 237, 289, 385, 480;           skeletons of the Megatherium in the
  viii. 53; ix. 228, 312; list of the Coun        province of, i. 233.
  cil appointed at Bristol, ix. 312; re      . Bulbs,   on the structure of, ii. 124.
  ports undertaken for the next meeting,       Bulletin, bibliographical, xi. 481, 548.
   ix. 312; grants for the advancement         Bunt (T.G. ) on anew tide-gauge, xii. 4:10,
  of particular branches of science, ix.       Burnes (Lieut.) on the geology of the
  312; meeting at Liverpool, xi. 396,             Indus, iv. 225.
  474,551.                                     Burning cliffs, on the south-east coast
Brodcrip (W. J.), descriptions of new             of Newcastle in Australia, i. 92.
  species of Calyptrffiida, v. 72, 232 ; de    Burr ( F.), geology of the line of the Bir
  scription of a new genus of Gastero             mingham and Gloucester railway, xii.
  poda, v. 312; on Clavagella, vi. '.Wl ;         573.
  on the habits of the Chimpanzee of the       Bussy (M.) on the preparation of iodine,
   Zoological Gardens, viii. 164 ; on the         x. 498; preparation of bromine, x. 499.
   genua Mum, Lam., ix. 136.                   Butler's ( Dr.) theory of the action of the

         LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 18S2                          1838.       13
   siphuncle in the pearly Nautilus, xii.        Capillary attraction, viii. 89, 172, 288.
   SOS.                                          Carbohydrogen, nitrate of, viii. 85 ; new
Buzareingues on the distribution and mo            combinations of, ix. 77.
    tion of the sap in plants, xi. 526.          Carbonu-thylate of barytes, xi. 143.
                                                 Carbonate of lime, formation of, under
CJ. on Fresnel's theory of double                  the influence of sugar, i. 84; solubility
        • refraction, x. 24.                       of in hydrochloratc of ammonia, ix.
C. S- on Whiston, Halley, and the Quar             540 ; decomposition of by heat, x. 496 ;
    terly Reviewer of the " Account of             occurrence of on Saxifrage leaves, xi.
    Flarasteed," viii. '225.                        445 ; crystalline form of, xii. 465, 470.
Cabiric mysteries in India, xii. 1 10.                  of stronu'a discovered in the United
Cadmium and bismuth, separation of the              States, vi. 234.
     oxides of, vi. 235.                         Carbonates, earthy, and alkaline nitrates,
 Carfein, composition of, i. 165 ; ii. 404.        analogy in atomic constitution between,
 Calamary, eye of the, viii. 1.                    xii. 480.
 Calc spar, formation of. xii. 465.              Carbonic acid, solidification of, viii. 446 ;
 Calcareous spar, artificial, ix. 230.              liquid, viii. 583 ; solid, degree of cold
 Calculi, composed of cystic oxide, xii.           produced by, x. 158 ; in the atmo
     337 ; urinary, collection of, in St. Bar      sphere, on the, xi. 226.
     tholomew's Hospital, xii. 4 1 2.                         and ammonia, on the combi
  Calculus, new renal, viii. 446.                  nations of, iii. 457.
  Caldcleugh (A.) on the earthquake in                  oxide, on Prof. Mitchell's method
     Chili, Feb. 20, 1835, viii. 148, volca        of preparing, vi. 232.
     nic eruption of Coseguina, viii. 414;       Carboniferous series of North America,
     on the elevation of the strata on the         on the, ix. 124, 407.
     coast of Chili, xi. 98.                     Carbovinate of potash, xi. 320.
  Callan (Rev. N. J.) on a new galvanic          Carlisle's (Sir A.) letter, with the reports
     battery, ix. 472 ; reply to Dr. Ritchie,       on the health of the workmen clean
     x. 459.                                        sing the Westminster sewers, i. 354.
  Caloric, electricity, and ponderable bo        Carmine, analysis of, iii. 381 ; adultera
     dies, remarkable analogy between, v.          tion of, xii. 462.
      110.                                       Carp, gigantic, xi. 22S.
  Calorific effect of the sun's direct rays,     Carter ( W. G.) on the Gopher- wood of
     vii. 182.                                      Scripture, iv. 178; reply to, iv. 280;
         rays, on, viii. 23, 109, 186, 190, 248;    on the former extension of the Persian
     their transmission through diathermal          Gulf, v. 244; vii. 192, 250.
     bodies, vii. 475.                           Cask-gauging, on, iv. 326.
  Calyptrcide, .-.natoiny of, v. 72; new         Cast iron, cohesion of, iii. 79.
     species of, v. 72, 232.                                  beams, Mr. Hodgkinson on,
  Calyx and corolla, on the, ii. 126.               viii. 65.
  Cambridge Philosophical Society, pro           Catalysis, a new force acting in the com
     ceedings of, ii. 314, 380; iii.235,461;       binations of organic compounds, x.
     iv. 66, 312, 463; vi. 73, 395; vii. 70;       490.
     viii. 78, 429 ; ix. 71 ; x. 316, 485 ; xii. Catania, new observatory at, viii. 256.
     452.                                        Cataract, on, xii. 25.
  Camden Literary and Philosophical In           Cathedrals, destruction of painted glass
     stitution, viii. 431.                          in, ix. 458.
  Camphor, analysis of, ii. 153 ; rotary         Cathedral choirs, neglect and decay of,
     motion of, v. 152 ; artificial, viii. 588 ;   ix. 458.
     experiments on, x. 420 ; action of iron     Cations, v. 429.
     at a high temperature on, xii. 460.         Cauchy's (M.) researches on light, iv.
  Camphoric acid, xii. 297 ; anhydrous, xi.         396; view of the undulatory theory
     221..                                          of light, Prof. Powell's abstract of, vi.
          a-thcr, xi. 221.                          16, 107, 189, 262 ; theory of double
  Camphovinic acid, xi. 221.                       refraction, viii. 104 : undulatory the
  Cantharidine, preparation of, vi. 319.            ory of light, viii. 7, 24, 112, 204, 247,
  Caoutchouc, on, ii. 77 ; volatile liquid          217, 305, 413; new formula for sol
     from, ix. 321, 479.                            ving the problem of interpolation, viii.
  Cape Farewell, geographical position of,          459.
     vii. 490.                                   Caustic potash, preparation of, i. 244.
  Cape Observatory, latitude and longitude       Caustics, equations of, vi. 372.
     of, iii. 231.                               Cautley (Capt.) on the remains of mam-

   14                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                12 OF THE
       malia found in the Sewalik mountains,      Chemical electricity, ix. 53.
       viii. 575; xi. 208; on the Sivatheriutn            flames, on the spectra of, ix 3.
       giganteum, ix. 193; on a fossil mon                 preparations, English, on the fre-
       key from the tertiary strata of the Se        quent presence of lead in, viii. 267.
       walik hills, xi. 393.                              philosophy and nomenclature, on
   Caves of Cefn in Denbighshire, on the,                science,
                                                     certain       grants
                                                               points     of money
                                                                      of, xi. 176. for the ad
       i. 232.
   Cavy, new species of, ix. 69.                     vancement of, ix. 314.
   Cellular membrane, composition of, xi.                 symbols on the use of, iii. 443.
      440.                                       Chemistry, on a perfect system of sym
  Cements, on the cohesion of, i. 53.                bols in, i. 181 ; on the use of symbols
  Cephalopoda, new or rare, ix. 298.                 in, iv. 41, 106, 246, 402, 464.
  Cephalotus, on the structure and affini                of geology, on the, iii. 20.
      ties of, i.314.                                   , microscopic, on, ix. 2, 10.
  Cervus, new species of, ix. 391 ; remarks             , organic, researches in, x. 45, 1 16.
      on the genus, ix. 518.                             and mineralogy, section of, xi. 554.
  Cetacea, mammary glands in the, vii. 507.      Cheverton (Mr.) on mechanical sculp
  Cetrarin, on, xii. 296.                           ture, viii. 70.
  Cbabasie, optical properties of, ix. 166,     Chichester, earthquakes at, vii. 208.
      1 70 ; identity of phacolite and levyne    Children (J. G.), on Dr. Ehrenherg's col
      with, xi. 12.                                 lection of dried Infusoria and micro
  Challis ( Rev. J.) on the resistance to the
                                                    scopic objects, ix. 90.
      motion of small spherical bodies in       Chili, earthquake of, Feb. 20, 1835, viii.
     elastic mediums, i. 40; on Lagrange's          74, 148 ; elevation of strata on the
     proof of the principle of virtual veloci
                                                    coast of, xi. 98, 100.
     ties, ii. 16; on the theory of the ball-
                                                Chiraara, on the fossil beaks of, viii. 4.
     pendulum, iii. 185; on the brachysto-      Chimpanzee, habits of the, viii. 161 ; dis
     chronous course ofa ship, iv. 33 ; ana         section of the, ix. 388.
     lytical determination of the laws of
                                                China, a curious mirror brought from, i.
     transmitted motion, vi. 267; on the            438.
     vibrations of a cylindrical tube, vii.     Chironectes Yapock, Desm., ix. 610.
     300; on capillary attraction and the       Chloral, a new compound analogous to,
     molecular forces of fluids, viii. 89 ; on      x. 321.
     the phenomena of drops of oil floating     Chloride of soda, its use in fever, viii. 64.
     on water, viii. 288.
                                                        of tungsten, xii. 461.
 Chama, on some species of, vii. 65.                    of calcium, compound of, with py-
 Chamu'li'on, new species of, iv. 150.
                                                    roxylic spirit, x. 47.
 Chamouni, on the relative position of,         Chlorides, metallic compounds of, with
     with respect to the convent of St. Ber
                                                   chromic acid, iii. 235 ; action of sul
     nard, ii. 61.
                                                   phuric acid on, x. 157 ; their detection
 Chara, influence of heat, &c, on the cir
                                                   in bromides and iodides, xii. 136.
     culation of the, xii. 457.
                                                Chlorine, extemporaneous solution of, i.
 Charcoal, on its ignition in atmospheric
                                                   85 ; on an unobserved property of, iii.
     temperatures, iii. 1 ; cause of the spon
                                                   72; action of, on metallic iodides, iv.
     taneous combustion of, iii. 89.
                                                   467 ; on its conducting power for elec
Charlesworth (E.) on veins of crystal
                                                  tricity, viii. 130, 400; action of, on
    lized carbonate of lime in fossil wood,
                                                   pyroxylic spirit, x. 49; decolorizing
    vii. 76 ; on the crag-formation and its
                                                   combinations of, x. 155; action of,
    organic remains, vii. 81 ; viii. 529; on
                                                   on gum, ii.405; new compounds of,
    the coralline crag, in reply to Mr.
                                                   xii. 220; action of, on tethers, xii. 297.
     Woodward, vii. 464 ; on the relative
                                               Chlorocarbonic acid, iv. 385.
    age of tertiary deposits, x. 1.
                                               Chloro-cyanideofpotassium and mercury,
Charnwood forest, on the geology of,
                                                   xi. 342 ; of ammonium and mercury,
    iv. 68.
                                                   analysis of, xii. 236 ; of sodium and
Cheiropoda, proposed name for all mam              mercury, analysis of, xii. 237 ; of cal
   mals possessed of hands, ix. 306.              cium and mercury, xii. 238 ; of barium
Chelostoma florisomnis, xii. 18.                  and mercury, analysis of, xii. 239 ; of
Cheltenham, mineral waters of, i. 223.            magnesium and mercury, analysis of,
Chemical action, modes for examining              xii. 239; of strontium and mercury,
   under the microscope the phenomena             analysis of, xii. 240.
    of, ix. 10.                                Chloroform and cyanofonn, on, x. 322.
—- analysis, indirect, xii. 229.               Chlorophyllc, analysis of, iii. 381.

          l.ONl). AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                        1838.      15
Chlorosulphurets of lead, copper, bis              on the peat bogs and submarine forests
   muth, and zinc, xi. 560.                        of Bourne Mouth Valley, xii. 579.
Cholera, on the health of the workmen           Classification, principles of, vii. 491.
   cleansing the sewers during, i. 354.         Clavagella, description of, vi. 230, 381.
—— patients, chemical researches on the         Clemson (T. G.) on avein of bituminous
   blood of, i. 295.                               coal in Cuba, x. 161.
Chorion, mode of the origin of the, xi.         Clinometer, Henslow's, improvement in,
   93.                                             v. 159.
Chrenic acid in the mineral waters of           Clocks, on the use of, at sea, instead of
   Porta, v. 238.                                  chronometers, ii. 157.
Christie (Dr. A. T.), notice of, iv. 445.       Closterin, mode of increase of, xi. 386 ;
Christie (C. C.) on the aurora borealis            formation of the fruit in the, xi. 388.
   of Nov. 18, 1835, viii. 412.                 Cloves, analysis of oil of, iv. 313.
Christie (S. H.) on the laws of magneto-        Coal, observations, on, ii. 302; on the
   electric induction, iii. 141 ; on terres        nature of, iii. 245.
   trial magnetism, iii. 215; Bakerian                , in Coalbrook Dale, ix. 383 ; at
   lecture, remarks on, iv. 208 ; on Capt.         Dudley and Wolverhampton, ix. 383 ;
    Back's magnetical observations, ix,            in the United States, ix. 124; on the
   523, 529.                                       coast of Cumberland, ix. 501 ; on the
Chromatc of lead, dimorphism of, xii.              lower series of, in Yorkshire, i. 349.
   SS7.                                               , bituminous, of Cuba, x. 161.
Chrome, preparation of metallic, i. 86-               , deposits of England, xii. 127.
       , bichromate of the pcrchloride of,              fields, on the future extension of in
    xii. 83.                                       England, iv. 161, 346; v. 44; depo
        alum, newmethodof obtaining, xii.         sits beneath, iv. 370.
    218.                                        — gas, phenomena of flame from, vii.
 Chromic acid, compounds of, with me              404.
   tallic chlorides, iii. 235 ; its action upon        measures and fossil fruits in Lei
   silver, and combinations with the oxide        cestershire, iii. 76, 1 1 2.
    of silver, xi. 489.                                tracts, in Salop, Worcestershire, and
 Chromium, oxalate of, and potash, optical         N. Gloucestershire, vi. 376.
    properties of, vii. 436 ; crystallized      Coalbrook Dale, geology of, ix. 382.
   oxide of, viii. 175 ; iodide of, viii. 192 ; Cobalt blue colours, vi. 157.
    teriodide of, xii. 321 ; combinations of,          and nickel incapable of being ren
    with fluorine and chlorine, ix. 151.          dered inactive, xi. 547.
 Chronometers, gloss a substitute for me        Cocoa-nut palm, crystallized sugar from
    tal balance-springs in, ix. 381.              the juice of, x. 77.
 Cinchonia, iodatent', xi. 217 ; elementary     Cod, crystalline lens of the, viii. 193.
    composition of, xi. 335.                    Codeia and iodine, xi. 220.
 Cinnamon, oil of, vii. 74.                            and morphia, double salt of, xi. 405.
 Circulating organs in diving animals, vii.     Cohesion of cements, on the, i. 53.
    502.                                        Cold, produced by solid carbonic acid,
 Circulation of the blood, on the, vii.           x. 158.
    207.                                              , its effects on the body, viii. 59.
 Cirri pedes, metamorphosis of the, vi. 373.    Colebrook (Lieut-Col.) on making cry
 Citric ictlier, analysis of, xi. 139.            stallized sugar from the juice of the co
 —— acid, constitution of, xii. 381.              coa-nut palm, x. 77.
 Clark ( Dr. ) on cyanide of potassium, x.      Colebrooke (H. T.), notice of the late,
   329.                                           xii. 272, 438.
 Clarke ( E. M.) on a new phenomenon in         Coleopterous insects, iii. 151.
   magneto-electricity, vi. 169; on certain     Collimator, Amici's, x. 234.
   optical effects of the magneto-electri       Collision and impact, on, viii. 65.
   cal machine, vi. 427 ; apparatus for the     Colombia, meteorological observations
   decomposition of water, vi. 428; effects       made in, between 1820, 1830, xii. 148.
    of voltaic magnetism on iron, vii. 422 ;    Colour, dependent on molecular arrange
    description of his magnetic electrical        ment, ix. 2 ; changes of, in iodide of
    machine, ix. 262; reply to Mr. Saxton,        mercury, ix. 2 ; on chemical changes
    x. 455.                                       of, ii. 359.
         (Kev. W. B.) on the geology of                and odours, influence of heat on,
    Suffolk, xi. 106; xii. 512; on the geo        iii. 458.
    logical structure of the Cotentin, and      Coloured bands, in Newton's rings, vii.
    of the vicinity of Cherbourg, xi. 107 ;       363, 474.

lfi                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                 1'2 OF THE
Colouring matter of leaves in autumn,              light, v. 453 ; on the theory of sound,
   xii. 135.                                       vii. 21 1 ; on the theory of the tides, vii.
Colours of metals, xii. 298 ; of mixed             212; on molecular action, x. 355.
   plates, xii. 355 ; of thin plates, xi. 95 :   Coordinates, relative signs of, ix. 249.
   mode of exhibiting, xii. 28; of natural       Copley medals, awarded to Baron Bene-
   bodies, viii. 468 ; experiments on ac           lius and F. Kiernan, Esq., x. 212.
   cidental, iv. 353.                            Copper, blue arseniate, analysis of, iv.
Colvin( Major) on the discovery of a head          237 ; fusion and appearance of, vL
   of the Sivatherium, xi. 208.                    324; its immersion in muriatic acid,
Combinations, organic, theory of, xi. 564.         vi. 446 ; chlorosulphuret of, xi. 560.
Combustion of charcoal, spontaneous, iii.               , arsenical, xii. 217.
   89 ; on a new law of, iv. 440.                       , antimonial, ix. 149; acetate of, ix.
Comet, Biela's, i. 401 ; Encke's and               395 ; sulphates of copper and iron, ac
   Gambart's, i. 287 ; observations on             tion of oxalic acid on, ix. 155.
    Biela's, ii. 22; vi. 45; Biela's, v.                , protoxide of, action of protoxide of
   301, 310; Encke's, v. 304; Halley's,            iron on, xii. 299.
   v. 284; vii. 139, 236; viii. 148, 173;                and iron, alloys of, vi. 81.
   ix. 292 ; on the return of, vi. 45 ;          Coral, new genus of, vii. 330; on a spe
   ephemeris of, ix. 296 ; Denmark royal           cies of, vii. 409.
   medal for cometary discoveries, ix.           Cork, on the formation of, xii. 54.
   291.                                          Cornwall, steam engines of, x. 20, 67,
Comets, catalogue of, ii. 194, 282, 453 ;          136 ; geology of, ix. 7.
   iii. 101, 198; iv. 29, 2C5, 349; vii.               , Royal Geological Society of, xi.
   36 ; at Faramata, vii. 69 ; Prof. Encke         478.
   on Olbers's method of determining the         Corrigan (Dr.) on the mechanism of
   orbits of, vii. 7, 123, 203, 280.               the ' Bruit de Soufflet,' vii. JOS.
Compass, steering, viii. 7 1 .                   Corrosion of metals by sea-water, on, vii.
         needles, improved, vi. 238.               389.
Conchology, ix. 32, 136, 224, 244, 350,          Cotentin, on the geological structure of
   390, 498.                                       the northern part of the, xi. 107.
Condensing tube of Liebig, xi. 57.               Cottcawold hills, geology of, i. 221.
Conic sections, on, xii. 104.                    Cotton, on the fibres of, vi. 170, 231.
Conical refraction, iii. 114, 197.               Coumarinc, composition of, xi. 162.
Conifers, structure of, vii. 496 ; descrip       Cow tree of South America, xi. 452,
   tions of two species of, x. 73.                 53a
Conilurus, a new species of Australian           Cowries, hitherto undescribed, ix. 138.
   rodent, xii. 96.                              Crabro spini pectus, iii. 15.
Connel (A.) analysis of levyne, v. 40 ;          Crag formation, vii. 81, 353, 463, 464 ;
   analysis of fossil scales, vii. 396 ; on        viii. 38, 138, 529.
   the action of voltaic electricity on iodic    Craig (Rev. E.) on microscopic chemis
   acid, x. 93 ; analysis of gadolinite, xi.       try, ix. 10.
    143; on the nature of lampic acid, xi.       Cranchia scabra, Leach, ix. 298.
    512.                                         Cranes, on crowned, iv. 298.
Conybeare (Rev. W. D.) on M. De                  Cratomus megacephalus, xii. 14.
    Beaumont's theory of the parallelism         Crichton (Sir A.), on fossil remains, viii.
    of contemporaneous lines of elevation,         574.
    i. 118; iv. 404; on an alleged disco         Crook ( Dr. W. H.) on the unity of the
    very of coal in Leicestershire, iii. 112;      coal deposits of England, xii. 1*27.
    early anticipation of phrenology, iii.       Crosse (A.) on the production of arti
    308 ; on the mountain chains of Eu              ficial crystals and minerals, ix. 229.
   rope and Asia, iv. 1 ; fossil remains         Crustacea, metamorphoses of, vii. 210;
   found near Edinburgh, iv. 77; future            fossil, vii. 517 ; development of, xi.
   extension of the English coal-fields,           552.
    iv. 1»> 1,346; v. 44; report on geologi      Crystal, on an apparent change of posi
   cal science, iv. 427.                           tion in a drawing of a, i. 337.
 Cooper's (D.) "Flora Metropolitana,"            Crystalline form of Kupferbliithe, vii.
    viii. 411; on the luminosity of the hu          l.r.!> ; of carbonate of lime, xii. 465,
    man subjeet after death, xii. 420.             47a
       ., ( E.J.) on Halley's comet, viii. 1 48. — lens, on the, iii. 5, 446 ; on a sin
        , (J. T. ) on the colouring matter of      gular development of polarization in
    the ruby glass, xi. 137.                       the, xii. 22.
        , (P.) on the colorific rays of white            minerals, intersection of, x. 278.

            LOND. AND ED1N. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832— 1838.                               17
Crystalline reflexion and refraction, on           Cuvier (M. F.) on the Jerboas and Ger-
     the laws of, x. 42; xi. 134.                     billas, xi. 394.
—— solid, formed during the manufac                Cyanide of silver, hydrocyanic acid of
     ture of sulphuric acid, iii. 115.                     of potassium,
                                                      uniform              as produced
                                                                 strength from,  vi. 102.in hot-
          structure, on, xii. 145.
Crystallization, remarkable changes in                blast furnaces, x. 329.
     the character of, ix. 13; on the water       Cyanoform and chloroform, on, x. 322.
     of crystallization of soda-alum, ix. 26.     Cyanogen, xii. 339 ; compound of, viii.
1          of kalium, v. 399.                         191 ; new radical analogous to, v. 78.
Crystallized iron pyrites, artificial, x. 158.    Cyanuret of mercury, its decomposition
           surfaces, reflexion from, viii. 103.      by iron, vii. 78.
 Crystals : —refraction of the coloured           CyanureU, on certain metallic, iv. 91.
     rays in, i. I, 136; on the effects of        Cynictis, a new genus of Carnivora, iii.
     temperature on the double refraction            67.
     of, i. 410; on the phenomena of light        Cystic oxide, on calculi composed of, xii.
      in passing along the axes of biaxal, ii.        337.
      207; of snow, remarkable, v. 318 ; on
     the reflexion and refraction at tin- sur     DjEDALEUM, properties of the, iv.
     face of, vii. 295 ; of the hydrates of                 36.
     barytes and strontia, xii. 52 ; on the       Dalmahoy (J.) on the greater calorific
     optical theory of crystals, xi. 461, 537;       effect of the sun's direct rays in high
      xii. 73, 259, 341; occurrence of, in           than in low latitudes, vii. 182.
     plants, xi. 443.                             Dalton (Dr.) on certain liquids obtained
         , artificial, on, ix. 229, 537; x. 171 ;    from caoutchouc, ix. 479 ; on the con
     optical phenomena of, ix. 288; x. 218.          stitution of the atmosphere, xi. 1 95 ;
  Cuba, bituminous coal of, x. 161 ; on the          on the sulphuretsof lime, xi. 195; xii.
     geology of Holguin in, xi. 17; coral             158, 397; notice relative to the theory
     rock of, xi. 31.                                of the winds, xi. 390.
  Cuckoo, remarks on the, v. 149; notice          Dana (Dr.) on the manufacture of sul
     of the, x. 305.                                 phuric acid, iii. 1 15.
  Cucubalus haccifcr, xii. 93.                    Danicll (G.) on the habits of bats, vi.
  Ctilclirite, viii. 261.                            388.
Cumberland, geological formation of the                  ( Prof. ) on a new register-pyrometer,
     mountains of, i. 229 ; coal-fields of, ix.      i. 197, 261 ; observations on voltaic
     501.                                            combinations, xi. 89; viii. 421 ; ix. 376;
  Cuming (Mr.) on new species of shells              xii. 364 ; on the water-barometer of the
     from South America, vi. 68, 387; vii.            Royal Society, i. 387 ; on a new oxy-
     153, 226, 227; ix. 136; on the earth            hydrogen jet, ii. 57 ; Copley medal
     quake of Valparaiso, Nov. 1822, viii.           awarded to, xii. 350.
     159.                                         Darwin (F.), geological notes made du
  Cunningham ( A.) on the physical and               ring a survey of the east and west
     geological structure of the country to          coasts of South America, viii. 156.
     the west of the Dividing Range be                    (C), on proofs of recent elevation
     tween Hunter's Kiver and Moreton                on the coast of Chili, xi. 100 ; on the
     Bay, New South Wales, vi. 146.                  deposits containing Mammalia in the
—— (P.) on the attractions of positive               neighbourhood of the Plata, xi. 206 ;
     and negative electric currents, viii. 550.      on areas of elevation and subsidence in
— (J.) on on improved mode of con                    tbe Pacific and Indian oceans, xi. 307 ;
     structing magnets, xi. 196.                     on the formation of mould, xii. 89; on
 Curtis (J.; on some nondescript species             the geology of South America, xii.
     of May-flies of anglers, iv. 120, 212;          516 ; on the connexion of certain vol
     on a new genus of the family Melo-              canic phenomena, xii. 584.
     lonthidac, vii. 224 ; on a moth found in     Daturia, iii. 464.
     the galls of a plant, vii. 224 ; " Guide     Dau (Dr. Luigi) on the practicability of
     to an Arrangement of British Insects,"          a north-west Arctic passage, xi. 194 ;
     xii. 202.                                       on the velocity of the wind, xi. 194.
 Cusconin, preparation of, xi. 335.               Daubeny (Prof.) on the strength of salt
 Cuscuta europxa, structure of, xii. 531.            springs, iv. 31 ; on certain phenomena
 Cusparia, from Angustura bark, iv. 154.             in vegetation, iv. 52; on the gases
 Cutch, on the geology of, xi. 107.                  disengaged from certain springs in
 Cuvier ( Baron), notice of, ii. 141; eu-            Bath, iv. 221, 225 ; on Dr. Ure's me.
    logiuin on, ii. 469.                             moir on the Moira brine spring, and on
                                                                         C

18                   CEXERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                 12 OP THE
  the proportion of bromine in the waters          ix. 484 ; on a voltaic battery charged
   of different seas "'• 321 ; account of          with solution of sulphate of copper,
  the eruption of Vesuvius in 1834, vi.            x. 244.
   374; on discoveries in volcanic strata,       Del llio ( A.) on Riolite and Herrerite,
   vii. 316; on the volatilization of mag           viii. 261.
   nesia by heat, vii, 406 ; on the action       Deluge, Greek traditions of the, iv. II 1 ;
  of light on plants, vii. 496 ; viii. 415;         v. 25.
   analysis of a mineral spring near Ox          Demonville on the diurnal variation of
   ford, vii. 518; circular to men of sci           the magnetic needle, xi. 194.
   ence relative to mineral waters, vii.         De Morgan (Prof.) on the relation be
   541 ; on Sir H. Davy's theory of vol-            tween the number of faces, edges, and
   canos, in reply to Dr. Davy, viii. 249 ;         corners in o solid polyhedron, xii.
   on the action of plants upon the at               323.
   mosphere, viii. 415.                          Denbighshire, Cefn caves in, i. 232.
Davidson (J. ), notice of, xii. 279.             Denham (Capt.) on the survey of the
Davidsonite, a new metal in, ix. 156,                Mersey and the Dee, vii. 487 ; on tl.e
   256.                                              vibration of railways, viii. 70.
Davies ( J.) on the spontaneous combus           Denmark, King of, bis encouragement
   tion of charcoal, iii. 89.                       of science, i. 16; on the geology of,
—— (T. S.) on Bernoulli's solution of               vii. 412; viii. 553; on some changes
   the problem of shortest twilight, iii.           of level which have taken place in, xi.
    179, 277 ; researches in spherical geo          309.
   metry, iii. 366 ; on the employment of        Density of liquids, on the, xii. 1.
   coordinates, &<•. in the determination        Derbyshire, on the geology of, iv. 66 ;
   of spherical loci, iii. 379 ; geometrical        on the limestone and gritstone district
   researches concerning terrestrial mag            of, ix. 173.
   netism, vi. 302; viii. 418.                   Deshayes (M.), the Wollaston Donation
Davy (Sir II. \ electro-chemical theory,             Fund awarded to, viii. 31 1.
   subsidiary hypothesis to, viii. 170.          Desprctz (M.) on the maximum density
         ( Dr.) on the torpedo, i. 67 ; vi. 57 ;     of liquids, xii. 1.
    on the recent volcano in the Meditcr*        Detection of foreign matters diffused in
    rancan, iii. 148 ; v. 453 ; note on, iii.        the atmosphere, on the, xi. 56.
    447 ; on the combinations of carbonic         Devonshire, geology of, ix. 495 ; x. 288;
    acid and ammonia, iii. 457 ; on the              xii. 510, 564 ; on the physical struc
    temperature of some fish, vi. 375 ;              ture of, xi. 311 ; on the subdivisions
    Prof. Faraday in reply to, vii. 337;             and geological relations of its old stra
    viii. 521 ; Dr. Daubeny's reply to,              tified deposits, xi. 315 ; Goniatites, xi.
    viii. 249.                                       317.
         (Prof.), experiments to prevent          Dew-point, on the, vi. 182; ix. 187, 39S;
    corrosion by sea- water, vii. S89 ; on           vii. 256, 266, 313, 409, 470; on the
    nicotin, vii. 393.                               deduction of the, from the indica
 Dawes (Rev. W. It. ), micrometrical                 tions of the wet-bulb thermometer, xi.
    measures of double stars, v. 302.                54.
 Dense and Simpson's discovery of the             Diamond, structure and origin of, iii.
     North-west passage, xii. 5 12.                  219; vii. 245; probability of being
 Death, on the nature of, iv. 360.                   made, ix. 230.
 DeCandolle (M.) on the conditions of             Diastase, its action on starch, x. 247.
    germination, reply to, viii. 491.             Diathermal bodies, transmission of calo
 Decomposition, chemical, effected by the            rific rays through, vii. 475.
    magneto-electric current, i. 161.             Diatomeaa, doubtful nature of the, xi.
        , electro-chemical, the nature and           389; siliceous envelopes of the, xi. 389;
     extent of, iv. 294.                              classification of, xi. 390.
 Decrepitation, on, ix. 316.                      Dickinson's (Commander) account of
 Dc la Beche (H. T.) on the anthracite               the recovery of the stores of the The
    found near Bideford, vi. 67 ; on the             tis, iv. 367.
     trappcan rocks with the new red sand         Didelphis hortensis, a new species of
     stone, vii. 513.                                opossum, xii. 215.
 De la Rive ( Prof.) on an optical pheno          Diffraction, experiments on, ix. 403.
     menon observed at Mont Blanc, xii.           Diffusion, gaseous, xi. 559.
     122; on the interference of electro          Dillenius (Prof.), notice of, viii. 424.
     magnetic currents, xii. 122.                 Dimorphism of baryto-calcite, vi. I ; of
 De la Rue (W.) on voltaic electricity,               chromate of lead, xii. 387.

          LOND. AND ED1N. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832 —1838.                            19
Diodontus insignis, D. gracilis, and D.        Dumas (M.) on pyroxylic spirit and
   corniger, habits of, xii. 16.                 methylene, vii. 427 ; on camphor, x.
Diomedea, the genus, vi. 387.                    420; on carbovinate and potash, xi.
Dioptric light, new, x. 176.                     320; on the constitution of some or
Diopsis, new species of, vii, 519.              ganic acids, xii. 381 ; on tartaric and
Diplodus gibbosus, xii. 86.                     paratartaric acids, xii. 605.
Dipus Mitchellii, a new species of Aus        Duniasine, on, xii. 108.
   tralian Rodent, xii. 96.                   Dunn (A.) on the atmosphere of his
Disinfecting properties of supporters of        white-lead manufactory, vii. 77.
   combustion, i. 386.                        Durand (H. M.) on the fossil jaw of a
D.-jota on tlie Rev. J. H. Pratt's de           gigantic quadrumanous animal, xi. 33.
   monstration of a proposition in the        Dutrochet's experiments on the respira
   " Mecanique Celeste," ix. 84.                tion of plants, xi. 536.
Dispersion of light, on the formula for       Dynamics, on a general method in, iv.
   the, ix. 11C ; theory of the, x. 221.        436; vi. 298.
Divergence of plants, ix. 17; the cause            , geological, xii. 517.
   of motion in plants, vii. 357.
Diving of aquatic birds, on the, i. 23.       EW. B. on the frequent deficiency
Diving animals, on their circulating or            • of the ungucal phalanx in the
    gans, vii. 502.                             orang outang, vii. 72 ; on the consoli
Diving-bell, used in raising the stores of      dation of the new red sandstone, vii.
   the Thetis, iv. 363, 367.                    515 ; note on Mr. Challis's paper on
Dcebereincr ( M.) on some new combina           capillary attraction, viii. 172; on the
    tions of platina, v. 150; ix. 314, 544;     silent flight of Musca vomitoria, x.
    method of obtaining spongy platina, x.      327.
    154.                                      Ear, on the anatomy and physiology of,
 Dog, wild, description of a, iv. 62, 378 ;     i. 375.
    want of sagacity in a, ix. 67.            Earnshaw (S.) on Prof. Moseley's prin
 Dollond (G.) on a concave achromatic           ciple of least pressure, iv. 89, 271 ; re
    lens adapted to the wired micrometer,       ply to, iv. 194, 420.
    iv. 364.                                  Earth, on the electro- and thermo-mng-
 Don (Prof.) on til e aestivation of certain    netism of the, i. 310; on the Caven
    plants, ii. 377; on some British ferns,     dish experiment for determining the
    iv. 310; on deviations from the ordi        mean density of, xii. 283.
    nary structure in Telopea spociocis-           , surface ofthe, on the probable effect
    simn, v. 70; descriptions of Indian         of the transfer of pressure from one part
     Gentianerc, viii. 75 ; on two species      to another of the, xi. 212 ; letter from
    of Pinus, viii. 255 ; on Nephrodium         Sir J. F. \V. Herschcl in explanation
    rigidum, viii. 255; on varieties of         of, xi. 214.
     Erica ciliaris and Tetralix, viii. 256 ;      , porcelain, composition of, x. 348.
     on two species of Conifers, x. 73.       Earthquake of Chili, viii. 74, 148; of
 Donium, a new metal, ix. 156; experi           Syria, xi. 204.
     ments on, ix. 255.                             waves, their effects on the coasts of
 Douay, Congres Scientifiques at, vii. 237.     the Pacific, viii. 181.
 Douglas (Mr.), observations on the west      Earthquakes at Chichester, vii. 208.
    ern coast of North America, xi. 91.            , theory of the cause of, xii. 584.
 Dove ( H. W.), outlines of a general the     Earth-worm, vegetable mould produced
     ory of the winds, xi. 227, 353.            by the digestive process of, xii. 89, 5 1 8.
 Dragon's-blood tree of Socotra, x. 226.      East India Company's present of their
 Draper ( I'rof.) on gaseous diffusion, xi.     herbarium to the Linna-an Society, i. 7 1 .
     559.                                     Eaubonne ( M. d') on the conservation of
 Drinkwater (Mr.) on the telescope, i. 9.       living plants, xi. 566t
 Drummond's light, on, viii. 233.             Eblanine, examination of, xii. 98.
 Dublin meeting of the British Associa        Echidna, remarks on the, v. 146.
    tion,
        , account
           vii. 289,of385.
                        the magnetical obser  Echini, subdivision of, vii. 328 ; mode of
                                                preserving, vii. 493.
     vatory at, xii. 1 19.                    Echinodermata, growth and bilateral sym
 Dudley coal-field, on the, x. 313.             metry of, v. 369.
 Dufresnoy (M. ), analysis of plomb-          Echoes, modifications of, vi. 32.
     gomme, ix. 75.                           Eclipse, solar, viii. 293,589,590; ofMay
  Dukhun, atmospheric tides and mete             15, 1836, ix. 73; x.180; remarkable
     orology of, vi. 59.                         phenomenon that occurs in, x. 230.
                                                                    C 2

20                      GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                 12 OF THE
Edinburgh Observatory, longitude of, xii.            trical balance, vii. 303,304; prismatic
    525.                                             decomposition of electrical light, vii.
 Edmonds ( R. ) on the meteor, June 29,              '2'.iy ; electric currents through platinum
    1 832, i. 306 -, on the visibility of stars by   wire, vii. 388 ; viii. 114, 130, 400, 421,
    day, iii. 238 ; on the mirage, viii. 169.        455, 550; on the conducting power of
 Education, scientific and general, viii.            flames and of heated air for, ix. 1 76 ; dif
    432.                                             ference between mechanical and galva
 Edwardsite, a new mineral, xii. 402.                nic, ix. 212; M.Nobili's discoveries in,
 Egerton (SirP.G.) on the ossiferous caves            ix.234; electro-pulsations and electro-
    of the Hartz and Franconia, v. 296;              momentum, ix. 1 32 ; voltaic, due to che
    on a stratum of recent marine shells in           mical action and not to contact, ix. 60 ;
     Cheshire, vii. 326; on Ichthyosauri,             on the construction of voltaic batteries,
    vii. 414 ; on the discovery of Ichthyo-           ix. 283; new electro-chemical pheno
     litcs in N. Staffordshire, vii. 517; ca          mena, ix. 53; electro-magnet, its feeble
     talogue of fossil fish, viii. 367 ; on the       attraction for small particles of iron, ix.
    peculiarities of structure in the cervical        72, 220, 287 ; electro.magnct and per
     region of the Ichthyosaurus, ix. 500.            manent magnet, certain differences be
 Egyptians, on the complexion of the, xii.            tween, ix. 81 ; conducting power of
     344.                                             iodine for, ix. 450 ; remarkable results
 Ehrenberg ( Dr. ), notice of his collections         of electro-magnetic experiments, ix.
     of dried Infusoria, and other micro              452 ; voltaic, ix. 484 ; xii. 225 ; con
     scopic objects, ix. 90; new discovery            ducting powers of wires for, xi. 192;
     in paleontology, ix. 158, 392 ; on the           researches into the cause of voltaic, xi.
     adulteration of carmine, xii. 462.               274 ; chemical composition of the elec
 Elastic bodies, on the collision of, viii. 65.       trical apparatus of the torpedo, xii. 226;
          fluids evolved from volcanos, iii.          current electricity, xii. 18, 293, 311,
     159; vibratory motion of, in tubes, iii.         539; electro-dynamic induction, xii. 18;
     235.                                             electro-magnetic currents, interference
           mediums, on the motion of small            of, xii. 122; magnetic contact-breaker,
     spherical bodies in, i. 40.                      xii. 18; electro-magnetic motive ma
 Elasticity of cast iron, i. 74 ; modulus of,          chines, on, iii. 1 90 ; researches relative
     ofgold, iii. 20.                                 to the torpedo, xii. 196; peculiar vol
  Electric spark from a natural magnet, on             taic conditions of iron and bismuth,
     an, currents,
           i. 49.      new instrument for mea          xii. 48 ; voltaic combination, xii. 364 ;
                                                       on the primary forces of, xii. 4S6 ; ca
     suring, iv. 293.                                  loric, and ponderable bodies, analogy
          storm, description of a, v. 418.             between, v. 110.
          action, on, v. 6.                         Electro- chemical theory of Sir H. Davy,
          light, duration of, vi. 61.                  subsidiary hypothesis to, viii. 1 70.
  Electrical iufluence, mathematical laws           Electro-magnet, its power to retain its
      of, ii. 350.                                     magnetism, iii. 1 22 ; curious properties
          kite, caution to experimenters with,         of, iii. 124.
      v. 317.                                       Electro-magnetism, vii. 231; of metal
  Electricity, x. 12, 57, 60, 63, 65, 93, 130,         liferous veins, iii. 16, 17; on certain
      133, 154, 171, 172, 175, 193,241,244,            experiments in, iii. 18; experimental
      267, 276, 280, 281, 317, 320, 326, 357,          researches in, iii. 145; on its applica
      358, 376, 425, 428, 433, 455 ; experi            tion to manufactures, vii. 305, 306.
      mental researches in, i. 61 ; iii. 38, 161,   Electro-magnetic rotation, viii. 521 ; ba
      253, 353, 449, 460; v. 161, 252, 33-1,           lance, x. 358; machines, x. 12, 455.
      424, 456; vi. 3-1, 125, 171, 272, 331,                       conducting powers of wires,
      410; vii. 41 1, 421 ; xii. 206, 358, 426,        xi. 1.
      430 ; of the torpedo, i. 67 ; on the the      Electro-motive battery, a new, i. 48.
      ory of magnetic, ii. 201, 366 ; the velo      Electrophorus, on a modification of Vol-
      city of, iii. 81 ; theory of thermo-elec          ta's, ii. 363.
       tricity, iii. 205, 262; recent discoveries   Elevation, on the parallelism of contem
       in, iv. 291; on certain phenomena of,            poraneous lines of, iv. 404.
      iv. 340 ; on some elementary laws of, iv.     Elliptical polarization, cause of, xii. 10.
       436 ; of tourmaline, v. 1 33 ; experiments   Emetine, preparation of, xi. 165.
       to measure the velocity of, vi. 61 ; its in  Emmctt (Lieut.-Col.) on the carbonic
       fluence in germination, vi. 157 ; vindi          acid in the atmosphere, xi. 225; me
       cation of l'rof. Faraday's discoveries, vii.     teorological observations made at Ber
       421 ; electrical attraction, vii. 304 ; elec     muda in 1836-37, and notice of an au-

         LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                           1838.      21
  fora borealis seen in low latitudes, xii.      Euphorbiaceo! and Aselepiadea?, milk-
  42.                                              vessels of the, xi. 520.
Km men (Prof.) on the preparation of             Eupion and paraffin, on, i. 402.
   formic acid, xi. S99-                         Europe, experiments made in, xi. 254 ;
F.namel, art of painting in, x. 442.               on the diurnal inequality wave on the
Kncke's comet, observations of, i. 287;            coasts of, xi. 195.
   v. 304.                                       Evaporation, explanation of, ii. 354.
Encke ( Prof. ) on Olbers's method of de         Everitt (Thos.)on the reaction of ferro-
   termining the orbits of comets, vii. 7,         cyanuret of potassium and dilute sul
    1 23, 203, 280.                                 phuric acid, and on preparing hydro
Knharmonic organ, vii. 366.                         cyanic acid from ferrocyanuret of po
Entomological Society, v. 236 ; vii. 420.           tassium and sulphuric acid, vi. 101 ;
Entomology :—a new genus of Milo-                   ceconomical means of obtaining pure
    lonthido.', vii. 224 ; a species of moth        salts of manganese, vi. 193.
    found in the galls of a plant, vii. 224 ;    Exley (T.) on Mossotti's theory of phy
    new Hymenoptera, vii. 228 ; x. 440 ;            sics, xi. 496.
    descriptions of new species of Diopsis,      Expansion of solids, new register-pyro
    vii. 519; compound eyes of insects,             meter for measuring, i. 1 97, 26 1 .
    viii. 202 ; on the yellow fly, viii. 347 ;   Eye, effect of compression and dilatation
    " Samouelle's Us -ful Compendium,"              on the retina of the, i. 89 ; on a new
    viii. 412; undescribed species of Ara-         membrane of the, i. 113; iii. 87; ex
    neidte, viii. 481 ; x. 100; harvest-bug,        periments on the effect of light on the
    ix.15; Aphrophora Goudoti, ix. 139;             retina, i. 255; on certain changes of
     lulus Seychellarum, Desj., ix. 140 ; re        colour in the choroid coat of, iii. 289 ;
    spiration of insects, ix. 532 ; voluntary       blood-vessels of the, iv. 115, 354 ; in
    sounds of insects, x. 327 ; on the tempe        fluence of successive impulses of light
    rature of insects, xi. 189 ; on the sup         on, iv. 241 ; vascular spectrum of the,
    posed production of insects, xi. 551 ;          iv. 262 ; on the spectra of the, v. 1 92 ;
     a'cononiy of several species of Hyme           unusual affection of the, vi. 281 ; cu
     noptera, xii. 14; on the family of Ful-        rious facts respecting vision, vi. 109 ; of
     goridre, xii. 93 ; Curtis's " Guide to         the Sepia Loligo, viii. 1 ; crystalline
     an Arrangement of British Insects,"            lens, viii. 193, 195, 416 ; symmetrizing
     xii. 202; several new species of in            power of the, x. 234, 370; polarizing
     sects of the family of sacred beetles,         structure in the crystalline lens after
     xii. 441.                                       death, xii. 22 ; on cataract, xii. 25.
  Knlozoa of the human subject, vii. 506;         Eyes of animals, on the, iv. 14 ; com
     in the stomach of the tiger, xi. 128.           pound, of insects, viii. 202.
  Entozoon, new species of, vi. 452.
  Enys (J. S.) on the granite near Penryn,        FW.             Optical experiment, viii.
     ii. 321, 483.                                      • 168.
  liquations, on the roots of, ii. 60, 220;       Fairbairne (Mr.) on hot- and cold-blast
     iii. 417; interesting case in, v. 188;          cast iron, xi. 556.
     of the fifth degree, vii. 202; viii. 538 ;   Fairholme (G.) on the spider's power to
     ix. 28 ; xii. 1 16 ; numerical, vii. 384;       escape from an isolated situation, i.
     transformation of, vii. 478 ; congene           424; on a species of natural microme
     ric surd, viii. 43 ; algebraic, viii. 402 ;     ter, &c, ii. 64 ; on the nature of coal,
     new method of solving, xi. 239.                 and mode of deposition of coal strata,
  Equilibrium of fluids, on, xii. 385.               iii. 245; on the Falls of Niagara, v.l 1.
  Equinoctial gates, on, viii. 187.               Falconer (Dr.) on the Sivatherium gi-
  Equivalents of potash, soda, and silver,           ganteum, ix. 193, 277; on a fossil
      on, xii. 324.                                  monkey from the tertiary strata of the
  Erdmann (M.) on the oxalhydric acid of             Sewalik hills, xi. 393 ; on additional
      M. Guerin, xi. 142.                            fossil species of Quadrumana from the
  Eriogonea?, on the, vi. 379.                        Sewalik hills, xii. 34.
  Escholzia californica, juice of, vi. 77.        Fallows ( Rev. F. ), memoir of the, i. 234.
  Essex (Alfred) on the art of painting in        Faraday ( Prof.) on M. Negro's magneto-
      enamel, x. 442.                                electric experiments, i. 45 ; on experi
  Ethal, on, ix. 154.                                mental researches in electricity, i. 61 ;
  Ettrick ( VV. ) on the solar eclipse of May        iii. 38, 161, 253, 353, 449, 460; v.
      15, 1 836, and on the aurora borealis of        161, 252, 334, 424, 456; vi. 34, 125,
       April 22, ix. 73.                              171, 272,334,410; vii. 411; viii. 114;
   Eulima, notes on the genus, iv. 456.               xii. 206, 358, 426, 430, 538 ; on the

22                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1              12 OF THE
   identity of electricity, &c, ii. HI 2; on   Fitch (R.) on the coralline crag, vii.
   the prevention of the dry-rot, ii. 313;        463.
   on holding the breath for a lengthened      Fitton's (Dr.) notes on the history of
   period, iii. 211; discoveries in mag           English geology, i. 147, 268, 442 ; ii.
   neto-electric induction, on, iv. 1 1 ; re      37 ; notice on the section of the coast
  cent discoveries in electiicity, iv. 291 ;      near Hastings, iv. 49 ; on the Portland
  on the magneto-electric spark and               and 1'urbeck strata, vii. 323.
  shock, v. 349, 444 ; reply to Dr. Davy,     Flame from coal-gas, phenomena of, vii.
   vii. 337 ; M. PoggendorfF on his dis           404.
   coveries, vii. 421 ; royal medal award     Flames, chemical, spectra of, ix. 3 ; gal
  ed to, viii. 150 ; on the magnetic rela        vanic, spectra of, ix. 4 ; conducting
  tions and characters of inetals, viii.         power of, for electricity, ix. 176.
   179; on a supposed new sulphate and        Flamingo, anatomy of, ii. 71.
  oxide of antimony, viii. 470 ; on the       Flamstced and Newton, viii. 139, 211,
  condensation of the gases, in reply to          218,225.
   Dr. Davy, viii. 521 ; on a peculiar vol    Flint-glass, on the reflection at the se
  taic condition of iron, ix. 57, 122 , on       cond surface of, at incidences of total
  the causes of the neutrality of iron in         reflection, i. 57.
  nitric acid, x. 175.                        Floating bodies, motion of, vii. 302.
Farish (Prof.), notice of, xii. 437.          Flower, structure of the, ii. 125.
Farquharson (Rev. J.) on the ice formed       Fluids, elastic :—evolved from volcanos,
  at the bottom of running water, vii.           iii. 159 ; vibratory motion of in tubes,
  137.                                           iii. 235 ; atomic constitution of, v. 33;
Farrc ( Dr.) on the structure of Polypi,         specific heat of, vii. 385.
  xi. 189.                                           , on the resistance of, vii. 302 ; mo
Feathers, process for taking impressions         lecular forces of, viii. 89.
  from, xii. 451.                                    , aeriform, specific heats of, xii. 101 .
Fcdia, on the species of, vi. 380.            Fluorine, on, ix. 107, 149 ; xii. 105.
Felis marmorata, a new species, x. 481 ;              and chlorine, combinations of chro -
  F. Darwinii, on the, xii. 213.                 mium with, ix. 151.
Fellcnberg (M.), method of dissolving         Fluor spars, muriatic acid in, v. 76.
  iridium, xii. 141.                          Fog-bow, on a singular, ii. 151.
Fermentation, vinous, acetous, and pu         Fogs, low, and stationary clouds, xii. 355.
  trefactive, ix. 535.                        Foibes (Prof.) on an electric spark from
       of sugar of milk, xii. 139; action        a natural magnet, i. 49 ; on the relative
  of, on a mixture of oxygen and hydro           positions of Chamouni and the con
  gen gases, xii. G07.                           vent of St. Bernard, ii. 61 ; on the pro
Ferns, on the structure of, iv. 253 ; re         gress of meteorology, iii. 131 ; on cer
  marks on some British, iv. 310.                tain vibrations in metallic masses hav
Ferrocyanuret of potassium and dilute            ing diflerent temperatures, iii. 303 ; iv.
  sulphuric acid, on the reaction of, vi. 97.     15, 182; on the electricity of tourma
Ferussac ( Baron), notice of, x. 310.            line, v. 133 ; on the refraction and po
Fever, use of chloride of soda in, viii. G4.     larization of heat, vi. 134, 205, 284,
Fibres of cotton, form of, vi. 170, 231.         366 ; vii. 349 ; xi. 542 ; xii. 545 ; on
Fielding (G. H.) on a new membrane of            the undulatory theory of heat, viii.
  the eye, i. 113 ; iii. 87 ; on the struc       246 ; the Keith prize awarded to, viii.
  ture of the eyes of animals, iv. 14.           424 ; on the mathematical form of the
Figures of vibrating surfaces, iii. 144.          Gothic pendent, viii. 449 ; on the tem
Fish, on the classification of, v. 459;          peratures of certain hot springs, and on
  temperature of some, vi. 375 ; notes on        the verification of thermometers, viii.
  various species of, ix. 67, 1 39, 140, 352,    551 ; on the supposed origin of the de
  391, 490, 507 ; mode of preservation,          ficient rays in the solar spectrum, ix.
  ix. 391 ; fossil, xii. 86.                     522 ; on the physical development of
Fisher (W.W.), account of a case of spina        man, x. 197 ; on the ascent of moun
  bifida, x. 316, 486.                           tains, x. 261 ; on terrestrial magnetic
       (Rev. G.) on the nature and ori           intensity, xi. 58, 166, 254, 363; on
  gin of the aurora borealis, vi. 59.            the magnetic dip, xi. 370 ; on meteors,
Fishes, collection of, from Madeira, iv.         xii. 85.
  380; of the river Quoira, vii. 64 ; of      Forchammer (G.) on changes of level
  the island of Katlilin, vii. 492 ; fossil      which have taken place in Denmark,
  beaks of four extinct species of, viii. 4 ;    xi. 309.
  fossil, viii. 72, 366.                      Forests, subterranean, iv. 282.

           LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832— 1838.                                  23
  Formic acid, preparation of, iii. 313; ar.             on the process by which mineral veins
    tificial preparation of, xi. 399.                    have been filled, xi. 203; on the tem
•        and acetic acid, difference between,            perature of some mines in Cornwall
    iii. 73.                                             and Devonshire, xi. 520.
         acid and ulmin, conversion of sugar          Fractions, vanishing, viii. 295,393, 515;
    into, vi. 399.                                       theory of, ix. 18, 92, 209.
 Forster's (Capt.) pendulum experiments,              Francis (W.)on the motion of certain Po-
    on, iv. 230.                                         lygaslrica,xi.448; notice ofWiegmamrs
  Forster (Edward) on the Esula major                    " Ilcrpt-tologin Mexicana," viii. 410.
    Gtrinanica of Lobe], x. 71.                       Freshwater formation in the Pyrenees,
  Fossils : —remains in the limestone near               on a, iv. 376.
     Edinburgh, iv. 77; zoology, on, ii.              Fresnel's law of double refraction, viii.
    473; plants, ii. 475 ; vii. 487; fruits,             104, 248 ; x. 43 ; theory of double re
    iii. 76 ; bone caverns, iii. 237 ; col               fraction, on, x. 24 ; optical theory of
    lected in Cutch, v. 217; fossil wax,                 crystals, analytical reduction of, xi.
     v. 316; scales, analysis of, vii. 396;              462 ; xii. 73, 259, 341 ; wave-surface,
     wood, veins of crystallized carbonate               method of finding the equation to, xii.
    of lime in, vii. 76"; Polyparia, vii.             „SM-         .                              •
     483; fossil fish, v. 461 ; vii. 485;             Freyer (Lieut.)' on the elevation of land
     viii. 72 ; trees, vii. 487 ; Crustacea and          on the coast of South America, vii. 318.
     Radiata, vii. 517; genera Pseudam-               Fritsche's experiments on pollen, xi. 165.
     monites and Ichthyosiagonites, ix.32;            Frog, contractions of the, xii. 197.
     Sivathcrium gigantcum, ix. 1 93, 277 ;           Fruit.'structure of, ii. 1 29.
     remains, ix. 244, 352, 354, 386, 490,            Fulgoridic, on the, xii. 93.
     49S ; wood, ix. 499 ; of the London              Fumar acid, composition of, xi. 164.
     clay, ix. 462; beaks of the Chima?ra,            Functions, calculus of, on a paradox in,
     viii. 4; catalogue of fo.-.sil fish, viii. 366 ;    ix. 3H4, 443.
     vertebra; of fish, viii. 557 ; vegetable         Fungi, hymenium of, x. 492.
     remains, viii. 574 ; jaw of a gigantic            Furs, method of dressing, so as to pre
    quadrumanous animal, xi. 33; fossil                   serve their colour, 4c, iii. 297.
     monkey, xi. 393; ferns, xii. 95; fishes          Fusion of metals, i. 202.
     in the Lancashire coal-field, xii. 86 ;           Fuss's (M. G.) magnetical and meteoro
     Quadrumana, xii. 34.                                 logical observations at Pekin, i. 130.
  Foster (Capt.), account of, i. 238.                  Fyfe (Dr.) on the use of sulphate of cop
  Fourier (M.) on an error in his " Ana                   per for exciting voltaic electricity, xi.
     lyse des Equations," xi. 38.                         145 ; on the employment of iron in the
  Fox of the Himalayan mountains, x. 304.                 construction of voltaic batteries, xi.
   Fox (C.) on the construction of skew                   150.
     arches, viii. 249 ; on the oblique arch,
     x. 167.                                           Gon a property of the parabola, x.
          (K. W.) on the magnetic needle,                     • 32.
     and the electro-magnetism of the                  Gadolinite, analysis of, vii. 430; xi. 143.
     earth, i. 310; on the igneous hypo                Gaging, on the art of, iv. 326.
      thesis of geologists, i. 338 ; on a ma           Gahn's blowpipe, modification of, xi. 58.
      rine deposit in theclifls near Falmouth,         Gale (Dr.) on Prof. Mitchell's method
      i. 471 ; sketch of the granite district             of preparing carbonic oxide, vi. 232.
      near Penryn, ii. 322 ; on an instru              Galictis, on the genus, xii. 529.
      ment for ascertaining various proper             Gallic acid, on, xi. 323 ; speedily prepared,
      ties of terrestrial magnetism, iv. 81 ;             vi. 319; formation of, xi. 163.
      on magnetic attraction and repulsion,            Galloway (T.) on the solar eclipse, May
      v. 1 ; on electrical action, v. 6; elec              15, 1836. viii. 589.
       trical relations of metals and metalli          Galvanic shock-multiplier, on the, xi.
      ferous minerals, vi. 300; on the abs                460.
      ence of magnetism in cast iron in fu             Galvanism :— spectra of galvanic flames,
      sion, vii. 388 ; on the lawsof magnetic              ix. 3 ; galvanic pile, its application to
       attraction, vii. 439; on the magnetic               chemical substances under the micro
       forces, viii. 108 ; on the change in                scope, ix. 13; difference between gal
       the chemical character of minerals in               vanic and mechanical electricity, ix.
       duced by galvanism, ix. 228 ; on the                212; change in the chemical character
       formation of mineral veins, ix. 387 ;               of minerals by, ix. 228; new galvanic
       results of his experiments on the pro               battery, ix. 472.
       duction of artificial crystals, x. 171;          Galvanometer, its efficiency for determi-

24                     GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1            ['2 OF THE
   ningthe conducting power of wires, xi.        on fossil zoology, ii. 473 ; on the*
   8 ; on a thermoscopic, xi. 378.               chemistry of, iii. 20; of Northum
Gambart's comet, observations of, i. 287.        berland and Durham, iii. 28, 92, 20O,
Gardner (Mr.) on the structure of the            273 ; discovery of coal-measures and
   wood of palms, xi. 553.                       fossil fruits in Leicestershire, iiL 76,
Garner (It.) on the anatomy of the la-           1 1 2 ; of the environs of Bonn, iii, 220 ;
   mellibranchiate conchiferous animals,         sedimentary deposits of Shropshire,
   ix. 224.                                      Herefordshire, See., iii. 224 ; fossil-
Garnet in the millstone-grit, vi. 76.            bone caverns, iii. 237 ; on the nature
Gaseous combination, action of metals in         of coal, and on the mode of deposition
   determining, vi. 354.                         of the coal strata, iii. 245; on the Squa-
        interference, on, ix. 324.               lo-raia Dolichognathos, iii. 369 ; or
Gases, on the law of the diffusion of, ii.       ganic remains iii. 369,371; vii. 483.
   1 75, '269, 35 1 ; from springs at Bath, on,  485, 4S7 ; viii. 577 ; ix. 462 ; x. 402 ;
   iv. 221, 225; action of, on vegetation,       on the osseous cave of Santo Ciro, iii.
   iv. 816; on Mr. Graham's law of the           371; report on the science of, iv. 427 ;
   diffusion of, iv. 321 ; from springs near     on the Falls of Niagara, v. 1 1 ; on the
   Vesuvius, vii. 316' ; specific heats of,      future extension of the English coal
   viii. 21 ; condensation of, viii. 521 ;       fields, v. 44 ; discovery of bones of the
   contained in the blood, xii. 300 ; oxy        Iguanodon, v. 77; on the stratification
   gen and hydrogen, action of fermenta          of Derbyshire, v. 121 ; on the quan
   tion on, xii. 507.                            tity of solid matter suspended in the
Gasteropoda, new genus of, v. 312.               Rhine, v. 211, 223; geology of Read
Gastric juice of dogs, composition of, ix.       ing, v. 212; on the Temple of Scrapie
    148.                                         at Pozruoli, v. 213; views respecting
Gaudichaud (M.)on the circulation of             geological cycles, v. 215; variations of
   the sap in Cissus hydrophura, xi. 525.        temperature in a thermal springat Mal
Gaudin (M.) on the artificial production         low, v. 216 ; on tin' delta of Kander,
   of rubies, xi. 563.                           v. 216; fossils collected in Cutch, v.
Gauss (Prof.) on terrestrial magnetism,          217 ; on the gravel and alluvial depo
    ii. 991.                                     sits of Hereford, Salop, and Worcester,
 Gay Lussac (M.) on the purification of          v. 217; notice of the coast from Whit-
   carbonate of soda, v. 3 1 6 ; on the assay    6table to the North Foreland, v. 219;
   of silver, vii. 425 ; on the decomposi        on the ravines, passes, and fractures in
    tion of carbonate of lime by heat, x.         the Mendip hills, v. 220 ; on the ter
    496 ; on siliceous and calcareous pro         tiary formation ofMurcia, v. 220 ; geo
    ducts, xi. 403.                               logy of the Bermudas, v. 222; on the
Gentianea?,descriptionsof Indian, viii. 75.      organic remains in the lias series of
 Gentianin, on, xii. 221.                         Yorkshire, v. 222 ; on certain trap
Geoflroy St. Hilaire ou the mammary              rocks in Salop, 8tc, v. 225, 292 ; ob
    glands of the Ornithorhynchus, iii. 60,       servations on wells dug at Diss and
    62 ; iv. 54.                                  Hampstead, v. 295 ; on the ossiferous
 Gcoghegiiii (Prof.) on muriatic acid in          caves of the Haru and Franconia, v.
    hydrocyanic acid, vii. 400.                   296; on the occurrence of freshwater
 Geological Society, proceedings of, ii.         shells beneath the gravel, v. 297 ; on
    147,300,466; iii. 42, 219, 368; iv.          subterranean temperature, v. 446; geo
    48, 147, 225,370, 441; v. 53, 211,           logical distribution of fossil fish, v.
    292, 459; vi. 63, 146, 312, 376; vii.         461 ; saurian bones found in the rnag-
   52,212,316,412,513; viii. 71, 156,             nesian conglomerate, v. 463; geologi
    310; ix. 382, 489; x. 68, 136, 306,          cal survey of the United States, v.
    388, 471 ; xi. 98, 201,307, 390; xii.         466 ; on the raised beach near Hope's
    86, 284, 433, 508, 564.                       Nose, Devonshire, vi. 63 ; on the cen
        , anniversary meetings of, ii. 466; iii.  tral and western portions of N. Ame
    42; iv. 442; v. 53; vii. 54, 142, 212;        rica, vi. 64 ; on the anthracite found
    x. 308, 388 ; xii. 434.                       near Bidcford, vi. 67 ; fossil plants, vi.
 Geological Society of Cornwall, vi. 153.         67 ; viii. 574 ; on the physical and geo
 Geology : — notes on the history of En           logical structure of the country to the
    glish, i. 147, 268, 442 ; ii. 37 ; of the     west of the Dividing Range, between
    south-east coast of Newcastle in Aus          Hunter's River and Morcton Bay,
    tralia, i. 92 ; on the igneous hypothe        New South Wales, vi. 146; land and
    sis in, i. 338; on recent deposits, ii.       freshwater shells found with bones of
     470 ; on tertiary deposits, ii. 472 ;        land quadrupeds, vi. 149; bones of

      l.OND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                       1838.      25
animals discovered in the calcareo-         quake waves on the coasts of the Pa
magnesian conglomerate, vi. 149; on         cific, viii. 181; on physical geology, viii,
the proofs of a gradual rising of the       227, 272, 357 ; catalogue of fossil fish,
land in Sweden, vi. 297 ; on the chalk      viii. 366 ; geological relations of cer
and flint of Yorkshire, vi. 313 ; on an     tain hot springs, viii. 551 ; geology of
outlying basin of lias on the borders of    Denmark, viii. 553; occurrence of
Salop and Cheshire, and account of         fossil vertebra? of fish in the loess of
the lower lias between Gloucester and       the Rhine, viii. 557; selenite in the
Worcester, vi. 314; general view of the     sands of the plastic clay, viii. 558 ;
new red sandstone series, in the coun      transportation of rocks by ice, viii.
ties of Salop, Stafford, Worcester, and     558 ; syenite veins which traverse the
 Gloucester, vi. 315 ; coal tracts in Sa    mica slate of Antrim, viii. 559; geo
lop, Worcestershire, and N. Glou           logical structure of Pembrokeshire,
 cestershire, vi. 376 ; on the gold-work    viii. 561 , on the gravel and alluvia of
 ings formerly conducted in the county      S. Wales and Siluria, viii. 566; on a
 of Wirklow, vii. 1 ; advance of land in   patch of red and variegated marls, viii.
the Persian Gulf, vii. 40, 192, 250;       571 ; on the streams of sea water in
 Silurian system of rocks, vii. 46, 483 ;  the island of Cephalonia, viii. 573 ; on
 proceeds of the Wollaston fund pre        the caves of Ballybunian, viii. 54" ;
 sented to Mr. Mantel], vii. 52; veins     remains of mammalia found in the Se-
 of crystallized carbonate of lime in      walik mountains, viii. 575; on the os
 fossil wood, vii. 76 ; crag-formation     siferous cavern of Yealm Bridge, *iii.
 and its organic remains, vii. 81, 353,    579 ; fossil genera Pseudammonites
 463, 464; viii. S8, 138, 529; x. 1 ;      and Ichthyosiagonites, ix. 32; carboni
 geology of Norfolk, vii. 171, 274, 353,   ferous series of North America, ix,
 370; discoveries in the volcanic strata,  124, 407 ; geology of Manchester, ix.
 vii. 316; on the elevation of land in      157; the Stvatherium giganteum, ix.
 South America, vii. 318 ; marine shells    193, 277; xi. 208; xii. 40; on the
 at Elie, Fifeshire, vii. 318; Shrews      limestones found in the vicinity of
 bury, and in Cheshire, vii. 326, 516 ;    Manchester, ix. 241, 348; grants of
 at Marley Bank, ix. 497; diluvium of      money for the advancement of geology,
 Fincldey, vii. 319; structure of rocks,   ix. 312; on the beds immediately above
 vii. 320, 376, 445; on the Portland       the chalk near London, ix. 356 ; geo
and Purbeck strata, vii. 323 ; ichthy-     logy of Coalbrooke Dale, ix. 382; x.
olites of Gamrie, vii, 325; coralinc crag  311; formation of mineral veins, ix,
 of Rnmsholt and Orford, vii. 463 ; cre    387 ; x. 394 ; on the Silurian and other
 taceous and tertiary strata of the island rocks of the Dudley and Wolverhamp
 of Seeland and Moe'n, vii. 412; pecu      ton coal-field, ix. 489; on the part of
 liarity of structure in the neck of Ich   Devonshire between the Ex and Berry
 thyosauri, vii. 414; ix. 500; of North    Head and the coast and Dartmoor, ix.
 Salop and Staffordshire, vii. 415; geo    495; notice on Maria Island, ix. 496;
 logical map of Ireland, vii. -ISO; on     on the upper' lias and marlstone of
 the granite of Cavan, vii. 482 ; on the   Yorkshire, ix. 497 ; tooth of a masto
 Silurian and Cambrian systems, vii.       don, ix. 499 ; remarks on fossil woods,
 483 ; viii. 561 ; of Spain, vii. 435 ;    ix.499; on the coal-fields on the N. W.
 newly discovered tertiary deposit, vii.   coast of Cumberland, ix. 501 ; on ter
 486 ; application of physical science to  tiary deposits, x. 1 ; anchor found at
 geological researches, vii. 489; trap-    Seaton, x. 10; geology of Asia Mi
 pean rocks with new red sandstone, vii.   nor, x. 68 ; on changes in the level of
 513; f ssil Crustacea and ltadiata,       sea and land in the west of Scotland,
 vii. 517; discovery of Ichthyolites, vii. x. 136; distribution of organic re-
 517; bones of birds found in Tilgate      mains on the Yorkshire coast, x. 137 ;
  Forest, vii. 518; geology of West Nor    on a vein of bituminous coal in Cuba,
 folk, viii. 28 ; of fossil fishes in the  x. 161 ; composition of porcelain earth,
  new red sandstone, viii. 72; on the      x. 348; on the carboniferous series of
 gradual sinking of the west coast of      New York and Pennsylvania, x. 365 ;
  Greenland, viii. 73 ; earthquake of      proofs of modern elevation and subsi
  Chili, viii, 74 ; notes made during a    dence, x. 397; on hills of gn.vcl con
 survey of the east and west coasts of     taining marine shells, ix. 497 ; x, 471 ;
 S. America, viii. 156; effects produced   of the Thracian Bosphorus, x. 473 ;
 at Valparaiso by the earthquake of        on some impre-s'ons in sandstone, x,
  Nov. 1822, viii. 159 ; effects of earth  474 ; silicified trunks of trees in new
                                                                D

2(i                    GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1               12 OF THE
    red sandstone, i. 475 ; raised beach in        remarkable dykes of calcareous grit.
    Barnstaple bay, x. 477 ; fossil jawof a        xii. 584 ; on the dislocation of the tail
    gigantic quadrumanous animal, xi. 1 ;          of many Ichthyosauri, xii. 590.
    geology of Holguin in Cuba, xi. 17;          Geometry, spherical researches in, iii.
    colouring matter of the greensand for           366 ; analytical, xii. 602.
    mation, xi. 3d ; mountain of La Silla,       Geometrical scries, analytical theorems
    xi. 25 ; coral rock of Cuba, xi. 31 ;           relating to, vi. 196.
    elevation of the strata on the coast of      Gergonne's " Annates de Mathema-
    Chili, xi. 08, 100; a deposit containing        tiques," a theorem from, ix. 100.
    land-shells at Gore Cliff, xi. 10.S; a       German silver, analysis of, viii. 80.
    trap dyke in the Penrhyn slate quar          Germination, influence of electricity in,
    ries, xi. 103; the strata usually termed        vi. 157; conditions of, viii. 491 ; che
    plastic clay, xi. 104 ; geology of Suf          mical changes in seed during, ix.
     folk, xi. 106; keuper sandstone of the         536.
     new red sandstone formation, xi. 106 ;      Gibraltar Scientific Society, viii. 256.
     geology of the Cotentin and Cher            Gieseck£ (Sir C), notice of, iv. 445.
    bourg, xi. 107 ; of Cutch, xi. 107 ;         Gigantic animal, fossil jaw of a, xi. 33.
    physical features of Suffolk, xi. 1 1 1 ; on Gilks ( U m. ) on the aurora borealis, Oct.
     Saunton Downend and Baggy Point,                11, 1836, x.77.
    xi. 117; occurrence of Anatifn vitrea        Gill (Thos. ) on the fibres of flax and
    on the Irish coast, xi, 135; ancient            cotton, vi. 231.
    state of the North American conti            Giraffe, account of the capture of the,
     nent, xi. 201 ; of Smyrna, xi. 202 ; de        ix. 144,512.
     posits containing Mammalia, xi. 206 ;       Giraud (H.) on teriodide of chromium,
     remains of a quadrumanous animal,              xii. 321.
    xi. 208 ; on some elevations of the          Glass, action of high pressure steam on,
    coast of Banffshire, xi. 209 ; a ter            v. 297 ; action of sulphate of ammo
    tiary deposit near Lixouri, xi. 209;            nia on, xii. 608; enamel, x. 444;
    of the coast of Normandy, xi. 210; a            painting, ix- 456; x. 443; on the art
    well at Beaumont green, in Hereford,            of, ix. 456.
     xi. 215; affinity of fossil scales offish   Glauherite, action of heat on, i. 417.
     with those of recent Salmonidre, xi.        Glen Roy, on the parallel roads of, vii-
     300; an elevation and subsidence in            433.
     the Pacific and Indian oceans, xi. 307;     Gloucestershire, on the upper formations
     changes of level in Denmark, xi. 309;          of the new red system in, xi. 318.
     physical structure of Devonshire, xi.       Goat, wild, description of, vi. 225.
     31 1 ; upper formations of the new red      Gbttingen, new magnetical observatory
     system in Gloucestershire, Worcester           at, v. 344.
     shire, and Warwickshire, xi. 318; fos       Gold, modulus of elasticity of, iii. 20 ;
     sil monkey, xi. 393 ; geological phe           on the iodi'les of, ix. 266.
     nomena in Christiania, xi. 555 ; fossil     — workings of Wicklow, Ireland, vii.
     quadrumana, xii. 34 ; fossil fishes in          I.
     the Lancashire coal-field, xii. 86; of       Goose, Sandwich Island, v. 233.
      Zante, xii. 87; on the formation of         Gopher-wood of the Scriptures, on, iii.
      mould, xii. 89; on a hitherto unob             103 ; iv. 178, 280 ; v. 244 ; vi. 401.
     served structure in certain trap-rocks,      Gore Cliff, on a deposit containing land-
     xii. 106 ; on the phtenomena of mine            shells at, xi. 103.
      ral veins, xii. 125; unity of the coal      Gothic architecture, progress of, vi. 395.
      deposits of England, xii. 127; on in               pendent, on the, viii. 449.
      dications of recentelevations in Guern      Gould (C.) description of a new object
      sey and Jersey, xii. 284 ; on the great        for the microscope, iii. 318.
      basaltic district of India, xii. 286; de            (J*), descriptions of various birds
      scriptive geology, xii. 50S ; geological       in the collection of the Zoological So
      dynamics, xii. 517 ; theory of volcanos,       ciety, ix. 60. 142, 227, 522 ; x. 287,
      xii. 533 ; theory of volcanic pharno-          290, 293, 295; xii. 215, 4i4, 527, 59G,
      menu, xii. 576, 5S4 ; of Devonshire,           598.
      xii. 510, 565; of Maxunderan, xii, 571 ;    Gradients on railways, viii. 51, 97, 243.
      of the Birmingham and Gloucester            Graham (Prof.) on the law of the dif
      railway line, xii. 573; insulated masses       fusion of gases, ii. 175, 269, 351 ; iv.
      of silver, xii. 578; peat bogs and sub         321 ; on the arseniales, phosphates,
      marine forests of Bourne Mouth Val             and modifications of phosphoric acid,
       ley, xii. 579 ; of Asia Minor, xii. 581 ;     iii. 451, 459; reply to Mr. Phillips

          LOXD. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                       1838.      '27
    on the use of chemical symbols, iv.       Griesselicb (M.) on the glands in the
    106, 402 ; Mr. Phillips's answer, iv.        leaves of Labiate, xi. 530.
    246 ; on phosphuretted hydrogen,          Griffin (D. ) on an unusual affection of
    v. 401 ; on water as a constituent of       the eye, vi. 281.
    salts, vi. 327, 417 ; on certain com.     Griffith (R.) on the syenite veins which
    pounds with water, vii. 400; on the         traverse the mica slate of Antrim, viii
    water of crystallisation of soda-alum,      559.
    ix. 26 ; on the constitution of salts,    Griffiths (Mrs.) on the vision of the re
    x. 216; xi. 397.                            tina, iv. 43 ; on the spectra of the eye
Granite, mode of working near Penrhyn,          and seat of vision, v. 192.
    ii. 321, 322.                             Guerin (M.) on potatoe starch, viii. 586.
Grant (Capt.) on the geology of Cutch,        Gum, action of chlorine on.ii. 405.
    xi. 107.                                  Gums, analysis of, ii. 234, 244.
— (T. T.) on protecting iron from
    the action of salt water, viii. 128.      HADFIELD (W.) on the circum-
Graves (Dr.) on the use of chloride of                stances producing ignition in char
    soda in fever, viii. 64.                    coal in atmospheric temperatures, iii. 1.
¦        (J. T.) on the logarithms of unity,  Hall (('apt. B. ) on the want of perpendi
    viii. 281 ; explanation of a remarkable     cularity of the standing pillars of the
    paradox in the calculus of functions,       temple of Scrapis, vi. 313.
    ix. 334, 443 ; on the symmetrizing               (Col.), meteorological observations
    power of the eye, x. 370.                   made in Colombia, xii. 148.
Gravitation, simple method of proving                (Dr. M.) on the laws of mutual
    the law of, ix. 3S3, 370.                   relation of respiration and irritability,
 Gray (Mr. J. E.) on the genus Para-            i. 72 ; experiments on the decapitated
    doxurus, i. 397 ; on the structure of        turtle, vi. 71 ; description of a ther
    shells, iii. 452 ; on the reproduction of   mometer for determining minute dif
     Cirrhipeda, iv. 65; description of the     ferences of temperature, viii. 57 ; on
    new genus Ganymeda, v. 73; on the           the reflex function of the spinal mar
    animal of Argonauta, vi. 385; on two        row, x. 51, 124, 187, 378.
    new species of sturgeon, vi. 386 ; on            (Sir James), notice of, ii. 137 ; no
    the type of a new genus nearly related      tice of the scientific discoveries of, ii.
    to Bipes, vi. 391 ; on the difficulty of     468.
    distinguishing certain genera of shells,  Halley (Dr. E.), account of his astro
    vii. 210 ; on a new species of toad, and    nomical observations, vi. 221 ; some
     on the genus Echinus, vii. 323 ; on a      particulars of his life, vi. 306 ; viii.
     new species of coral, vii. 419; on the      144, 214,220, 225.
     genus Moschus and Cervus, ix. 515,       Halley's comet, v. 284 ; vi. 45; vii. 139,
     518; on the supposed production of          236, 423; viii. 148, 173; ix. 292;
     insects, xi. 551.                           ephemeris of, ix. 296.
  Great Britain, on the population of,        Hallymeter for the examination of malt
    i. 213.                                      liquors, xii. 218.
  Greatheed (S. 8. ) on a new method of       Hamilton (C. VV.) on a yew found in a
    solving equations of partial differen        bog, vii. 499.
     tials, xi. 239.                                 ( Prof. Sir W. R. ) on aberration in
  Great Runn, account of the, xi. 110.           prismatic interference, ii. 191, 284; re
  Grecian buildings, on the entablature of,      ply to, ii. 276 ; Mr. Potter's answer
     viii. 430.                                  to, ii. 371 ; on a general method in dy
  Greenland, on the gradual sinking of the       namics, iv. 436; vi. 298; Royal Me-
     west coast of, viii. 73.                   dal awarded by the Royal Society to,
  Greenough's (G. B.) address to the            viii. 150; theorem respecting algebraic
     Geological Society, iv. 442; v. 53;         elimination, viii. 538 ; on equations of
     vii. 54, 142.                              the fifth degree, ix. 28 ; exposition of
  Gregory (Dr.) on a volatile liquid pro        the argument of Abel respecting equa
     cured from caoutchouc by destructive       tions of the fifth degree, xii. 116; in
     distillation, ix. 321 ; examination of     augural address delivered before the
     eblanine, xii. 98; on some remarkable       Royal Irish Academy, xii. 368.
     salts, xii. 102.                         —— (W. J.) on a geological formation
  Gresham College, Prof. Pullen's lecture        at Elie, vii. 318; on the geology of
     on astronomy, xii. 454.                     the Thracian Bosphorus, x. 473 ; xii.
  Grey (Lieut.) on the meteorology of            541 ; on a tertiary deposit near Lixourt
     Tenerifle, xii. 291.                        in Cephalonia, xi. 209.
                                                                     D2

28                    GENERAL INDEX Or VOLS. 1                12 OF THE
 Hancock (Dr.) on beat-lightning, iv.              zation of, vi. 1S4, 205, 384, 366 ; ra
    340.                                           diant, vii. 296, 297; viii. 23, 109, 186,
 Handysiile (Dr.) on the offices of lac-           1 90, 246, 425 ; polarization of, vii.
    teals, lymphatics and veins in the             349 ; xi. 543 ; volatilization of mag
    function of absorption, viii. 58.              nesia by, vii. 406 ; undulatory theory
 Harcourt (Rev. W. V.) on observations             of, viii. 246 ; its circular polarization
    upon the dew-point, vii. 409.                  by total reflexion, viii. 246 ; xii. 317 ;
 Harding (Prof.), notice of, v. 319.               has it weight? ix. 396 ; in uncrystal-
  Hare ( Dr.\apparatus for freezing water,         lized media, transmission of, x. 336;
    v. 377 ; voltaic trough, viii. 116, 119;       physical causes of the phenomena of,
     on the difference between mechanical          x. 342 ; action of cold air in maintain
     and galvanic electricity, i\. 213 ; che        ing, xi. 407, 446 ; its influence on the
     mical philosophy and nomenclature,             circulation of the Cliara, xii. 457 ; re
     xi. 176; the grounds of his deviating          searches on, xii. 545.
     from the language and arrangement           Heat and light, on the production of by
     of Berzelius, xi. 177; on ink devoid           animals, vi. 246 ; the results of vibra
     of free acid, xi. 324; on the congela          tory motion, vii. 342.
     tion of water by hydric aether, xi. 32.5 ;  Height, experiments on terrestrial mag
     on synthesis of ammonia, xi. 326; on           netic intensity, particularly with refer
     the rotatory multiplier, xi. 327 ; com         ence to the effect of, xi. 166.
     munication respecting nomenclature,         Heights, measurement of, vii. SI I.
     J. J. Berzelius's reply to, xi. 179; on     Heineken (Rev. N. S.) on the radii of
     sulphurous aether and sulphate of               curvature of convex lenses, vii. 234 ;
      setherine, xii. 474.                           on the aurora borcalis of Nor. 18,
  Harriot (Thos.), on some old MSS. of,              1835, viii. 439; on an anchor found
      i. 378.                                        at Seaton, x. 10; on the aurora bo-
  Harris (W. S. ) on elementary laws of              realis of Feb. 18, 1837, x. 265 ; on the
     electricity, iv. 436 ; on an electrical         galvanic shock multiplier, xi. 460 ;
      balance, vii. 303 ; electrical attraction,     correction in his paper, xi. 567.
      vii. 304; on the attractive and repul      Heliostat, on a new, ii. 6.
      sive forces of magnets, viii. S49.         Helm wind, on the, x. 221.
  Harrison ( Prof.) on the entozoa found in      Hemming's (Mr.) safety-tube for the
      the muscles of the human subject, vii.         combustion of oxygen and hydrogen,
      506; on bones in the hearts of certain         i. 82.
     animals, vii, 506.                           Henry ( Dr. W. C.) on the atomic con
   Harvest-bug, description of the, ix. 15.          stitution of elastic fluids, v. 33 ; reply
   Hartley (Mr.) on the corroding of iron            of Di. Prout to, v. 182 ; on the action
      by salt water, xi. 554.                        of metals in determining gaseous com
   Hastings, on the geology of the coast             bination, vi. 354; experiments on ga
      near, iv. 49.                                  seous interference, ix. 324 ; notice of,
   Hatchetine, composition of, xii. 3:38.            x. 152.
   Hausmann (Prof.) on Mr. Whewcll's                      (J.) on the roots of equations, iii.
      account ot' his inincralogic.il works,         417.
       v. 158.                                   Henslow's clinometer, improvement in,
   Hawfinch, x. 72.                                  v. 159.
   Haworth (A. H.) on Narcissineae, i.            Henwood (TV. J.) on the v aii.it ion- in
       275.                                          springs, i. 287 ; iii. 417 ; on intersec
   Hay (Mr.), notices of plants of Marocco,           tions of mineral veins, ii. 147; on
       ii. 409.                                       certain meteorological phenomena, iv.
   Heart, on the tricuspid valve of the, vii.         103; iv. 233; on the steam engines of
       207 ; influence of the respiratory or          Cornwall, viii. 20, 591 ; on the phe
       gans on the, vii. 212; safety-valve of         nomena of mineral veins in Cornwall,
       the, ix. 525.                                  xii. 125.
   Heat: — produced by friction and per           Herberger (M.) on cetrarin, xii. 296.
       cussion, i. 164 ; evolved by friction      Hereford, on a well at Beaumont Green,
       and percussion, i. 247 ; action of on          in, xi. 215.
       glaubcrite, i. 417; M. Fourier's law       Heriades campanularum, xii. 18.
        of the radiationof, ii. 103; innuenceof,  Hermann fit.) on triple combinations
        on colour and odours, iii. 458 ; action       of rill ride of osmium, iridium, and
        of, on iodide of amidine, iv. 238; re          platinum, with chloride of potassium
        pulsive power of, vi. 58, 41J; viii.           and muriate of ammonia, ix. 232.
        189; xii. 317; refraction and poluri-      Heron (Sir R.) on the kangaroo, ix. 67 ;

           LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                         1838.     29
  on the want of sagacity in a dog, ix.         Hood's (C.) " Treatise on warming
  67 ; on the breeding of curassows, ix.          buildings," xii. 202.
   121.                                         Hope (Dr.), address on presenting the
Herreritc, viii. 2*51.                             Keith prize to Prof. Forbes, viii. 424;
Herschel ( Sir J. F. W.) on the action of         on the colours of plants, xi. 441.
   light in determining the precipitation       Hopkins (W.) on the geology of Der
   of muriate of platinum by lime-water,           byshire, iv. 66 ; on Mr. Farey's ac
   i. 58; on subterranean sounds, i. 221 ;         count of the stratification of the lime
   on a remarkable deposition of ice               stone districts of Derbyshire, v. 121 ;
    round the stems of vegetables, ii, 110;        on physical geology, viii. 227, 272,
    observations on Biela's comet, ii. 222;        357; Hopkins's " Researches in
    on the elliptic orbit of jj Bobtis, iii.       Physical Geology," ix. 4, 171, 366;
    291 ; on the absorption of light by            x. 14.
    coloured media, iii. 401 ; observations     Horizon-sector, on the, ii. 327 ; on the
    of nebula? and clusters of stars, iv.          measurement of the instrumental error
     125; on the satellites of Uranus, iv.         of the, i.98.
    381 ; raiciometrical measures of double i   Horner (L.) on the geology of the en
     stars, v. 302 ; meteorological observa- j     virons of Bonn, iii. 220; on the quan
     tions, viii. 78 ; on scientific and gene,     tity of solid matter suspended in the
     ral education, viii. 432 ; catalogue of        Rhine, v. 211; vi. 396; on a sub
     double stars, ix. 295 ; the Royal medul       stance resembling shell, viii. 545 ; x.
     awarded to, x. 213; on the probable           201 ; on some geological phenomena
     effect of the transfer of pressure from       in Christiania in Norway, xi. 555.
     one part to another of the earth's sur              (W. G. ) on the Dredaleum, iv. 36;
      face, xi. 212; on the peculiar voltaic       on the vascular spectrum, iv. 262; on
      condition of iron, xi. 329; on the re         an interesting case in equations, v.
     markable increase of magnitude of »            188; on the signs of 'the trigonome
      Argus, xii. £21, 526 ; on the theory of       trical lines, vi. 86 ; on congeneric surd
     volcanic phenomena, xii. 576.                 equations, viii. 43 ; new demonstra
 Hess (M.) on the fermentation of sugar            tion of an original proposition in the
     of milk, xii. 139.                             theory of numbers, xi. 456 ; theorem
  Hieroglyphics, on Egyptian, iv. 170.              of, xi. 457 ; obituary notice of, xi.
  Hodgkin ;Dr. )on the languages spoken             459.
     by uncivilized nations, vii. 27, 94.        Horsburgh (Capt.), notice of, x. 149.
  Hodgkinson (£.) on impact and colli            House-spider, observations on the, i. 95;
     sion, viii. 65.                                power of, to escape from an insulated
  Hodgson [B. II-) on the wild dog of               situation, ii. 152.
      Nepal, iv. G2; on the mammalia of          Houston (Dr.) on the circulating organs
      Nepal, vi. 150; on the wild goat and          in diving animals, vii. 502 ; on a va
      the wild sheep, vi. 225; on the Scolo-        riety of hydatid, vii. 5C4.
       pacid.v of Nepal, ix. 143; on a new       Hudson (Dr. H. ) on the dew-point, vii.
      species of Cervus, ix. 391.                   2 56; on the radiation of beat, vii. 297;
  Hoffman, ( Prof.), notice of, x. 208.             on an error in Dr. Apjohn's formula
  Hogg (J.) on the inliuence of the cli             for inferring the specific heats of dry
      mate of Naples on vegetation, iv. 274;        gases, viii. 21 ; on the transmission of
      v. 46, 102 ; specimen of a thermo-            calorific rays, viii. 109 ; reply to Dr.
      metrical diary, xii. 489.                      Apjohn, ix. 398.
  Holderness, ancient forest of, iv. 282.        Humboldt (Baron) on advancing the
  Holditch ( Rev. H.) on a property of the          knowledge of terrestrial magnetism,
      parabola, x. 35.                              ix. 42.
  Holdsworth (J.), discovery of coal             Human body, effects of compressed air
      measures and of fossil fruits in Lei          on, ix. 147.
      cestershire, iii. 76 ; Rev. W. D. Cony-    Human voice, physiology of the, ix. 201,
      beare's remarks on, iii. 1 12.                 269, 342.
   Holguin, geology of, in Cuba, xi. 17.         minefield on the microscopical examina
   Holland (P. W.) on the question, has             tion of the coloured parts of vegetables,
       heat weight? ix. 396.                         xi. 442.
   Home, (Sir E.), sketch of his life, ii. 136.  Hunt ( R.) on tritiodide of mercury, xii.
           (Sir J.), magnetic-id observations        27.
       made in the West Indies, lie, xii.        Hunton (1„) on the combinations of
       206.                                          sugar with the alkalies and metallic
   Honey of Trebizond, v. 31 J.                      oxides, xi. 152.

so                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1             12 OF THE
Hussey's (Rev. T. J.) catalogue of co        Ichthyosauri, structure of, vii. 414.
    rned, ii. 194, 282, 453 j iii. 101, 198; Ichthyosaurus, peculiarities of structure
    iv. 29, 205, 349 ; vii. 36.                 in the cervical region of, ix. 500.
Hutton's (W.) observations on coal, ii.      Ichthyosiagones, on the fossil genus, ix.
    302.                                        32.
 Hyienn, tameable disposition of, iii. 296.  Iguanodon, discovery of some bones of
Hydatid, on a variety of, vii. 504.             the, v. 77.
 Hydrate of od of turpentine, vii. 537;      Impact and collision, on, viii. 65.
   of potash, crystallized, ix. 151 ; of     Imperial standard troy pound, x. 63.
   barytes and strontia, ix. 87 ; of mag     Impressions from feathers, process for
   nesia, on, x. 454.                           taking, xii. 451.
Hydriodate of brucia, xi. 216,217; of        India, geology of, xii. 514 ; on the black
   quina, xi. 218.                              cotton soil of, xii. 430 ; on the great
Hydriodic acid, a test for the vegetable        basaltic district of, xii. 286.
   alkalies, viii. 191.                      Indigo, analysis of, iv. 313 ; x. 324 ; ana
Hydrobromate of carbo-hydrogen (me              logy of alcohol and indigo, in their
   thylene), xi. 221.                           combination with sulphuric acid, x.
Hydrochloric acid, its action on certain        324 ; manufacture of, xii. 264.
   sulphates, viii. 353; method of detect    Indu-, on the geology of the banks of
   ing sulphurous acid in, ix. 543.             the, iv. 225.
Hydrocyanic acid, preparation of, vi.        Infinite series, formulae for the summa
   97.                                          tion of, vi. 348 ; x. 121 ; xi. 41.
              and cyanurets, conversion of   Infusoria, collections of dried, ix. 90 ;
   into ammonia and formic acid, i. 83.         tripoli wholly composed of infusorial
Hydrogen, preparation of peroxide of,           exuviae, ix. 158, 392; fossil, used for
   ii. 403.                                     food, x. 318.
        phosphuretted, composition of, iii.  Ingleborough, on the trigonometrical
   308; v. 401.                                 height of, iv. 1 63.
— antimoniuretted, x. 343.                   Inglis (Dr.), prize essay on iodine, vii.
        carburets of, xi. 404.                  441 ; viii. 12, 191 ; on the conducting
   ii and oxygen, safety-tube for the           power of iodine for electricity, ix. 450.
   combustion of, i. 82.                     Insects : — new British forms among
        and platina, compound of, v. 155.       the parasitic hymenopterous, i. 127;
Hydrometer, Prof. Stevelly's, viii. 69.         iii. 342 ; coleopterous, new genera and
Hydromeieors, their connection with the         species of, iii. 151 ; metamorphosis of,
   variations of the temperature and of         iv. 381 ; circulation of blood in, vi.
   the barometer, xi. 359.                      300; new Dipterous insects, vi. 280,
Hydrosulphuric and hydroselenic aethers,        447; compound eyes of, viii. 202 ; re
   ix. 318.                                     spiration of, ix. 532; voluntary sounds
Hygrometer, wet-bulb, formula for in            of, x. 327 ; temperature of, xi. 1 89.
   ferring the dew-point from the, vi. 182;  Integral calculus, viii. 515, 549; x. 210.
   vii. 256, 266, 313,470.                   Interference, on aberration in prismatic,
Hygrometrical researches, ix. 187, 398.         ii. 191,276.
Ilylneus signatus, xii. 18.                          gaseous, ix. 324 ; interference of
Hymenium of fungi, x. 492.                      light, ix. 401 ; x. 364.
Hymenoptcrous insects, vii. 228; x. 440;     Interpolation, M. Cauchy on, viii. 459.
   economy of several species of, xii. 14.   Intestinal worm, double-bodied, x. 253.
Ilvpcriodic acid, and hyperiodates, iv.      I mil in, how obtained, x. 249.
   386.                                      Iodal, a new compound, x. 321.
Hypophosphomesitylous acid, xii. 101.        lodate of brucia, xi. 217 ; of cinchonia,
Hyrax Capensis, vii. 222.                       xi. 217; of quina, xi. 218.
                                             Iodic acid, action of voltaic electricity
IBIS, on the sacred, ii. 231.                   on, x. 93.
      Ice, deposition of, round the stems of — and morphia, xi. 219.
   vegetables, ii. 110; on a stone »all,ii.         aether, ii. 415.
   1 90; on a rhombohedral crystallization   Iodide : —of iron, composition of, vii.
   of, iv. 245 ; at the bottom of running       156 ; of lead, remarkable property of,
   water, vii. 137.                             ix. 405 ; of mercury, microscopical ex
Ichthyolitcs of Gamrie, vii. 325 ; disco        amination of, ix. 1 ; of gold, ix. 266;
  very of, vii. 517.                            of mercury, native, xi. 143; of silver,
Ichthyology, ix. 67, 139, 140, 352, 391,        new property of, xii. 258; of platina
   490, 507.                                    and their compounds, iii. 384.

            LOND. AND KDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAOAZINK, 1832                              1838.      31
Iodides, metallic, action of chlorine on,             Isodynamic lines, on the direction of the,
    iv. 467.                                             xi. 258.
Iodine, its action on stnrch, iv. 313; prize          Isomorphics substitution, on a case of,
    essay on, vii. 441; viii. 12, 191 ; its con         xii. 406, 407.
    ducting power for electricity, viii. 130,         Isothermal lines, on, i. 431.
    400 ; micro copic history of, ix. 13;             Ivory (J.) on the disturbing function, iii.
    its action on organic salifiable bases,             459 ; on the equilibrium of fluids, v.
    ix. 76 ; electrical conducting power of,            454; astronomical refractions, vi. 142 ;
    ix. 450; prolochloride and terchloride              on such functions as can be expressed
    of, x. 430; preparation of, x. 498; its             by serieses of periodic terms, ix. 161 ;
    action on the vegetable alkalis, x. 500 ;           on ellipsoids, xii. 356.
    and strychnia, x. .501 ; and brucia, xi.         Ixalus Probaton, xi. 124.
    216 ; and cinchonia, xi. 217 ; and co-
    deia, xi. 220; and morphia, xi. 218;
    and quina, xi. 218.                              JB. on the attraction of an homoge-
Iodous acid, iv. 392 ; method of prepa                    • neous ellip-oid, vi. 203.
     ring, ix. 442.                                  J. H. N. on the juice of Eschscholtzia
Ions, table of, v. 429.                                 California, vi. 77.
Ipoh or Upas poison, on tlic, xi. 193.               J. J., new method of taking deep sound
Ireland, gold-workings of Wicklow, vii.                 ings in the ocean, ix. 185.
     1 ; on the geological map of, vii. 480.         J. O. II., direct demonstration of the rule
Iridium, preparation of, v. 314; method                 for the multiplication of negative signs,
     of dissolving, xii. 141.                           ix. 540.
¦        , osmium, and platinum, some triple         Jablonski on the chemical process of ve
     combinations of, ix. 23.'.                         getable life, xi. 532.
 Irkoutsk, on the mean temperature of,               Jacob ( Dr. ) on fossil Polyparia, vii. 483 ;
     ii. 1.                                             on the mammary glands in the Ce-
 Iron :—separation of the oxides of, i. 86;             tacea, vii. 507.
    action of sulphurous acid on the per-            Jacobson (M.) on the physical and the
     salts of, ii. 75 ; decomposition of cy-            rapeutic properties of chromate of pot
     anuret of mercury by, vii. 78 ; iodide             ash, v. 238.
     of, vii. 156; absence of magnetism in           "Jamaica, flora of," xii. 263.
     cast iron when in fusion, vii. 38S ; ma         Jamesonite, analysis of, x. 237.
     nufacture of pig iron, vii. 406 ; on pro        Jerboas and Gerbillas, on the, xi. 394.
     tecting it from the action of salt-water,       Jerrard (G. B.) on solving equations of
     viii. 128; xi. 544 ; action of nitric acid         the fifth degree, vii. 202 ; on the trans
     upon, ix. 53, 57, 122, 259; periodide              formation of equations, vii. 478 ; on
     of, ix. 79 ; peculiar voltaic condition            the occurrence of the form S, xii. 345.
     of, x. 133, 172, 175, 267,276,425, 428;         Jervine, a new vegetable base, xii.
     xi. 329 ; its conversion into plumbago,            29.
     xi. 321 ; on the strength of hot and            Jloulouk, mean temperature of, i. 427.
     cold blast cast, xi. 556; Carron, Devon,        Jones (Capt.j on a cast of money current
      North Welsh, Yorkshire, xi. 557 ; cla             among the Africans, xi. 132.
     stic forces of, xi. 558 ; its action at a               (T. W.) on the ova of women, vii.
     high temperature on benzoic acid, xii.             209 ; on the retina and pigment of the
     460; on camphor, xii. 460; peculiar                eye of Sepia Loligo, viii. 1 ; on the
     voltaic condition of, xii. 48 ; protoxide          first changes in the ova of the mam-
     of, its action on protoxide of copper,             mifera in consequence of impregnation,
     xii. 299.                                          and origin of the chorion, xi. 93.
          and copper, alloys of, vi. 81 ; sul        Johnson (E. J.), magnetic experiments
     phates of, action of oxalic action on,             on an iron steam-vessel, viii. 547.
     ix. 155.                                                ( Dr. H.) on a newly observed pro
          and zinc, sulphuret of, vii. 79.              perty in plants, vi. 1 65 ; on the cause
  — beams, on tbe strength and best                     of motion in plants, vii. 357; on the
     form of, i. 207.                                   divergence of plants, ix. 17.
          cast, on the elastic power of, i. 74 ;     —— (G. H. S.), method of discovering
     the temperature of melting, i. 262;                the equations of caustics, vi. 3' 2.
     cohesion of, iii. 79; crystallized per-         Johnston ( Prof. ) on iodic ret her, ii. 415;
      nitrate of, iii. 467.                             on the dimorphism of baryto-calcite,
  ¦       peroxide of, an antidote to arsenious         vi. 1 ; on oxycbloride of antimony, vii.
     acid, vi. 237.                                     332 ; on the cause of certain optical
          pyrites, crystallized, artificial, x. 158.    properties of chabasie. ix. 166 ; on the

S2                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1            12 OF THE
   iodides of gold, ix. 206 ; on baryto-      Kennedy ( A. ) on the economy of several
   calcite, x. 373 ; on the equivalents of      species of hymenoptera, xii. 14.
   potash, soda, and silver, xii. 324 ; on          (Dr.) on purulent ophthalmia, viii.
   Hatchetine, xii. 338 ; on llie compo         65.
   sition of Middletonite, xii. 261 ; on the  Kiernan ( F.), Copley medal awarded to,
   dimorphism of chromate of lead, xii.         x. 212.
   337 ; on the composition of Ozocerite,     King (Capt. P. P.) notes on several ro
   xii. 3S9 ; on an analogy in atomic con       dent animals, ix. 68.
   stitution between the earthy carbonates          (T. W.) on the tricuspid valve of
   and alkaline nitrates, xii. 4H0 ; compo      the heart, vii 207 ; on the safety-valve
   sition of retiti asphalt, xii. 560.          of the heart, ix. 525.
Johnstone (Dr.), notice of the late, xii.     Kinic acid aii'l some kinates, on, ii. 479.
   277.                                       Kink.ijon, notice of the, x. 291.
Jupiter, Prof. Airy on the mass of, iii.      Knight (T. A.) on the powers of suction
   233; iv. 383.                                of the common leech, iii. 449 ; on the
Jussieu (M.), notice of, x. 152, 470.           absorbent powers of the roots of trees,
                                                &c. x. 488 ; on the hereditary instinct
 Kon some curious facts respecting              ive propensities of animals, xi. 96; on
       • vision, v. 375.                        the supposeil absorbent powers of the
Kalium, crystallization of, v. 399.             spongioles, xi. 534.
Kane (Prof.) on the analysis of some                ( Dr. W. ) on the vibration of heated
   combinations of pint inn, ii. 197; on        metals, iii. 239.
   the interference of sound, vii. 301 ; on   Knox (G. J., and the Rev. T.) on fluo
   the salts of sulpho-melhylic acid, vii.      rine, ix. 107 ; xii. 105.
   397 ; on the protochlorides of platina           ( Rev. T.) on a new rain gauge, xi.
   and tin, vii. 399 ; on the action of hy      260.
   drochloric acid on certain sulphates,      Koala, anatomy of the, x. 481.
   viii. 353 ; on the action of ammonia on    Koba and Kob of Button, x. 303.
   the chlorides and oxides of mercury,       Kocne (M.) on a double salt of codcia
   viii. 495; on pyroxylic spirit, x. 45,       and morphia, xi. 405.
    116; on the composition of thebaine, x.   Krcosote, on, iv. 390.
    387 ; on the protochloride and lerehlo-   Kupfeiblii the, crystalline form of, vii. 159.
    ride of iodine, x. 430; on the powder     Kupfer-antiinonglanz, on, vii. 422.
    formed by the action of water on white    KupflTer ( I'rof.) on some recent magnet-
    precipitate, xi. 428 ; on the action of     ical discoveries, i. 129; on the mean
    ammonia on the protochloride of mer         temperature of Nicolaieflf, i. 132; on
    cury, xi. 504 ; on the combinations         the mean temperature of Sevastopol,
    derived from pyroacetic spirit, xii. 100,   i. 259 ; Dr. Brewster's observations
    107; on Dumasine, xii. 108.                 on, i. 260 ; on the mean temperature
 Kangaroo, notes on the, iv. S04 ; ix. G7,      of Sitka in America, i. 427 ; on the
    388 ; on the generation of the, iv. 438 ;   temperature of Irkoutsk,ii. I ; meteor
    descriptions of the, vii. 66.               ological observations made at St.
 Kater (Capt ), list of the papers contri        Petersburg!!, ii. 260.
   buted by him to the Philosophical
    Transactions, viii. 151.                  LACTIC acid, on, iv. 233; in sour-
 Keith ( Uev. P.) on living fabrics, ii. 8,         crout, xii. 142.
    1 20 ; on the external structure of im    Lagolis, on, iii. 149.
    perfect plants, iv. 252 ; on the internal Lagrange's principle of virtual velocities,
    structure of plants, v. 112, 181, 284 ;     rematks on, ii. 16.
    on phytological errors and admoni         Lamellibranchiate conchiferous animals,
    tions, v. 205 ; stiucture of animals, vi.   unnto i y of the, ix. 224.
   4, 90; classification of vegetables, vi.   Laminnria digitata, on the reproduction
    379 ; x. 37, 108 ; on the conditions of     of the frond of, xii. 96.
    germination, viii. 491.                   Laming (It.) on the primary forces of
Kelland (P.) on the dispersion of light,        electricity, xii. 486.
   viii. 429 ; on the transmission of light   Lamont (Dr.) on the value of the mass
   and heat in uncrystallized media, x.         of Uranus, xii. 522.
    336.                                      Lnmpic acid, nature of, xi. 512 ; changed
 Kelly (Dr.) on low fogs and stationary         into acetic acid, xi. 5i3.
   clouds, xii. S55.                          Landerer on emetine, xi. 165.
 Kenrick (Rev. J.) on the Greek tradi         Languages of uncivilized nnlions, im
    tions of the deluge, iv. 414 ; v. 85.       portance of presetving, vii. 27, 94.

          LOND. AKD EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832—1838.                               33
Lantern-fly, observations on the, v. 144.     Leptoconchus, description of, vi. 224.
Laplace's (M.) capillary theory, on, viii.    Levcille (M.) on the hymenium of fungi,
   89 ; coefficients, viii. 474 ; analytical     x. 492.
   tlieor. for the attraction of spheroids,   Levelling instrument, Lloyd's, on the
   is. 161.                                      verification of, vii. 364.
Lardner (Dr.) on certain properties of        Levyne, analysis of, v. 40.
   vapour, iii. 33 ; on the theory of gra     Lialis, the type of a new genus nearly
   dients in railways, viii. SI j ix. 377.       related to 15 i pes, vi. 391.
Lassaignc (M.) on the iodides of platina      Lichens, chemical basis of the peculiar
   and their compounds, iii. 384 ; on the        colour of, xi. 338.
   compound of albumen and bichloride         Liebig (M.) on phosphuret of azote, vii.
    of mercury, x. 420 ; on stearic aether       158; on aldehyd discovered by, viii.
   and stearate of methylene, xi. 487.           83 ; on an aether ial oil of wine, x. 4 1 7 ;
La Silla, mountain of, xi. 25 ; land-shell      on the condensing tube, xi. 57 ; on
   limestone of, xi. £6 ; caves of, xi. 29.     pinic acid, xi. 164; on lactic acid in
Latham ( Dr.), notice of, x. 467 ; xii. 274.    sour-crout, xii. 142; on the constitu
Laurent (M.) on the theory of organic           tion of some organic acids, xii. 331.
    combinations, xi. 564.                    Life, on the powers on which its func
Lava, on the curvilinear structure of, i.       tions depend, ix. 530.
    22S.                                      Light: — action of in determining the
Lawrence, St., geology of the river and         precipitation of muriate of platinum
   gulph of, iv. 51.                            by lime-water, i. 58; effect of on the
 Lawson (H.) on the solar spots as seen          retina, i.-251 ; ii. 162; on experiment!
    May 15 and 16, 1836, ix. 527.                relative to the interference of, i. 433;
 Leach (Dr.), notice of, x. 151, 467.            ix. 401 ; x. 364 ; on certain phaeno-
 Lead, crystallization of sulphuret of, iv.      mena of interference in, ii. 83, 161,
    388; brown phosphate of, v. 78 ; sub         276, 371, 451 ; on its passage through
    oxide of, v. 79 ; on the action of water     a prism, ii. 286 ; on the phenomena of,
   and air on, v. 81 ; on its electric rela      ii.l 12,207; on the inflexion of, ii. 263,
    tion to iron, &-c, v. 92 ; corrosion of,     424 ; iii. 172, 412 ; on the undulaiory
    vii. 410; cause of its presence in Eng       theory of, ii. 360, 419; vi. 16, 107,
    lish chemical preparations, viii. 267 ;      189, 262; viii. 7, 24, 113,204,247,270,
    remarkable property of the iodide of,        305, 413, 429, 500; ix. 420; xii. 10;
    ix. 405 ; murio-carbonate and muriate        homogeneous, method of obtaining, iii.
    of,xi.l75 ; chlorosulphuret of, xi. 560 ;    35 ; on the velocity with which it tra
    dimorphism of the chromate of, xii.          verses transparent media, iii. 333 ; on
    387; new acetate of, xii. 133; oxalo-        its absorption by coloured media, iii.
    nitrate of, xii. 459; oxide of, and ox       401 ; influence of successive impulses
    ide of silver, definite combination of,      upon the retina, iv. 241 ; polarization
    xii. 217; peroxide of, voltaic condition     of, iv. 312, 313; connexion between
    of iron as excited by, x. 425, 428.          refracted and diffracted, iv, 441 ; ex
 — and bismuth, separation of, iii. 389 ;        periments on, v. 321 ; application of
    oxides of, i. S26.                           photometry to the undulatory theory
 Leaf, on the structure of the, ii. 121.         of, v. 439 ; on the dispersion of, vi. 374;
 Lecount (Lieut.), reply to Mr. Barlow,          x. 221 ; xi. 477 ; xii. 367; on the for
    viii. 439, 591.                              mula for the dispersion of, ix. 116;
 Ledereiite, on, iv. 317, 392.                   nature of, vii. 1 13, 157 ; prismatic de
 Leech, common, on the powers of suc             composition of electrical, vii. 299 ;
    tion of, iii. 449; on the respiratory or     double refraction and absorption of,
    gans of, iii. 456.                           vii. 436 ; its action on plants, vii. 496 ;
 Leigh (J.) on a patch of red and varie          viii. 415 ; its evolution during crystal
    gated marls, viii. 571.                      lization, vii. 534 ; apparatus for illus
 " Leithead's Electricity," review of, xii.      trating the polarization of, viii. 70,
    127.                                         415; new dioptric, x. 176; transmis
 Lens crystalline, on the, iii. 5, 446 ; xii.    sion of, in uncrystallized media, x. 336,
    22; of animals, viii. 193, 416.              385; xi. 132; phenomena of the ab
 Lenses, on giving conic-sectional figures       sorption of, xi. 9.3 ; solar, effects of,
    to, i. 55.                                   on vegetation, xi. 525; zodiacal, xi.
        , convex, on the radii of curvature       1 94 ; absorption of, on Von VV rede's
    of, vii. 234.                                 explanation by the undulatory theory,
 Lepisosteus, their internal organization,        xii. 1 14; its intensity in the neighbour
     vi. 384.                                     hood of a caustic, vii. 452.
                                                                      E

34                    GENERAL INDEX OK VOLS. 1 — 12 OF THE
Light and heat, un the production of by           Lloyd (Prof. H.) on the phenomena of
   animals, vi. 246 ; the results of vibra           light, ii. 112, 207; on the propagation
   tory motion, vii. 342.                            of light in uncrystallized media, x. 385 ;
Light-houses, on the improvement of, ii.             xi. 132; on the aurora borealis, Feb.
   221 ; experiments on Druimnond's light            18, 1837, xii. 98 ; account of the mag-
   for, viii. 238 ; on different modes of il         netical observatory at Dublin, xii. 119.
   luminating, xi. 94.                            Locke (Dr. J.) on a thermoscopic galva
Lightning, on the effects of a stroke of,            nometer, xi. 378.
   T. 191.                                        Locomotive engines upon railways, ix. 135.
         heat, on the cause of, iv. 340.          Logarithms of unity, on, viii. 281 ; ix. 252.
Lime, carbonate of, formation of, i. 84 ;         Loligo, a small nondescript, ix. 299.
   its decomposition by heat, x. 496 ; its        London, historical account of, i. 364.
    crystalline form, xii. 465, 470.                      clay, on the, i. 233.
        , hydraulic, viii. 591.                   Longitude deduced from the moon's right
        , its action on solutions of carbonate       ascension, on the, i. 60 ; on the deter
    of potash, iii. 314.                             mination of, by lunars, vii. 241.
¦——, on the sulphurcts of, xi. 195.               Lonsdale (Mr.) on the oolitic formations
Limestone, freshwater, in the coal-beds              of Gloucestershire, ii. 300.
    near Shrewsbury, iv. 158.                     Lubbock's (J. W.) researches in physical
Lime-water, precipitation of muriate of              astronomy, i. 69, 381, 389; on the
    platinum by, determined by the action            tides, iii. 129, 143; iv. 362; x. 381;
    of light, i. 58.                                 " Mathematical Tracts," review of, iv.
Limnauthcs, on, iii. 70.                             218; on cask-gauging, iv.326; on some
Limiioria terebrans, vi. 55.                         elementary applications of Abel's the
Lindley (Dr. J.) on the affinities of Oro-           orem, vi. 116; determination of the
    banche, xi. 409.                                 terms in the disturbing function of the
Link (Prof.) on the composition of cellu             fourth order, vi. 142 ; on the elements
    lar membrane, xi. 440.                           of the orbit of Hallcy's comet in 1759,
 Linn.Tan Society, present of the East In            vii. 139; on the double achromatic
    dia Company's herbarium to the, i. 71 ;          object glass, vii. 161 ; on tide observa
    proceedings of, ii. 67, 222, 307, 377 ;          tions made at Liverpool, vii. 208 ; viii.
    iii. 69; iv. 52, 150, 309, 381, 454; v.          418 ; on Bernoulli's theory of the tides,
    70, 298 ; vi. 72, 220, 379 ; vii. 519 ; viii.    vii. 457 ; viii, 4 18 ; on a property of the
    75, 255, 345, 423, 580 ; x. 71, 223, 464 ;       parabola, ix. 1 00 ; on the tides at the Port
    xii. 92, 531.                                    of London, ix. 528 ; on the fluctuations of
Linseed oil, combustion of, xi. 324.                 the height of high-water due to changes
Lion, on a claw in the tail of the, ii. 73 ;         in the atmospheric pressure, xi. 195;
    on a maneless species of, iv. 378 ; on            on the variation of the arbitrary con
    the cranium of the, iv. 454.                      stants in mechanical problems, xi. 492 ;
Liquids, maximum density of, xii. 1.                 xii. 255 ; on the wave-surface in the
Lisbon antl Oporto, on the gcologv of, i.            theory of double refraction, xi. 417;
    227.                                             xii. 47 ; on the divergence of the nu
Lister (J. J.) on the structure and func              merical coefficients in the lunar theory,
    tions of Polypi and Asciditv, iv. 365.            xii. 133.
Lithic acid, composition of, v. 465.              Luetke's (Capt.) experiments with an in
 Lithotrity, Baron Hcurteloup's improve               variable pendulum, i. 420.
    ments in, i. 75.                              Luminosity of the ocean, xii. 212 ; of the
 Litton (Dr.) on the yew at Macruss, vii.             human subject after death, xii. 420.
    499.                                          Lunar nutation, determination of the con
 Littrow (Prof.) on the projection of maps            stant of, xii. 110.
    and charts, x. 229 ; construction of the              observations, new method of redu
    hour-lines of sun-dials, x. 229.                  cing, vii. 251 ; viii. 373.
Liverpool tides, on the, viii. 147,418, 547.              occultations, i. 87, 167, 247, 327,
Living fabrics, Mr. Keith on, ii. 8, 120.             405, 473; ii. 159, 239, 319, 407, 483;
Lixouri, on a tertiary deposit near, xi. 209.        iii. 159, 319, 399, 467.
Lloyd's (Capt.) levelling from the sea to                 rainbows, on, ii. 317.
    the Thames at London bridge, i. 187.                  theory, on the divergence of the nu
         levelling instrument, verification of,      merical coefficients, xii. 1C8.
   vii. 364.                                      Luxford (G.) on the discovery of Cucuba-
Lloyd (J. A.)onmeteorologicaI deductions             lus baccifer in the Isle of Dogs, xii. 93.
    made at Port Louis in 1833, 1834, and         I yell (C.) on the geology of Cerdagne in
    1835, xi. 97.                                    the Pyrenees, iv. 376 ; on the loamy

           ).OND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832— 1838.                              3f)
   deposit in the valley of the Rhine, v.       Magnetic intensity at Paris, &c, observa
   223 ; on the proofs of a gradual rising         tions on, ii. 4 ; of the earth, xi. 58, 66,
   of the land in Sweden, vi. 297 ; on the          170,254,363.
    geology of the islands of Seeland and                needle, irregularities in its vibra
    Moen, vii. 412; address at anniversary         tions produced by warmth, i. 310;
   of the Geological Society, viii. 310; x.        mode of determining the dip of, iv.
    308, 388 ; on the occurrence of fossil         232.
    vertebra of fish in the loess of the                polarity, on the distribution of, i.
    Rhine, viii. 557.                              31.
Lyon (D.) on magnetic substances, v. 415.               Pole, South, on the position of the,
                                                   ix. 104.
 MF. Aurora BoreaUs of Aug. 10,                         relations of the metals, viii. 1 79.
          • 1836, ix. 230.                              substances, on, v. 415.
MacCullagh (J.) on conical refraction, iii.     Magnetical apparatus, improvements in,
    114, 197 ; on a difficulty in the theory       xii. 380 ; discoveries, i. 129; observa
   of the attraction of spheroids, iii. 282 ;      tions, places fixed on by the Royal So
   on the reflection and refraction at the         ciety for making, xii. 34 7.
   surface of crystals, vii. 295 ; on the laws  Magnetical Observatory at Gottingcn, v.
   of reflexion from crystallized surfaces,        344; at Dublin, xii. 119.
    viii. 103 ; x. 42 ; xi. 134 ; on the laws  Magneto-electric current, effect of in
   of reflexion from metals, x. 382.               chemical decomposition, i. 161 ; on
M'Donnell (Dr.) on the differential pulse,         the chemical action of, i. 441.
   viii. 63.                                                  induction, recent discoveries
M'Gauley (Rev. J. W.) on the ceconomy             in, iv. 11 ; vii. 107.
   and uses of magnetism, vii. 306 ; on                       spark and shock, v. 349, 444.
   some remarkable results of electro          Magneto-electrical experiments, v. 376.;
   magnetic experiments, ix. 452 ; replv          machines, ix. 120, 180, 222, 262, 360,
   to Dr. Ritchie, x. 130.                        452; x. 12, 65 ; optical effects of, vi.
M'lntyre's^Dr.) remarks on the formula            427.
   for boroughs, reply to, i. 26.              Magneto-electricity, vii. 231 ; Mr. Prl-
MacLeay (\V. S.) on the genera Urania             deaux on, i. 309 ; on the sensation pro
   and Mygale, iv. 460.                           duced on the tongue by, ii. 152; on
Mackenzie (Sir G. S.) on meteorology              certain experiments in, iii. 18 ; on the
   and magnetism, vii. 355 ; on the paral         law which connects the various phae-
   lel roads of Glen Roy, vii. 433.               nomena discovered by Dr. Faraday, iii.
Mackintosh, (Sir James,) sketch of his life,      37 ; electrical phamomena elicited by,
  ii. 138.                                        iii. 40 ; on the laws of magneto-electric
Macvicar (Rev. J. G.) on the symmetri             induction, iii. 141 ; new phenomenon
   zing power of the eye, x. 234.                 in, vi. 169 ; magneto-electrical decom
Madeira, on the fishes of, xii. 526.              position of water, vi. 428.
Magilus antiquus, vi. 224.                     Magnetism, action of, on electro-dynamic
Magnesia, borates of, v. 156 ; hydrate of,        spirals, i. 45 ; on practical applications
  x. 454 ; its volatilization by heat, vii.       of, vii. 305, 306 ; on certain points in,
  406.                                            vii. 355 ; voltaic, its effects on soft
Magnet, on an electric spark from a, i.           iron, vii. 422 ; researches in, viii. 455;
  49, 63; detonation of gases by the              magnetic stations, establishment of, ix.
  spark of, iv. 104.                              45 ; magnetic action of manganese, ix.
       , permanent, on the electric shock         65 ; magnetic reaction, ix. 220, 287,
  and spark from, x. 280.                         469 ; on Capt. Back's magnetical ob
Magnetic attraction and repulsion, v. 1 ;         servations, ix. 523, 529 ; variations in
  laws of, vii. 439.                              the needles, xi. 166.
        action, viii. 55, 108, 180, 242, 349.          on terrestrial, ii. 292; iii. 215; viii.
         contact-breaker, description of a,       418; instrument for ascertaining va
  xii. 18.                                        rious properties of, iv. 81 ; geometrical
         dip, on the, xi. 370 ; observations      researches concerning, vi. 302 ; on ad
  of, with a three-inch circle, xi. 372.          vancing the knowledge of, ix. 42.
        electricity, on the theory of, ii. 32. Magnets :—power of an electro-magnet
        experiments tried on board an iron        to retain its magnetism, iii. 122 ; cu
  steam-vessel, viii. 547.                        rious properties of common and elec
         forces, on the, viii. 55, 108, 242,      tro-magnets, iii. 124 ; attractive and
  349.                                            repulsive forces of, viii. 349 ; ix. 72,
                                                                                E2

36                    GENEItAL INDEX OP VOLS. 1            12 OF THK
    220 ; on an improved mode of con           Marsupial animals, on the bruin in, X.
    structing, xi. 196.                           222.
Magnus (Si.) on the gases contained in         Martens (M.) on the decolorizing combi
    the blood, and on respiration, xii. 300.      nations of chlorine, x. 155.
 Maize, fossil, x. 323.                        Martin (W.) on the osteology of the sea
Malaguti (M.)> analysis of citric aether,         otter, ix. 512 ; on a new species of the
    xi. 139 ; on the action of chlorine on        genus Felis, x. 480 ; anatomy of the
    aethers, xii. 297 ; on camphoric acid,        Koala, x. 481 ; on the Felis Darwinii,
    xii. 297.                                     xii. 213 ; on the proboscis monkey,
Malcolmson (J. G.) on the great basaltic          xii. 592.
    district of India, xii. 2HG.               Marjiebone Literary and Scientific Insti
 Malic acid, artificial, ii. 236 ; iv. 74.        tution, iv. 151.
 Mallet (R.) on the application of electro-    Mathematics, viii. 43, 281, 295, 393, 402,
    magnetism to manufactures, vii. 305 ;         515, 538, 549 ; x. 18, 28, 32, 35, 105,
    on bleaching turf for the manufacture          121 ; xi. 41, 239, 302, 417, 456, 461,
    of paper, vii. 401 ; on phenomena of          492, 524, 537 ; vanishing fractions, ix.
    flame from coal-gas, vii. 401 ; on the         18, 92, 209 ; algebraic elimination, ix.
    aurora borealis of Sept. 29, 1836, x.         28 ; a property of the parabola, ix.
    75 ; on an unobserved structure in cer         100; on such functions as can be ex
    tain trap rocks, xii. 106.                    pressed by serieses of periodic terms,
 Malt liquors, examination of, xii. 218.          ix. 161 ; on the relative signs of coor
Mammifera, on the first changes in the            dinates, ix. 249 ; method of proving
    ova of, xi. 93.                               the law of gravitation, ix. 333, 370;
Mammalia, carnivorous, experiments on             remarkable paradox in the calculus of
    feeding, i. 395.                              functions, ix. 334, 443 ; logarithms,
        extinct, in the deposits of the neigh     ix. 252, 348; multiplication of nega
    bourhood of the Plata, xi. 206.               tive signs, ix. 540.
Mammary glands in the Cctacea, vii.            Matteucci (M.), notice of the late M.
    507.                                          Nobili, ix. 234 ; magnetic observations
Man, physical development of, x. 197.             of the aurora of Feb. 18, 1837, x. 494 ;
Manchester, geology of the vicinity of,          researches relative to the torpedo, xii.
    ix. 157, 241, 348.                            196 ; on the chemical composition of
Manganese, sesquisulphate of, viii. 1 73 ;       the electrical apparatus of the torpedo,
    magnetic action of, ix. 65 ; ore contain     xii. 256; on thermo-electric phseno-
    ing silver, x. 279.                          mena, xii. 295.
Manna of Mount Sinai, x. 226.                 Maurice (Prof.) on M. Fourier's law of
Mantell (Mr. G.) on the remains of the           the radiation of heat, ii. 1 03.
   Iguanodon, &c, ii. 150; proceeds of        May-flies, description of some nondescript
   the Wollaston fund presented to, vii.         species of, iv. 120, 212.
   52 ; on the bones of birds found in        Mayne (Rev. C.) on preserving Echino-
   Tilgate Forest, vii. 518; on the coffin       dermata, vii. 495.
   bone of a horse found near Brighton,       Mayo and Sligo, on the geology of, ii. 149.
   vii. 518.                                  Mease (Dr.) on the dry rot of ships, xi.
Manufactures and machinery, on, i. 208.           192.
—— of the ancients, v. 355.                   Measures of Covent Garden, dimensions
Maps, on geological, i. 446.                     of, i, 472; ii. 405, 482.
Marcet (M.) on the action of mushrooms        Meconinc, on, ii. 156.
   on atmospheric air, viii. 82.              Medal-ruling, on an improvement in, ii.
Marchand ( Ii. F.) on a new method of            288.
   obtaining chrome alum, xii. 218.           Medical science, grants of money for the
Margaron, v. 153.                                advancement of, ix. 314.
Marocco, on certain plants of, ii. 409.       Medusae, luminous, xii. 213.
Marquart (J. C), progress of phytoche-        Meeson (H. A.) on the detection of
   mistry, x. 247; xi. 156, 333; on the          opium, vi. 158.
   colours of plants, xi. 441.                Megatherium, discovery in Buenos Ayres
Mars, ephemeria of stars to be observed          of three skeletons of, i. 233.
   with at the ensuing opposition of that     Mellitic acid, x. 159.
   planet, i. 323, 406, 474.                  Melloni ( M.) on the transmission of ca
Marsh's test for arsenic, x- 353.                lorific rays through diathermal bodies,
Marshall (Dr.) on the zoology of Rath-           vii. 475 ; theory of, on, viii. 23, 109,186,
   lin. vii. 492.                                190, 246.

         LOSD. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1 83'2— 1838.                             37
Melolonthid.T, a new genus of, vii. 22-1.          iv. 80. 160, 240, 320, 400, 468 ; v. 80'
Mercury, transit of, observed at Geneva,           160, 239, 320, 400, 468; vi. 80, 160>
   i. 246 ; transit on May 5th, 1 832, i. 322 ;    240, 320, 400, 468; vii. 80, 160, 240.
   observation at Utrecht of the transit of,       633, 432, 542; viii. 88, 176, 264, 352,
   ii. 379.                                        448, 593; ix. 80, 160, 240, 320, 400,
Mercury, cyanuret of, its decomposition            545 ; x. 80, 160, 240, 328, 424, 504 ;
   by iron, vii. 78 ; action of ammonia on         xi. 144, 224, 328, 408, 488, 568 ; xii.
   the chlorides and oxides of, viii. 495 ;        144, 224, 304, 384, 4G3, 544.
   bibromide of, ix. 148 ; iodide of, opti      Meteorology, viii. 67, 78, 187, 236, 263,
   cal properties of, ix. 1 ; native, locality    351, 447, 592 ; on the progress of, iii.
   of, ix. 155 ; xi. 143 ; compound of al          131 ; of Dukhun, vi. 59 ; remarks on
   bumen and bichloride of, x. 420 ; analy         the year 1834 at Carlisle, vi. 427 ; on
   sis of double salts of, xii. 235 ; tritio-     certain points in, vii. 355 ; observa
   dide of, xii. 27.                              tions, xii. 143, 223, 303, 382, 463,
Mersey and Dec, a survey of, vii.                 543 ; low temperature of Jan. 1838,
    487.                                          xii. 302 ; observations made at Ber
Mesityl, oxide of, xii. 100.                      muda in 1836-37, xii. 42 ; observa
Metallic oxides, separation of, vi. 234.          tions made in Colombia, between 1820
Metalliferous veins, questions on, i. 469 ;       and 1830, xii. 148 ; meteorology of Te-
    on the electro-magnetism of, iii. 16,         nerift'e, xii. 291 ; description of a new
    17.                                            barometer, xii. 204 ; specimen of a
—— deposits, on the relative position             thermometrical diary, xii. 498.
    with regard to the unstratined rocks, i.    Methylene, on, vii. 427, 538 ; new com
    225.                                          binations of, ix. 77.
Metals, fusing points of, i. 202 ; on the       Meyen (J.) on the progress of vegetable
    vibration of heated, iii. 321; iv. 15,        physiology, xi. 381, 435, 524 ; xii. 53 ;
    182; vi. 85; electrical relations of, vi.     on the structure of the glands on the
    300 ; action of in determining gaseous         leaves of the Labiate, xi. 531.
    combination, vi. 354; corrosion ofby sea-   Michell on stratification, i. 268.
    water, on the prevention of, vii. 389 ;     Micrometer, on a species of natural, &c.
    magnetic relations of, viii. 179; their       ii, 64.
    reduction by electricity, x. 154 ; action   Microscope, achromatic viii. 70 ; polari
    of nitric acid on, xi. 554 ; colours of,      zing, ix. 288 ; a new object for the, iii.
    xii. 298.                                     318 ; test objects for, ii. 335 ; solar
 Metanaphtalene, new carburets of, xi.            and oxy-hydrogen, x. 184, 219.
    404.                                        Microscopic chemistry, on, ix. 2, 10.
 Meteor, seen June 29th, 1832, Mr. Ed-                 objects, dried, ix. 90.
    mond's notice of, i. 306; Mr. Pri-          Middletonite, on, xii. 261.
    deaux's, i. 307 ; extraordinary, seen at    Milk, sugar of, on its fermentation, xii.
    Malvern, iii. 37.                              139.
 Meteoric stones, on, ix. 429 ; in Brazil,      Miller (Prof.) on the effect of light on
    xii. 462.                                     the spectrum passed through coloured
 Meteorite, in Moravia, vi. 159 ; in India,       gases, ii. 381 ; on the forms of sul-
    vi. 398.                                      phuret of nickel, &c. vi. 104 ; on the
 Meteors observed in India, ix. 74 ; of           measurement of the axes of optical
    Nov. 12tb, 1837, xii. 85.                     elasticity of certain crystals, viii. 431.
 Meteorological deductions made at Port         Mineral veins, viii. 229'; ix. 8, 387; x.
    Louis in 1833, 1834, and 1835, xi.            394 ; method of imitating, ix. 229 ; on
    97.                                           the phenomena of, xii. 125; on the
        journal kept at Penzance, ii. 159.        process by which thev have been filled,
         observations, ix. 79, 159, 239, 319,     xi. 203.
    399, 544 ; x. 79, 159, 239, 327, 423,       Mineralogy:—"Allan's Manual" of, vi.
    503 ; xi. 143, 223, 327, 407, 487, 567 ;      53 ; mineralogical notices, vi. 76 ; ana
    taken at Bermuda in 1836, xi. 449.            lysis of nadelerz, vi. 77 ; new mineral,
         phenomena, notice of, iv. 103;           vi. 133 ; analyses of osmiridium and
    cause of, iv. 233.                            allanite, vi. 238 ; new locality of pleu-
 Meteorological Society, xii. 291, 601.           akite, vii. 239; rhodizite, vii. 431 ; ga-
 - table, by Mr. Thompson, Mr. Giddy,             dolinite, vii. 430 ; Wolfram, vii. 335 ;
    and Mr. Veall, i. 88, 168, 248, 328,          analysis of plenakite, vii. 540 ; on sym
    408, 475 ; ii. 80, 160, 240, 320, 408,        bolic notation as applied to, viii. 101 ;
    484 ; iii. 80, 159, 240, 320, 400, 468 ;       " Breithaupt's Mineralogy," viii. 173;

;ss                  (JENEHAT. INDEX OF VOLS. 1             12 OF THE
   ou tluilite and stromite, viii. 169 ; cule; Monkey, peculiar species of, iv. 61 ; *
   brite, viii. 261 ; Riolite and Herrerite,      73.
   viii. 261 ; antimonial copper, ix. 149 ;    Monkeys, some remarks on, ix. 303.
   donium, a new metal, ix. 156, 255 ;         Mont Blanc, on the varying colour* of,
   change in the chemical character of            at sunset, i. 335 ; on an optical phae-
   minerals induced by galvanism, ix. 228 ;       nomenon observed at, xii. 122.
   artificial crystals and minerals, ix. 229,  Monticelli (Sig.) on the structure of lava,
   537 ; composition of plagionite, ix. 232 ;    i. 228.
   new mode of analysis of closely aggre       Moon, on the theory of the, iv. 218.
   gated minerals, ix. 76 ; Zeagonite, Gis-       220.
   mondin, Abrazite, Aricite and 1'hil-        Moore (Mr.) on the earthquake in Syria,
   lipsite, x. 170; Murchisonite, Moon           xi. 204.
   stone, and the iridescent felspar from      Mora tree of British Guiana, xii. 532.
   Fredericksvarn, x. 1 70 ; analysis of tin   Morgau (A. De) on the relative signs of
   pyrites, Tennantite, Jamesonitc, Augite        coordinates, ix. 249.
   and Amphibole, x. 236 ; on the inter        Morichini (Prof.), notice of, xii. 280.
   section of crystalline minerals, x. 278 ;   Mornay (M.) on the inflammable milk
   on the identity of Biotine and Anor-           of Euphorbia phosphorescens, xi. 530.
   thite, and on a new crystal of quartz,      Morphia, new process for obtaining, i.
   x. 368 ; crystallographical identity of        327 ; in poppy seeds, iv. 236.
   phacolite and the Irish bipyramidal                and quiiut, new test for, vi. 158.
   levyne with chabasie, xi. 12 ; on inii-            and iodine, xi. 218.
   rio-carbonate, and native muriate of               and iodic acid, xi. 219.
   lead, xi. 175; on the crystalline form      Morren (M.) on the respiration of plants,
   of pyrosmalitc, xi. 261 ; account of           xi. 537.
   Edwardsite, xi. 402.                        Morris (J.) on the strata usually termed
Minerals of the North of Ireland, iii. 83.        plastic clay, xi. 104.
        organic forms of, x. 318.              Mortality, influence of high and low
Mines, variation of the quantity of               prices on, v. 278.
   water in, i. 288 ; in the Savana region,    Moschus, two new species of, ix. 515.
    discovery and progress of the, xi. 22 ;    Moseley (Rev. II.) on a new principle in
   on their temperature in Cornwall and           statics, iii. 285 ; on the theory of re
    Devonshire, xi. 520.                          sistances in statics, iii. 431 ; principle
Minium, experiments on, ii. 402 ; iii.            of least pressure, remarkson, iv. 89, 27 1 ;
    125.                                          v. 95 ; Mr. Horner's considerations re
Mirage, phaenomenon resembling, seen in           lative to, v. 188 ; his replies toMr. Earn-
   the Regent's Park, vii. 77 ; as seen in        shaw, iv. 194, 420.
    Cornwall, viii. 169.                       Mosses, on, iv. 254 ; of Upper Assam, xii.
Mirror, account of a curious Chinese, i.          532 ; on the existence of stomata in,
    438.                                          xii. 533.
Mitchell (Dr.) on certain strata in Buck       Mossotti (M.) on molecular action, x.
   inghamshire, iv. 148 ; on the Reculver         320.
   cliff, iv. 149 ; on the chalk and flint of  Motion, transmitted, analytical deter
    Yorkshire, vi. 313; on the beds imme          mination of the laws of, vi. 267.
   diately above the chalk near London,        Mould, formation of, xii. 89.
   ix. 356 ; on a well at Beaumont Green,      Mount Etua, eruption in 1536, vi. 299.
    Hereford, xi. 215.                         Mountain chains of Europe and Asia, on
Mitchell's (Prof.) method of preparing            the, iv. 1.
   carbonic oxide, Dr. Gale on, vi. 232.       Mountains, on the ascent of, x. 261.
Mitscherlich (E.) on nitro-benzide and         Mudgc (Capt.) on the ossiferous cavern
   sulpho-benzidc, viii. 257 ; on the for         of Yealm Bridge, viii. 579.
   mation of aether, viii. 258.                Mulder (M.) on the red and white oxide
Mitranse, observations on the different           of phosphorus, x. 499 ; on the prepara
   species of, ix. 137.                          tion of sulphuret of carbon, xi. 221.
Mold (M.) on the symmetry ofvegetables,        Miiller (Prof.) ou the existence of four
   xi. 383 ; on the validity of Ehrenberg's      distinct hearts in certain amphibious
   character for distinguishing animals          animals, iii. 41 ; account of the reflex
   and vegetables, xi. 387.                      function of the spinal marrow, x. 51,
Molecular action, x. 320, 355.                   124, 187, 378.
Mollusca, on marine testaceous, i. 384.        Mullins (F. W.) on an improved mag
Monetary calculation, a decimal system           neto-electrical machine, ix. 120 ; on
   of, vi. 441.                                  the construction of voltaic batteries, ix.

          LOND. AND ED1N. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832— 1838.                           39.
  382 ; x. 63 ; on magneto-electrical ma         " Analyse des Equations," xi. 38 ; on
  chines, in reply to Prof. Ritchie, x. 12 ;     the roots of equations, xi. 92.
  on the action of electricity in voltaic      Murray (Sir J.) on the influence of arti
  combinations, x. 281.                          ficial rarefaction in some diseases, and
Mummy cloth of Egypt, on the, v. 355.            the effects of its condensation in others,
Mural circles, Greenwich, v. 305 ; Cape          viii. 62.
   of Good Hope, v. 309.                       Mus, new species of, xii. 443.
Murchison (R. I.) on the structure of the      Musci, new genus of, iii. 30.
   Cotteswold and Cleveland hills, i. 221 ;    Muscular effort required to ascend planes
   on the sedimentary deposits of Shrop          of different inclinations, x. 261 ; mus
   shire, Herefordshire, &c, iii. 224 ; on       cular fibre of animal and organic life,
   freshwater limestone near Shrewsbury,         x. 377; xi. 194.
   iv. 159 ; on the old red sandstone of       Mushet (D.) on the practicability of
   parts of Wales, &c, iv. 228 ; on the          alloying iron and copper, vi. 81 ; on
   transition rocks of Shropshire, &c, iv.       the fusion and appearance of refined
   370, 450 ; on the gravel and alluvial         and unrefined copper, vi. 324 ; on the
   deposits of Hereford, Salop, and Wor          immersion of copper in muriatic acid,
   cester, v. 217 ; on certain trap rocks         as a test of its durability, vi. 444.
   in Salop, &c, v. 225, 292 ; on an out       Mushrooms, on, iv. 258 ; their action on
   lying basin of has on the borders of          atmospheric air, viii. 82.
   Salop and Cheshire, with an account         Myrmecobius, characters of, ix. 520; on
   of the lower lias between Gloucester          differences existing between two spe
   and Worcester, vi. 314 ; general view         cimens of, xi. 200.
   of the new red sandstone series in the
   counties of Salop, Stafford, Worcester,     NADELERZ, analysis of, vi. 77.
   and Gloucester, vi. 315 ; on certain               Naphtha, on a fluid obtained in the
   coal tracts in Salop, Worcestershire,         manufacture of, vii. 395 ; analysis of,
   and N. Gloucestershire, vi. 376 ; on          vii. 429.
    the Silurian system of rocks, vii. 46,     Naples, influence of the climate of, on
    483 ; on the geology of North Salop          vegetation, iv. 274.
    and Staffordshire, vii. 415 ; on the dis   Narcissinejc, Hnworth on the, i. 275.
    covery of fossil fishes in the new red     Nautilus, pearly, on the theory of the ac
    sandstone of Tyrone, viii. 72 ; on the       tion of the siphuncle in the, xii. 503 ;
    geological structure of Pembrokeshire,       the paper nautilus, xii. 601.
    viii. 561 ; on the gravel and alluvia of   Nebulae, observations of, iv. 125.
    South Wales and Siluria, viii. 566 ; on    Nccker (Prof.) on optical phenomena
    the fossil genera Pseudarumonites and        seen in Switzerland, &c, i. 329 ; on the
    Ichthyosiagonites of the Solenhofen          relative position of metallic deposits
    limestone, ix. 32 ; on the Silurian and      and unstratified rocks, i. 225.
    other rocks of the Dudley and Wolver       Needles rendered magnetic by the nerves,
    hampton coal-field, ix. 489 ; on a raised    xii. 223.
    beach in Barnstaple Bay, x. 477 ; on       Negro, on the brain of the, ix. 527.
    the physical structure of Devonshire,      Negro's (Sig. Dal.) magneto-electric ex
    xi. 311; on the upper formations of          periments, i. 45.
    the new red system, xi. 318.               Negros, Asiatic, natural history of the,
 Muriate of ammonia, its action on cer           i. 466.
    tain sulphates, vi. 235.                   Nelson (Lieut.) on the geology of the
 Muriatic acid in fluor spar, v. 78 ; on          Bermudas, v. 222.
    the immersion of copper in, vi. 444 ;      Nephrodium rigidum, viii. 255.
    method of testing its presence in hy       Nervous and muscular systems in ani
    drocyanic acid, vii. 400.                     mals, on the , iii. 40.
 Murio-carbonatc and native muriate of         Newbold (Capt.) on the Ipoh or Upas
    lead, on, xi. 175.                           poison, xi. 193; on the black cotton
 Murphy (Rev. R.) on the roots of equa           soil of India, xii. 430.
    tions, ii. 60, 220 ; on the real functions Newcastle (in Australia), geology of the
    of imaginary quantities, ii. 287 ; on        south-cast coast of, i. 92.
    electrical influence, ii. 350 ; on the in  Newman (E.) on the metamorphosis of
    verse method of definite integrals, iii.     insects, iv. 381.
    461 ; on a new theorem in analysis, x.     Newport (G.) on the nervous system of
    28 ; on rectangular forces, x. 105 ; on      Sphinx ligustri.vi. 55; on the respiration
    the theory of analytical operations, x.      of insects, ix. 532; Royal medal award
    219 ; on an error of M. Fourier in his       ed to, x. 214 ; on the temperature of

40                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1              12 OF THE
   insects, and its connexion with respi     Nobili (M.) notice of the lite and con
   ration and circulation, xi. 189.             tributions to science of, ix. 234.
Newton's rings, on the phenomena of,         Nordenskiold on Phenakite, v. 102.
   i. 400 ; ii. 20 ; x. 183 ; xii. 28, 485 ; Norfolk, geology of, vii. 171, 274, 353,
   on coloured bands observed in ex             370, 463.
   amining, vii. 363, 474.                   Normandy, geological character of the
       Principia, inquiry relative to Dr.       coast of, xi. 210.
   Pemberton's translation of, viii. 441 ;   North magnetic pole, Commander Bon
   theory of natural colours, on, viii.         on the position of, iv. 222.
   468.                                      North-west passage, discovery of the, xii.
Newton and Flamsteed, viii. 139, 211,           542.
   218, 225.                                 Notation, on chemical, ii. 309.
       (Sir I.) on the manuscript of, xi.            symbolic, as applied to mineralogy,
   138.                                         viii. 101.
Niagara, on the Falls of, v. 1 1.            Nycteribia, the genus, vi. 392.
Nicholson (P.) remarks on his rule for       Numbers, theory of, new demonstration
   the construction of the oblique arch,        of an original proposition in, xi. 456.
   x. 167.                                   Nux vomica, new acid in, iv. 153.
Nickel, form of sulphurct of, vi. 104 ; se
   paration of zinc from, viii. 80.          OBJECT-GLASS, double achromatic,
       and cobalt incapable of being ren             vii. 161.
   dered inactive, xi. 547.                  Object-glasses, on a new species of co
Nicol's (Mr.) polarizing eve-piece, on,         loured fringes in, i. 19.
   iv. 289.                                  Observatory, magnetical, at Dublin, xii.
Nicol (W.), structure of Conifers:, vii.        119.
   490.                                      Occultations, lunar, i. 87, 167, 247, 327,
Nicolaieff, on the mean temperature of,         405, 473.
   i. 132.                                   Ocean, method of ascertaining the depth
Nieotin, Prof. Davy, on, i. 393.                of, iii. 82; ix. 185; remarks on, iii.
Nidalia, a new genus of corals, vii. 331.       352 ; on the phosphorescence of the,
Nile, plan for exploring the western            xii. 211.
   branch of the, xii. 543.                  Oceans, Pacific and Indian, areas of ele
Niiiiino (A.), notice of, iv. 44C.              vation and subsidence in the, xi. 307.
Nitrate of carbohydrogen, viii. 85.          Octopus, nondescript species of, ix.
Nitre, its formation in extract of quassia,     301.
   xii. 140 j new property of, xii. 145.     Odynerus quadratus and O. bidens, ha
Nitric acid, its action upon iron, ix. 53,      bits of, xii. 17.
   259 ; x. 133, 267, 270, 425 ; xii. 49 j   (Enanthic acid, x. 417, 422.
   on the causes of the neutrality of iron   (Enanthic aether, x. 418.
   in, x. 172; its action on certain metals, Ogilby (W.) on the Cynictis, iii. 67 ; on
   xi. 554 ; its action on bismuth, xii.        several Marsupialia, ix. 70 ; on the op
   305.                                         posable power of the thumb in certain
Nitro-benzide and sulpho-benzide, vii.          mammals, and on the natural affinities
   257.                                         which subsist between the Bimana,
Nitrogen, iodide of, viii. 12.                  Quadruraana and Pedimana, ix. 302 ;
Nitrosulphuric acid, x. 489.                    on the Chironectes Yapock, ix. 510;
Nixon (J.) on the measurement of the            on some hollow-horned Ruminants, xi.
   instrumental error of his horizon-           124 ; arrangements of the Ruminantia,
   sector, i. 98; ii. 327; on a repeating       xi. 469 ; on the quadrupeds of Austra
   circle, i. 340 ; on the trigonometrical      lia, xii. 95.
   height of Iuglcborough, iv. 163; vi.      Oil of bitter almonds, composition of, iii.
   248, 429; on the tides in the Hay of         389 ; iv. 70 ; of cinnamon, vii. 74 ; of
   Morecambc, v. 264 ; verification of          turpentine, hydrate of, vii. 537 ; on the
   Capt. Lloyd's levelling instrument, vii.     phenomena of drops of, floating on
   364 ; table of observed terrestrial re       water, viii. 288; volatile, ix. 155; of
   fractions, viii. 4 79 ; heights of Whem-     caoutchouc, ix. 321, 479; aethereal, of
   Bide, Great Whcrnside. Rumbles Moor,         wine, x. 417; oil which accompanies
   Pendlc Hill, anil Boulsworth, ix. 96.        pvroxvlic spirit, x. 48 ; empyreumatic,
Noad (II. M.) on the peculiar voltaic           xii. 101.
   condition of iron, x. 276 ; of iron and   Oils, action of sulphuric acid on, ix. 153.
   bismuth, xii. 18 ; on the hydrates of     Olbcrs (Dr.) on the return of Halley'a
   baryta and strontia, xi. 301.                comet, vi. 45 ; method of determining

         LOXD. AND ED1N. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 183'2                         1838.     41
   the orbits of comets, on, vii. 7, 123,         pressions from feathers, xii. 451 ;
   203, 280.                                      Humming birds, xii. 526 ; British wag
Oleon, v. 153.                                    tail (Motacilla Yarrellii,) xii. 596.
Olivile, analysis of, iii. 381.                Ornithorhynchus paradoxus, on the mam
Oolitic formations of Gloucestershire, sur        mary glands of the, i. 384 ; iii. 60,
   vey of, u. 300.                                301 ; abdominal glands of, iv. 54 ; on
Ophthalmia, purulent, viii. 65.                   the young of, v. 235 ; the ova of, vi.
Opium, substances contained in, ii. 153 ;         60 ; natural history and habits of, vi.
   new substance in, iv. 77 ; detection of,       307.
   vi. 158 ; new alkali in, viii. 444 ; che    Orobanche, on the affinities of, xi. 409.
   mical history of, xi. 335.                  Osborne (Dr.) on the eflfects of cold on
Optical experiment, viii. 108; optical            the human body, and on a mode of
   structure of the crystalline lenses of         measuring refrigeration, viii. 59.
   animals, viii. 193 ; illusion, on a new     Osier (Mr.) on a new registering anemo
   instrument of, iv. 36 ; phenomena              meter and rain gauge, xi. 476.
   seen in Switzerland, i. 329 ; xii. 122 ;    Osniia bicornis, and O. spinnlosa, xii.
   phenomenon, peculiar, v. 373.                  18.
        properties of oxalate of chromium      Osmium, its separation from iridium, iv.
   and potash, vii. 436 ; science, facts re       155 ; preparation of, v. 314 ; iridium,
   lating to, iv. 112,289 j ix. 1,401; pro       and platinum, triple combinations of,
   perties of chabasie, ix. 166; pheno           ix. 232.
   mena of certain crystals, ix. 288 ; x.      Osmiridium, on, v. 101 ; analysis of, vi.
   218 ; theory of crystals, Fresnel's ana        238.
   lytical reduction of, xi. 462.              Osteology, human, vi. 57; of the orang
Optics :—on the undulations excited in           and chimpanzee, vi. 457.
   the retina by luminous points and           Ostrogradsky (M.) on a singular case of
   lines, i. 169 ; on a new photometer by        the equilibrium of fluids, remarks on,
   comparison, i. 174; on the action of          xii. 385.
   the brain on vision, i. 249.                Otter, Irish, vi. 229 ; osteology of the,
        and perspective, new instrument as       ix. 512.
   a means of instruction in, iii. 464.        Otus brachyotus, habits of, xii. 104.
Orang Outang, frequent deficiency of the       Oude, royal observatory of, iv. 158.
   ungueal phalanx in the, vii. 72.            Ovaries in the human species, on the, vii.
Orang-outangs, specific distinctions of          209.
   the, x. 295.                                Owen (R.) on the mammary glands of
Organ, enharmonic, vii. 366.                     the Ornithorynchus, iii. 14 ; reply to,
Organic acids, constitution of, xii. 381 ;       iv. 54 ; anatomy of the Terebratula,
   on a new, xi. 564.                            &c, iv. 302 ; on the kangaroo, iv. 304,
        chemistry, researches in, x. 45, 1 16.   438 ; on the crania of the lion and
        compoumls, a new force acting in         tiger, iv. 454 ; on the anatomy of the
   the combinations of, x. 490 ; method          Touraco, iv. 456 ; anatomy of the Ca-
   of analvsing, xii. 31, 232.                    lyptraida:, v. 72 ; on the structure of
        remains, vii. 81, 174, 182, 221, 278,    the heart of the Pcrennibranchiate Am
   374; viii. 30, 561, 576; ix. 349, 386,        phibia, v. 150; on the young and ova
   462,490,496; x. 4, 137, 402.                  of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus, v.
Ornithology, ix. 66, 138, 227, 503, 511 ;        235 ; vi. 60 ; description of a recent
   new species of Ortyx, x. 287; xii. 527;       Clavagella, vi. 230 ; on a new species
   two new species of birds from New             of Eutozoon, vi. 452; anatomy of
   South Wales, x. 287, 306 ; rare birds in       Linguatula Tamioides, vi. 450 ; osteo
   the vicinity of Scarborough, x. 287 ;         logy of the orang and chimpanzee, vi.
   three-quarter-bred pheasants, x. 292;         457; dissection of a Dasyurus, vii.
   birds from Swan River, x. 293 ; new            154 ; anatomy of the Pelican, vii. 154 ;
   genus in the group of wrens, x. 295 ;         on some Cephalopoda, ix. 298 ; on the
   list of birds noticed at Smyrna in the        morbid appearances observed in dis
   winter of 1835-6, x. 301 ; habits of the      secting the chimpanzee, ix. 388 ; on
   vulture, x. 479; ground finches, xii.         the anatomy of the wombat, ix. 504 ;
   215; new species of parrot, xii. 215 ;        on the brain of marsupial animals, x.
   new raptorial birds, xii. 215 ; new Fis-       222 ; on the specific distinctions of the
   sirostal birds, xii. 441 ; habits of the      orangs, x. 295 ; description of two En-
   Vultur aura, xii. 44 7; Rhea Darwinii,        tozoa in the stomach of the tiger, xi.
   xii. 450 ; simple process for taking im        128; on the cranium of the Toxodon
                                                                                F

42                    GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1               12 OF THE
   platensis, xi. 205 ; the Wollaston me       Patents, list of new, i. 167 ; on the law of,
   dal awarded to, xii. 433; on the dislo         L 212.
   cation of the tail in Ichthyosauri, xii.    Patent laws, proposed modification of, iii.
   590 ; on the cranium of an orang               316.
   outang, xii. 599 ; examination of a         Payen (M.) on the action of tannin, &c
   ftrtal kangaroo, xii. 600.                     on the roots of plants, v. 157 j on a
Owl, short-eared, habits of, xii. 104.             new acetate of lead, xii. 133.
Oxacids, their action on pyroxylic spirit,     Peafowl, habits of the, vii. 228.
   vi:. 538 ; viii. 85.                        Pearson's (Dr.) " Introduction to Prac
Oxalhydric acid, iv. 74 ; xi. 142.                 tical Astronomy," i. 370, 450.
Oxalic acid, action of chloride of sodium      Pekin, magnetical and meteorological ob
   upon, v. 445 ; its action on the sul            servations at, i. 130.
   phates of iron and copper, ix. 155.         Pelican, anatomy of the, vii. 154, 223.
Oxalo-nitratc of lead, xii. 459.               Pcligot (M.) on camphor, x. 420 ; on
Oxford, meeting of the British Associa             carbovinatc of potash, xi. 320 ; on a
   tion at, i. 77.                                 new organic acid, xi. 564.
Oxide of chromium, crystallized, viii.          Pelletier (M.) on the action of iodine on
    1 75 ; of lead, on the solubility of, in       organic salifiable bases, ix. 76 ; x. 500 ;
   water, xi. 221 ; of silver and oxide of         xi. 216; on the elementary composi
    lead, definite combination of, xii. 2 1 7.     tion of paramorphia, xi. 335.
Oxides :—carbonic, on Prof. Mitchell's          Pelouze (M.) on an ethereal oil of wine,
   method of preparing, vi. 232 ; metal            x. 417 ; on the action of presence, x.
    lic, separation of, vi. 234.                   489 ; on the products of the decompo
        and salts, their solubility in mu          sition of cyanogen in water, xii. 339.
    riate and nitrate of ammonia, x. 95,        Pemberton's (Dr.) translation of New
    178, 333.                                       ton's Principia, inquiry relative to, viii.
Ox y chloride of antimony, vii. 332.                441.
Oxygen in the atmosphere, on the quan           Pembrokeshire, geology of, viii. 561, 5>67.
    tity of, xii. 397.                          Peinphrcdon lugubris, P. Morio, and P.
 Oxy-hydrogen jet, on a new, ii. 57.                unicolor, xii. 17.
Ozocerite, composition of, xii. 389.            Pendulum, Mr. Baily on the, i 379 ; in
                                                    variable experiments with, i. 420 -, ii.
" T) M.," on chemical decomposition                 458 ; experiments on the seconds, ii.
   X • effected by the magneto-elec                 244, 344, 434 ; Captain Forster's ex
    tric current, i. 161 ; on magneto-electri       periments on the, iv. 230.
    city and electro-magnetism, iii. 18.        Penguin, habits of, v. 231 ; anatomical
 Painting in enamel, art of, x. 442 ; on            description of, vii. 519.
    glass, on the art of, ix. 456.              Penrhvn, on the granite found near, ii.
 Paheoniscus Egertonii, xii. 86.                    321', 322.
 Palaeontology, new discoveries in, ix. 158,            slate quarries, on a trap dyke in the,
    392; x. 318.                                    xi. 103.
 Palms, internal structure of the wood of, Pentacrinus Europaeus, vii. 495.
    xi. 553.                                     Peraraeles, on a new species of the genus,
 PalodeVaca, pericarp and nuts of, vii. 501.        xi. 198.
 Paper, hydrographic, iii. 466 ; made from       Per-iodic acid, properties of, x. 325.
    turf, vii. 401.                              Periodide of iron, ix. 79.
 Papuans, on the history of the, i. 466.         Peroxide of iron, separation of, from pro
 Parabola, on a property of the, ix. 100 ; x.       toxide of manganese, from protoxides
     32 ; xi. 302.                                  of iron, from oxides of cobalt and
 Parabolic curves, the arcs of, v. 455.             nickel, i. 85 ; as an antidote to arse-
 Paraffin and eupion, on, i. 402 ; analysis          nious acid, vi. 237.
    of, ii 78.                                          of bismuth, iii. 387.
 Parallelogram of forces, demonstration of              of mercury, action of ammonia on,
     the, v. 39.                                    xi. 504.
 Paramorphia, discovery of poisonous pro         Persian Gulf, on the former extent of, iv.
    perties of, xi. 335.                             107 ; v. 244 ; viu. 506 ; ix. 34 ; xi. 66 ;
 Parilline and parillinic acid, analysis of,        advance of land in, vi 401; vii. 41,
    v. 465.                                          192, 250.
 Parish (W.) on the effects of the earth         Perspective, a new instrument as a means
    quake waves on the coasts of the Pa             of instruction in, iii. 464.
    cific, viii. 181.                            Petersburg!), St., meteorological observa
 Parrot, new species of, xii. 215.                   tions made at, ii. 260.

          LOXD. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                           1838.     43
Petherick (T.) on the electro-magnetism          Phosphurct of azote, vii. 158.
    of metalliferous veins of a copper mine Phosphurets, metallic, iii. 310.
   in Ireland, iii. 16.                          Phosphurcttcd hvdrogen, composition of,
Phscnogamous plants, on the develop                 iii. 308; v. 401.
    ment of the organization in, xii. 172, Photometer, on the method of computing
    241, 292.                                       the results of experiments with the, xii.
Phacolite and levync, identity of with              484.
    chabasie, xi. 12.                           Photometry, v. 327 ; by comparison, on a
Phenaldte, a new mineral, v. 102.                   new instrument for, i. 174 ; its appli
Philip (Dr. A. P. W.) on the nervous                cation to the undulatory theory of
   and muscular systems in animals, iii.            light, v. 439.
   40; on the nature of sleep, iii. 143; Phrenology, early anticipation of, iii. 308.
   on death, iv. 360 ; on the powers on         Physalia    pclagica, xii. 528.
   which the functions of life depend, ix.      Physeter macrocephalus, xi. 196.
   430.                                         Phvsics, on M. Mossotti's theory of, xi.
Phillips (Prof. J.) on the lower coal se           496.
    ries of Yorkshire, i. 349 ; on a modi       Physiology of the voice, ix. 201, 269,
   fication of the e'.ectrophorus, ii. 363 ;       342 ; on the motion of the arm, ix.
    on the ancient forests of Holderness,           411 ; vegetable, ix. 372 ; xi, 156, 381,
   iv. 282 ; on subterranean temperature,          435 ; xii. 53 ; of respiration in insects,
    v. 446 ; on a newly discovered tertiary        ix. 533.
    deposit in Yorkshire, vii. 486 ; on the Phytochemistry, progress of, x. 247; xi.
   geology of Manchester, ix. 157.                 333.
        (R.) on the action of sulphurous Phytological errors and admonitions, v.
   acid on the persalts of iron, ii. 75 ; on       205.
    Dr. Priestley's notice of caoutchouc, Pingel (Dr.) on the gradual sinking of
    ii. 77 ; experiments on platina, ii. 94 ;      the west coast of Greenland, viii. 73.
   on the analysis of some combinations Pinus, descriptions of two species of, viii.
   of platina, ii. 197 ; on minium, iii. 125 ;     255 ; sylvestris, starch in the bark of,
    analysis of two sulphureous springs near       x. 249.
   Weymouth, iii. 158 ; on the use of Pipeline, M. Pelletier on, iii. 313.
   chemical symbols, iii. 443 ; iv. 246 ;       Placunanomia, on the genus, iv. 455.
   replies to, iv. 41, 106, 402, 464; on Plagionite, composition of, ix. 232.
   isomorphism, xii. 407 ; on the consti        Planche (M.) on the fonnation of nitre
   tution of the true red oxide of lead, iii.      in extract of quassia, xii. 140.
   128 ; on the composition of phosphu- Plants, on the external structure of im
   retted hydrogen, iii. 308; review of            perfect, iv. 252 ; on the internal struc
   Rees's translation of Berzelius on the          ture of, v. 112, 181, 284 ; action of
   analysis of inorganic bodies, iii. 463;        tannin on the roots of, v. 157; on a
   on the action of oxacids on pyroxylic          property in, analogous to the irritabi
   spirit, viii, 85 ; on the quantity of water     lity of animals, vi. 165; divergence the
   contained in crystallized barytes and          cause of motion in, vii. 357; ix. 17;
   strontia, vi. 52; on the combination           development and growth of the stems
   of water with salts, xi. 388; on the           and leaves of, ix. 372 ; on structure in
   solubility of arsenious acid, xi 487            the ashes of.xi. 13, 413 ; chemistry of,
   note ; on the action of cold air in main       xi.   156 ; siliceous contents of, xi. 339 ;
   taining heat, xi. 407; letter to, from         on the symmetry, arrangement, and
   Mr. R. Addams on the same subject,             characteristics of the nature of, xi.
   xi, 446 ; on a new acetate of lead, xii.       383; on the combination, structure,
   134.                                           and contents of the cells of, xi. 435 ;
Philology, importance of the languages of         action of solar light on, xi. 537 ; on
  uncivilized nations, vii. 27, 94.               the conservation of, xi. 566 ; fossil, ii.
Philosophical Society of Cambridge, iv. 66.       475.
Phloridzine, viii. 444 ; properties of, xi.    Plastic clay, on the, xi. 104.
   337.                                        Platina, spongy, method of obtaining, x.
Phosphorescence of the ocean, xii. 211.           154 ; and hydrogen, compound of, v.
Phosphorus, red oxide of, ii. 78 ; hydrate        155; experiments on, ii. 94; ix. 514;
  of, ii. 79 ; red and white oxide of, x.         analysis of some combinations of, ii.
  499 ; arsenic in, vii. 331.                     197 ; the iodides of, and their com-
Phosphovinic acid, and vhosphovinates,            pounds, iii. 384 ; found in galena, iv.
   ii. 73.                                        319 ; on some new combinations of, v.
                                                                              F2

41                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1              VI OK THE
   150 ; discovery of in France, v. 158 ;      Potassium, experiments with, iv. 318;
   ix. 232, 314.                                  cyanuret of, v. 465; ferrocyanuret of,
Platinum, muriate of, action of light in          and dilute sulphuric acid, reaction of,
   determining its precipitation by lime-         vi. 97 ; chloride of, ix. 232 ; chloride
   water, i. 58.                                  of, detection of salt in, xii. 130 ; cya
Platypus, on the habits of the, ii. 71.           nide of, as produced in hot-blast fur
Plenakite, new locality of, vii. 23'J ; ana       naces, x. 329 ; ferrocyanide of, its
   lysis of, vii. 540.                            action on sulphovinatcs and sulpho-
Plombgomme, analysis of, ix. 75.                  methylatcs, xii. 102; and mercury,
 Plumbago, conversion of iron into, xi. 32 1 .    bromo-cvanide and chloro-cyanide of,
Poggendorff (M.) on certain discoveries           xi. 340. '
    by Prof. Faraday, vii. 421.                Potter (R. jun.) on giving conic sectional
 Poggiale, (M.) on the active principle of        figures to lenses, &c, i. 55 ; on the
   sarsaparilla, v. 463.                          reflexion at the second surface of flint
 Poison, the Ipoh or Upas, used by the            glass at incidences of total reflexion,
    Jacoons, xi. 193.                             i. 57 ; on a new photometer by com
 Poisson's (M.) capillary theory on, viii. 89.    parison, i. 174; reply to Mr. Wheeler
 Polariscope, simple, viii. 70.                   respecting, xii. 484 ; on a particular
Polarity, magnetic in metallic bodies, i.31.      modification of the interference of ho
 Polarization :—of heat, vi. 134, 205, 284,       mogeneous light, ii. 83 ; Prof. Airy's
   366; vii. 349; cause of elliptical, xii.       remarks on, ii. 161 ; reply to Prof.
    10 ; in the crystalline lens after death,     Airy, ii. 276 ; Prof. Hamilton in reply
   xii. 22; of beat by tourmaline and by          to Mr. Potter, ii. 371 ; on a new be-
   refraction, xii. 549 ; by reflection, xii.     liostat, ii. 6 ; on two arches of aurora
   553.                                           borealcs, ii. 233 ; on a brilliant arch of
Polarizing microscope, ix. 288.                   an aurora borealis, iii. 422; on the ve
 Polygalic acid, xi. 561 ; modified, xi. 562.     locity with which light traverses trans
 Polyhedron, solid, on certain relations in       parent media, iii. 333 ; on the reflexion
    a, xii. 323.                                  of light by glass of antimony, iv. 6.
 Polypi, on the structure and functions of,    Powell (Rev. B.) on experiments relative
    iv. 365 ; on the structure of the higher       to the interference of light, i. 433; on
   forms of, xi. 189.                              the inflexion of light, ii. 424 ; on the
 Polysphcrite, v. 78.                              undulatory theory of light, vi. 16, 107,
 Pond (J.) on the new zenith telescope at          189, 262 ; on the repulsive power of
    the Royal Observatory, iv. 367 ; notice       heat, vi. 58 ; on the achromatism of
    of, x. 146.                                   the eye, vi. 24 7 ; on the dispersion of
 Pons (J. L.), notice of the death of, i.         light, vi. 374 ; on M. Cauchy's theory
    239.                                          of the dispersion of light, viii. 24, 204,
 Popidation of Great Britain, comparative         305 ; on the theory of dispersion, viii.
    account of the, i. 213, 361.                   112, 413; x. 221 ; xi. 477; xii. 367;
 Porcelain earth, composition and origin          on prismatic dispersion, vii. 293; on
    of, x. 348.                                   recent discoveries relative to radiant
 Portlock (Capt.) on the occurrence of             heat, vii. 296 ; remarks on M.Melloni's
    Analifa vitrea on the Irish coast, xi.         paper on the transmission of calorific
    135 ; on the habits of the short-eared         rays, viii. 23 ; note on the transmission
    owl, xii. 104.                                 of radiant heat, viii. 186 ; on the for
 Port Louis, meteorological deductions             mula for the dispersion of light, ix. 1 1 6 ;
    made at, xi. 97.                               x. 221 ; on repidsion by heat, &c, xii.
 Potash, preparation of chlorate of, i. 164;       317 ; on Von W'rede's explanation of
    preparation of caustic, i. 244 ; car           the absorption of light by the undu
    bonate of, from plants, iii. 72 ; action       latory theory, xii. 114.
    of lime on solutions of, iii. 314; per-     Pratt (Rev. J. II.), demonstration of the
    manganesiate of, iv. 155 ; chromate of,        parallelogram of forces, v. 39 ; im
    physical and therapeutic properties of,        provement in Hcnslow's clinometer, v.
    v 238 ; crystallized hydrate of, ix. 151 ;     159; on the proposition that a func
    carbovinate of, xi. 320; bicarbonate           tion of 9 and ii/ can be developed in
    of, its preparation, xii. 216 ; on the         only one series of Laplace's coefficients,
    equivalent of, xii. 324 ; and oxalate          viii. 474 ; demonstration of a proposi
    of chromium, optical properties of, vii.       tion in the Mecanique Celeste, remarks
    436.                                           on, ix. 84 ; reply to, jx. 254 ; on the
 Potoioc starch, viii. 586.                        equilibrium of fluids, xii. 385.

          LOND. AND ED1N. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                        1838.       45
Pratt (S.) on the geological character of      Pyrophori, easy preparation of, x. 319.
    the coast of Normandy, xi. 210.            Pyrosmalite, crystalline form of, xi. 261.
Prawn, on the growth of the, viii. 421.        Pyrosoma, some remarks on the, iii. 299.
Precipitate, white, viii. 498; on the pow      Pyrotartaric acid, distillation of, v. 397.
    der formed by the action of water on,      Pyroxyhc spirit, on, ix. 77; x. 45, 116;
    xi. 428 ; products of the action of al        discovered by Mr. Philip Taylor in
    kalies in excess on, xi. 433.                 1812, vii. 395, 427 ; on a fluid obtain
Pressure, on the principle of the least, iv.      ed in manufacturing it, vii. 395 ; action
    89, 194, 271, 420.                            of oxacids on, vii. 538 ; viii. 85.
Prestwich (J.) on the ichtliyolites of
    Gamrie, vii. 325 ; on the geology of       QUADRL'MANOUS animal, fossil,
    Coal brookc Dale, ix. 382; on some                   xii. 34.
    elevations of the coast of Banffshire,     Quails of India, vii. 229.
    xi.209.                                    Quartz, new crystal of, x. 369.
 Prevost (Dr.) on muscular fibre, xii. 293.    Quassia, formation of nitre in extract of,
 Prideaux (J.) on the meteor seen June            xii. 140.
     29th, 1832, &c. i. 307 ; on voltaic ac    Quassiu, on, xii. 222 ; preparation of, in
    tion, ii. 210, 251; on the theory of          a pure state, xi. 336.
    thermo-electricity, iii. 205, 262, 398 ;   Quekett (E. J.) on the genus Chara of
     on Mr. Phillips's remarks on chemical        Hooker, xii. 97.
     symbols, iv. 41, 464 ; on tin: deduction  Quctelet (M.) on shooting stars, xi. 268 ;
     of the dew-point, xi. 54 ; on the Kauri      on the height, motion, and nature of
     or Cowdee resin from New Zealand,            shooting stars, xi. 270.
     xii. 249.                                 Quevenne (M.) on polygalic acid, xi. 561 ;
 Priestley (Dr.), commemoration of the            on modified polygalic acid, xi. 562,
     centenary of the birth-day of, ii. 158,   Quinia, hydriodate of, xi. 218; iodate of, .
     317; report of, ii. 383; Fuseli's por        xi 218; elementary composition of,
     trait of, ix. 398.                           xi. 335.
 Prism, on the passage of light through a,             and iodine, xi. 218.
     ii. 284.                                  Quinine, iodide of, viii. 191.
 Pritchard (A.) on test-objects for micro
     scopes, ii. 335 : apparatus for illustra   RADIATA, fossil, vii. 51 7.
     ting the polarization of light, viii. 70.           Radiation of heat, on, vii. 296,
 Projectile weapon of the native Austra            297.
     lians, xii. 329.                          Railways, ix. 377, 380; theory of gra
 Protochloride of mercury, action of am            dients in, viii. 51, 97, 243; on vibra
     monia on the, xi. 504.                        tion of, viii. 70 ; remarks on iron rails,
  Protoxide of tin, v. 79.                         viii. 291, 439; locomotive engines upon,
  Prout (Dr.), reply to Dr. W. C. Henry,           ix. 135.
     v. 132.                                    Rainbow, explanation of, on the doctrine
  Prunus padus, volatile oil of, ix. 155.          of interference, viii. 78.
  Prussic acid, test for, iv. 151.              Rainey (G.) on the feeble attraction of
  Psen atratum, xii. 17.                           the electro-magnet for small particles
  Pseudammonites, fossil genus, ix. 32.            of iron, ix. 72, 220 ; reply to Dr. Rit
  Psychometer, or measurer of refrigera            chie, ix. 469 ; on magnetic reaction, x.
      tion, viii. 61.                              193.
  Pullen's (Prof.) Gresham lectures, xii.       Rain-gauge, self-registering, viii. 69 ; new,
      454.                                         xi. 260, 476.
  Puma, notes on the, iv. 299.                  Raphides, composition of, xi. 339.
  Pulo Pinang, on the geology of, i. 224.       Rathlin, zoology of, vii. 492.
  Pulse, on the differential, viii. 63.         Read (S.) on a decimal system of mone
  Pyramids of Gizeh, xii. 379.                     tary calculation, vi. 441.
  Pyrenees, on a freshwater formation in        Reade (Dr.) on a permanent soap-bubble,
      the, iv. 376.                                 xi. 375.
  Pyroacetic spirit, on the compounds de                (Rev. J. B.) on producing achro
      rived from, xii. 100, 107, 109.               matic light in solar and oxy-hydrogen
  Pyrogenous acids, iv. 385.                        microscopes, x. 185 ; on the solar rays
  Pyrometer, on a new register, i. 197,             that occasion heat, and on the solar
      261.                                          and oxy-hydrogen gas-microscope, x.
   Pyromucic acid, manufacture of, vii. 395 ;       219; on structure in the ashes of
      composition of, vii. 429.                     plants, and their analogy to the osse

 <W                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                  12 OF THE
    ous system in animals, xi. 13, 413; on         Retingle, new carburets of, xl. 404.
    the composition of vegetable mem               Retinnapthe, new carburets of, xi. 404.
    brane and fibre, xi. 421 ; reply to the        Retinolc, new carburets of, xi. 404.
   objections of Professors Henslow and            Reviews of books :—Dr. Goring and Mr.
    Lindley, xi. 424.                                 Pritchard's Microscopic Cabinet, i. 163;
Rectangular forces, on, x. 105.                       Edmonds's Life-tables, i. 204 ; E. Hodg-
 Kci-s (G. 0.) on the existence of titanium          kinson on Suspension Bridges and Iron
   in organic matter, v. 398 ; on the pre             Beams, i. 207 ; Mr. Babbage on the
   sence of titanic acid in the blood, vi.            Economy of Machinery and Manufac
   201 ; on hydrate of magnesia, x. 454.             tures, i. 208 ; Comparative Account,—
Refraction of heat, vi. 134, 205, 284,                Population of Great Britain, i. 218,
   366; viii. 103, 479; ix. 166, 170; of             361 ; Dr. Pearson's Introduction to
    the rays in crystals, on the, i. 1, 136 ;        Practical Astronomy, i. 370, 450 ; Todd
   polarization by, xii. 549.                        on the Anatomy and Physiology of the
        double, xii. 47, 145; exhibited in           Organ of Hearing, i. 375 ; Bevan's
    the oxalate of chromium and potash,              Guide to the Carpenter's Rule, i. 457 ;
    vi. 305 ; xii. 47, 145 ; on Fresnel's             Journal of the Asiatic Society of Cal
   theory of, x. 24.                                  cutta, ii. 371 ; Report of the British As
        conical, ill. 114, 197.                       sociation, &cii. 455 ; iii.129; Prof. Ren-
Refrigeration, mode of measuring, viii.               nie's Alphabet of Scientific Chemistry,
    59.                                               iii. 35 ; Dr. Pearson's Practical Astro
Reflexion, viii. 103, 246; polarization by,           nomy, iii. 133 ; Leyboum's Mathema
   xii. 553 ; crystalline, laws of, x. 42 ;           tical Repository, iii. 239 ; Young's Ele
   reflexion from metals, on the laws of,             ments of Plane and Spherical Trigono
   x. 382.                                            metry, &c., iii. 363 ; Theory and Solu
Regnault (M.) on sulphonaphthalic acid,               tion of Algebraic Equations, viii. 402 ;
    xi. 565.                                          Analytical Geometry, xii. 602 ; Analy
Reichenhach (M.) on kreosote, iv. 390.                sis of Inorganic Bodies, by J. 1. Ber-
Reid (Mr.) anatomical description of the              zelius, translated by G. O. ltees, iii.
   Patagonian Penguin, vii. 519; on a                 463; Abstracts of Philosophical Trans
   new species of Perameles, xi. 198.                 actions, from 1800 to 1830, iv. 47 ;
Reimsch (M.) on chlorosulphurets of lead,             Mr. Lubbock's Mathematical Tracts,
   copper, bismuth, and zinc, xi. 560.                iv. 218 ; Rev. W. D. Conybeare's Re
Renwick (Prof.) on the height of the                  port on Geological Science, iv. 427 ;
   Rocky mountains of North America,                 Dr. Daubeny's Inaugural Lecture on
   x. 73.                                            the study of Botany, v. 75 ; Transac
Reptile, gigantic, new, vii. 327.                    tions of the Entomological Society, v.
Repulsion by heat, on, xii. 317.                     462 ; Allan's Manual of Mineralogy,
Resin, Kauri or Cowdee, from New Zea                 vi. 53 ; Parkes's Chemical Catechism
   land, xii. 249 ; its use in the arts, xii.        (13th edit.) by Brayley, vi. 214 ; the
   253.                                              West of England Journal of Science
Resins, chemical examination of, xi. 158.            and Literature, vi. 293 ; Royle's Illus
Resistance, on the solid of least, viii. 66.         trations of the Botany, &c. of the Hi
Respiration, on, xii. 300 ; on the mecha             malaya Mountains, vii. 132; Sturm
   nism of, ii. 354 ; theory of, vii. 141 ; of       on the Solution of Numerical Equa
   diving animals, vii. 502; of insects, ix.         tions, vii. 384 ; Whewell's Newton and
   532 ; of plants, on, xi. 537 ; of insects,        Flamsteed, viii. 139 ; Wiegmann's Her-
   xi. 189.                                          petologia Mexicaua, viii. 410; Cooper's
        and irritability, mutual relation of,        Flora Metropolitans, viii. 411; Samou-
   i. 73.                                            elle's Entomologist's Useful Compen
Respiratory organs, influence of the, vii.           dium, viii. 412; Webster's Principles
   212.                                              of Hydrostatics, and Theory of the
Retin Asphalt, composition of, xii. 560.              Equilibrium and Motion of Fluids, viii.
Retina, on the effect of compression and             544 ; Pambour's Treatise on Locomo
   dilatation on the, i. 89 ; on the undu            tive Engines upon Railways, ix. 135 ;
   lations excited in the, by luminous               The Botanist, ix. 371 ; Gaudichaud's
   points and lines, i. 169 ; experiments            Vegetable Physiology, ix. 372; Solly
   on the effect of light on, i. 25 1 ; ii. 1 62 ;   on the Human Brain, x. 286; I.eit-
   iv. 241; vision of the, iv. 43; visibility        head's Electricity, xii 127 ; Macfad-
   of, iv. 354 ; of the eye of the common            yen's Flora of Jamaica, xii. 263; Hood's
   calamary, viii. 1.                                Treatise on Warming Buildings, xii.
Retinic acid, salts of, xii. 562.                    202 ; Curtis's Guide to an Arrangement

           LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                       1838.     47
   of British Insects, xii. 202 ; Agnew on       ducting powers of wires for electricity,
   the Pyramids of Gizeh, xii. 379 ; Levy's      xi. 192 ; on the heat in metallic and
   Description of Heuland's Collection of        liquid conductors, xi. 193 ; notice of
   Minerals, xii. 536.                           the late, xii. 275.
Rhea Danvinii, xii. 450 ; Americana, xii.      Rive (Prof. A. de la) notice of M. Nobili,
   450.                                          ix. 234 ; researches into the cause of
Rhinoceros, vi. 151.                             voltaic electricity, xi. 274.
Rhodizite, a new mineral, vii. 431.            Roads, parallel, on the theory of, vii.
Richardson (M.) on the products of the           433.
   decomposition of cyanogen in water,         Roberts (Mr.) on a machine which ren
          339. notice of the coast from Whit-
    xii. (W.),                                   ders objects visible while revolving
                                                 200,000 times in a minute, viii. 71.
    stable to the North Foreland, v. 219 ;     Robinson (Dr.) on the aurora of Nov. 18,
    on selenite in the sands of the plastic       1835, viii. 236 ; on the determination
    clay near Heme Bay, viii. 558.               of the constant of lunar nutation, xii.
 Riddle (Mr.) on the longitude of the            110.
    Edinburgh observatory, xii. 525.                 and Russell on the mechanism of
 Rigaud (Prof.) on a curious deposition of       waves, xii. 112.
    ice on a stone wall, ii. 190 ; life of Dr. Robiquet (M.) on gallic acid, xi. 323.
     Halley, vi. 306 ; on a note in the        Robison (Mr.) on the improvement of
     Quarterly Review respecting Mr. Whe-        light-houses, ii. 221.
    well, viii. 218 ; on Newton, Whiston,      Rocks, mist ratified, relative position of
     Halley, and Flamsteed, viii. 220; on        metallic deposits with regard to, i. 225 ;
     the aurora borealis of Nov. 18, 1835,       Silurian system of, vii. 46 ; ix. 489 ;
     viii. 350 ; inquiry relative to Dr. Peni-   various kinds of, vii. 222 ; structure of,
     berton's translation of Newton's Prin-      vii. 320, 376, 445 ; on the jointed
     cipia, viii. 441.                           structure of, ix. 6, 172; carboniferous,
 Rigg (R.) experiments on the vinous, ace        of North America, ix. 127.
     tous, and putrefactive fermentation, ix.  Rocky mountains of N. America, heights
     535 ; on analysing organic compounds,       of, x. 78.
      xii. 31, 232.                            Rodent animals, notes on several, ix. 68 ;
  Riley (Dr.) on fossil remains of Saurian       xii. 445.
     animals, viii. 577.                       Rodgers (F. and E.) on certain metallic
  Uii. hie, viii. 261.                           cyanurets, iv. 91.
  Ritchie (Prof.) on the magneto-electric      Rofe (J.) on the geology of the neigh
     phenomena discovered by Dr. Faraday,        bourhood of Reading, v. 212.
     iii. 37 ; iv. 11 ; on the power of an     Rogers (H. D.) on the geology of North
      electro-magnet to retain its magnet        America, vi. 64.
     ism, iii. 122, 145; experimental re       Roos's (Hon. Capt. de) account of re
     searches in electro-magnetism, iii. 145;    covering the stores from the wreck of
     on the rotation of closed voltaic cir       the Thetis, iv. 363.
      cuits, iv. 13 ; on the detonation of oxy Rose (C. B.) on the geology of West
     gen and hydrogen by a magnetic spark,       Norfolk, vii. 171, 274, 370 ; viii. 28.
     iv. 104; remarks on Mr. Christie's               (Gustav) on osmiridium from the
     Bakerian lecture, iv. 208 ; on magnetic     Ural, v. 101 ; on the formation of calc
     action, viii. 55, 242 ; researches in       spar and arragonite, xii. 465.
     electricity and magnetism, viii. 455 ;          (Heinric) on the evolution of light
     on certain differences between the per      during crystallization, vii. 534 ; on the
     manent and the electro-magnet, ix. 81 ;     combinations of ammonia with anhy
     on certain improvements in the mag          drous salts, xi. 141 ; on a combination
     neto-electric machine, ix. 223 ; on         of the anhydrous sulphuric and sul
     Mr. Rainey's theory of magnetic re          phurous acids, xi. 321 ; on the detec
     action, ix. 287 ; replies to Mr. Rainey,    tion of metallic chlorides in bromides
     x. 57 ; to the Rev. J. W. MacGauley,        and iodides, xii. 136 ; on some new
     x. 1, 462; to the Rev. N. J. Callan,        compounds of chlorine, xii. 220; on
     x. 61 ; on Newton's rings and the fixed     chloride of tungsten, xii. 461.
      lines of the spectrum, x. 183 ; on the   Rosenberger's (Prof.) Ephemeris of Hal-
     velocity of sound in air, and that re       ley's comet, vii. 423.
     sulting from theory, x. 220 ; on the      Ross (Captain), short account of his ex
      electric spark and shock from a per        pedition to the North Pole, iii. 394 ;
      manent magnet, x. 280 ; on the con         on the position of the north magnetic

¦IS                    GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1 — 12 OF THE
   pole, iv. 222 ; on the aurora borealis,      Rust, effect of, in improving the quality
   vii. 304.                                       of steel, ii. 75, 406.
Rotary motion of camphor, v. 152.
Ilothiuan (R. W.) on a very ancient solar       SABINE (J.), notice of, x. 468 ; xii.
   eclipse observed in China, xii. 282.               276.
Roy (T.) on the ancient state of the North      Saccharates, baryta and strontia, xi. 156 ;
   American continent, xi. 201.                    potassa and soda, xi. 156.
Royal Medals awarded to Sir J. Herschel         Safetv-lainps, on the wire gauze of, vii.
   and George Newport, Esq., x. 213,               411.
   214.                                                tube for combustion of hydrogen
Royal Geological Society of Cornwall,              and oxygen, i. 82.
   iii. 305 ; anniversary meeting of, xi.       Salmonidie, on the affinity of fossil scales
                                                   of fish with those of the recent, xi.
   478.Institution, proceedings of, i. 72 ; ii.    300.
   309 ; iii. 71 ; iv. 290 ; v. 74 ; vi. 394 ;  Salsaparin, analysis of, v. 464 ; composi
   vii. 70 j viii. 348 ; ix. 71 ; x. 317, 485 ;    tion and properties of, xi. 337.
   xii. Irish
         451, Academy,
               533,       x. 382, 487; xi. 131; Salt, its detection in chloride of potas
                                                   sium, xii. 1 30 ; process for the purifica
         97,368.proceedings of, i. 60; ii. 131,
   xii.Society,                                    tion of, xii. 218.
                                                       springs, on their strength at dif
   291,373, 104; iii. 37, 141, 215; iv.            ferent depths, iv. 31.
   125, 220, 291, 360, 436; v. 451 ; vi.        Salts :—insoluble, employment of in ana
   55, 142, 297, 371 ; vii. 13G, 207, 411 ;        lysis, vi. 79 ; deliquescent, preservation
   viii. 147, 412, 545; ix. 376, 522; x.           of, vi. 319 ; water as a constituent of,
   02, 141, 210, 376; xi. 89, 189; xii.            vi. 327, 417 ; of sulpho-methylic acid,
   204, 269, 347, 426 ; anniversaries of,          vii. 397 ; their solubility in muriate
   ii. 374
        Society
            ; iv. of
                   127.
                      Edinburgh, iv. 70 ; viii.    and nitrate of ammonia, x. 95, 178,
                                                   333; on the constitution of, x. 216;
   424.                                            xi. 397 ; metallic, peculiar action of
Royle (J. P.) review of his Illustrations          iron upon solutions of, x. 267, 276 ;
   of the Botany, &e. of the Himalayan             double, of mercury, analysis of, xii.
    Mountains, vii. 132.                           235 ; efflorescent, absorption of water
Rubies, artificial, xi. 563.                       by, xii. 130; on some remarkable, xii.
Ruliv glass, on the colouring matter of,           102; of retinic acid, xii. 562.
   xi'. 137.                                    San Fernando, mine of, xi. 22.
Kudberg (Prof.) on refraction of the rays       Santaline, M. Pelletier on, iii. 312.
   of crystals, i. 1, 130 ; on the variations   Santini (Prof.), observations ou Biela's
   produced by temperature in the double           comet, ii. 378.
   refrantiim of crystals, i. 410; on the       Sap, ascent of the, x. 494 ; circulation of,
   magnetic intensity at Paris, &c. &c. ii.        in Cissus hydrophora, xi. 525 ; distri
    1 ; iiiuliilatory theory of dispersion,        bution of, in plants, xi. 526 ; elabora
   viii. 28, 113, 210.                             tion of, xi. 527.
Kudge (E.) on the position of the South         Sapyga 4-guttata, xii. 15.
    Magnetic Pole, vi. 371 ; ix. 101.           Sarcoeoline, M. Pelletier on, iii. 313.
Rumiuantin, arrangements of the, xi.            Sarsaparilla, on the active principle of,
   409; Caineliilae, xi. 471; Cervidse, xi.        v. 463.
   471 ; Moschidee, xi. 472 ; Caprida?, xi.     Saturn, occupation of, observed at Ge
   473; llovidrc, xi. 473.                         neva, i. 327.
Rumker's (C.) new method of reducing            Saunton Downend and Baggy Point, on
   lunar observations, vii. 251 ; viii. 373;       the raised beaches of, xi. 1 1 7.
   on the solar eclipse of Mav 15, 1836,        Saurian bones in the magnesian conglo
   x. 180.                                         merate, v. 463; reptile, description of
Riippell (Dr.) on the fossil genera Pseud-         a, ix. 514.
   ammonites and Iehthyosiagonites of           Saxton (J.) on his magneto-electrical
   the Solenliofen limestone, ix. 32 ; on          machine, ix. 300.
   a new species of sword-fish, ix. 07 ; on     Say's instrument for taking specific gra
   the existence of canine teeth in an             vities, improvement in, v. 203.
    Abyssinian antelope, ix. 141.               Scanlan (M.)on a fluid obtained in ma
Russell (J. S.) on the motion of floating          nufacturing pyroxylic spirit, vii. 395.
   bodies, vii. 302 ; ou the solid of least     Scheele's artificial malic acid, iv. 74.
    resistance, viii. 66.                       Schicdc (l)r.) on the Oxalis tuberosa,

         LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                         J838.      49
   Solatium tuberosum, Cevadilla, Amole,      Seed-lac, production of, xi. 156 ; compo
   &c, vii. 500.                                 sition of, xi. 157.
Schlciden (Dr.) on the development           Sells (W.) on the habits of the Vultur
   of the organization in phaenogamous           aura, xii. 447.
   plants, xii. 172, 241, 292.               Sementini (Sig.) on iodous acid, iv. 392.
Schceubein (Prof.) on the action of nitric   Sepia Loligo, on the eye of the, viii. 1 ;
   acid upon iron, ix. 53, 259 ; on a pe        officinalis, on the ova of, iii. 301.
   culiar voltaic condition of iron, x. 133, Serum, composition of, iv. 156.
   267, 425, 428 ; on Faraday's hypothe      Sevastopol, on the mean temperature of,
   sis on the causes of the neutrality of       i. 259.
   iron in nitric acid, x. 1 72 ; on the vol Sewalik hills, on a fossil monkey from the
   taic relations of certain peroxides, pla-    tertiary strata of the, xi. 393 ; on the
   tina, and inactive iron, xii. 225 ; on       remains of a quadrumanous animal
   the current electricity excited by che       found in the, xi. 208.
   mical tendencies, xii. 311 ; on the pe    Sewers, on the health of the workmen
   culiar voltaic inactivity of bismuth and     employed in cleansing, i. 354.
   iron, xi. 544.                            Sharpe (D.) on the geology of Lisbon
Schomburgk (R.H.) on the tree from              and Oporto, i. 227.
   which the Indians prepare the poison      Sheep, wild, description of, vi. 226.
   called wooraly or ourary, x. 72 j de      Shell, on a substance resembling, viii.
   scription of the Pithecia leucocephala       545 ; x. 201 ; new fossil shell, x. 239.
   of Geoffrey St. Hilaire, x. 73.           Shells, on the structure of, iii. 452 ;
Schulke, on the composition of amylurn,         new species of, iii. 61, 66, 69, 295, 301 ;
   xi. 422.                                     v. 144, 148, 300, 312, 379, 382 j vi.
Schumacher (Prof.) on the imperial              68, 149, 387 ; vii. 153, 226, 318, 326 ;
   standard troy pound, x. 63.                  difficulty of distinguishing certain ge
Schweitzer (G.) on the cause of the pre         nera of, vii. 210 ; on a bed of, at Elie
   sence of lead in English chemical pre        in Fifeshire, vii. 318.
   parations, viii. 267.                     Shepherd (Dr.) on Edwardsite, xi. 402.
Sciagraphicon, a new optical instrument,     Sherard (W.), the founder of the Profes
   iii. 464.                                    sorship of Botany at Oxford, viii.
Scientific Memoirs, notice relative to, x.      424.
   81.                                       Ship, on the brachystochronous course
Scolopacidic of Nepal, notice of, ix.           of a, iv. 33.
   143.                                      Ship-sheathing, immersion of copper in
Scoresby (W.) improvements in magne-            muriatic acid for, vi. 444.
   tical apparatus, xii. 380.                Ships, new form for the construction of,
Scott (D.), notice of, iv. 447.                 viii. 66 ; on the dry-rot of, xi. 192.
Scouler (Dr.) on hills of gravel in Ireland  Shock-multiplier, correction in Heine-
   containing marine shells, x. 471.            ken's paper on the, xi. 567.
Scrope, (P.), voltaic theory, xii. 536.      Shooting stars, on, xi. 268.
Scrymgeour (James), experiments on the       Siebold (Dr. Von) on a double-bodied in
   seconds pendulum, ii. 244, 344, 434.         testinal worm, x. 253.
Sculpture, production of busts, &c. by       Siliceous and calcareous products, xi.
   machinery, viii. 70.                         403.
Seals of Ireland, on the, x. 487.            Silk, analysis of, x. 323.
Sea-water, on the maximum density of,        Silurian system of rocks, on the, vii. 46,
   xii. 7.                                      483.
Sedgwick (Prof.) on the rocks of the         Silver, desiccation of chloride of, iv. 397 ;
   Cumbrian mountains, i. 229 ; on the          on the assay of, vii. 425 ; action of
   fossil shells of the Isle of Sheppey, ii.    chromic acid upon, xi. 489 ; iodide of,
   149 ; on the geology of North Wales,         new property of, xii. 258 ; on the equi
   ii. 381 ; on the geology of Chamwood         valent of, xii. 324 ; oxide of, and oxide
   Forest, iv. 68 ; on the structure of mi      of lead, definite combination of, xii.
   neral masses, and the aggregation of         217 ; German, analysis of, viii. 80.
   stratified rocks, vii. 320 ; on the Silu  Silvertop (C.) on the tertiary formation
   rian and Cambrian systems, vii. 483 ;        of Murcia, v. 220.
   on the coal-fields on the N.W. coast      Simia Mono, an orang of Borneo, x.
   of Cumberland, ix. 501 ; on a raised         297.
   beach in Barnstaple bay, x. 477 ; on      Simon (E.) on Jervine, xii. 29.
   the physical structure of Devonshire,     Simpson and Dease's discovery of the
   xi. 311.                                      North-west passage, xii. 542.
                                                                                  G

.-,()                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                12 OF fult
 Sines, table of, to centesimal parts of the         Geological Society, i. 220; ii. 147,
      versed sine, iii. 99.                              300, 466; iii. 42, 219, 368; iv. 48,
 Siphuncle in the pearly Nautilus, on the                147, 225, 370, 441; v. 53, 211,
      action of the, xii. 503.                           292, 459; vi. 63, 146, 312, 376;
 Sitka, mean temperature of, i. 427.                     vii. 52, 213, 316, 412, 513; viii. 71.
 Sivatherium giganteum, ix. 193, 277;                    156, 310 ; ix. 382. 489 ; x. 68, 136,
      discovery of a head of the, xi. 208 ;              306, 388, 471 ; xi. 98, 201, 307,
      notice of additional fragments of the,             390; xii. 86. 284, 433, 508, 564.
      xii. 40.                                       Roval Geological Society of Cornwall,
 Skey (F.) on the muscular fibre of animal               iii. 305 ; vi. 153 ; xi. 478.
      and organic life, x. 377 ; xi. 194.            Roval Institution, i. 72 ; ii. 309 ; iii.
 Skins, method of dressing in Morocco,                   71; iv. 296; v. 74 ; vi. 394; to.
      iii. 297.                                          70; viii. 348; ix. 71 ; x. 317,485;
 Sleep, on the nature of, iii. 143.                      xii. 451, 533.
 Sloth, on the structure of the, ii. 308.            Linnxan Societv, i. 71 ; ii. 67, 222,
  Smilacine, analysis of, v. 465.                        307,377; iii.' 69; iv. 52, 150,309,
  Smith (A.), method of finding the equa                 381, 454; v. 70, 298; vi. 72, 220,
      tion to Fresnel's wave-surface, xii. 335.          379; vii. 519; viii. 75, 255, 345,
           (J.) on some fossil trees, vii. 487 ;         423, 580 ; x. 71, 223, 464 ; xfi. 92.
      on changes in the relative level of sea            531.
      and land in the West of Scotland, x.            Meteorological Society, xii. 291, 601.
       136.                                           Royal Society, i. 60, 3*78 ; ii. 131, 291,
           (J. D.) on the composition of iodide          373, 464 ; iii. 37, 141, 215 ; iv. 125,
      of iron, vii. 156 ; analysis of German              220, 291, 360, 436; v. 451; vi.
      silver, and the separation of zinc from             55, 142, 297, 371; vii- 136, 207,
      nickel, viii. 80 ; on the separation of             411; viii. 147, 412, 545; ix. 376,
       harytes and strontia, viii. 259 ; on the           522; x. 62, 141, 210, 376; xi. 89,
      composition of carbonate of zinc, viii.             189; xii. 204, 269, 347, 426.
       261 ; on the hydrates of barytes and           Royal Society of Edinburgh, iv. 70 ;
      strontia, ix. 87 ; on the supposed new              viii. 424.
       metal doniura, ix. 255 ; on the solubi         Zoological Society, i. 392, 460 ; ii. 68,
       lity of carbonate of lime in hydrochlo-            230, 476; iii. 60, 148, 293,372; iv.
       rate of ammonia, ix. 540.                          54, 297, 377, 454 ; v. 72, 143, 230,
           (Mr. T.) on certain pli.rnoinrna of            311, 379; vi. 68, 150, 223, 307.
       vision traced to functional actions of             380, 452; vii. 64, 152, 222, 328,
       the brain, i. 249 ; remarks on, ii. 168 ;          417, 519; viii. 161, 346; ix. 66,
      on the muscularity of the crystalline               136, 224, 298, 388, 503; x. 287,
      lens, iii. 5.                                      479; xi. 118, 196, 394, 469; xii.
  Smyrna, on the geology of, xi. 202.                     211,441,526,592.
  Snipes of Nepal, several kinds of, ix. 143.      Soda, carbonate of, its purification, v. 316;
  Snow, red, viii. 80.                                chloride of, its use in fever, viii. 64 ; on
  Soani! (Sir J.), notice of the late, xii.           the equivalent of, xii. 324.
       278.                                        Soda-alum, on the water of crystallization
  Soap-bubble, on a permanent, xi. 375.               of, ix. 26.
  Societies :—                                     Sodium, experiments with, iv. 318 ; chlo
      Astronomical Society, grant of a royal          ride of, action of oxalic acid upon, v.
          charter to the, i. 234 ; proceedings        445.
          of, ii. 222, 378, 475 ; iii. 231, 290 j  Solanaceae, property of the alkalies of the,
          iv. 230, 295, 381 ; v. 300 ; vi. 221,       xi. 334.
          305, 449 ; vii. 69 ; ix. 291 ; x. 227 ;  Solania, iii. 464.
          xii. 280,521.                            Solar eclipse, x. 180, 230; very ancient,
       British Association, i. 77 ; ii. 319, 4S5 ;    xii. 282 ; solar eclipse of July 16, 1833,
          iii. 151 ; iv. 319 i v. 386; vii. 71,       v. 305, 311; solar eclipse of May 15,
          118, 237, 289, 385, 480; viii. 53;          1836, viii. 293, 589, 590 ; ix. 73 ; me
          ix. 228, 312 ; xi. 396, 474, 551.           teorological observations made daring
      Cambridge Philosophical Society, i.             the, ix. 393.
          75, 400 ; ii. 314, 380 ; iii. 235, 461 ; Solar rays that occasion heat, x. 219.
          iv. 66, 312, 463; vi. 73, 395; vii.              spectrum, lines of the, viii. 384.
          70; viii. 78, 429; ix. 71; x. 316,       Solid of least resistance, on the, viii. 66.
          485 ; xii. 452.                          Solids, linear expansion of, by heat, i. 266.
      Entomological Society, iv. 384 ; v.          Solly (E. jun.) on the conducting power
          236; vii. 420.                              of iodine, bromine, and chlorine for

         LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                            1838.      51
   electricity, viii. 130, 400 ; on the cow     Squire (T.) on the solar eclipse of May
   tree of South America, xi. 452.                  15, 1836, viii. 293.
Solly (S.) on the connexion of the ante                 (P.) on the periodide of iron, ix. 79.
   rior columns of the spinal cord with         St. Bernard, relative positions of the con
   the cerebellum, ix. 523.                        vent, and Chamouni, ii. 61.
Solutions, saline, maximum density of,          Starch, x. 235 ; action of iodine on, iv.
   xii. 7.                                         313; potatoe, viii. 586; experiments
Somerville's (Mrs.) mechanism of the               on, x. 247.
   heavens, i. 242.                             Star-fish, on the, vii. 208.
Soubeiran (M.) on sulphuret of azote, xii.      Stark (Dr.) on the influence of heat on
    134.                                           colour and odours, iii. 458.
Sound, phenomena of, iv. 17 ; on the pro        Stars, Sir J. Herschel's observations of
   duction and propagation of, vi. 25 ; the        nebula; and clusters of, iv. 1 25 ; double,
   ory of, vii. 211 ; interference of, vii.        micrometrical measures of, v. 302 ;
   301 ; in air or vapour, velocity of, x. 220.    shooting, xi. 567.
Soundings in the ocean, new method of           Static*, a new principle in, iii. 285 ; the
   taking, ix. 185.                                ory of resistances in, iii. 431.
South (Sir J.) on the atmosphere of Mars,       Steam, new facts on the production of, x.
   iii. 37.                                        378.
Sowerby (J. De C.) on a phenomenon              Steam-engine, rotative, new, vii. 369.
   resembling the mirage, seen in the Re        Steam-engines:—improvements in, viii.
   gent's Park, vii. 77 ; on the habits of         71 ; of Cornwall, viii. 20, 136 ; rotatory,
   the long-eared bat, viii. 265 ; on a new        viii. 20, 136 ; work of the five best in
   fossil shell, x. 239 ; on his new genus,        Cornwall, ii. 318.
   Tropteum, of fossil shells, xi. 118.         Steam-vessel, iron, magnetic experiments
Spain, on the geology of, vii. 485.                on, viii. 547.
Spectra, prismatic, on, ix. 3 ; spectra of      Steam-vessels, on the motion of, v. 453.
   chemical flames, ix. 3 ; spectra of gal      Stearate of methylene, on, xi. 487.
   vanic flames, ix. 4 ; on the supposed        Stearic tether, on, xi. 487.
   origin of the deficient rays in the solar    Stearon, v. 153.
   spectrum, ix. 522.                           Steel,improvementof,from rust and being
Spectrum, on the fixed lines of the, x. 183.       buried in the earth, i. 472; ii. 75, 406 ;
Specific gravities, improvement in Say's           action of sulphurous acid on, x. 235.
   instrument for measuring, v. 203.            Stephenson (J.), meteors observed in In
        heats of dry gases, error in Dr. Ap-       dia in 1832, ix. 74.
   john's formula for inferring, viii. 21.      Stevelly's (Prof.) mode of determining
Speech, by mechanical means, vii. 302.             the dip of the magnetic needle, iv. 232 ;
Spencer (E.) on the diluvium of Finchlev,          description of a self-registering baro
   vii. 319.                                       meter, viii. 67.
 Spheroids, on a difficulty in the theory of    Stevens (Dr.) on the theory of respiration,
   the attraction of, iii. 282.                    vii. 141.
 Sphinx Ligustri, on the nervous system of      Stigmus troglodytes, xii. 16.
   the, i. 382 ; vi. 55.                        Stokes (C.) on a piece of wood partly
Spider, account of an alleged bird-catch           petrified by carbonate of lime, with re
   ing, iv. 462.                                   marks on fossil woods, ix. 499 ; on a
Spiders, their power to escape from an            petrified piece of wood from a Roman
   isolated situation, i. 424 ; entombed by        aqueduct, x. 476.
   the Trypoxylon, xii. 15.                     Stotherd (Lt.) on a patch of granite in
Spina bifida, on, x. 316, 486.                     Cavan, vii. 482.
Spinal cord, structure of the, vii. 138.        Strickland (H. E.), account of land and
        marrow, on the reflex function of          freshwater shells found with bones of
   the, x. 51, 124, 187, 378.                      land quadrupeds, vi. 149; birds ob
 Spineto (Marquis di)on the Zimbof Bruce,          served by him at Smyrna in the winter
    and hieroglyphics of Egypt, iv. 1 70.          of 1835-36, x. 301; geology of the
 Spirit-lamp furnace, new, vi. 292.                western part of Asia Minor, x. 68 ; geo
 Spring of Torre del Annunziata, vii. 317.         logy of the Thracian Bosphorus, x.
Springs, variations in the quantity of             473 ; on the geology of Smyrna, xi.202 ;
    water of, i. 287; iii. 417; analysis of        on the upper formations of the new red
   two sulphureous springs near Wey                system, xi. 318 ; on the geology of the
   mouth, iii. 158.                                island of Zante, xii. 87 ; on some re
        intermitting, on the phjr-nomena of,       markable dikes of calcareous grit at
    xii. 364.                                      Ethie, xii, 584.
                                                                                02

52                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1 — 12 OF THE
Strigisan, a variety of wavellite, viii. 173.     on, vi. 235 ; of iron and copper, action
Strix castanops, characterized, xi. 474.          of oxalic acid on, ix. 155.
Stromeyer (Prof.) on the remarkable mass        Sulphindylic acid, x. 324.
   of iron discovered near Magdeburg,           Sulpho-benzide and iiitro-benzide, viii.
   iii.454.                                       257.
Stromite and thulite, viii. 169.                Sulphomesitylates, vii. 100.
Strontia, carbonate of, discovered in the       Sulpho-methylic acid, salts of, vii. 397.
    United States, vi. 234.                     Sulphonaphthalic acid, xi. 565.
       and harytea, hydrates of, vi. 52 ; ix    Sulphovinates and sulphomethylates, ac
   87 ; xi. 301 ; separation of, viii. 259.        tion of ferrocyanide of potassium on,
Structure in the ashes of plants, xi. 13.          xii. 102.
 Struve (Prof.) on the measures of double       Sulphur, detection of minute portions of,
   stars, x. 229 ; on the siliceous contents       vi. 399 ; vaporization of, viii. 189.
   of plants, xi. 339.                          Sulphureous springs (Nottingtou Spa and
 Strychnos toxifera, the tree from which           Kadipole Spa), analysis of, iii. 158.
   the Indians prepare the poison called        Sulphuret of nickel, form of, vi. 104 ; of
   wooraly, x. 72.                                 zinc and iron, vii. 79 ; of carbon, on
Sturgeon, new species of, vi. 386.                 the preparation of, xi. 221 ; of azote,
Sturgeon (W.) on the distribution of mag           xii. 134 ; of lime, on the, xi. 195.
    netic polarity in metallic bodies, i. 31 ;        , metallic, on their employment in
   on magnetic electricity, ii. 32 ; on the        analysis, xii. 137.
   theory of magnetic electricity, ii. 201,     Sulphuric acid, manufacture of, iii. 1 15 ;
   366 ; on the thermo-magnetism of sin           apparatus for freezing water by the aid
   gle pieces of metal, and the electro-          of, v. 377 ; its action on oils, ix. 153 ;
   decomposition of metallic solutions, iii.      anhydrous, its action on some metallic
   392; caution to experimenters with the         chlorides, x. 157 ; analogy of alcohol
   electrical kite, v. 3 1 7 ; magneto-electri    and indigo considered in their combi
   cal experiments, v. 376 ; Mr. Watkins's        nation with, x. 324 ; English, arsenic
   observations on, vi. 239 ; reply to Mr.        in, vii. 235.
   Watkins, vii. 231 ; description of a                and sulphurous acids, anhydrous, on
   thunder-storm, v. 418; on an aurora            a combination of, xi. 321.
   borealis seen at Woolwich, vi. 230 ;         Sulphurous acid, action of, on the persalts
   description of the aurora borealis of           of iron, ii. 75 ; its action on steel, x.
   Nov. 18, 1835, viii. 134; on electro-           235 ; its detection in hydrochloric acid,
   pulsations and electro-momentum, ix.           ix. 543.
   132 ; on the relative merits of magnetic     Sun, remarkable phenomenon that occurs
   electrical machines and voltaic batte           in eclipses of the, x. 230.
   ries, x. 65.                                 Sun's rays, greater calorific effect of in
Stutchbury (S.) on various fossil remains          high than in low latitudes, vii. 182.
   of Saurian animals, viii. 577.               Suspension-bridges, Hodgkinson on, i.
Suberic acid, viii. 443.                           207.
Submarine forest in Cardigan Bay, ii. 148,      Sussex (II. R. II. the Duke of) address of,
   241.                                            at the anniversary meetings of the Royal
Suboxide of lead, v. 79.                           Society, iv. 127, x. 141 ; xii. 269; ad
Subterranean sounds, on the cause of, i.           dress on the delivery of the Royal
   221.                                            medal to Sir J. F. W. Herschel, x. 213.
Succinic acid and its combinations, vii.        Swainson (W.) on the genus Mitra, ix.
   238.                                            136.
Suffolk , on the crag-formation and organic     Switzerland, on an optical phenomenon
   remains of, vii. 81, 353 ; on the geology       seen in, ii. 452.
   of, xi. 106 ; physical features and geo      Sykes (Col.), catalogue of birds from
   logical structure of, xi. 1 1 1 ; geological    Dukhun, ii. 230; on the geographical
   survey of, xii. 512.                           distribution of birds, vii. 418 ; on the
Sugar, its conversion into formic acid and         geographical range of birds, vii. 493 ;
   ulmin, vi. 399 ; crystallized, from the        on the geology of Dukhuu, ii. 304 ; on
   juice of the cocoa-nut palm, x. 77 ; of         the atmospheric tides and meteorology
   milk, on its fermentation, xii. 139.           of Dukhun, vi. 59 ; on the caves of
Sulphate of copper, action of hydrochloric        Ballybunian, viii. 574 ; on the Quails
   acid on, viii. 353 ; voltaic battery           and Hemipodii of India, vii 229; on
   charged with, x. 244 ; its use for ex          the measurement of heights, vii. 311.
   citing voltaic electricity, xi. 145.         Sylvester (J. J.) on the optical theory of
Sulphates, action of muriate of ammonia           crystals, xt. 461, 537; xii. 73, 341.

         tOND. AND KDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832                              1838.        53
Sylvic acid, examination of, xi. 164.              Taylor (Mr.) on the solubility of arsenious
Symbolic notation, on, viii. 101.                     acid, xi. 482.
Symmetrizing power of the eye, x. 234 ,370.        Taylor's theorem, on, vii. 188.
Syngamus traehealis, x. 253.                       Tea-plant, natural history of the country
S yngnathus Acus and Typhle, vi. 383.                 where found, xi. 390.
Syria, on the earthquake in, xi. 204.              Telegraphs, modern, on, v. 241, 365.
                                                   Telescope, on the invention of, i. 9 ; the
T"W. W. ou the visibility of the retina,              interior of the eye reflected on the eye
        • T.354.                                      glass of the, i. 318; account of Dollond's
Tabuloscriptive engine, x. 486.                       fluid-refracting, ii. 373 ; zenith, twenty-
 Tadpoles, mode of closure of the gill-aper           five feet, vi. 373.
    tures in, xii. 527.                            Telescopes, application of the negative
 Talbot (11. F.) on chemical changes of               achromatic lens to, v. 452.
    colour, ii. 359 ; on an optical pheno          Tellurium, on, iv. 75 ; preparation of pure,
    menon seen in Switzerland, ii. 452 ;              vii. 539 ; properties of, viii. 84 ; analysis
    method of obtaining homogeneous                   of the sulphoplumbiferous, ii. 404.
    light of great intensity, in. 35 ; pro         Temperature, mean, of Nicolaieff, i. 132;
    posed philosophical experiments, iii.81 ;         of Sevastopol, i. 259 ; of Sitka, i. 427 ;
    remarks on, iii. 204, 352 ; on facts re           of Jloulouk, i. 429 ; its influence in pro
    lating to optical science, iv. 112, 289 ;         ducing vibration in metals, iv. 186 ; of
    ix. 1,401 ; on the arcs of the equilateral        vapours, vii. 159 ; thermometer for de
    hyperbola, iv. 225 ; experiments on              termining minute differences of, viii. 57 ;
     light, v. 321; vii. 113, 157; on the             of insects, xi. 189 ; subterranean, v. 446.
     arcs of certain parabolic curves, v. 455 ;   Teneriffe, meteorology of, xii. 291.
     on the repulsive power of heat, viii.        Tennantite, analysis of, x. 236.
     189 ; on the integral calculus, viii. 549 ;  Tercbratula, on the anatomy of, iv. 302.
     X. 210 ; on the optical phenomena of         Teredo navalis, vi. 55.
    crystals, ix. 288 ; x. 218 ; experiment       Terrestrial magnetic intensity, experi
     on the interference of light, x. 364 ;          ments on, xi. 58, 254.
     on a new property of nitre, xii. 145 ; on    Thames, difference of its level and the sea,
     a new property of the iodide of silver,         i. 187.
     xii. 258.                                    Thebaia, a new alkali in opium, viii 444.
  Tannin, its action on the roots of plants,      Tkebaine, composition of, x. 387.
     v. 157.                                      Thermal spring at Mallow, variations of
  Tartaric acid, isomeric modification of, i.        temperature in, v. 216.
     83; distillation of, v. '.VJ7 ; constitution Thermal springs, temperature of, viii. 551.
     of, xii. 381.                                Thermo-electric phenomena, on, xii. 295 ;
         and paratartaric acid, xii. 605.            spark, on the, xi. 398.
  Taylor (J.) on a new rotative steam-            Thermo-electricity, on, xi. 304 ; on the
     engine, vii. 369 ; on the duty of steam-        theory of, iii. 205, 262, 398; decom
     engines in Cornwall, viii. 67 ; on rota         position of water by, xii. 541.
     tory steam-engines, viii. 136; on man        TherniM-magnetism of single pieces of
     ganese ore containing silver, x. 279.           metal, iii. 392.
         (Philip), discovery of pyroxylic spirit  Thcrmo-miiltiplicr, use of, xii. 545.
     by, vii. 395, 427.                           Thermometer :—for determining minute
         (R.) on the doctrine of the eternity        differences of temperature, viii. 57 ;
     of the world, viii. 220, note ; on the          fallacy of determining climate by the,
     frost of the 19th and 20th of January,          viii. 61 ; for measuring refrigeration,
      1838, xii. 303 ; on the destruction of an      viii. 61 ; verification of, viii. 552.
     cient painted glass, ix. 458, note ; on the  Thermometers, measurement of heights
     history of glass-painting, ix. 456, 459,        by, vii. 311.
     notes ; notice relative to the " Scientific  Thermometrical diary, specimen of a, xii.
     Memoirs," x. 81.                                489.
         (R. C.) on the carboniferous series      Thetis, recovery of the stores from the
     of the United States, ix. 407 ; on a vein       wreck of the, iv. 363, 367.
     of bituminous coal in the island of          Thibaut (M.) on the giraffe, ix. 144.
     Cuba, x. 163; on the geology of Hol-         Thompson (J. V.) on the metamorphosis
     guin in Cuba, and the mineral region on         of the Cirripedes, vi. 373 ; on the me
     the N.E. coast, xi. 17.                         tamorphoses in tlicMacroura, viii. 421.
          (T.) on two calculi composed of                  (L.), method of pieparing iodous
     cystic oxide, xii. 337 ; on urinary cal         acid, ix. 442 ; on the solubility of me
     culi, xii. 412.                                 tallic oxides and salts in muriate of

5\                     GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1                12 OF THE
    ammonia, X. 1 79 ; on antimoniuretted         Tonna (L.) on some curious facts respect
    hydrogen, x. 353.                                ing vision, vi. 409.
Thompson (W.I on some crystals of snow,           Torpedo, electricity of the, i. 67 ; obaer-
    t. 318 ; on the Teredo navalis and Lim-          vations on the, vi. 57 ; chemical com
    noria terebrans, vi. 55.                         position of the electrical apparatus of,
Thomson (Dr. A. T. ) on the action of chlo           xii. 256 ; researches relative to the,
    rine on metallic iodides, iv. 467.               xii. 196.
          (Dr. J.) on the interpretation of       Torsion balance, its application to inqui
    formula; in spherical trigonometry, x.           ries in electricity, vii. 304 ; an improve
    18 ; formulae for the rectification of           ment of the, vii. 303.
    the circle, x. 210.                           Tortoise, vi. 152, 229, 380; vii. 65, 229;
         (J.) on the mummy cloth of Egypt,           freshwater, tvpe of a new genus of. v.
    v. 355; on the fibres of cotton, vi. 170.        143.
         (Dr. R. D.) on the preparation of        Tourmaline, on the electricity of, v. 133;
    boron, x. 419.                                   polarization of heat by, vi. 205.
         (Dr. T.) on sesquisulphate of man        Touraeo, anatomy of the, iv. 456.
    ganese, viii. 173; on the right rhom          Tovey (J.) on the relation between the
    bic baryto-calcite, xi. 45.                      velocity and length of a wave of light,
¦        (T. S.) on the law of the diffusion         viii. 7, 270, 500; on the undulatory
    of gases, iv. 321.                               theory of light, ix. 420; on an alleged
Thrush, Himalayan, vii. 227.                         demonstration of Fresnel relative to the
Thulite and stromite, viii. 169.                     wave-surface, xi. 524 ; on the cause of
Thunder-storm, description of a, v. 418.             elliptical polarization, xii. 10; on the
Thunder-storms, phenomena accompany                  optical theory of crystals, xii. 259.
    ing, iv. 343.                                 Towers (G.) on the reception of coloured
 Tiarks (Dr.) notice of, xii. 274.                   fluids in plants, xi. 533.
 Tide-gauge, new, xii. 430.                       Toxodon Platensis, xii. 516; on the cra
 Tides, on the, iii. 129, 143, 216 ; iv. 362 ;       nium of the, xi. 205.
     vii. 136, 208, 212, 293; viii. 430; x.       Trail (Dr.) on the geology of Spain, vii.
     31 7, 380, 381 ; xi. 195 ; xii. 351 ; in the    485.
     port of London, iv. 223 ; ix. 528 ; re       Transition rocks of 'Wales, Shropshire,
     sults of extensive observations, ix. 528;       &c, on the, iv. 370.
     in the Bay of Morecambe, v. 264 ; at         Tredgold (T.) notice of, iv. 394.
     Liverpool, viii. 147, 418, 547 ; on Ber      Trevclyan (A.) on an unobserved property
     noulli's theory of, vii. 457 ; Prof. Pul-        of chlorine, iii. 72; on the vibration of
     len's lectures on the, xii. 454 ; on the         heated metals, iii. 321 ; vi. 85 ; de
     mechanism of waves, xii. 112; atmo               scription of a new spirit-lamp furnace,
     spheric, of Dukhun, vi. 59.                      vi. 292.
  Tiedemann (Dr.) on the brain of the ne                  (W. C.) on fragments of garnet in
     gro, ix. 527.                                    the mill-stone grit, vi. 76 ; on indica
  Tiger, on the cranium of the, iv. 454.              tions of recent elevations in Guernsey
 Tigris, on its union with the Euphrates,             and Jersey, xii. 284.
     iv. 107.                                     Trigonometry, spherical, on the interpre
  Tilgate Forest, on the fossil reptiles of,          tation of formulae in, x. 18.
     u. 150.                                      Trigonometrical functions, v. 198.
  Tin, protoxide of, v. 79 ; preparation of               height of Ingleborough, vi. 248,
     protoxide of, xii. 216.                          429.
          plate, attempts to prevent the cor      —— lines, the signs of, vi. 86.
     rosion of, vii. 391.                                 measurements, ix. 96.
          pyrites, analysis of, x. 236.            Trimmer (T.) on marine shells found near
  Timber, on the strength of, i. 11G.                 Shrewsbury, vii. 516.
  Titanic acid, its existence in Hessian cru       Tringa minuta, notice of, ii. 100.
      cibles, vi. 113; in the blood, vi. 201.      Tripoli, composed wholly of infusorial
  Titanium in organic matter, v. 398.                 exuviss, ix. 158, 392.
  Toad, on a new species of, vii. 328.             Trogon, on several species of, vii. 226.
  Tobacco, Irish and Virginia, comparative         Trommsdorff (M.) on gentianin, xii. 221.
      value of, vii. 393.                          Tropauim, a new genus of fossil shells,
  Tobin (Sir J.) on the cast-iron ring money          xi. 118.
      found on board the wreck of a vessel,        Trypoxylon figulus and T. clavicerum,
      xi. 131.                                        habits of, xii. 15.
  Tod (D.) on the anatomy and physiology           Tubularia, on several specimens of, ix.
      of the ear, i. 375.                             507.

         LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832— 1838.                             55
Tungsten, on some compounds of, x. 322;        Veins, mineral, X. 394; ix. 8, 387; me
   chloride of, xli. 461.                         thod of imitating, ix. 229.
Turf, manufacture of paper from, vii. 401.     Velocity of sound in air or vapour, x.
Turner (Dr. E.) on some atomic weights,           220.
   i. 109 ; iii. 488 ; on the chemistry of     Velocities, virtual, on the proof of the
   geology, iii. 20, 448 ; on the action of       principle of, ii. 16.
   high pressure steam on glass, v. 297;       Ventilating and warming apartments, on
   on the colouring matter of the green-          the modes of, x. 64.
   sand formation, xi. 36 ; notice of, xii.    Venus, on the rotation of, i. 391.
   275, 43C.                                   Vertebrata, subdivided into five classes,
Turpentine, hydrate of oil of, vii. 537.          xii. 92.
Turpin on the occurrence of acicular cry       Verschoyle (Archdeacon) on the geology
   stals in the tissue of the Aroidea:, xi.       of Mayo and Sligo, ii. 149.
   444.                                        Vesuvius, its eruption in 1834, vi. 374 j
Tyrrell (J.) on the blood in insects, vi.         on the lava of, i. 228 ; vii. 316.
   300.                                        Vibrating surfaces, figures of, iii. 144.
                                               Vibration, phenomena of, iv. 15, 182 ;
ULMIN and formic acid, conversion of              of heated metals, iii. 321 ; vi. 85 ; on
        sugar into, vi. 399.                      heat and light resulting from, vii.
Undulatory theory of light, vi. 1C, 107,          342.
    189, 262; vii. 113, 293; viii. 7, 24,      Vignoles (Archdeacon) on bog timber, vii.
    113, 204, 247, 270, 305, 413, 429, 500;       499.
   ix. 401,420; x. 24 ; xii. 10, 114; que      Viper of the Somersetshire Downs, vi.
   ries respecting, vi. 398 ; application of       153.
   photometry to, v. 439.                      Viscin, production of, xi. 157.
Unger (M.) on the occurrence of the car        Vision, on, v. 192 ; experiment on, x. 234,
    bonate of lime on the leaves of Saxi-         370 ; some curious facts respecting,
    fragie, xi. 445 ; on the reception of         v. 375 ; on certain phenomena of, i.
    coloured fluids in plants, xi. 535.           249; some facts respecting, vi. 409;
United States, geological survey of, v.           of the blood-vessels of the eve, iv. 115,
    466.                                          354.
University of London, evening meetings         Voice, physiology of the, ix. 201, 269,
    of the Professors, ii. 479.                   342 ; human, cause of the grave and
 Uranus, on the satellites of, iv. 381 ; va       acute tones of, vi. 372.
    lue of the mass of, xii. 522.              Volatile oil, ix. 155 ; from caoutchouc,
 lire (Dr.), analysis of the Moira brine          ix.321.
    spring, vi. 58 ; Dr. Daubeny on, vi.               oils, analysis of some, ii. 153.
    321 ; on the modes of warming and          Volcanic strata, discoveries in, vii. 316.
    ventilating apartments, x. 64.                     phenomena, theory of, xii. 576 ; on
                                                  the connexion of, xii. 584.
 VALENTINE (W.), on the structure of           Volcano in the Mediterranean, notice of,
      vegetable membrane, xi. 437 ; on the        i. 60; remains of the recent, iii. 148,
    dots of spiral tubes, xi. 44 1 ; on the ex    447.
    istence of stomata in mosses, xii. 533.    Volcanos of Asia Minor, x. 70 ; on the
 Valerianic and its salts, v. 396.                theory of, xii. 533 ; elastic fluids evol
 Valparaiso, effects produced by the earth        ved from, iii. 159 ; on the chemical
    quake of Nov. 1822 at, viii. 159.             theory of, viii. 250 ; eruption of Cose-
 Vapour, on certain properties of, iii. 38.       guina, viii. 414.
 Vapours from boiling solutions, tempera       Volta-electromcter, on the, iv. 293.
    ture of, vii. 159.                         Voltaic action, on the theory of, ii. 210,
 Vegetable membrane and fibre, chemical           251 ; artificial crystals by, x. 171.
    composition of, xi. 421.                          battery, on the, vii. 411; improved,
        physiology, progress of, xii. 53.         viii. 114 ; x. 241 ; practical results of
 Vegetables, classification of, vi. 379 ; x.      the, viii. 121 ; voltaic combinations,
    37, 108; system of circulation in, xi.        viii. 421 ; Hare's voltaic trough, viii.
    528 ; on secretory organs of, xi. 530 ;       116, 119 ; use of caoutchouc for insu
    reception of sap, the secretion and nu        lation in, ix. 120 ; construction of, ix.
    trition of, xi. 531.                          283 ; xi. 76 ; employed in producing
 Vegetation, influence of the climate of          artificial crystals and minerals, ix. 229 ;
    Naples on, iv. 274 ; v. 46, 102 ; action      x. 63, 65; charged with solution of
    of gases on, iv. 316; in a solution of        sulphate of copper, x. 244 ; on the em
    arsenic, x. 324.                              ployment of iron in the construction

5G                   GENERAL INDEX OF VOLS. 1              12 OF THE
   of, xi. 150 ; circuit, on the rotation of,    237 ; its decomposition and reproduc
   iv. 13.                                       tion by electricity, iv. 291 ; its action
Voltaic combination), observations on,           on lead, v. 81 ; apparatus for freezing,
   ix. 376 j xi. 89 j xii. 364 ; peculiar vol    v. 377 ; decomposition of, vi. 428; as
   taic condition of iron, ix. 53, 122;          a constituent of salts, vi. 327, 417;
   x. 133, 172, 267, 276, 425, 428 ; action      its absorption by efflorescent salts, xii.
   of electricity in, x. 281 ; conditions        130 ; its decomposition by thermo-elec
   of iron and bismuth, xii. 48 ; relations      tricity, xii. 54 1 ; on the maximum den
   of certain peroxides, platina, and in         sity of, xii. 1.
   active iron, xii. 225.                     Watcrhouse (G. R.) on a new genus of
— electricity, ix. 484 j due to chemical         mammiferous animals, ix. 520 ; on cer
   action, and not to contact, ix. 60 ; on      tain differences existing between two
   the phamomena and laws of action of,         specimens of Myrmecobius, xi. 200 ; on
   xi. 68 ; on the use of sulphate of cop       a newspecies of Mus, xii. 443 ; on new
   per for exciting, xi. 145 ; explanation      Rodentia, xii. 445 ; on several unde-
   of the principles upon which the che         scribed quadrupeds, xii. 596.
   mical theory of, is founded, xi. 274.       Watkins (F.) on the sensation on the
       pile, theory of the, xi. 285 ; tensile    tongue from magneto-electricity, ii.
   effects of, xi. 288 ; dynamic effects of      152 ;on Mr. Sturgeon's experiments in
   the, xi. 290 ; circumstances which af         magneto-electricity, vi. 239 ; on mag
   fect the power of the, xi. 291 ; results      neto-electric induction, vii. 107 ; reply
   arrived at, xi. 293, 294; results ob          to Mr. Sturgeon, vii. 335 ; on thermo
   tained by Brcguet's metallic helix, xi.       electricity, xi. 304 ; on the thermo-elec
   298 ; summary of, xi. 299.                    tric spark, xi. 398; on electro-magnetic
Von Hoff (M.), notice of, xii. 439.              motive machines, xii. 190; on the low
Vultur aura, habits of, xii. 447.                temperature of Jan. 1838, xii. 302 ; on
Vulture, habits of the, x. 479.                  the decomposition of water by thermo
                                                 electricity, xii. 541.
WII. M., improvement in Say's in-             Watson (H. H.), on the action of lime on
         • strument for taking specific gra      solutions of carbonate of potash, iii.
   vities, v. 203.                               314 ; on the absorption of water by
Wagner (R.), on the compound eyes of             efflorescent salts, xii. 130; detection
   insects, viii. 202.                           of common salt in chloride of potas
Wales, on the old red sandstone of, iv.          sium, xii. 132.
   228.                                       Watson (J.), an experiment in electricity,
Walford (E. D.), subsidiary- hypothesis to       x. 326 ; mode of exhibiting the co
   the electro-chemical theory of Sir II.        lours of thin plates, xii. 28.
   Davy, viii. 1 70.                          Wavcllite, viii. 1 73.
Walker (A.) on the cause of the direc.        Wave-surface, on an alleged demonstra
   tion of continents, mountain chains,          tion of Fresnel relative to the, xi. 524 ;
   migrations, civilization, &c, iii. 426;       in the theory of double refraction, xi.
   on the mountain chains of Europe and          417; xii. 47.
    Asia, reply to, iv. 1.                    Waves, mechanism of, xii. 112.
Walter (M.) on the bichromate of per-         Wax, experiments on bees' and vegetable,
   chloride of chrome, xii. 83.                  i. 1 66 ; composition of various vegeta
Walton (Rev. W.) on the helm wind, x.            ble, xi. 156 ; fossil, v. 316.
    221.                                      Wrazington (R.) on the action of chromic
Ward (F. O.), physiological remarks on           acid upon silver, xi. 489.
    the motion of the arm, ix. 411, 534.      Weaver (T.) on the gold-workings for
        (N. B.) on the reproduction of the       merly conducted in the county of
   fronds of Laminaria digitata, xii. 96.        Wicklow, vii. 1 ; on the carboniferous
Wardrop (J.) on the influence of the re          series of North America and Pennsyl
   spiratory organs, vii. 212.                   vania, ix. 1 24 ; x. 365 ; on the geological
Warming and ventilating apartments,              relations of North Devon, xii. 569.
    modes of, x. 64.                          Webster's " Principles of Hydrostatics,"
Warrington (R.) on chemical symbols, i.          and " Thebry of the Equilibrium and
    181.                                         Motion of Fluids," viii. 544.
Wartmann (M.) on the periodical me            Welch (H.) on oblique bridges, x. 74.
    teors, xi. 261.                           Well at Beaumont Green, on a, xi. 215.
Warwickshire, on the upper formations         Wellsted (Lieut.) on the manna of Mount
    of the new red system in, xi. 318.           Sinai, and the dragon's blood tree and
 Water, on the chemical agency of, ii.           aloe plant of Socotra, x. 226.

        LOND. AND EDIN. PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE, 1832— 1838.                            57
Werner's merits as a geologist, i. 274.      Wilkins (Sir C), notice of, x. 148.
West (Dr.) oil the geographical position     Williams (Rev. D.)on the ravines, passes,
  of Cape Farewell, vii. 490; on the            and fractures in the Mendip Hills, v.
  formation of wood, vii. 498.                  220 ; on some hones of animals disco
       (W.) on a remarkable analogy be          vered in the calcareo-magnesian con
  tween ponderable bodies and caloric           glomerate, vi. 149; on some fossil
  and electricity, v. 110.                      plants, vii. 487 ; on the raised beaches
Wcstwood (J. 0.) on several new British         of Saunton Downend and Baggy Point,
  forms amongst the parasitic hymeno-           xi. 117.
  pterous insects, i. 127; Hi. 342; new              (Dr. C. J. B.) on a new law of com
  Dipterous insects, vi. 280, 447 ; on the      bustion, iv. 440 ; on the production
  genus Nyctcribia, vi. 392 ; on the sup        and propagation of sound, vi. 25.
  posed metamorphoses in the Crusta          Williamson (W. C.) on the organic re
  cea, vii. 210; new hymenopterous in           mains in the lias and oolitic of York
  sects, x. 440 ; on the family of Fulgo-       shire, v. 222; x. 137; on the lime
  ridae, xii. 93 ; on several nevr species      stones in vicinity of Manchester, ix. 24 1 ,
  of insects belonging to the family of         348 ; on the affinity of fossil scales of
  sacred beetles, xii. 411.                     fish with those of the recent Salmo-
Wethcrell (N. T.) on the fossils of the         nidai, xi. 300 ; on fossil fishes in the
  Loudon clay, ix. 4G2 ; x. 239.                Lancashire coal-field, xii. 86.
AVharton (W. L.) on pha:nomena of in         Willis (Rev. Mr.) on the composition of
  termitting springs, xii. 304.                the entablature of Grecian buildings,
Whcatstone (Prof. C.) on the figures of        viii. 430 ; on the tabuloscriptive engine,
  vibrating surfaces, hi. 144 ; experi         x. 486.
  ments to measure the velocity of elec      Wilton (Rev. C. P. N.) on the geology of
  tricity and the duration of electric         the south-cast line of coast of Newcastle
  light, vi. 61 ; vii. 299 ; on the imita       in Australia, i. 92.
  tion of the human speech, vii. 302 ;       Wind, on the velocity of, xi. 194 ; helm,
  on the thermo-electric spark, x. 414.        on the, x. 221.
Wheeler (J. II.) on the application of       Winds, outlines of a general theory of the,
  photometry to the undulatory theory          xi. 227, 353; notice relative' to the
  of light, v. 439.                            theory of the, xi. 390
Whcwell (I'rof.), paper on chemical sym      Wine, aithercal oil of, x. 4 1 7.
  bols, remarks on, i. 181 ; on chemical     Winch (N. J.) on the geology of North
  formula;, iv. 9 ; on cotidal lines, iii.     umberland and Durham, iii. 28, 92, 200,
  216 ; on the tides in the port of Lon        273.
  don, iv. 223 ; on the results of tide      Winckler (M.) on the products by distil
  observations, vii. 136 ; on a new ane        lation of bitter almouds and the leaves
  mometer, vii. 315 ; on the application       of the common laurel, xi. 160 ; on the
  of physical science to geology, vii. 489;    preparation of pure quassin, xi. 336.
  notice of his pamphlet " Newton and        Wires, electro-magnetic, conductingpower
  Flamstced," viii. 139 ; reply to the         of, xi. 1 ; on the conducting powers of,
  Quarterly Review, viii. 211 ; on the         xi. 192.
  tides in the port of Liverpool, viii.      Wohler, on borates of magnesia, v. 156 ;
  147; some observations on the tides,         on crystallized oxide of chromium, viii.
  viii. 430 ; researches on the tides, viii.    175; on the preparation of bicarbonate
  547; ix. 528; x. 317, 380; xi. 195;          of potash, xii. 216; on the definite com
  on the artificial production of minerals,    bination of oxide of silver and oxide of
  ix. 537 ; on the diurnal inequality wave     lead, xii. 217.
  on the coasts of Europe, xi. 195; on       Wolfram, analysis of, vii. 335.
  his instrument for registering aerial      Wollaston medals, awarded to Captain P.
  currents, xi. 474 ; Royal medal ad           Cautley and Dr. II. Falconer, x. 306.
  judged to, xii. 269, 351 ; address at      Wollastonite and zurlite, vi. 76.
  anniversarv of the Geological Society,     Wombat, anatomy of the, ix. 504.
  xii. 434, 508.                             Wood, on the formation of, vii. 498.
Winston, remarks on, viii. 214, 220,225.     Wood (A. T.) on the action of oxalic acid
White-lead manufactory, experiments on         upon chloride of sodium, v. 445.
  the atmosphere, of, vii. 77.               Woodcocks, on the rearing of some, ii. 68.
Wifginann, (M.) " Herpetologia Mexi-         Woodward (S.) on the crag of Norfolk and
  cana," viii. 410 ; notice of Ehrenberg's      Suffolk, vii. 353 ; on the crag formation,
  discoveries respecting the Bacillaria:,       viii. 138.
  xi. 448.                                   Woods (J.) on the species of Fedia, vi. 380.
                                                                                H

.58                          GENElt.'.L INDEX OF VOLS. 1                12.
 Woolhouse (W. S. B.) on the enharmo                 Yorkshire, on the lower coal series of, i .
    nic organ, vii. 366 ; on the theory of              349 ; on the upper lias and marlstone
    gradients on railways, viii. 213 ; on the           of, ix. 497.
    theory of vanishing fractions, viii. 393;        Young (J.) on a new voltaic battery, x.
    reply to Prof. on  Young,  ix. 18,formations
                                       209.             241.
¦Worcestershire,          the upper
                                                             (J. R.) on certain trigonometrical
    of the new red system in, xi. 318.                  functions, v. 198 ; on the summation of
Worm, vegetable mould produced by the                   slowly converging and diverging infi
    digestive process of the, vii. 90 ;                 nite series, vi. 348 ; vii. 25 ; formuhe
    double-bodied intestinal, x. 253.                   for the summation of infinite series,
Wrede's (M.von) theory of the absorption                x. 121 ; xi. 41 ; on the function X3,
    of light, on, xii. 114.                             vii. 454 ; on Mr. Woolhouse's theory of
Wright (T.) on Dr. Buckland's theory of                vanishing fractions, viii. 295, 515; ix.
    the action of the siphuncle in the                 92; theory and solution of algebraic
    pearly nautilus, xii. 503.                         equations, viii. 402 ; simple method of
Wrottesley (Mr.), catalogue of the right               proving the law of gravitation, ix. 333,
    ascensions of 1318 stars, x. 227.                  370 ; on Prof. Wallace's property of
Wyatt (J.) on a trap-dyke in the Penrhyn               the parabola, xi. 302; " Analytical Ge
   slate quarries, xi. 103.                            ometry," xii. 602.
Xon the undulatory theory, vi.                       ZACH (Baron de) notice of, ii. 144 ;
       • 398.                                                 portrait of, ix.
X. Voluntary sounds of insects, x. 327.             Zante, geology of, xii. 87.
Xanthomethilic acid, x. 488.                        Zimb of Bruce, on the, iv. 170.
Xauthophylle, the colouring matter of               Zinc, its protection of other metals from
   lean's in autumn, xii. 135.                         corrosion, vii. 391 ; its separation from
X. Y. Z., suggestions respecting the en                nickel, viii. 80; composition of carbonate
   suing meeting of the British Associa                of, viii. 259 ; plates, amalgamation of,
   tion, vii. 118.                                     viii. 585 ; chloro-sulphuret of, xi. 560.
                                                            and iron, sulphuret of, vii. 79.
YARRELL (W.) on the Apteryx Au-                     Zinken (Von), on a new locality of arse
        stralis, iii. 299; on a species of pipe        nical copper in Chili, xii. 217.
   fish, viii. 317; on an insect destructive        Zoological Society, proceedings of, i. 392,
  to turnips, viii. 34 7 ; on a mode of pre            460 ; ii. 68, 230, 476 ; iii. 60, 148, 293,
   serving fish peculiarly adapted for tra             372 ; iv. 54, 297, 377, 454 ; v. 72,
   vellers over land, ix. 391.                         143, 230, 311, 379; vi. 68, 150, 223,
Yates (Rev. J.) on a submarine forest in               307, 380, 452 ; vii. 64, 152, 222, 328,
   Cardigan Bay, ii. 148, 241.                         417, 519; viii. 161, 346;ix. 66, 136,224,
York, city of, specification of trades in,             298, 388, 503; x. 287, 479; xi. 118,
   i. 218.                                             196, 394,409; xii. 211, 441, 526, 592.
Yorke (Capt. P.), experiments on the ac             Zoology, fossil, on, ii. 473.
  tion of water and air on lead, v. 81.             Zurlite and Wcllastonite, vi. 76.
                l'riutuu Uj Richard and John E. Tajlor, Red Lion-couit, Fk.«t-tlicet.


  i
 I
 I
:

                            MEZZANIiMt
 rft         -, ,
         Stanford University Library
               Stanford, California
     In order that others may use this book,
please return it as soon as possible, but
not later than the date due.


