This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


V-s
    n



                                          THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                           AND
          JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                                    CONDUCTED BY
SIR DAVID BREWSTER, K.H. LUD. F.R.S.L.&E. &c.
RICHARD TAYLOR, F.L.S. G.S. Astr.S. Nat.H.Mosc.&c.
RICHARD PHILLIPS, F.R.S.L.&E. F.G.S. &c.
SIR ROBERT KANE, M.D. M.R.I.A.
     " Nee aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee notter
  vili.ir quia ex alienis libamus ut apes.  Just. Lm. Polit. lib. i. cap. 1 . Not
                                 VOL. XXXV.                   '¦.... *..."
NEW AND UNITED SERIES OF THE PHILOSOPHICAL* MAGAZINE,
      ANNALS OF PHILOSOPHY, AND JOURNAL'tfF SJCIENOE
                            JULY—DECEMBER, 1849. v :
                                   LONDON.
   RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET,
                Printers and Publishers to the University of London ;
SOLD BY LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS; SIMPKIi-yMARSHALL
        AND CO.; S. HIGHLEY J WHITTAKEIl AND CO. J AND SHti(#OOD,
            GILBERT, AND PIPER, LONDON :          BY ADAM AND CH>tgJ,$3
              BLACK, AND THOMAS CLARK, EDINBURGH; SMITH AND;5W*,
                   GLASGOW; HODGES AND SMITH, DUBLIN ; AND *•
                            WILEY AND PUTNAM, NEW YORK.                   - . .

    " Meilitationis est perscrutari occulta ; contemplationis est admirari
 perspicua              Admiratio generat quajsiionem.qiisestioinvestigatiorieni,
 investigatio inventionem."— Hugo de S. Victore.
                 —"Cur spirent venti, cur terra dehiscat,
            . ..C'."i" mare turgescat, pelago cur tantus amaror,
           , ,.f|iir caput obscura Phoebus ferrugine conilat,
           .' 'Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas;
                 Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulmina coelo,
           . ;-Quo micet igne Iris, superos quis conciat orbes
           ...Attn vario motu."
           .*,Va                             J- B. Pmelli ad Manzonium.
                                   112627
\

           CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.
                          (THIRD SERIES.)
              NUMBER CCXXXIII.—JULY 1849.
                                                                  Page
Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies        1
The Rev. S. Eamshaw on the Transformation of Linear Partial
   Differential Equations with constant Coefficients to Funda
   mental Forms                                                    24
The Rev. D. Williams's Cliff Section of Lundy Island, from the
  Sugar-Loaf to the Devil's Limekiln                               28
Note on the Geological Structure of the Asturias, particularly
  in reference to the Nummulitic Eocene, and the Carboniferous
  Palaeozoic Rocks of that province (extracted from a letter of
  M. E. de Veraeuil addressed to- Sir Roderick I. Murchison)       34
Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches concerning Num
  bers                                                             36
M. Becquerel on the Development of Electricity in the Act of
  Muscular Contraction                                             53
M. C. Despretz's Note relative to the Electricity developed by
  Muscular Contraction                                             55
M. P. H. Boutigny (d'Evreux) on some facts relative to the
   Spheroidal State of Bodies, FireOrdeal, Incombustible Man, &c.  60
Proceedings of the Royal Society                                   64
On the Aurora Borealis of February 22, 1849                        71
On Liquid Storax and Balsam of Peru, by M. Kopp                    72
Identity of Brookite and Arkansite                  ,              75
On the Estimation of Molybdic Acid, by M. H. Rose                  75
On Glairine, by M. Bonjean                                         75
On Glairidine, by M. Bonjean                                       78
On Zo'iodine, by M. Bonjean                                        78
Meteorological Observations for May 1849                           79
Meteorological Observations made by Mr. Thompson at the
   Garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick, near
  London ; by Mr. Veall at Boston ; by the Rev. W. Dunbar at
  Applegarth Manse, Dumfries-shire ; and by the Rev. C.
   Clouston at Sandwick Manse, Orkney                              80
                                    a2

IT            CONTENTS OE VOL. XXXV. — TH1 IID SERIES.
                  NUMBER CCXXXIV.—AUGUST.
                                                                             Paga
Mr. J. Bryce on the Lignites and Altered Dolomites of the Island
    of Bute                         w                                          81
 Prof. J. D. Forbes on an Instrument for measuring the Ex
    tensibility of Elastic Solids                                              92
 Prof. J. D. Forbes on the Refractive and Dispersive Power of
    Chloroform                                                                 94
 Prof. J. D. Forbes on an Experiment to determine the Earth's
    Density                                                                    95
 Mr. E. C. Summers on a Simple Apparatus for Washing Preci
    pitates                                                                    96
 Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile; being an attempt to
    assign the limits of the Basin of that River                      ...      98
 Mr. W. R. Grove on the Effect of surrounding Media on Vol
    taic Ignition                                                             114
 Dr. Fresenius's Practical application of the Law pointed out by                •'
    Dr. R. D. Thomson, of the proper Balance of the Food in
    Nutrition                                                                 127
 Prof. Forbes on the alleged Evidence for a Physical Connexion
    between Stars forming Binary or Multiple Groups, arising
    from their Proximity alone                                                132
 Sir W. R. Hamilton on Quaternions ; or on a New System of
     Imaginaries in Algebra {continued)                                       133
 Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather during the Quarter
     ending June 30, 1849                                                     137
  Proceedings of the Royal Society                                            147
  On the Preparation of Pure Oxide of Cobalt, by M. Louyet . .                154
  On Aluminate of Cobalt, by M. Louyet                                        155
  Detection of Iodine and Bromine, by M. Alvaro Reynoso ....                  156
  On the Chemical Nature of the Egg, by M. Barreswil                          158
  On the Formation of Fatty Matters in Vegetables, by M. Blon-
     deau de Carolles                                                          158
  Meteorological Observations for June 1 849                                   159
            --     Table                                 :             , .     160
                             'i                  .1
                  NUMBER CCXXXV.—SEFl'EMBER.
                                                                     i    ?
  Mr. W. R. Birt on the Production erf Lightning by Rain .... 161
  Prof. De Morgan on Anharmonic Ratio                                          1 65
  Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies 171
        M. Weber's Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of
           Peas and Pea-straw            •. . . ¦.¦..'..:. i ... . . ..'.". '171
        M. Weber's Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of
           Rape-seed and Rape-straw               -. .    .             .-. .¦¦•177
        M.Struveon the Amount of Silica contained in sontv Plants 1H1

               CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.— THIRD SERIES.                  V
                                                                  P«ge
       M. Weber's Examination of the Ash of Wheat and Wheat-
           straw                                                   182
       M. Weber's Analysis of the Ash of the Blood of the Ox. ... 185
The Rev. B. Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides                     187
Dr. A. Voelcker on the Chemical Composition of the Fluid in
    the Ascidia of Nepenthes                                      192
SiT W. R. Hamilton on Quaternions ; or on a New System of
    Imaginaries in Algebra (continued) ..;..'                     200
Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters                                  204
Notices respecting New Books : — Dr. Thompson's Introduction
    to Meteorology                                                225
Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical Society                 228
—                        Royal Society                             231
Experiments on the Nitrogenous Compounds of the Benzoic
    Series, by G. Channel                                          236
On the Composition of Stearic Acid, by MM. Laurent and Ger-
    hardt                                     '.                   237
Meteorological Observations for July 1 849                        239
                 — Table                                           240
        I.. .¦.!''¦•¦                       ¦'"                        '
                   NUMBER CCXXXVI.-OCTOBER.
 The Rev. J. Challis on the Views of the Astronomer Royal
     respecting the Modification of Sounds by Distance of Propa
    gation                                                         241
 Mr. B. C. Brodie's Investigation on the Chemical Nature of
     Wax                                                           244
 The Rev. B. Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides (continued) . .    264
 Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies
     (concluded) .                                                 271
        M. Weber's Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of
            the Flesh of the Horse                                 271
        M. Fleitmann's Analysis of the Ashes of Human Faeces
            and Urine                                              273
        M. Weidenbusch's Examination of the Inorganic Consti
            tuents of the Bile (of Oxen)                           278
        M. Weber's Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of
            Cow's MDk.,         .!:.-.-., /V,                      279
        M. Poleck's Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of
            the White and Yolk of Hen's Eggs                       281
         Mr. B. W. Bull on the Inorganic Constituents of Yeast
       ; {from Berlin Pale Beer)....                               286
 Prof; Buff's Notice respecting Du Bois Reymond's Discovery
   " of the Development of Electricity by Muscular Contraction     288
 M. Matteucci's Observations on the Voltaic Arc                     289
 Notices respecting New Books : — Mr. John Ainslie's Treatise
     on I>and Surveying                                             '293

  VI ,        CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV. —THIRD SERIES.
                                                                 Page
  Proceedings of the Royal Astronomical Society            -      294
  On Carbonate of Lime as an Ingredient of Sea-Water, by Walter
     White, Esq.                                                  S08
  Gold in certain Mines of the Department of the Rhone, by MM.
     Allain and Bartenbach                                       809
 On the Analysis of Plants by Incineration, by M. Caillat .... 309
 Blue Arseniate of Copper, by M. Reboulleau                      310
 On Methylamine and Ethylamine, by M. Adolphe Wurtz .... 311
 On Valeramine or Valeric Ammonia, by M. Adolphe Wurtz . 313
 On Chloroform, by MM. Soubeiran and Mialhe                      814
 On the Preparation of Nitrogen Gas, by M. B. Corenwinder. . 317
 On the Quantity of Ammonia contained in Atmospheric Air, by •
    M. R. Fresenius                                              318
 Meteorological Observations for August 1849                     319
                  Table                                          320
               NUMBER CCXXXVII            NOVEMBER.
 Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals                   321
 Mr* W. Crum on a peculiar Fibre of Cotton which is incapable
    of being Dyed                                               334
The Rev. B. Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides (concluded). .   338
Dr. Gladstone on the Compounds of the Halogens with Phos
    phorus                   ,                                  345 ;
Sir J. W. Lubbock on Shooting Stars                             356
Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather during the Quarter
    ending September 30, 1849                                   357-
Mr. Claudet's Researches on the Theory of the principal Phe
    nomena of Photography in the Daguerreotype Process ....     374r
Proceedings of the Royal Astronomical Society                   386
                      Cambridge Philosophical Society           392
Rain, the Cause of Lightning, by T. H. Dickson                  392
On a Compound of Sulphurous Acid and Water, by M. Dcepping      393
On the Methods of ascertaining the quantity of Bromine in so
   lution in Mother- Waters, by M. Fehling                      394
Detection of small quantities of Iodine, by M. L. Thorel ....   395
Contributions to the Chemistry of the Metals of Platina, by M.
   C. Claus                                                     396
On the Composition of Honey, by M. Soubeiran                    398
Meteorological Observations for September 1849                  399
                 Table                             :            400
              NUMBER CCXXXVHI.—DECEMBER.
Dr. Priug's Observations and Experiments on the Noctiluca mi-
   liaris, the Animalcular source of the Phosphorescence of the

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.— THIRD SERIES.                          VII
 "•'"'..                      .                                           Pa8e
   British Seas ; together with a few general remarks on the
   phenomena of Vital Phosphorescence                                      401
Prof. De la Rive on the Vibratory Movements which Magnetic
   and Non -magnetic Bodies experience under the influence of
   external and transmitted Electric Currents                              422
Mr. J. Cockle-on Systems of Algebra involving more than one
   Imaginary ; and on Equations of the Fifth Degree                        434
Mr. E. J. Lowe on a remarkable Solar Phenomenon Been at
   the Villa, Beeston near Nottingham, October 22, 1849. . . . 437
M. G. Bontemps's Inquiries on some modifications in the Co
   louring of Glass by Metallic Oxides                                     489
M. A. De la Rive on the Cause of Auroras Boreales, being an
    Extract from a Letter to M. Regnault                                    446
 Prof. B. Silliman's Descriptions and Analyses of several Ame
    rican Minerals                                                          450
         I. Species of the Family Mica                                      450
        II. On Unionite                                                     457
       III. On Monrolite                                                    458
       IV. On the identity of Sillimanite,Fibrolite and Bucholzite
               with Kyanite                                                 459
        V. On the Boltonite of Shepard, and Thomson's Bisilicate
               of Magnesia                                                  462
       VI. On Nuttallite                                                    464
 On the State in which Arsenic exists in the Deposit from Mi
    neral Waters, by M. J. L. Lassaigne                                     465
 Easy Mode of measuring Solar Objects, by W. Pringle                        467
 Natural Sources and new Mode of preparing Sulphuric Acid, by
    M. C. Blondeau                                                          467
 Notes on the California Gold Region, by the Rev. C. S. Lyman 470
 Combinations of Oil of Turpentine and Water, by M. H. Deville 474
 Action of Phosphoric Acid on the Hydrates of Oil of Turpen
    tine, by M. H. Deville                                                  477
 On the Influence of Boracic Acid on Vitrification                          478
 Meteorological Observations for October 1849                               479
                   Table        '.'.':.. .'. .'. .'. . . .'.:.. i!. ..... ' 480
    NUMBER CCXXXIX.—SUPPLEMENT TO VOL. XXXV.
 MM. E. de la Provostaye and P. Desains on the Rotation of the
     Plane of Polarization of Heat by Magnetism                             481
 Prof. B. Silliman on a Granular Albite associated with Corun
     dum, and on the Indianite of Bournon                                   484
 Mr. S. M. Drach's Supplementary Considerations to his Epicy-
     clical Papers (Phil. Mag. June to July 1849)                           487
 Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam. .                                490
  Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers. No. IV                        497
  Mr. S. Beswick's Illustrations of a Method for computing Mag
     netic Declination, on the principle proposed by Prof. Gauss             511

VIII       CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.          THIRD SERIES.
                                                               Page
Proceedings of the Royal Astronomical Society                  519
                     Institution of Civil Engineers            526
                   ¦ Royal Society                             528
On the passage of Hydrogen Gas through Solid Bodies, by M.
   Louyet                                                      545
Qualitative and Quantitative determination of Phosphoric Acid,
   by M. Leconte                                               545
Index                                                          546

                               THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                      [THIRD SERIES.]
                         JULY 1849.
I. On the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies. By
   H . Rose, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Berlin *.
THE inorganic constituents of vegetable and animal sub
      stances have received more attention during the last few
years than was formerly the case ; and in consequence of
Liebig's exertions especially, numerous investigations of the
ashes of organic substances have been made; but their prin
cipal object was only technical. It was soon perceived, that
as plants derive the inorganic constituents, without which
they cannot exist, from the soil, it was of the greatest import
ance to determine these constituents with accuracy, so as to
be enabled to judge whether the soil was capable of yielding
them ; and if not so, to allow of their being added in the form
of a suitable manure.
   Hitherto almost all these investigations have been directed
to the determination of the relative proportions of the inorganic
constituents of the ash. Occasionally, indeed, the presence
of certain inorganic constituents, especially salts, has been
detected by microscopic examinations; but scarcely any one
has expressly taken up the question which is somewhat closely
connected with this point, viz. in what manner are the inor
ganic substances combined with the organic? Whether they
form with each other the same kinds of combinations as those
which are artificially prepared in our laboratories, or whether
peculiar compounds, existing only in living organic bodies,
are formed by the mutual influence of the inorganic upon the
organic matters, are questions which must be of great import
ance, especially in animal and vegetable physiology, and which
have not hitherto been accurately investigated.
   In very few instances only have researches of this kind
been attempted. Endeavours have been made, for instance,
           • From Poggendorff's Annalen, vol. Ixxvi. p. 305.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 233. July 1849.             B

2         Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
to show the manner in which the iron is combined with the
other constituents of the blood. But these and some other ex
periments of the same kind form isolated examples ; at least it
has never been attempted to ascertain the changes which the
inorganic constituents supplied to vegetable and animal bodies
by the soil and articles of food undergo within them.
   Some time since, I endeavoured to prove, that when an
organic substance of vegetable or animal origin is carbonized
with exclusion of the air, by not too great a heat, the inorganic
constituents can partly be extracted by the ordinary solvents
of inorganic salts—water and muriatic acid, but that a portion,
and this frequently the largest, exists in the carbonized residue
of some organic substances in such a state as completely to
resist the solvent action of water and muriatic acid, and can
 only be obtained by burning the carbonized mass in oxygen
gas or in atmospheric air*. This portion of the inorganic
 matters undoubtedly does not exist in the organic substance
in the state in which it is obtained after the incineration, nor
even in the carbonized mass obtained from it, but it has been
formed by oxidation. I also described several experiments,
 which showed that the presence and the nature of the car
 bonized mass could not be the causes of the insolubility of the
 inorganic substances in the solvents, even if they pre-existed in
the organic bodies in the same stale as that in which we find
them in the ash.
   These remarks, which I published in an imperfect state
and supported by few proofs, for the sake of directing the
attention of chemists to this, as it appeared to me, not unim
portant subject, have not received any attention. Since that
time, I have, however, occupied myself with these investiga
tions, and have induced several young chemists in my labora
tory to determine the inorganic constituents, with a view to
separating those which exist already formed in organic bodies
from those which must be contained in them in an unoxidized
or less oxidized state.
   These investigations have completely confirmed the view I
had arrived at from reflecting upon this subject. In fact I
may assert, that in none of my chemical investigations has
experiment so completely confirmed the hypotheses which I
had made before the commencement of the undertaking than
in these.
   When we minutely trace the entire process by which plants
and animals assimilate the inorganic substances consumed, it
appears that this is effected in the two cases in an entirely op
posite manner. I shall now investigate this more minutely.
                    * Chem. Gaz., vol. v. p. 158.

                         of Organic Bodies.                      3
              The Inorganic Constituents of Plants.
   Plants obtain their inorganic constituents by means of the
roots, which derive them from the soil upon which they grow.
The latter either already contains them among its constituents,
or they are added to it in a suitable manure. In both cases
these inorganic constituents exist in the highest possible state
of oxidation. If they are not contained in the manure in this
state, the latter is not in a perfectly proper condition, and does
not become so until it has been exposed to the air for some
time.
   It may certainly be admitted, that the inorganic constituents,
absorbed by the root in the most perfect state of solution pos
sible, ascend in the vessels of the stem. Probably those salts
which are insoluble in water are dissolved by the aid of car
bonic acid.
   During the growth of the plant a deoxidizing process goes
on within it; the green parts under the influence of solar light,
as is well known, evolve oxygen gas. Even when they only
decompose the carbonic acid of the air, they assimilate its
carbon ; hence the amount of the latter in the plant gradually
increases in proportion to that of the oxygen. All those parts
of the plant which are in contact with the green parts take a
share in this deoxidizing process, so long as it continues in a
state of growth and the green parts have not lost their green
colour. Now when we find that in plants one portion of the in
organic constituents absorbed by the root exists in a deoxidized
state, in which, at least after the carbonization of the plant, it
is insoluble in the ordinary solvents—water and muriatic acid,
and that this portion is not converted into the same salts as
those absorbed by the root from the soil until after oxidation,
it may be supposed that the quantity of deoxidized inorganic
constituents must be small in those parts of the plant which
are in more immediate contact with the soil, and in which,
therefore, the deoxidation of the parts of the plant, and also
that of the inorganic salts existing in them, first commenced.
 But this quantity must be greater in those parts of the plant
the formation of which has required the longest time ; and
after the formation of which, many plants, including all the
annuals, die. Hence the proportion of the inorganic consti
tuents of the plants which are deoxidized to that of those which
are not deoxidized, must be very different in the herbaceous
portions of the plant and the seeds.
   This supposition has been most completely verified by ex
periment.
    M. Weber made a comparative experiment upon the inor
                                  B2

4         Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
ganic constituents of peas and pea-straw, which is more fully
described in the appended supplement (I. and II.). They
were both carbonized, with exclusion of the air, at such a
temperature, that the water with which the carbonized mass
was treated was not coloured yellow or brown, but re
mained perfectly colourless. Water extracted from the car
bonized mass of the peas a large amount of chloride of po
tassium and phosphate of potash, some chloride of sodium and
sulphate of potash, and a considerable quantity of carbonate
of potash : the latter must have been contained in the peas,
before carbonization, in the form of the potash-salt of an
 organic acid. Water extracted from the carbonized mass of
the pea-straw a far larger amount of carbonate of potash, but
 smaller quantities of chloride of potassium, chloride of sodium,
 sulphate of potash, silicate of potash, and sulphate of lime.
    When the carbonized mass, which had been exhausted
 with water, was then treated with muriatic acid, the latter
 dissolved out of the carbonized peas phosphate of soda, pot
 ash, lime, magnesia, and perphosphate of iron, but no earthy
 carbonates ; whilst from the carbonized pea-straw this acid
 extracted a large quantity of carbonate of lime, a small quan
 tity of carbonate of magnesia, and the phosphates of lime,
 magnesia and iron, but none of potash or soda.
    The carbonized mass which had been exhausted with water
 and muriatic acid was burnt with access of air. The ash of
 the peas consisted of the phosphates of potash, lime, mag
 nesia and iron ; that of the pea-straw was composed of the
 phosphates of magnesia, lime and iron ; it contained no pot
 ash, but a considerable quantity of silica.
    On comparing the amounts of inorganic matters obtained
 from the peas and the pea-straw by these two operations, the
 following results are obtained. lOOgrms. of peas and 100
 grms. of pea-straw yielded—
                                          Peas.    Pea-straw.
 Exhausted by water                      0-380       r+17grm.
 Exhausted by muriatic acid . . . 0*356              3"458 grms.
 On the incineration of the car-1                    0.3?5
    lionized mass                    J                      °
 Hence water and muriatic acid dissolved very considerable
 quantities of inorganic constituents from the carbonized pea-
 straw, but not more than a sixth or seventh of this amount
 from the peas; whilst on the incineration of the carbonized
 mass which had been exhausted by solvents, far more fixed
 salts were formed in the case of the peas than in that of the
 pea-straw.
    The proportion in the latter case is, however, far more

                          of Organic Bodies.                    5
remarkable than is at first sight apparent; for the ash of the
exhausted carbonized mass of the pea-straw contains more
than half its weight of silica, which existed as such in the oxi
dized state in the living plant, and could not be obtained until
after the incineration of the carbonized mass, merely in con
sequence of its insolubility in the solvents. If we take this
circumstance into account, the exhausted carbonized mass of
the peas yields five times as large an amount of fixed salts
as that of the pea-straw.
   Exactly the same results were obtained in the analysis of
the inorganic constituents of rape and rape-straw, made by
M. Weber (Appendix III. and IV.).
   The quantities per cent, of inorganic constituents were—
                                           Rape.  Rape-straw.
Extracted by water                        0-230      1-556
Extracted by muriatic acid . . .          0*884     1'805
Oni the• incineration
           j             of the car-""!>• , _„.
                                          ]'3o4t    _ -„_
                                                    0*570
   bonized mass                       J
   Here also the proportion is more striking than appears at
first sight, because nearly half of the ash of the carbonized
mass of the rape-straw after exhaustion with the solvents, con
sists of silica, as in the case of the pea-straw.
   The salts obtained by the incineration of the carbonized
mass after exhaustion by the solvents, could not have existed
as such in the plants and seeds, as has been already men
tioned, nor even in the carbonized mass itself, but must have
been produced by oxidation. The next question then is, in
what states of combination did the unoxidized inorganic con
stituents exist in the plant, and what in the carbonized mass
obtained from it? Upon this point all our explanations are
insufficient; and this question can only be answered by hypo
thesis, which cannot be verified without further investiga
tions. But at all events the subject forms a wide field for
interesting investigations, which lead to important results, and
by which both chemistry and physiology may acquire im
portant elucidation.
   The carbonized residue of peas and rape, after exhaustion
with water and muriatic acid, yields on incineration a large
amount of phosphates, and which, had they existed as such in
the carbonized vegetable matter, would have been dissolved
by the water and muriatic acid. The carbonized mass also
contains considerable quantities of nitrogen. Ifthe phosphorus
existed in the unoxidized state, it is most probable that it
formed compound radicals with carbon and nitrogen, similar
to cyanogen or sulphocyanogen, which were combined with the

6         Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
metals of the basic oxides contained in the ash. Hence in
proportion as the deoxidizing process proceeds in the living
plant, the phosphates which are absorbed from the soil by the
roots become converted into non-oxidized compounds, consist
ing of compound radicals containing phosphorus and the me
tals of the alkalies and earth. These must exist in the largest
quantity in those parts of the plants which are composed of
substances exposed for the greatest length of time to the de
oxidizing process ; and these are evidently the seeds of the
plants, which are formed latest, and upon the production of
which the life of many plants entirely ceases.
   Thus the phosphates are decomposed in plants by the de
oxidizing process in the same manner as the sulphates are
converted into sulphurets by deoxidation. Probably the
more appropriate explanation is, that when substances con
taining nitrogen and carbon are present, sulphocyanurets, or
compounds of a radical consisting of three elements, sulphur,
carbon and nitrogen, may be formed from the sulphates by a
deoxidizing process.
   If we admit the occurrence of these compounds of hypo
thetical radicals with metals in the seeds of plants, the next
point, after the determination of their properties, would be the
investigation of their relation to the great mass of the organic
matter in those parts of the plants in which they exist. But
as even the existence of these compounds is problematical, it
would be useless to form further hypotheses on this point
before making ourselves somewhat more intimately acquainted
with these compounds themselves.
   The so-called proteine compounds appear to be formed
principally in plants by the process of deoxidation ; and it is
precisely these substances which appear to combine with the
radicals containing phosphorus, in combination with metals.
   Another question must be proposed here, although it cannot
be satisfactorily answered. Supposing that these compounds
really exist in certain parts of plants, what changes do they
undergo when the plant is carbonized with exclusion of air;
when consequently all the organic matter is destroyed, and the
connexion in which they probably stood to these compounds is
dissolved ? So long as we have no certain knowledge of the
existence of these compounds, we cannot judge with certainty
of the changes which they experience at an elevated tempera
ture. It is however possible, at least not improbable, that
they may be acted upon at an elevated but not too high a
temperature in the same manner as the cyanurets, when
they are transformed by heat into paracyanurets. Be
this as it may, the experiments show that these compounds

                         of Organic Bodies.                       7
 after carbonization are insoluble both in water and in muriatic
 acid. But this insolubility in the solvents did not always
exist before carbonization; for many organic substances, which
in an undecomposed and not carbonized state are soluble in
water, frequently contain a large part of their inorganic con
 stituents in an unoxidized state.
    It is well known, that most of, but not all, those inorganic
salts which are insoluble in water are soluble in muriatic acid.
 But those salts which are insoluble in this acid certainly very
rarely occur in vegetable and animal substances. The meta-
phosphates require most attention in this respect, since they
may exist in the carbonized substance ; and yet, on account
of their insolubility in water and muriatic acid, their presence
may only be detected after the destruction of the carbonized
mass. But it is evident, from the investigations which have
been made upon the inorganic constituents of vegetable and
animal substances, and which are described in the Appendix,
that these metaphosphates can rarely if ever be present, since
in most cases carbonate of potash may be removed from the
carbonized mass by water, and which, as is well known, can
not exist simultaneously with metaphosphates at an elevated
temperature.
    We must next mention the remarkable occurrence of silica
in vegetables, principally in the stems of the Grasses and Equi-
setacece (Appendix V.). The silica is undoubtedly removed
from the soil by the plants in the form of silicate. It becomes
separated, however, from this silicate ; and the silica separated
forms the principal mass of the stem in several species ofEqui-
setum and the Grasses. Of course it exists in them in the form
of perfectly oxidized silicic acid ; but in consequence of its in
solubility in water and muriatic acid, the greater part of it is
found in the mass remaining after the exhaustion of the car
bonized substance with water and acid.
   Hence on comparing the quantities of the inorganic sub
stances which the seeds and the culm of grasses yield in the
aqueous and muriatic solutions of the carbonized substance,
and on the combustion of the latter, we find, in contradiction
to the above determination, that the carbonized straw yields
far more fixed substances than the seeds. But this contradic
tion is only apparent, because the substances obtained after
the incineration of the carbonized straw consist almost entirely
of silicic acid.
   A comparative examination of the inorganic constituents of
wheat and wheat-straw made by M. Weber, and which is fully
described in the Appendix (VI. and VII.), proves this beyond
a doubt.

8         Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
   Water extracted chloride of sodium and phosphate of pot
ash and soda from the carbonized grains of wheat, but no
carbonates ; whilst from the carbonized wheat-straw it removed
chloride of potassium, chloride of sodium, some sulphate of
potash, and no phosphates, but a remarkably large amount of
silica. Muriatic acid subsequently dissolved only compounds
of phosphoric acid with potash, soda, lime, magnesia and per
oxide of iron. From the carbonized straw, muriatic acid ex
tracted combinations of phosphoric acid with lime, magnesia
and peroxide of iron, as also some silica.
   The carbonized grains of wheat, after exhaustion by the
solvents, yielded on combustion, compounds of phosphoric acid
with potash, lime, magnesia and peroxide of iron ; also some
silica. The solids remaining after the combustion of the car
bonized wheat-straw consisted almost entirely of silica, with
extremely small quantities of the phosphates of lime, magnesia
and peroxide of iron.
   On comparing the amounts of the constituents obtained in
the different operations, we obtain the following results. 100
grms. of the grains of wheat and of the straw yielded—
                                 Grains of wheat.   Wheat-straw.
In the aqueous solution . . .          0* 1-7 1 gnu. 1*216 grm.
In the muriatic solution . . .        0-562 ... 0*474 ...
Oni the¦ incineration
           j          of the car-1>                   _ , _ - ...
                                       . _ . _ ... 2*135
                                       0*246
   bonized mass . . . . J
   Of the 2*135 grms. of fixed constituents which the carbon
ized wheat-straw yielded, 2*022 grms. consisted of silica, and
only 0*113 grm. of phosphates. When this is taken into
consideration, this investigation also proves that the quantity
of so-called deoxidized inorganic constituents in the grains of
wheat is greater than that in the wheat-straw.
   Perhaps it is of importance to distinguish the organic sub
stances, the inorganic constituents of which are contained in
them in a completely oxidized or deoxidized state, by separate
names.
   I shall therefore call those organic substances, the inorganic
constituents of which are in a perfectly oxidized state, teleoxidic
bodies. Pea-straw and rape-straw, as also even wheat-straw,
may be called teleoxidic substances, although they do not
deserve this appellation so strictly as many animal bodies, ef
which we shall speak presently. But those organic substances,
the inorganic constituents of which exist partly in an oxidized
and partly in an unoxidized state, I shall call meroxidic sub

                       of Organic Bodies.                      9
stances. Peas, rape and wheat, are therefore meroxidic sub
stances. I have never met with perfectly anoxidic substances,
either in the examination of vegetable or animal substances.
It is probable that if the proteine compounds existing in me
roxidic substances were isolated as completely as possible,
they would constitute perfectly anoxidic substances, which
after carbonization would not yield any soluble salts to the
solvents, until these had been produced by complete incine
ration.
                Inorganic Constituents of Animals.
   Animals derive the inorganic constituents which the various
parts of their body contain, from the food. This is, however,
assimilated by them in a totally different manner to that in
plants; whilst in the latter, in general, a process of deoxida-
tion occurs, to which the inorganic substances derived from
the soil are subjected, in animals the nutritive substances
undergo oxidation by the oxygen inspired. They are first
converted into blood, and this is conveyed to all parts of the
body, where reparation must occur. By the oxidation of the
nutritive substances, or rather of the matters produced from
them, the elevated temperature of the animal body is produced;
and as this is tolerably uniform, the oxidation also must go
on equally uniform in the various parts of the body. It is
not, however, merely those parts of the body which consist of
carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen only, that take part
in the oxidation, but undoubtedly also those compounds of
the hypothetical phosphuretted radicals with metals, which
such animals as are not carnivorous derive from the meroxidic
substances of vegetable nutritive matters. That portion of
them which is not applied to the repair of the body becomes
oxidized ; the same also occurs with those parts of the body
which are repaired. Whilst the carbonic acid of these com
pounds is expired in the form of carbonic acid, and the nitrogen
is converted into ammonia, the phosphorus is oxidized to form
phosphoric acid, and the metals combined with the radicals,
so as to form oxides. The longer these substances have been
exposed to oxidation, the more perfectly are phosphates of the
metallic oxides formed.
   It must follow from this conclusion, that. the matter first
formed by the nutritive substances, the blood, from which the
other parts of the body are repaired, may contain completely
oxidized salts, since it is generated from meroxidic substances,
but must still contain a large amount of the combinations of
the hypothetical radicals with metals. Somewhat the same
must occur with flesh, the composition of which is the same

 10       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
as that of the blood ; but as it is formed from the blood, it
must contain more oxidized inorganic salts and less deoxidized
salts than the blood. But if oxidation still continues, the
inorganic constituents, which become perfectly oxidized by
the inspired oxygen, must finally be removed from the body,
as they are of no further use in it. Thus we find, in fact, that
the inorganic constituents of the fluid and solid excrementitious
matters are in a perfectly oxidized state, and are perfectly
teleoxidic substances. Experiments upon the inorganic con
stituents of the blood, flesh, and the excrements, have com
pletely confirmed these suppositions.
   The inorganic constituents of the blood of the ox have been
examined by MM. Weber and Merk (Appendix VIII.).
   In the blood which was used for this purpose, the clot cer
tainly had coagulated from the liquor sanguinis ; but they were
both carbonized without separation.
    Water extracted from the carbonized mass a very large
amount of chloride of sodium, carbonate of potash and of soda,
and mere traces of phosphate and sulphate of potash.
   Muriatic acid removed from it an inconsiderable amount of
the phosphates of soda, potash, lime, magnesia, and perphos-
phate of iron.
   The carbonized mass after exhaustion with these solvents
yielded, on incineration, the phosphates of soda, potash, lime,
and magnesia, with a large quantity of peroxide of iron and a
small quantity of silica ; it also contained traces of sulphates.
   The following are the relative amounts of the inorganic
constituents obtained by the three operations :—
   In the aqueous solution                         3"920 grnis.
   In the muriatic solution                        0*389 ...
   On the incineration of the remainder ofr>  "I   ...„ • ¦ •
      the carbonized mass
   We thus see that the amount of oxidized salts in the blood
is very large. They consist, however, for the most part of
salts soluble in water; and of these chloride of sodium, which
cannot be considered as an oxidized salt, is the principal con
stituent, forming more than half of the whole amount of these
salts. When this is taken into consideration, the quantity of
inorganic constituents formed by the incineration of the car
bonaceous mass after exhaustion with the solvents is larger
than that of the salts contained in the blood. Hence the
blood is a meroxidic body.
    Flesh (that of the horse) has been examined as to its inor
ganic constituents by M. Weber (Appendix IX.).
    Water extracted from the carbonized flesh small quantities

                        of Organic Bodies.                    11
only of metallic chlorides, and of sulphate of potash, a large
quantity of alkaline phosphates, but no alkaline carbonate.
   Muriatic acid then dissolved a considerable quantity of
phosphates from the mass. -
   The residual carbonaceous mass yielded an ash which also
consisted of phosphates.
   The following were the relative amounts of inorganic con
stituents obtained in the analysis :—
   In the aqueous solution                         3*090 grms.
   In the muriatic solution                        1*262 ...
   On the incineration of the carbonized mass     2*866 ...
   Hence flesh, like blood, is a meroxidic substance. The
latter apparently contains a comparatively larger amount of
teleoxidic matter than flesh. But the aqueous solution of the
carbonized blood contains nearly 60 per cent, of chloride of
sodium, whilst that of the carbonized flesh contained only very
small quantities of alkaline chlorides. On taking this into
consideration, the quantity of anoxidic matter in tne blood is
larger than in the flesh, and that of the teleoxidic matter
smaller in the blood than in flesh.
   The inorganic constituents of the liquid and solid excre-
mentitious substances have been determined by M. Fleitmann
(Appendix X. and XL).
   The extraordinarily large amount of salts contained in the
urine is well known : they exist in it in a perfectly oxidized
state. On evaporating the urine and carbonizing the dry
residue, with exclusion of the air, water extracts almost the
whole of the salts. On treating the carbonized mass, after
exhaustion with water, with muriatic acid, a somewhat con
siderable amount of phosphates is further dissolved, part of
which had been separated by the evaporation of the urine.
   The carbonized mass remaining alter the action of water
and muriatic acid, yielded so small a quantity of ash on com
bustion, as to give rise to the supposition that the inorganic
constituents obtained in this way had also existed in an oxi
dized state in the urine, and had merely escaped the action of
the solvents in exhausting the carbonized mass. One of the
principal constituents of these inorganic substances was silica,
which must have been separated on the evaporation of the
 urine and heating the dry residue, and have thus become
 insoluble in muriatic acid. The urine may therefore be con
 sidered as one of the perfectly teleoxidic substances.
   The quantities of the inorganic constituents obtained in
 these operations were as follows :—

12         Profl H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
   In the aqueous solution                        54*148 grms.
   In the muriatic solution                        5*085 ...
   On the incineration of the carbonized mass 0*352 ...
   From the carbonized faeces water extracted some chloride
of sodium and potassium, a considerable quantity of carbonate
and phosphate of potash, a less amount of sulphate of potash,
and a very large quantity of free potash.
   But the quantity of inorganic constituents dissolved by mu
riatic acid was very large. It consisted of much phosphate of
lime and magnesia, phosphate of potash and soda, a very small
amount of sulphate, silicate of potash, and a very small quan
tity of peroxide of iron.
   The exhausted carbonized mass on incineration yielded no
very inconsiderable quantities of fixed constituents, the prin
cipal of which, however, was silica in the form of sand \san~
dartige Kieselsdure). It moreover contained a tolerably large
amount of lime and magnesia, with a small quantity of phos
phate of potash and soda, peroxide of iron and silica.
   The relative quantities in the different solutions and in the
remaining carbonized mass were as follows : —
   In the aqueous solution                     1*933 grms.
   In the muriatic solution                   6*493 ...
   On incineration of the carbonized mass 1*996 ...
But on deducting from the latter amount that of the silica and
sand, we only obtain somewhat more than 1 gnu., and hence
the solid excrements may be considered as belonging to the
teleoxidic substances.
   Whilst those inorganic oxidized constituents which are
soluble in water are separated by the urine, those which are
insoluble pass off as faeces. In proportion as digestion in the
body goes on in a normal state, and the less the excess of
nutritive substances introduced into it, the amount of im
perfectly oxidized constituents of the faeces must be less,
and the quantity of teleoxidic substances larger.          It is
therefore probable that, by the chemical investigation of the
fasces, a conclusion may be formed as to the proper or defective
manner in which digestion is carried on. The fact that the
inorganic constituents of the liquid and solid excrements,
especially the phosphates, exist in them in the oxidized state,
is the principal reason of their use as manure, which must
be more fit for this purpose in proportion to the amount of
teleoxidic substances of which it consists.
   As the inorganic substances from animal bodies are added
to plants in the form of manure, the process, in which they
are first deoxidized and then again oxidized, recommences.

                         of Organic Bodies.                      13
   The examination of other parts of the animal body by the
method described is of some interest. As regards the bones,
it is well known that all their inorganic constituents may be
extracted by dilute muriatic acid, so that the cartilage remains
in a pure state : likewise when they have been heated to redness
with exclusion of the air, muriatic acid dissolves the inorganic
salts, and leaves pure carbon. We know that bone-black, as
it is called, may be decomposed in this manner.
   Thus the bones, like the liquid and solid excrementitious
matters, contain the larger amount of their inorganic salts in
a perfectly oxidized state, and entirely belong to the teleoxidic
substances. This explains the fact that ground bones form
one of the best manures.
   The bile (ox-bile) has been examined by M. Weidenbusch
in the same way (Appendix XII.). Likewise, in this case, the
surprising result has been arrived at, that the inorganic con
stituents, as in the excrements, exist almost wholly in the oxi
dized state, and that the bile is therefore a teleoxidic substance.
    By far the larger portion of the inorganic constituents of
the carbonized mass of the bile is extracted by water. It dis
solves principally the carbonate, phosphate, and sulphate of
soda, with chloride of sodium ; the quantity of salts of potash
dissolved is, however, very small.
    Muriatic acid extracted from it a small quantity of phos
phate and a trace of silicate. The bases were principally
lime, soda, potash, magnesia and the protoxides of iron and
manganese.
   The washed residue yielded a very small quantity of ash on
incineration, which contained a remarkably large amount of
sulphuric acid, and but little phosphates. The bases were
principally soda, potash, magnesia and lime.
    The following are the quantities of the inorganic constituents
which were obtained in the various operations :—
In the aqueous solution                              16*018 grms.
In the muriatic solution                              0*869 ...
On the incineration of the carbonized residue         0'74*5 ...
    It is thus evident that the inorganic constituents of the bile
exist in an almost complete state of oxidation, precisely as in
the urine.
    The next question is whether the milk is also an excretion,
like the urine, and whether the whole of its inorganic consti
tuents exist in a perfectly oxidized state. It appears, how
ever, from M.Weber's experiments upon the milk of the cow,
that in addition to numerous perfectly oxidized salts, it also
 contains a considerable amount of inorganic constituents in a

14        Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
deoxidized state, and is therefore a meroxidic substance (Ap
pendix XIII.).
   The aqueous extract of the evaporated and carbonized milk
contains a large amount of alkaline chlorides, with phosphate
and carbonate of potash.
   The muriatic extract of the carbonized mass contains a
large amount of phosphate of lime, with small quantities of the
phosphates of magnesia, potash and soda.
   On the incineration of the exhausted carbonized mass,
further large quantities of the phosphates of lime, potash, soda
and magnesia were obtained.
   The following are the relative proportions of the inorganic
constituents obtained in the various operations:—
      In the aqueous solution                     7"I25grms.
      In the muriatic solution                    6*621 ...
      On the incineration of the remainder of~l ^.loq
        the carbonized mass                    j
   Thus the milk contains a considerable amount of both
oxidized and unoxidized inorganic constituents. It cannot
under any circumstances be- arranged in the same class as the
urine, and like the latter, be considered as an excretion. It is a
meroxidic compound.
   In eggs (hens' eggs) the inorganic constituents are in a more
oxidized state in the albumen, whilst they are in a more un
oxidized state in the yolk, as appears from the experiments of
M. Poleck (Appendix XIV. and XV.). These experiments,
however, were made long ago in my laboratory ; the methods
adopted were consequently imperfect, and they require repe
tition. This is the more necessary, since the results of these
experiments appear to be in opposition to those which have
been obtained in almost all the others. For all those meroxidic
substances which have been examined, such as peas, rape-seed
and wheat, moreover the blood, flesh and the milk, contain a
large amount of the so-called proteine compounds. In tele-
oxidic substances, the excrements and the bile, the proteine
compounds are entirely absent ; and in the straw of peas, rape
and wheat, they exist in small quantity only, corresponding to
the amount of meroxidic substances found in them. It is pro
bable therefore that the proteine compounds, when freed as
perfectly as possible from all the teleoxidic substances which
accompany them, are in many cases perfectly anoxidic sub
stances. The only results opposed to this view, are those ob
tained by M. Poleck, as regards the albumen of eggs, which
contains a small quantity of anoxidic substances.

                        tj Organic Bodies.                       15
  Metlzorl qf examining the Inorganic Constituents qf O1gam`c
                            Substances.
    Vegetable substances are first freed as completely as possible
from all foreign admixtures; solid animal matters are exposed
to a gentle heat, to remove the greater part of the water
they contain; and animal liquids are to be evaporated to
dryness at a gentle heat. In this state the substances are
placed in a Hessian crucible, the lid of which is furnished with
a hole in the middle, thejoints between the lid and the crucible
are carefully luted with clay, and the crucible then placed lbr a
long time in a hot place, and, if possible, all the remaining mois
ture expelled. It is then exposed to a moderately strong heat
in a wind-furnace in a charcoal fire; the gases which escape
through the hole are inflamed, and when the flame has burnt
out and no more gases are evolved, the hole is closed with an
accurate stopper of chalk, the crucible heated at a very low
red heat, and then allowed to cool with perfect exclusion of
the air.                                                           -
   The examination of the carbonized mass resolves itself into
three parts.
   PART 1.-The carbonized mass~is first powdered as finely as
possible, then boiled for a long time with water in a platinum
dish, filtered and washed with hot water until a few drops ofthe
filtering liquid leave a slight residue only, when evaporated
upon platinum~foil. It is scarcely possible to continue washing
the mass until the liquid which runs through leaves no residue,
because a little phosphate of lime is always dissolved. It is
therefore best, when the residue obtained on evaporating the
water used in washing is very slight, to test a few drops ofthe
water which runs through with solution of nitrate of silver;
if a slight opacity only is produced, which disappears on the
addition of nitric acid, this arises from phosphate of lime in
solution, and we may be certain that all those constituents
which are soluble in water have been removed. If the tur
bidity does not disappear on the addition of nitric acitl, this
arises fi°om the water used in washing still containing some
chlorides, and the washing must be continued longer.
   On boiling the carbonized organic substances with water,
as also on evaporating the aqueous extract, I have never been
able to detect the evolution ol' ammonia. Hence, during the
carbonization, neither alkaline cyanicles nor alkaline cyanates
are formed.
    In all those substances which have hitherto been examined,
the aqueous solution contained chlorides. If the amount pre
sent is small, the carbonized mass is easily washed ; but if they

16        Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic
                                      S"    Constituents
form a principal constituent, the carbonized mass frequently
requires to be washed for several weeks.
   It sometimes happens that the aqueous solution appears of
a brownish colour, whichdepends upon the imperfectcarboniza-
tion of the substance. Usually the liquid becomes decolor
ized on concentration, and deposits woolly flakes of carbon,
which may be easily separated by filtration, before other sub
stances are deposited from It.
   If alkaline carbonates exist in the aqueous solution in any
considerable quantity, free alkali is formed by the action of the
carbon upon the alkaline carbonate, with the evolution of car
bonic oxide. If the aqueous solution be evaporated, the dry
mass contains more or less hydrated alkali with alkaline car
bonate. By means of a solution of nitrate of silver, we may
readily convince ourselves of the decomposition of the car
bonic acid in the alkaline carbonates by carbon, since, unless
the mixture has been exposed to a very great heat, this re
agent does not produce a pure white precipitate in the filtered
aqueous solution, but a more or less brownish precipitate is
formed, which contains oxide of silver as well as the white
carbonate of silver.
   Decomposition of the alkaline carbonates ensues principally
when the organic substance during its carbonization evolves
a very large quantity of olefiant gas. Hence it takes place to
a great extent when such seeds as contain a large amount of a
fatty oil are carbonized, as rape-seed ; it occurs to a much less
extent on the carbonization of other seeds which do not con
tain any remarkable quantity of fatty oil, as peas, and likewise
with the herbaceous parts of plants.
   Unfortunately my attention was not directed to this circum
stance until all the experiments described in the Appendix
were entirely or partly finished. The alkali among the con
stituents of the aqueous extract is therefore assumed as exist
ing in the state of hydrate.
   It is therefore advisable to pass a current of carbonic acid
gas through the aqueous solution before evaporating it, so as
to convert the hydrated alkali into the state of alkaline car
bonate.
   The aqueous solution is then evaporated to dryness in a
platinum capsule. It usually happens that when the liquid
is very concentrated, it becomes more or less turbid from
the separation of phosphate of lime which was in solution.
When the liquid has been evaporated to a small volume,
the phosphate of lime which has separated may be removed by
filtration ; it is however difficult to free the aqueous solution
from it perfectly in this way ; in fact in some cases it cannot

                         of Organic Bodies.                      17
be done, especially when it contains a large amount of silica,
which also separates on the concentration of the liquid. It is
therefore best to evaporate the whole of the liquid to dryness,
and to separate the phosphate of lime in the course of the ana
lysis.
   The residue is moderately heated until its weight remains
constant. If it be heated too strongly, decomposition of the
carbonates contained in it may readily occur, as when silica
and phosphates are present carbonic acid is expelled, which
in fact partly occurs, according to Heintz*, during evapora
tion. After determining the weight of the dry residue of the
aqueous solution, it is analysed as follows :—
   The quantity of carbonic acid is first estimated by means of
pure nitric acid in a suitable apparatus. This is obtained by
the loss in weight of the apparatus. If, during this operation,
the silica has become separated in the acid liquid, it is removed
by filtration, and the chlorine precipitated from the filtered
liquid by solution of nitrate of silver. The excess of silver is
removed from the liquid after the separation of the chloride
of silver by muriatic acid, and it is then evaporated todryness in
a porcelain capsule. The dry residue is moistened with mu
riatic acid and treated with water. Some silica usually re
mains undissolved, which, when added to that previously .ob
tained, gives the whole amount contained in the aqueous
solution.
   The liquid separated from the silica is treated with ammo
nia, by which the entire amount which has been taken up by
the water is precipitated. It is filtered, washed, dried, heated
to redness, and weighed. Its weight, when deducted from
that of the residue after evaporation to dryness, yields the
true weight of the aqueous extract. It is mixed with the car
bonized mass which has been exhausted by water.
   The liquid is then treated with oxalic acid. In very few
cases only is a precipitate of oxalate of lime thrown down, in
most cases it is not so. The oxalate of lime is determined as
carbonate by the ordinary method.
    The filtered liquid is then treated with a solution of chloride
of barium. The precipitate consists of phosphate, sulphate
and oxalate of baryta. It is filtered and washed. Although
the oxalate of baryta is not very difficultly soluble, yet after a
little practice we can readily judge when the washing must be
discontinued. It is therefore advisable, on precipitating the
 lime, not to add too large a quantity of oxalic acid, so as to
avoid obtaining a too copious precipitate of oxalate of baryta.
    The precipitate is treated with dilute muriatic acid ; sulphate
               * PoggendorfTs Annalen, vol. Ixxii. p. 120.
 Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 233. July 1849.               C

18        Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
of baryta is then left undissolved, and its weight must be de
termined after it has been washed. We thus estimate the
amount of sulphuric acid. The muriatic solution of the
barylic salt is treated with sulphuric acid, and the precipitated
sulphate of baryta separated by filtration. It is then super
saturated with ammonia and muriate of ammonia, and sul
phate of magnesia added to precipitate the phosphoric acid.
Its weight is calculated from the phosphate of magnesia, after
 having been heated to redness.
   The liquid from which the insoluble barytic salts have been
separated by chloride of barium, still remains to be examined.
The excess of chloride of barium is decomposed by carbonate
of ammonia. If the liquid is very dilute, it must be previously
concentrated by evaporation. The carbonate of baryta is
separated by filtration, the filtered liquid evaporated to dry
ness, and the dry residue carefully heated to redness to expel
the ammoniacal saks. The remaining mass consists entirely of
alkaline chlorides. These are separated in the ordinary way
by chloride of platinum. The amount of potash is determined
 from the weight of the ammonio-chloride of platinum. The
amount of chloride of sodium may be calculated from the loss ;
but it is better to determine it directly as sulphate of soda.
   Part II.—This part of the investigation is commenced by
boiling the carbonized mass, which has been exhausted by
water, with muriatic acid for a long time ; it is then filtered and
washed with hot water, to which a little muriatic acid has been
added, until a few drops of the water used in washing leave no
residue when evaporated upon platinum foil. Thefiltered liquid
is evaporated nearly to dryness- in a platinum capsule. The
weight of the dry residue cannot be determined, on account
of the readiness with which the chlorides of iron and magne
sium are decomposed by heat. The alkalies usually existed
in the dry residue as chlorides, whilst they were contained in
the exhausted carbonized mass in the form of phosphates; for
when the carbonized mass has been washed with water, and a
portion of the latter is treated with nitric acid, no precipitate
is produced in this solution by solution of nitrate of silver. In
arranging the constituents of the muriatic solution, their sum
must be taken, and the alkalies represented in the state of
oxides.                           k
   I was at first much astonished at finding alkalies present in
the muriatic solution, as I had no reason to believe they existed
in it. Subsequent investigations, however, which I shall de
scribe in a future paper, have shown that when pyrophosphate
of lime and pyrophosphate of magnesia are heated with not too
large a proportion ol alkaline carbonates, remarkable double

                        of Organic Bodies.                   19
salts, consisting of the earthy phosphates in combination with
the alkalies, are formed. Most of them are analogous in com
position to the ammonio-phosphate of magnesia, but contain
a fixed alkali instead of ammonia. The extremely imperfect
decomposition which ensues on fusing the phosphates of lime
and magnesia with alkaline carbonates, depends in most cases
upon the formation of these double salts.
   Their formation is undoubtedly the cause of the quantities
of the alkalies being estimated incorrectly, and in too small
proportion, in many investigations on the determination of the
inorganic constituents of organic substances, because their
presence in the muriatic solution could not have been expected.
   The mass obtained by evaporation is moistened with muriatic
acid and then treated with water. Usually a small quantity
of silica remains undissolved, which is separated by filtration
and its weight determined. The liquid is then neutralized
with ammonia. The precipitate contains phosphoric acid in
combination with lime, magnesia and peroxide of iron. It is
well known that when phosphate of magnesia has been heated
to redness, and is then dissolved in an acid, it cannot be com
pletely precipitated by ammonia : the error, however, arising
from this source is of only slight importance; because the
carbonized mass has been heated for a very long time with
muriatic acid, by which means, as is well known, the pyro
phosphate of magnesia is almost entirely converted into the
ophosphate of magnesia. The extremely small quantity of
magnesia which remains in solution is, however, determined
in the further progress of the analysis.
   The phosphates which have been precipitated by the am
monia are dissolved in nitric acid, and treated with mercury
to separate the phosphoric acid from the bases. The dried
mass is treated with water, and the mercurial salt removed
from the solution by muriate of ammonia and ammonia; the
lime is then precipitated by an alkaline oxalate, and the mag
nesia by phosphate of soda. When peroxide of iron is mixed
with the earths, it is separated by the usual methods. The
insoluble mercurial residue containing phosphoric acid is fused
with carbonate of soda, and the fused mass treated with water.
Should any peroxide of iron then remain undissolved, it is
separated by filtration, dissolved in muriatic acid, and preci
pitated by ammonia. The liquid which has been separated
from the peroxide of iron by filtration, and which contains
phosphate and carbonate of soda, is supersaturated with
muriatic acid and then with ammonia, and the phosphoric
acid precipitated by sulphate of magnesia. The amount of
phosphoric acid is calculated from the weight of the am
                               C 2

20         Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
 monio-phosphate of magnesia after it has been heated to red
 ness.
    By the analysis of the phosphates precipitated by ammonia,
the composition of the precipitated phosphate of lime and the
presence or absence of the perphosphate or pure peroxide of
iron in the precipitate may be determined. The liquid filtered
from the earthy phosphates contains either alkalies and phos
phoric acid only, as is the case in the examination of all seeds
and animal matters, or it contains lime and magnesia only,
and these frequently in very considerable quantities. They
existed in the carbonized mass in the form of carbonates ; but
it is only in those cases in which they are present in consider
able quantities, as in the analyses of the straw of peas and rape,
that a very distinct evolution of carbonic acid can be per
ceived on treating the carbonized mass, after exhaustion with
water, with muriatic acid. As the carbonic acid cannot .be
determined directly, it is calculated from the quantity of lime
and magnesia found in the liquid filtered from the earthy
phosphates.
   In the analysis of the carbonized mass of vegetable seeds
and animal substances, where, as has been previously men
tioned, the liquid filtered from the earthy phosphates contains
both alkalies and phosphoric acid, this is treated with chloride
of barium; phosphate and, when sulphuric acid is present,
sulphate of baryta are then precipitated. Sulphuric acid has,
however, very rarely been found in the muriatic extract of the
carbonized mass. The phosphate of baryta is separated by
filtration, dissolved in muriatic acid, the baryta precipitated
from the solution by sulphuric acid, which is then supersatu
rated with ammonia, and the phosphoric acid precipitated as
ammonio-phosphate of magnesia.
   The liquid which was separated from the phosphate of
baryta contains the alkalies. The excess of baryta is removed
by carbonate of ammonia, the filtered solution evaporated to
dryness, and the dry mass heated to redness to expel the am-
moniacal salts. The alkaline chlorides left are separated by
chloride of platinum.
   The examination of the second portion can be considerably
simplified when sulphuric acid is absent. The muriatic extract
is carefully evaporated. If it contains silica, the dry mass is
moistened with nitric acid, and the silica separated ; mercury
and nitric acid are added to the filtered liquid ; it is then eva
porated to dryness with excess of mercury in the ordinary
way, and the bases separated from the phosphoric acid by
water.
   This simplified method has, however, two disadvantages.

                         of Organic Bodies.                     21
 The large amount of chlorine present produces a large quan
 tity of protochloride of mercury, which remains mixed with
 the protophosphate of mercury ; hence this insoluble mixture
 requires a large quantity of carbonate of soda for its decom
 position. The second disadvantage is, that when the earths
 form the principal constituents of the acid extract, it cannot
 be accurately determined whether they are combined with
 phosphoric or carbonic acid.
    Part III.—This part of the investigation comprises the de
 termination of the inorganic constituents existing in the car
 bonized mass after exhaustion with water and muriatic acid, or
 rather which are produced by oxidation.
    This incineration of the carbonaceous mass is accompanied
 by no small difficulties. 1 formerly effected it by heating it to
 redness in a crucible, the lid of which was perforated, and a
 silver tube, which conducted a current of oxygen to the heated
 mass, was fitted to the aperture. The incineration succeeded
 perfectly in this manner; but in a very large number of cases
it was impossible to incinerate the carbonized mass merely by
the access of atmospheric air without the aid of oxygen. But
on combustion in oxygen gas, an elevated temperature is pro
duced and the substance of the crucible is powerfully attacked
by the phosphates formed by the oxidation. If a platinum
crucible be used, it is completely spoiled when alkaline phos
phates and carbon act upon it at an elevated tempera
ture. Nor can a porcelain crucible be used j because when
the greater portion of the carbon has been burnt, the alkaline
phosphates, being in a state of fusion, dissolve the glaze. This
is particularly the case with porcelain crucibles of Meissen
manufacture ; but even those manufactured at Berlin cannot
resist the action, although they are far less acted upon than
the former. Silver crucibles do not stand the high tempera
ture, and begin to melt. When the combustion of the car
bonized mass is effected in a glass tube heated to redness in a
furnace by a charcoal fire, it succeeds tolerably well ; but the
high temperature produced by the combustion of the carbon
in oxygen fuses the alkaline phosphates, and they unite with
the glass, so that they cannot afterwards be separated from it
mechanically. The combustion was finally effected in small
earthenware crucibles, which answered in every respect tole
rably well, and were but slightly acted upon by the alkaline
phosphates; but one important difficulty still remained un-
conquered,—a considerable quantity of alkaline phosphate
is constantly volatilized. This is very large; and the vola
tilization cannot in any way be avoided when the combus
tion is effected in oxygen gas, even when the current is slow.

22        Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
When the gas was passed through too slowly, combustion did
not take place; but as soon as it was allowed to How more
quickly, the oxidation of the carbon occurred with the pro
duction ofa vivid light, and white fumes were distinctly seen
to ascend. For the purpose of examining the volatilized pro
ducts, the combustion of the carbonized mass was effected in
a tubulated glass retort, through the tubulure of which the
oxygen was passed, whilst its mouth was immersed in water.
The water was found to exhibit powerful reactions of phos
phoric acid and alkali.
   Ifa mixture of alkaline phosphate with a large proportion
of carbon is artificially prepared, and the mixture burnt in a
current of oxygen, the same phaenomena as thosejust described
are found to occur, and dense white fumes are seen to ascend.
   This volatilization only occurs with alkaline phosphates.
On the combustion of a carbonized substance, which after in
cineration yields earthy phosphates only, volatilization cannot
be perceived. Moreover, when earthy phosphates are artifi
cially mixed with carbon, and the mixture burnt in oxygen
gas, volatilization does not occur, nor can any white fume be
perceived. Hence the earlier experiments which were per
formed in my laboratory, in which the washed carbonized
mass was burnt in oxygen gas, have yielded incorrect results,
and must therefore be repeated, as a method has at last
fortunately been discovered by which the combustion can be
effected without loss. This method, which was proposed by
M. Fleitmann, is as follows :
   The carbonaceous mass, after having been exhausted with
water and muriatic acid, is dried, and then moistened with a
concentrated solution of chloride of platinum. The moist
mass is heated in rt porcelain crucible or a porcelain capsule,
at first gently, so that no moisture may be expelled and no loss
occasioned by the spirting of the mass; then more strongly,
so that it attains an incipient red heat. This is best effected
in a large concave lid ot' a platinum crucible. If the whole be
heated in a porcelain crucible, the incineration requires a far
longer time, inasmuch as it takes place more slowly in pro
portion to the smallness of the surface and the less tree con
tact of the air. A very slow combustion of the carbon ensues,
chlorine being simultaneously developed; each carbonaceous
particle becomes incandescent, just as in the scintillation of an
infiamed vegetable substance. The combustion is extraordi
narily increased by constantly stirring the mass with a plati
num wire or a small platinum spatula. As fresh portions of
the unburnt carbon come into contact with the air, the scin
tillation recommences. The spirit-lamp may be removed,

                         of Organic Bodies.                    23
yet the carbon continues to glow for a long time; frequently,
when the quantities are not too small, for several hours ; even
portions taken out with the platinum spatula continue to burn.
The more concentrated the solution of platinum is, the more
readily does the combustion ensue. When the mass ceases
to glow on the continued application of heat, and still appears
black, it must be again moistened with chloride of platinum.
The less carbon the residue contains, the more readilv dues
the combustion ensue. If the solution of platinum is concen
trated, twice moistening and heating are usually sufficient to
produce the combustion of the whole of the carbon. A second
moistening with the solution of platinum is not strictly requi
site. After the mass has been once moistened and then heated
to redness, the residue may be treated with aqua regia and
evaporated, so as to render the platinum again active ; how
ever, this is a somewhat tedious proceeding; great care
must also be taken that no loss is occasioned by the spirting
of the mass. As the whole of the platinum used is usually
recovered, the method does not entail any pecuniary loss ; it
is therefore preferable to moisten the mass a second time with
chloride of platinum.
    When all the carbon has been burnt, the residuary mass is
of a pure ash-gray colour. Before it is treated with muriatic
acid, it must be heated to redness in a porcelain crucible in a
current of hydrogen gas, so that the double compounds of the
alkaline chlorides with the chloride of platinum may be com
pletely decomposed, which can only be accomplished with
 difficulty with large quantities by merely heating them in atmo
spheric air. If the treatment with hydrogen gas be omitted,
the subsequent separation of the platinum from the muriatic
solution of the ash is accompanied with several inconveniences.
 The mass, after having been treated with hydrogen gas, is di
gested for a long time with muriatic acid in a flask, the residue
 separated by filtration, and washed with water containing mu
 riatic acid. The resulting solution, which usually contains
 the same constituents as the muriatic extract of the carbon
 ized mass, is analysed in exactly the same manner.
    The platinum remaining undissolved, which is also mixed
 with the sand and silica of the organic substance, may be sepa
 rated from these substances by two methods. The whole is
 either boiled in a platinum capsule with a solution of carbonate
 of soda, which dissolves the silica, leaving the platinum and
 the sand, which may then be separated by aqua regia ; or the
 mass is treated at once with aqua regia, when the sand anu
 silica remain undissolved, and may be separated from each
 other by boiling with a solution of carbonate of soda. The

24       The Rev. S. Earnshaw on the Transformation
silica dissolved in the solution of carbonate of soda is obtained
by supersaturating the solution with muriatic acid, evaporating
to dryness, and treating the residue with water ; the silica
then remains undissolved.
   A solution of caustic potash cannot be used for separating
the silica from the sand in the analyses of the ashes of vege
table substances, but carbonate of soda must be made use of
for this purpose ; for the sand is not in most cases pure sand,
but usually consists of a mixture of sand and clay, which is
either derived from the soil upon which the plants grew, or
from the floor of the barn upon which the corn was thrashed,
and which has been driven into the straw and the grains of
seed during the process of thrashing. This clay is readily
decomposed by a solution of caustic potash, the alumina being
dissolved, and the amount of silica contained in the substance
is rendered incorrect by the silica dissolved out of the clay.
When carbonate of soda is used, this decomposition of the
clay does not occur.
                         [To be continued.]
II. On the Transformation of Linear Partial Differential
   Equations with constant Coefficients to Fundamental Forms.
   By the Rev. S. Earnshaw, M.A.*
THERE are to be met with in books occasional instances
       of the transformation of equations of the class here pro
posed to be considered, but I am not aware that the subject
has ever been entered upon systematically. A few years ago,
when engaged in some speculations on Laplace's equation, I
effected the transformation of all partial differential equations,
with constant coefficients, of the second order, for two and
three independent variables. The method seems applicable
to higher orders and any number of variables. The result of
my investigations is, that every partial differential equation of
the second order, with constant coefficients, can be transformed
into one or other of these two forms, when there are two in
dependent variables,
                   a^dy=aU                                     M
                   cPu     du                                  .,_ .
                   dV*=ady:                                    <2,)
and into one or other of these two forms, when there are three
independent variables,
                 • Communicated hy the Author.

           of Linear Partial Differential Equations.          25
                   (Pu _ (Pu       du                        , .
                  dirty- d#+aTx'                             l ;
                   (Pu.      du                              ,A .
                        = a^Z                                (+•)
                  dxdy       dz
the value of a being either zero or unity.
    I have not been able to discover that these are capable of
further simplification; for which reason in the title of this
communication I have called them fundamental forms. Ifyou
think this subject worthy of a place in your Journal, I will, in
a future communication, add to it a few remarks on the inte
gration of the equations here considered.
    1. To transform
         (Pu , (Pu      -, (Pu     ..du -n.du      „
        ad^+bdy+cd^+A'di+B'Ty + Bu=0'
the general partial differential equation of the second order
with constant coefficients.
    Changing the variables by means of the assumptions
                     £=a:+gy, rf=x+gy,
 we have
          + (Sa + 8W + Cf+7J^+(A'+Bwg
          +(A' + Bfc0g+D«.
 Now as g and g1 are arbitrary, subject only to the condition
of being unequal, we may assume them to be the roots of
 a + Cg+bg*=0, unless C* = lab. By this assumption the
 first and second terms of the last equation will disappear, and
 therefore the equation will be reduced to the form
                 „ ~ (Pu        ..du r,,du _.                 ...
                 °=cd*lTy+A'dlc+B'Ty+DU-               • • (5-)
     Let us transform this equation by assuming u = veu+my ; by
 this means it becomes
                 + (Clm + A'l+B'm + D)v;
 and as I and m are arbitrary it is always allowable to assume
 Cn»+A'=0, C/+B = 0, by which it is reduced to the form
                        _ _, (Pu      ..
                        0=Ct-j +1)//;
                              dxdy

26      The Rev. S. Earnshaw on the Transformation
and this by writing a'.v, — b'y for x and y ; and assuming
Ca=a'#D, takes the form (1.); to which, therefore, the general
equation proposed can always be reduced when C2 is not
= 4tab.
   2. But when C9 = 4a6, then as we cannot make the above
assumptions forg and g1, we may suppose g=0, anil a + Cg1
+ bg**=0 ; it will then be found that the third term of the first
transformed equation in art. (1.) will vanish of itself, and thus
the transformed equation is of the form
                      d*u    ..du „, du _,                     .„ .
                 0=flrf^+A^+B^+D"- • ' • <6'>
If we proceed with this as with (5.) it becomes
    0=a~ +(2«/+ A')^ +B'^ +(al*+A'l+B'm + D)v;
and as /, m are arbitrary, we can always make the second and
last terms of this to disappear ; by which means it takes the
form
                          d?u „, du
                     ° = ad^+B'd?
which may be further reduced, as before, to the form (2.).
   3. To transform
   d?u i^*" , d*u          . (Pu    „ d?u      _ dht        .,du
   dx*      dy*    dz*       dydz      dxdz      dxdy         dx
        „, du „, du _.
the general partial differential equation of the second order
with three independent variables.
  Change the variables by the assumptions
            £=*+&/> 1=-^+gV, $=x + hy + kz.
This gives
0=(a + bg* + Cg)^ +(a + bg'* + Cg')^ +(a + bh* + c&*
      + Ah/r+Bk+Ck)^- + (2a + C3' + 2bgl+C.h+Agl+B.t:)
      ~ + (^ + Cg + 2^TC . h + %TB . t) ^
                                tPu    , . . „, .du
      + (2a + C.g+g' + 2bgg')^dj +(A'+B>g)-dl.
      4 (A' + B>g<)~ + (A'+B'A + C'*) ^ + Du.

            of Linear Partial Differential Equations.           27
Now as g and g1 are arbitrary, subject only to the condition
of being unequal, and hk are also arbitrary, subject only to
the condition that k must not be zero; if C* be not equal to
\ab, we may assume gg' to be the roots of a + Cg + bgi=0,
and hk such as to make the 4th and 5th terms of the above
equation vanish. By this method the reduced equation takes
the form
             (Pu „ (Pu          ..du „, du . ~,,du „          , .
       0 = C^+C^+AVr+B^+C^+DM-- <7">
   This equation we may now further transform by writing
j^+mjf+fii for u. Dy vvhich means we obtain
          d*v „ ePv         , „ . .. dv , „ „,, dv
    0=cd?+Cd^+^C + A)dS+^nC + B'^
          + {Inc + C) ^ + (c»9 + Cmn + A'l + B'm + On -f D)».
Now as l,m,n are absolutely arbitrary, we can always so assume
them as to make the 3rd, 4th, and 6th terms of this equation
vanish. The reduced equation then takes the form
                          dzl        dxdy     dz
which may be further reduced, as before, to the form (3.).
    4. But if Ci=lab, we cannot then assume g and g1 to be
the roots of the equation a + Cg + bgq = 0 ; let us therefore in
 this case assumeg=0, and g' such thata + Cg' + 6g's=0 ; and
 hk as before: it will be found that by this means the 2nd, 4th,
 5th and 6th terms of the first transformed equation in art. (3.)
 vanish, which therefore takes the form
             (Pu      (Pu    . ,du ,-,, du „. du T,            „, .
This equation we may now further reduce by the same method
as was employed in reducing (7.), and it thus becomes
          cPv      (Pv ,„ , ... dv „, dv ,„            „,. dv
          + {aP + cni + A'l+B'm + C'n + D)v.
 Now as /, m, n are absolutely arbitrary, we may assign such
values to them as to make the 3rd, 5th, and 6th terms of this
 equation disappear; which being done, it takes the form
                          (Pu       (Pu „, du
                     °=ad?+Cd?+B&
 But if we change the variables of this equation by writing
 £ = x+fz, ^—x+J'z, it becomes
               ,_. (Pu ,          „, ,, (Pu ,    ^0v (Pu „, du
     0 = (« + c/8)^+(2« + 2ci/')^ +(a + cWd?+Wdy'

 28    The Rev. D. Williams's Cliff Section of Lundy Island.
in which we are at liberty to supposeff to be the roots of
a + cf*=0, which reduces it to the form
                                dxdz         dy'
which may be further reduced, as before, to the form (4.).
    Thus it has been proved that (1.), (2.), (3.), (4.) are the fun
damental forms of partial differential equations of the second
order with constant coefficients, for two and three variables.
If there be more variables, it is evident the method here em
ployed will still apply, and enable us to reduce them to fun
damental forms. I have not had occasion however to pursue
the method beyond what is here done ; nor have I applied it
to equations of the third and higher orders, though I am in
clined to think that with some modification it would enable us
to reduce them to fundamental forms.
   Sheffield, May 18, 1849.
III. Cliff Section of Lundy Island,from the Sugar-Loafto the
          DeviFs Limekiln. By the Rev. D. Williams*.
THE specimens to which the following descriptions refer,
        were collected and numbered on the spot, and occupy,
as near as may be, the relative positions assigned them on the
section.
    No. 1. Granite, often of the porphyritic variety, a ternary
compound of mica, quartz, and felspar only.
    2. Gray granite, differing only from the former by the ac
cession of rare and remote specks and crystals of foliated
hornblende, which apparently replace the mica to the amount
only of such accession.
    3. Gray granite, more syenitic, of a greenish tint, not so
distinctly crystalline granular as the last, at times calcareous,
and the mica in a greater degree absent.
    4. Gray granite, with a less shade of green, no hornblende,
slightly calcareous, mica none or scarcely perceptible, the
quartz crystalline granular, and the felspar in well-defined
and confusedly crystalline arrangement.
    5. Gray, compact, or finely granular granite rock, with no
trace of hornblende, the mica absent or extremely minute and
scarcely distinguishable, but otherwise compounded of felspar,
quartz, carbonate of lime, and calcareous spar ; the two latter
in such augmented proportions, as to cause the rock to effer
vesce briskly or feebly at nearly all points on being tested by
acids.
  * Communicated by the Author; being the substance of a memoir
communicated to the British Association, &c. held at Swansea in 1848.

The Rev. D. Williams's Cliff Section of Lundy Island. 29
 30    The Rev. D. Williams's Cliff Section of Lundy Island.
    6. Dark olive-gray hornblende porphyry, passing into a
 black bottle green colour with disseminated crystals of cal
 careous spar, at times remote, at others so thickly grouped
 together as almost to usurp the base, and nearly to touch each
 other.
    7. Light and olive-gray compounds of clay, felspar, quartz
 and lime, parted out in inch-thick layers and lesser lamina
 tions of schist by delicately thin plates of fibrous calcareous
 spar, passing into a calcareous trappean foliated marl, and
 marl rock, sometimes more thickly laminated and without the
calcareous spar partitions, at others a clay schist. At the toot
of the section on the N.N.E., where 6 and 7 is as if wedged
in, and curves out in No. 5*, a conglomerate of fine gravel in
a base of felspathic schist or greenish-gray volcanic ash, per
taining rather to No. 5 than to 6 or 7, is distinctly seen.
    8. Black, finely granular crystalline hornblende trap, feebly
calcareous, rendered somewhat porphyritic by crystals of glassy
felspar, so nearly black as only to be detected by the light
reflected from their cleavaged facets; it also contains sparely,
a green mineral like olivine, more frequently iron pyrites, at
times white on exposure; and commonly small white spherules
of calcareous spar.
    9. Unctuous clay schist, evidencing no alteration from its
contact with No. 8, differing little or nothing in composition
and texture from much of No. 7.
    10. Flinty, talcose clay, and felspathic schists and slates,
in indefinite alternations.
    11. Buff and ochreoiis rusty-coloured porphyry.
    N.B. The unshaded parts represent a lofty cavity at either
extremity, caused by the more ready decomposition of the
calcareous products.
    It is a notable fact, that after the confines of the slate and
granite at Lundy, a distance of half a mile, we have not a
vestige of a granite vein ; the same intermediate substances,
Nos. 6, 7 and 8, are met with at either extremity, and at in
tervals between them, and the immediately bounding schist
and slate show no amount of alteration, or so little, that re
garding those intervening substances, and their mineral rela
tions with, and transition into, the granite, the inference that
the schists had metamorphosed the granite or the original
granite lava, is far more probable and defensible than an in
verse supposition.
    From Nos. 1 to 10 inclusive, we had so many graduated
   * This remarkable feature in the section is at nearly the base of the cliff,
and is sometimes quite obscured by shingle, which shifts theie very much
at times.

  The Rev. D. Williams's Cliff Section of Lundy Island.         SI
stages of mineral variation, between the extreme terms of
typical granite passing by calcareous granite, syenite, black
compact hornblende trap, greenstone porphyry, and greenstone
ash or mud, into clay schist and crystalline slate (the proxi
mate effects of a great physical constant), linked together in
such a chain of mutual relations and dependences as demon
strated their common source and origin.
    The author had met with the same connected mineral series
in every ancient volcanic group of Devon and Cornwall, from
the focal granite lava to the finely laevigated and impalpable
mud, oftentimes in more full and circumstantial particulars
than were detailed at Lundy Island ; but, on the other hand,
the daily washed and unambiguously disclosed sea-cliff sec
tions of the latter, satisfactorily explained to his mind the in-
tervaled but reiterated occurrence of those enormous masses
of hypersthene and greenstone on the flanks and immediate
confines of the several granite domes, and which often ap
 peared to pass by syenite into the granite, but whose relations
 to it otherwise were concealed. Wherever he had met with
 those masses of greenstone, &c, he had never met with granite
 veins penetrating the bounding rocks, whereas they were uni
 formly more or less present in the intervals of their occur
 rence. There, as at Lundy, the bounding sedimentary rocks
 in the one case showed little or no amount of alteration, in
 the other they were changed to a vast amount and extent, and
 exhibited all the varying phases or stages of reduction, from
 perfect fusion to semifusion and incipient induration.
    The remarkable proportions of lime in certain of the Lundy
 series, constituting, as it did in some of the terms, far beyond
 a moiety of the component ingredients, gave undeniable proof
 of the occasional presence of lime in granite and its cognate
 thermogenous rocks ; so that lime is not invariably so defi
 cient a substance in this class of mineral compounds as had
 commonly been supposed ; while the instances he adduced
 naturally suggested the inquiry, why such deficiency should
 exist in the majority of cases.
    He regarded it as an altogether fabulous assumption, and
 a necessary corollary of the day-dream of the solar, or fire-
 mist origin of granite, that at any period of the earth's history,
 lime should have been in a less proportion than it bears at
 present to the other elementary earths. Such fabulous origin
 of granite, combined with the supposed absence of lime in it,
 sufficiently explains the contrary supposition which has been
 advanced ; while the sequel hypothesis, which attributes the
  present amount of lime in nature to the polyparia and mol
  lusca, — in other words, that creatures whose existence at all

32    The Rev. D. Williams's Cliff Section of Lundy Island.
depends upon a pre-provision of lime in the medium in which
they are destined to live, should originally have created it out
of nothing, very admirably sustains the unities of the fiction.
   He had learned in Devon and Cornwall, that the several
granite bosses there, pertained to and were inseparably con
nected with certain well-defined divisions, of what he termed
the Ocrynian group. Those granites he regarded severally
as so many ancient submarine volcanic centres, consecutively
generated, and raised to their present positions by " elevation
crater movements," each one standing out now in lofty and
august relief above its mineral relations and dependences, the
tor-crowned type and head of its own volcanic department
   Those inseparable associates and dependences on granite,
were syenites, porphyries, hypersthenes, serpentines, green
stones, greenstone ash and tuff, clay schists, crystalline slates,
and coral built and chemically precipitated limestones.
   In every instance the author had met with, all the lime
stones and calcareous rocks which had been invaded and acted
on by the vein-like processes of fusion, or by active heat, had
lost either the larger proportion or the whole of their lime ;
in other words, the lime and carbonic acid had been driven
off by heat.
   Bearing on this fact, the vast masses of travertine which have
been precipitated from water in subaerial volcanic districts,
must have been at the expense of some other rocks or pro
ducts, from which it had been abstracted by it, a result no
doubt of the eager affinities which are known to subsist be
tween lime and water.
   These simple and familiar principles he considered quite
adequate to explain the relative absence or low per-centage
of lime in granite, and in its many metamorphosed and dis
guised relations, taking them as submarine volcanic products.
The lime, driven off by the reduction of calcareous rocks, or
availing itself of the freedom it acquired in the condition of
fluid lava, would readily part from its less attractive associates
to unite with an element of more powerful affinities, which
would serve as its vehicle of translation beyond the cincture
or radius of the deadly volcanic emanations and their "azoic
and protozoic " deposits, to remoter and more genial regions,
where it would minister to the requirements of multiplying
myriads of coral architects and other zoophytous, molluscous,
crustacean, and vertebrate creatures, which out of that con
stant provision and supply of materials would in time con
struct rock masses ofsuch corresponding scale and dimensions,
as to contribute to and subserve the more final purpose of ter
restrial restoration or repair.

  The Rev. D. Williams's CliffSection of Lundy Island.         S3
   Another irresistible induction presented itself in the Lundy
series. The most fastidious mineralogist, if he admitted gra
nite to be a physical substance, and not a metaphysical abs
traction, must concede that the specimen No. 2 on the sec
tion, was granite modified by a very trifling accession of horn
blende. But this necessary admission will conduct him by a
series of insensible gradations to the inevitable conclusion,
that the calcareous dark green porphyry and the black horn
blende trap or greenstone are nothing else than granites in
disguise, or granitic matter masked in colour and modified in
substance, by the accession of varying proportions of horn
blende and lime, and no doubt other adventitious minerals.
    The cabalistic traditions of cosmogony which leaven the
whole lump of geology at the present hour, and which rigor
ously excluded a particle of hornblende and lime from granite,
nevertheless included (no doubt from their universal associa
tion) slate and schist in the category of granite and the primi
tive formations. Yet what geologist, he asked, in the present
day, would venture to talk of primitive or primary slate and
schist?
    If these slates and schists, then, were demonstrably neither
azoic, protozoic, primitial, primitive or primary—if, in truth,
they were of all dates, from the most ancient to the newer
pliocene, the granites and their congeners were the same.
There was a negative fact, too, which (in the universality of
its negation, accompanied, as it was, by such an accumulation
of probable and circumstantial testimony as amounted to
the best positive evidence,) led to the same conclusion. If
granite were a primary and independent substance, a sort of
mineralogical fact but a metaphysical abstraction, as the cos-
inogonists still hold, it assuredly ought to occur, at times at
least, unaccompanied by, and a'part from, its present universal
associates, which it assuredly does not in any portion of the
globe which has hitherto been explored. On the contrary,
the author was prepared to show, that the same predominant
 mineral types, or the same average proportion of constituents,
characterized alike the granites, porphyries, serpentines, green
 stones, slates and schists, of any well-defined division of the
 Devon and Cornish group.
    In the Lundy series we eliminate the important truth, how
 egregiously we may be, and doubtless have been, imposed
 upon by the varying accession of one deceptive compound ;
 the minimum amount of hornblende in No. 2 demonstrating,
 by the aid of the intermediate gradations, that its maximum
 of imposition in Nos. 6 and 8 is simply a question of degree;
 while from the conditional fact or accident of its absence in
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 233. July 1849.          D

84                M. E. de VerneuiPs Note on the
No. 1, we learn what fabulous results have been assumed, and
what visionary fabrics have been imngined, and dreamy phan
 tasies indulged in, of primitial fire mist, and secular refrigera
 tion, and azoic and protozoic rocks, and gelntinous monads, and
progressive development, and strata identified in universal for
mations, and the long catalogue and concatenation of cliimaeras
and romance which in the present day is either substituted for
sober science, or which so poisons its well-heads that its current
 throughout is corrupted and debased by it ; corollaries essen
 tially consequent on "the folly," as Playfair terms it, "of at
 tempting to explain the first origin of things," and which impli
 cates certain geologists in the something more than folly, viz.
 that while tbey ostentatiously parade their trite and broad phy
lactery, " denique non belle et probabiliter opinari, sed certo
 et ostensive scire," they assume a definite sense and terms, and
 draw physical land-marks, out of what are merely convenient
cabinet mineralogical distinctions, not definitions in nature,
 but convenient distinctions in a constantly running and blend
ing series, in which it is impossible to limit a genus or a species.
    Bleadon, April 20, 1849.
IV. Note on the Geological Structure of the Asturias, ¦parti
    cularly in reference to the Nummulitic Eocene, and the Car
    boniferous Palaeozoic Rocks of that Province (extractedfrom
    a letter of'M. E. de Verneuil addressed to Sir Roderick
    I. MURCHISON*).
IN a tour which he is now making in Spain, M. Ed. de
       Verneuil has observed, that on the frontiers of the pro
vinces of Asturias and Santander, the nummulitic formation
overlies all the true cretaceous rocks, and that no form of the
genus Nummulina, D'Orb., ever occurs in them; thus fortify
ing the generalization recently announced by Sir Roderick
Murchison, deduced from a study of the Alps, Apennines,
and Carpathians; viz. that the nummulitic group of Southern
Europe, and which extends over such an enormous area in
Asia, is the true Eocene tertiary of geologists. The cretace
ous or uppermost secondary rocks of the north of Spain con
sist of two great stages, the lower of which is the Diceras
limestone, and the uppermost a group of limestones and
argillaceous sandstones, &c. with Hippurites, Radiolites and
Orbitolites. The last-mentioned bodies have been supposed
to be Nummulites ; and hence has arisen the mistake of sup
posing, that Nummulites and Hippurites are associated in those
                 * Communicated by Sir R. I. Murchison.

               Geological Stiticture of the Asturias.            35
limestones of the south which represent the chalk of the north
of Europe. Above the zone of Orbitolites, is a yellowish lime
stone with Spatangi, which representing the upper chalk of the
north, is widely developed at Santander, between the town and
the lighthouse.
   The nummulite limestone then follows as the next deposit
in ascending order, and is overlaid, as in the Alps, by sand
stone, &c. In this formation M. de Verneuil discovered, in
addition to Nummulites, the Scrpula spirulcca, Conoclypus co-
noideus, Ostrea crassissima or gigantea, fossils so well known
in the nummulite rocks of the Alps, Vicentine and Crimaea.
This eocene group, whose fossils are so distinct from those of
the cretaceous system, nevertheless follows all the flexures and
dislocations of the latter, just in the manner recently described
by Sir Roderick Murchison in the Alps and Apennines. The
same relations, zoological and stratigraphical, are said (on the
authority of Don Amalio Maestre the Inspector of Mines of
the Asturias) to extend from Aragon towards Valencia.
    In describing the principal features of the carboniferous
rocks of the Asturias (some of the peaks of whose limestones
rise to upwards of 8000 feet above the sea), M. de Verneuil
shows, that the chief seams of coal are fairly intercalated with
courses of limestone and schists charged with the well-known
British species Productus antiquatus, P. punctatus and various
marine fossils. In this and in other overlying stages with
conglomerates, &c. containing coal, there is, the author ob
 serves, no sandstone or schist which can have served as a
soil on which jungle or marsh plants can have grown ; and
seeing the alternation of the fossil vegetables with marine de
 posits, he concludes that these coal-fields, like many others,
and particularly those of the Donetz in Russia described by
 Sir R. Murchison and himself, were formed in estuaries of the
 sea by the transport and subaqueous deposit of terrestrial
 spoils, and are not referable to the same origin as certain car
 boniferous strata of the British Isles, America, &c, the coal beds
 of which are supposed to have been formed of vegetable masses
 in situ. In the second stage of this carboniferous formation,
 M. de Verneuil discovered, that courses of calcareous schists
 were loaded with Fusulinae—a point of very great interest;
 since these foraminifera have been described in the mountain
 limestone of Southern Russia*, anil were subsequently dis
 covered by M. de Verneuil in the carboniferous limestone of
 the United States of America. Their occurrence at this in
 termediate station in Spain is therefore highly interesting in
 extending our acquaintance with the uniformity of distribution
          * See Russia in Europe and the Ural Mountains, vol.i.
                                  D2

 36       Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Bcsearches
 of animal life in the palaeozoic ages. The coal-fields of the
 Asturias (of which there are seventy workable seams) seem
 therefore to be subordinate to the mountain limestone, like
 those of the north of Northumberland, the south of Scotland,
 &c. &c.
    The Devonian system has been found to abound in the
 north of Spain, chiefly through the researches of M. Paillette,
 who has transmitted many of its fossils to France, where they
 have been described by M. de Verneuil.
    The Triassic and Jurassic systems are also stated to be con
 siderably developed in Spain, and like the palaeozoic rocks they
 are highly dislocated.
    In conclusion, the author remarks, that the interesting
 region of the Asturias will soon be better known, first through
 a very exact geographical map prepared by M. Paillette,
particularly in reference to its coal-fields ; and next by a gene
 ral geological map of the province by Don. G. Schultz, on
which that gentleman has been occupied during four years,
 and which is spoken of as a work of great merit.
V. Analytical Researches concerning Numbers. By Chahles
   James Hargreave, Esq., LL.B., F.R.S., Professor of
   Jurisprudence, University College, London*.
THE theory of numbers is a branch of mathematics which
       has either been regarded as not falling under the domi
nion of analysis, or has eluded the researches of those who
may have attempted its application ; so that, notwithstanding
the great powers and singular industry of the eminent men who
have devoted themselves to this science, it remains, so far as its
processes are concerned, nearly in the condition in which the
theory of probabilities would have stood, if the higher analysis
had not been applied to it. It abounds with theorems of
remarkable elegance; but is destitute of the processes, which
alone, in case of need, could render it a practical science.
   Legendre, in his treatises on this subject, communicated as
the result of an observation of numbers in the first million, a
formula for determining the number of primes up to any given
limit; and adopting this formula as a law, he was conducted
to some theorems involving the application of analysis. ( Theorie
des Nombres, vol. ii. § VIII.) That the formula thus given
by him is not really the natural law of primes, is apparent
from the circumstance that it involves a constant, or rather
                   * Communicated by the Author.

                       concerning Numbers,                      37
two a instants, whose values are assigned by experiment, and
which can have no natural connexion with the subject; and
as these constants are merely calculated so as to give as little
error as possible for the small limits within which the obser
vations are confined, there is no a priori reason for supposing
that their assigned values remain permanent for numbers of
an order of magnitude far exceeding the observed limit.
   The primary object of the following investigation is the
discovery of the laws regulating the occurrence of prime num
bers by means of analysis; and it is evident that if this object
can be effected by the deduction of a simple analytical law,
we shall be in a position to deduce many curious and interest
ing results connected with the subject.
   The power of applying analysis to this subject is based upon
a principle, which at present it would be presumptuous to
rank amongst recognized forms of mathematical reasoning;
to wit, that the real analytical equivalent of the different
values of an indeterminate expression is the. arithmetical mean
of those different values. It is satisfactory, however, to be
able to observe that this dogma is not propounded here for
the first time; but has appeared, at least as matter of induction,
under the high authority of Professor De Morgan. (Camb.
Phil. Trans., vol. viii. part 2. No. 15.) The present is not a
convenient opportunity for the discussion of this principle ; but
as it is likely to be introduced in some shape or other into
analysis, it is very necessary that the grounds upon which it
rests, and the subjects to which it may be lawfully applied,
and the manner of its application, should be analysed, and
recognized to a due extent. I hope on another occasion to
be able to advance some reasons for the conclusion, that this
principle may be introduced into mathematics without de
parting from or unduly extending doctrines heretofore ad
mitted. At present, I shall merely observe that I do not
regard it as probable that the principle in question, or any prin
ciple analogous to it, is deducible from the fundamental axioms
of algebra; that it may nevertheless be true in some definable
and useful sense; that, so far as experience leads us, no in
congruity arises from the application of this doctrine, but that,
on the other hand, whenever an analytical equivalent is de
duced naturally, it is found to coincide with the arithmetical
 mean; and lastly, that the subject of this paper affords a
 favourable case for its application, inasmuch as the results
 which we propose to obtain are precisely of that average cha
 racter of which results flowing from such a principle might be
 expected to partake.
    In the course of this paper I shall have occasion to employ

38        Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches
                                   /nx dx
                                         -.   ; which, although
                                      o logo?
not used as commonly as logarithmic or trigonometrical func
tions, has received a distinctive name (logarithm-integral) and
symbol (ii^r), and has been tabulated by Soldner from 0 to "99
and from 1*1 to 1280. The table is given in Mr. Be Mor
gan's Diff. Cal., pp. 662, 663. It will be useful to note the
following properties :
                       Joh
(except when m=— 1, in which case
    The following researches do not imply or assume any know
ledge of the observed values or deduced properties of prime
numbers, except so far as is expressly mentioned ; but 1 have
not on this account thought it necessary to employ symbols in
lieu of well-known primes (such as 2, 3, 5, 7 . .), where the use
of the numbers places the expressions in a more familiar form.
 The symbol p is used to denote a prime number in general;
and accents or suffixes are attached when necessary for distinc
 tion.
    Prop. 1. If
                  p
                  r»-        1 + ip,
                        1 + cp
                       y>            1 + Tn 1 + '"
where 1, 2, 3, 4 ... denote the series of natural numbers to
infinity, then
           p.-(. -£)-(. -i)-(.-i)--
where 2, 3, 5... denote the series ofprime numbers to infinity.
    If we take the natural numbers beginning with 2, and strike
out from the series the first prime (2) and all its multiples,
 then the second prime (3) and all its multiples, and so on
 through the series of prime numbers, we shall have struck out
 all the numbers in the following manner : the primes will have
 been struck out, once; the composites of two primes, twice;
 the composites of three primes, three times; generally the
 composites of m primes, m times.
    II' we now go through the series again, and restore 2.3 and
 all its multiples, 2.5 and all its multiples, 3.5 and all its mul
 tiples, and generally pxp^ and all its multiples, going through
 the series of primes, we shall have restored the composites of
2 primes, once ; the composites of 3 primes, three times ; the
 composites of 4 primes, six times ; and generally the compo

                       concerning
                                "b Numbers.                     39
sites of m primes, m ——— times, being the number of combi
nations of two things in m things.
   If we go through the series again, and strife out 2.3.5 and
all its multiples, and generally p1p2P:i and all its multiples, we
shall have struck out the composites of 3 primes, once ; thecom-
posites of 4 primes, four times; and generally the composites
of m primes, m —— —— times, being the number of combi-
                    —     O
nations of three things in m things.
   Repeating this process continually, alternately striking out
and restoring, the final result will be as follows :—The primes
will have been struck out once and never restored; the com
posites of 2 primes will have been struck out twice and restored
once ; the composites of 3 primes will have been struck out
three times, restored three times, and struck out once; the
composites of 4 primes will have been struck out four times,
           4.3
restored -^— times, struck out four times, and restored once ;
the composites of 5 primes will have been struck out five times,
    .    ,5.4 .              .      5.4.3 .          .   , 5.4.3.2
restored —- times, struck out             times, restored
times, and struck out once ; and generally the composites of
m primes will have been struck out in all
          m{m — 1)    m!m— l)(m — 2)              _, .
     m      ~Y~~ +        —2 3          — ...±»+l times;
that is simply once; since this expression is 1— (1 — l)m or 1.
The general effect therefore of the whole of this process is,
that the original series of natural numbers is exactly exhausted.
   This process is one of great simplicity, as it involves nothing
more than the mechanical process of determining prime num
bers by exhausting the composites.
   Bearing these considerations in mind, it will be immediately
obvious that the proposed series wanting its first term, or
P.-l, ^
            p U1
             •Vpi
                        v 1
                          pipi
                                 is 1
                                 ^   pyiPi
                                                  V
                                               ¦"/'
and, deducting both sides of this equation from P„, and dividing
by P„, we have
             -0-f)0-£X-f)(-£)
which is the theorem proposed.

  40       Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches
     This theorem is arithmetically true, and may be verified
 approximately by calculation, when n is greater than unity;
  but for other values of n, whether positive or negative, we do
  not approximate to arithmetical truth by taking additional
  terms of the series. If we multiply together a definite number
  of factors of the form
      ' o-ro-ro-r-o-r-
  we obtain the sum of the reciprocals of consecutive ordinals
  up to the next prime beyond p exclusive: and besides this,
  we obtain the reciprocals of an infinite number of scattered
  ordinals, whose aggregate sum does not diminish without limit
  as p increases. This may be expressed by saying, that in the
  equation
        ¦¦¦<>- w
  the two infinities are not the same, and the difference between
  them is a material consideration.
     The proposition above given readily conducts us to expres
  sions for Bernoulli's numbers in terms of prime numbers;
  which, however, we reserve for future discussion.
     Prop. 2. If ( — ) denote the whole number — when x is di-
                   v"                             V x
  visible by p, and the next whole number below — when x is
. not divisible by p, then the continued product 1 .2.3.4.... .r
  or [.r] may be expressed by means of its prime factors in the
  form
  g(9<?M?)-3GM?M?> 5(t)<4>0)-„.
  all the primes up to x being employed.
     This theorem may be deduced from the considerations put
  forward in the first proposition ; but as I find that it is de
  monstrated by Legendre (Introduction, p. 10), I omit the
  proof.
     The familiar association of the arithmetical continued pro
  duct [x] with its algebraical extension r(.r+l), where Fx is
  a solution of the functional equation f(x + 1 ) = x*px, conducts
   us naturally to the investigation of an algebraical extension
  for this continued product when resolved into its prime fac
  tors; r.n investigation which throws us back on the funda
   mental principles upon which algebraical extensions of this

                        concerning Numbers.                   41
nature are based. Now in effecting such an extension, we
attach a notional continuity to expressions which in their
natural sense are not properly continuous, but proceed per
saltus; anil our power to do this arises from the circumstance,
that whatever discontinuity in the algebraical sense exists in
expressions of the form 1.2. 3.. #, 1+ w + 5-+ ¦• +-, logl +
                                        J.     3      x
log 2 + ..+ log x, &c, such discontinuity is itself the sub
ject of a regular and continuous law. The process is an in
terpolation of all those algebraical forms which are necessary
to be interpolated, in order that expressions of this kind may
have continuous values for every value of .r proceeding by
infinitely small increments, instead of proceeding by definite
equal increments.
    Now prime numbers are not naturally anomalous any more
than ordinals are; they are the elements of the ordinals ; and
the infinite series of natural primes is the framework or ske
leton of the series of natural ordinals, the texture superposed
 upon such framework being manufactured by a law which
we can express. The whole series of ordinals
        1+2 + 3 + 44-5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9+10+11 + 12 +
 is formed by the continued multiplication of the several series
                 2° + 21 + 22+23 + 24 + 25 + 26' + ..
                 3°+31 + 32 + 33 + 34 + 38 + 36+..
                 5° + 5I+52 + 53+54 + 55+56' + ..
                 p° +pl + p2 +P3 +p* +&>+!? + ..
                                                                  m
 where the sign + is used in the ordinary sense for the pur
 pose of multiplication, but in the result merely means juxta
 position. This is sufficiently apparent from the fact that the
 above product gives every possible combination of primes and
 powers and multiples of primes, and cannot give the same
  number twice, since no one prime or any power of it can
  be equivalent to any other prime or any power of it. In
  effect* in the first theorem we resolved the infinite series of
  ordinals into
             (1_2)-(l-3)->(l-5)-'...(l-p)-...,
  which is the algebraical form of the expression Inst above
  written.
     Let us now denote the natural series of primes by
                            PiPtPa—Pf>

  42        Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches
  and suppose ourselves not to have any previous acquaintance
  with their properties further than necessarily flows from the
  circumstance that they are the elements of which the natural
  numbers are composed. We have then by virtue of this fact
  the equation
  where py is the last prime in the series of ordinals up to x;
  and the question suggests itself, what meaning is to be attached
  to the second side of this identity, when the first side is used,
  not in the arithmetical sense, but in the extended sense which
  is ordinarily understood by the term r(,z-f 1). What can we
  propose as a proper analytical equivalent of ( — ) . . ? To this
  question it would perhaps be difficult to give a general satis
  factory answer; it will be sufficient for the present purpose to
  express the analytical equivalent of (           1 — ( — J ; and it
  is submitted that if any such equivalent exists, it can only be
  — in the ordinary sense.       In this investigation a; and px are
• symbols to which we do not assign a definite arithmetical
  value ; we know merely that pl is a prime.         Now ( — ) may
  differ from the ordinary fraction — by any one of the quantities
  n 1 2 3            p.-<2 ^,-1          .x + bx         . ...
  0, —, —, — , ... —        , —     ; and          may in like man-
      Pi Pi Px         P,       Pi           Pi
• ner differ from the ordinary fraction           by any one of the
  same quantities ; and if we are at liberty to adopt in its sim
  plest form the principle before alluded to,—that the analytical
  equivalent of an indeterminate expression is the arithmetical
  mean of all its possible values,— we shall have no difficulty in
  concluding that the proper expression for the difference in
               A.?1                                A.y
  question is —'- ; for its value may differ from —- by any one
  of a set of quantities the arithmetical mean of which is zero.
     It will be observed that in the arithmetical identity of which
  we are speaking, we are at liberty to consider the series
                              ^Kt)
  as extending ad infinitum, without thereby impairing the truth
  of the equation, or detracting from its purely arithmetical

                       concerning Numbers.                      *S
character; for (—-) vanishes whenever-— is less than 1.
                  \fi/                         ft
Now in applying to the equation the principle of means in the
manner above suggested, it is proper to consider it in this ex
tended form ; for if we suppose the series to stop so soon as
Pi exceeds x, then in deducting ( — ) + (—2) + -- from
                    a— ) + . . , we lose sight
(x + Ax\j + (/x + Ax\                              P1 circumstance
                                          r^1 of the   .
that the number of terms in the latter expression is not neces
sarily the same as that in the former expression ; or, in other
words, that the mean number of terms in the latter is neces
sarily greater than the mean number of terms in the former.
    Acting upon this principle of means, we equate
       (^(^•••-(C'KtH
to
                       M- +-2 +...),
which amounts in effect to this ; that if we write the first part
in the form
                (jt + Ax)
                          (<s)+0)
 and the other part in the form
                        *(GK7)4
 then for the purpose of subtraction the ( — j + (—«) + •• may
 be regarded as meaning the same thing in both.
    Prop. 8. To investigate the law which regulates the occur
rence of prime numbers in the ordinal series.
    Let x be a prime number occupying the place py in the
 series of primes ; and let x + Aa; be the next prime number
 occupying the place py+i in the series of primes. We have
 then
 r(.r + A# + l)
                                                         x+Ax
     =(p,©+ >P>"-*£*>* P,+^+")

 44        Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches
 the x and x+ Ax being properly the numerators of the expo
 nents. Now substitute for T(x + \) and r(x + kx+\) their
 respective algebraical approximate values
          (**&[-) and (2*(* + A*))*( ^— J              ;
 extract the .rth root of the first equation and the (x + A.r)th
 root of the second ; and divide the latter by the former, re
 membering that the exponent ofpy+1 is in fact merely            or
     1                                                     ftr+i
         ; and we get
 x+Ax
    (* + A*rS=(l + ^)(?*(*+ A*))**^ (fc*)"^;
 an equation for determining Ax in terms of./-.
    This equation becomes readily soluble if we avail ourselves
 of an observed fact with reference to prime numbers, that Ax
 is a small quantity as compared with .r itself, at least in that
 part of the series of ordinals which is at some distance from
 the commencement. Taking then the logarithms of both sides
 of this equation, and using the approximate expressions
                                             Ax
                   log(x + Aa?)= logx+ —,
and
                      1      __ 1 „_Af
                   x+ Ax x~ x*'
we have
            a*o kg. + A£(i+ tag £)+$|;           ix)*
                                                 2x
The approximate solution of this equation obtained by rejecting
the terms divided by ./¦ is
                           Ax= logx;
and a more exact solution may be obtained by substituting
log x for Ax in the terms previously rejected ; which gives
                 A*=log ar(l + — log (2«) j ;
but the first solution is all that will ordinarily be required.
    Now^ being the number of primes up to x, if *=fy, we
have
                   x+Ax-f{y+ i)=py+<p!y
nearly ; and therefore
                                           doc
                     Axox\agx=^y=j-;

                       concerning Numbers.                     *5
and finally,
                                  d.v
                                i     +c>
                         *-/.log*
or the number of primes between the limits x and x1 is \\x'—Y\x.
If we take the more accurate value of Ax, as deduced by the
above method, and make
                     x + &x=fy-+<{>'y + jfy,
and use the approximate value already obtained for determi
ning the last term, we shall get
                 tf-\is- g log (2jr)(log log a) +c;
so that the correction is scarcely appreciable.
    In applying this formula, we must bear in mind, that as it is
a continuous algebraical expression derived from the applica
tion of a principle of means, it represents not the absolute
number of primes which will actually be found between any
particular limits, but the average number which may be ex
 pected to occur within such limits, having regard to the general
law under which primes occur throughout the ordinal series.
 The expression logx represents nearly the average distance
 between two primes at the point x in the ordinal series ; and
 with reference to that part of the ordinals which lies near this
 point, that is, so near that log x has undergone no appreciable
 change, it may be expected to indicate with tolerable accuracy
 the average distance which a table of primes would show. The
 larger the range over which we traverse, the more nearly
 shall we be able to test the formula, or ascertain the nature
 and extent of its deviation from truth ; and the largeness of
 the range must be estimated with regard to the actual magni
tude of the limits.
    The formula for determining the difference between two
 logarithm-integrals is a series of powers of /, where t denotes
 the logarithm of the ratio of the limits ; the series being con
 vergent with considerable rapidity when t is less than one.
 If the lower limit hex, the upper limit a?*, and log— = t, and
       =», we have
log,r '
         \W-\\x={z>-x)v- |*V#{l + 2~3-lt,<
    3-S.2t;-|-3.2.1i>2     4-4..3I)+4..3.2i72-4.3.2.1^ 3      Y
 +         3^4         ^+              3^5              * +"P
of which a very few terms will suffice for our purpose.

46         Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches
    The following Table was constructed, for convenience of
computation, with the value *=o> so that the numbers pro
ceed in a geometrical series whose common ratio is e*. This
proceeds regularly from 100 to 180,804; the limits following
this were selected in order to compare the results with the
number of primes counted from the tables by Legendre :—
                  Lower       Upper      Primes   Prime*  Difference.
                   limit.      limit.  computed. counted.
                       100         165      13-3       13       •3
                       165         272      200        20       •0
                       272         448      29-7      28       17
                       448         739      45-4       45       •4
                       739       1218       69-6       68      1-6
                      1218       2009      1071      105       21
                     2009        3312      165-3     161       4-3
                     3312        5460      256-5     256        -5
                     5400        9002      399-0     397       2-0
                     9002       14841      622-5     620       2-5
                    14841       21469      975-5     975        ¦5
                    24469       40343     15300     1517     13-0
                    40343       66514     2406-6    2398       8-6
                    66514     109663      3793-5    3794      -•6
                  109663      180804      5992-6    5982      10 6
                  180804      350000    13569-7    13572    -2 3
                  350000      400000      38960     3884      120
                  400000      700000    22722-5    22674     48-5
                  700000     1000000    21983-5    21958     25-5
                1000000      2000000    704300
                2000000      3000000    679160
                3000000      4000000    66381-8
    It will be seen from this Table, that at the commencement
of the numeral series, the formula is in excess to the extent of
about 1 in 600 ; but from the character of the investigation,
I am disposed to think that this error diminishes as we ad
vance in the series. On the whole the coincidence is of a re
 markable character, having regard to the nature of the sub
ject ; for judging merely from the apparently irregular occur
rence of primes, it might be thought impossible that their law
should be represented in any sense by a continuous analytical
formula.
    Assuming the logarithm-integral to represent the number
of primes between its limits, it is easy to see how it be
comes possible to frame a formula like that of Legendre's
 (i—        .—. „
   log x— 1-08366/        ), which will fagive approximately
                                                      M               J true re-
suits, at least over a small range of the series. The variation
of the logarithm is so slow as compared with that of the num
ber, that it may be treated as constant within certain limits ;
 and the numerical correction becomes necessary in conse

                           concerning Numbers.                          47
quence of the computation being made from the commence
ment of the series, where the variation of the logarithm is
greatest.
    With a view of applying the formula in somewhat higher
parts of the series, I have computed the primes from 2,010,000
to 2,01 9,000 at 620, while Burckhardt's Tables give 617; and
from 2,982,000 to 3,0 18,000 at 2,4.13, which agrees exactly with
the Tables: but these ranees are too limited to enable us to
judge of the formula.
    Since the preceding table was computed, I have found the
following formula, which gives the most accurate and expedi
tious method of calculating the logarithm-integrals of large
numbers :
where D denotes differentiation with regard to t.
    When t-=l, this becomes
        (a?'-af)r>-OT2{l-r(t-2) + v2(6-20-^(95-24)
               + tf*(120-44s) -v5(265e-720) + ..};
the general term of the part within brackets abstracted from
its sign being
       •o"-'(1.2.3..m)|
             v             I
                              i_/i_I
                                  V
                                            + _L _..+
                                        2^2.3
                                                           —
                                                        -2.3..n}r
                                                                    )\
 or
  ** '*\»+l          (n+l)(n + 2)+ (n+l)(« + 8)(ii + SJ             '")'
which diminishes as n increases, and is always positive. In
the form
    ,• ... •¦
    liem+l-li!™=     i"+,-«"
                      —             •"/,
                                     all      -7182818 h -5634364.3
           _ -4645365        -3955996 _      \
it can be calculated with great ease, particularly when m is an
 integer. The following are instances:
     Primes from 300000 to 815484; computed 39089; counted 39082
                  183939 to 500000;     ...     24890; ...       24883
                  331091 to 900000;      ...    42819; ...       42778*.
    The circumstance that log a1 represents the average distance
 between two primes at the point x in the ordinal series, gives
   * I subjoin the following Table of logarithm-integrals, which will serve

48        Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches
us a perfect idea of the rate at which primes occur. Thus if
we wish to know at what point of the ordinal series the primes
                                                                   1Q0Q
                                                                    50
come at the rate of SO per thousand, the answer is e
or e?0, which is about 485,000,000 ; that is, for many millions
before and after 48.5 millions, the rate of primes is SO to the
thousand.
   For ranges of moderate magnitude, the formula
                                    (x'-xf
                       a/(loga^— 1) — x{\ogx — 1)
will be found to represent the number of primes between x1
and x with considerable accuracy in any part of the series.
For since log.r is the average distance between two primes
at x, the average of these average distances from x to x1 will
be
                      ^(log X1 — 1 ) — #(log X— 1)
                                    ¥=00               ;
and if **— x be divided by this expression, we obtain the for
mula above written as the average number of primes between
x1 and x. This would give us ior the primes between x and
2x the expression
                                      or
             log* + 2 log 2 — 1 "" log # + -38029436'
which will be found to be nearly correct. The above formula
for any number up to about 1200,000,000 by one application of the for
mula for ILr'— \\x.
                         jr.         Lok «.       LLr.
                          2-7182818     1          1-8951178
                           7-389057     2          4-9542360
                        20-08553        3          9-933834
                        54-59815        4         19-63029
                       148-4133         5         4018532
                       403-4288         6         85-98970
                      1096-6333         7        191-3349
                      2980-958          8        440-2102
                      8103084           9       1037-7084
                     22026-466         10       2487-8509
                     59874-14          11       60670276
                    162754-78          12      14955153
                    442413-36          13      37193-320
                  1202604-3            14      9318815
                  3269017-8            15     234237-22
                  88861100             16     594842-2
                 24154949-4            17    1523419-2
                 65659972-             18    38846860
               178482268-              19    9957687-
               485165153-              20   25622432-

                        concerning Numbers.                         49
appeare in some cases to give results more closely correspond
ing with tlie Tables than are derived from the logarithm-inte
gral. Thus for the primes from 100,000 to 1,000,000 it gives
68,853, the actual number being 68,901.
    Prop. 4. To find the sum of any function (p ) of the primes
up to x, the nth prime.
     If this sum (exclusive of the function of x itself) be denoted
 by tyn, we have (x being a function of «, say fun)
    ?(2) + ?(8)+?(S) + ... + p(a(ii-l))                 =<K
   f(8) + f(S)+f(S) + ... + f(f*(»-l)) + ^(»))=*(»+l);
whence
 and
        _,        r ,      1       11 d(<Bx)    1     1   dP(<6x) ,
 Now by the last proposition
                        «=li.r or a«= ;
                                        log * '
 whence
   (*"»*. (log*)8+3f"*^|^-9 + ^^(logx-(logx)2)) + ..
                     Cases of Ike above Theorem.
     Case 1. Let <px=x; then the sum of the primes up to x
 inclusive is
     c+/toJx^\x+ Tiloex+ 755? (to*)*-10**)— -
 or
                   c + li(x2)+2^+ — log* + .
 that is, the shot of the primes from ?/ exclusive to x inclusive,
 corrected by deducting half the difference between y and x,
  (for the other terms may be neglected), is equal to the number
 of primes between y1 and x2.
      This remarkable theorem, which connects in an unexpected
  manner the values of the primes in one part of the series with,
  their number in another and remote part of the series, will
  enable us to verify the theorem as to the number of primes,
  and will confirm the conclusion that the relative error in de
  termining the number of primes diminishes as the numbers
      Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 233. July 1849.            E

50          Mr. C. J. Hargreave's Analytical Researches
increase in magnitude. In determining (by the formula li 2000
 — li 1000) the number of primes between 1000 and 2000,
there would be an error in excess of about 2 ; so that if we
sum the actual primes between 1000 and 2000, in order to
obtain the number of primes between 1,000,000 and 4,000,000,
we might expect to obtain a number varying from the theo
 retical number of primes between these limits by from 2000 to
 4000 ; but as it will be seen that the error is not so great, and
 that it is not permanently in defect, we may infer that the for
 mula for computing the number of primes is more correct for
 large numbers.
    The sum of the actual primes between 1000 and 2000 is
 205,054, which leaves, after deducting - (1999 — 997), the
number 204,553 ; and the computed number of primes be
tween 9972 or 994,009 and 19992 or 3,996,001 is about
 204,900. If we take in another prime, the difference lies in
the other direction ; for the former number becomes 206,554,
 and the latter about 205,908.
    To take an instance in which the number of primes has
 been counted, we find the sum of the primes from 241 exclu
sive to 503 inclusive (with the proper correction) to be 16,219,
and the number of primes from 2412 or 58,081 to 5038 or
253,009 to be 16,326; and taking the next prime, the numbers
are respectively 16,727 and 16,861. If we had begun one
prime earlier, the error would have lain in the other direction.
These examples sufficiently illustrate the general character of
the theorem.
    Case 2. Let $x=x*; then the sum of the squares of the
primes up to x inclusive is
   e+1!M+ 2*9+ 6-xl°g*-^j(4(log*)4+21og *)+•••;
or the sum of the squares of the primes from y exclusive to x
inclusive is
      li(aa) —\\[f) + - (*a-y) + -^(xlogx-ylogy) nearly.
    Generally it will be found that the sum of the (m — l)th pow
ers of the primes from y exclusive to x inclusive is the number
of the primes between y™ and xm increased by -^[xm~x—ym~%
with further corrections involving the (m — 2)th and lower
powers ofy and x in combination with their logarithms, which
would be of small relative amount.
   By giving to m fractional values, we shall find that the sum

                       concerning Numbers.                   51
of the square roots of the primes from y exclusive to x inclu
sive, diminished by - ( v^ir— \/y)i 's tne number of the primes
from^r to a*; and a similar theorem may be expressed for
any other roots, or for roots of powers.
   As an example, the sum of the square roots of the primes
from 1789 exclusive to 2399 inclusive is S638'5; from which
we deduct 3'4 for half the difference of the roots, leaving
3635 ; and it will be found by counting, that the number of
primes from 1789$ or 75,668 to 2399* or 117,502 is 3631 ;
a degree of accuracy which arises from the circumstance that
between 1 800 and 2400 there is no great excess or defect of
primes from the average number.
    The sum of the cube roots of the primes between the same
limits, duly corrected, is 1013; and the number of primes
 between 1789* or 21,717 and 2399* or 32,115 is 1008.
    Case 3. Let <px= -; then the sum of the reciprocals of the
 primes up to x inclusive is
                      Pdx         \    1_ log a? _
                 C+Jxlogx        2x   12 a*
 or
                     c + log log x + — nearly.
    The sum of the reciprocals of the primes, therefore, from y
 exclusive to x inclusive, is
                           log# 2 \x y/
 It follows from this that the sum of the reciprocals of the
 primes from any number to the prime next to its «th power is
 nearly log n, whatever the number may be ; the corresponding
 proposition for ordinals being that the sum of the reciprocals
 from x to nx is nearly log?/, and is independent of the value
  of a-. We also see that the sum of the reciprocals of the
  primes up to a large number x differs only by a constant from
  the sum of the reciprocals of the ordinals up to log x.
     The constant c would require, like the corresponding con
  stant of the ordinal series (y or -5771213), to be determined
  by computation. By employing values of a; up to about 900,
  the constant appears to be nearly -2G7 ; but as at the com
  mencement of the series the actual primes differ sensibly from
  what may be called the theoretical primes, it is difficult to
  determine the constant thus with accuracy.
                                 E2

52         Analytical Researches concerning Numbers.
   Case 4. Let fr= -5; then the sum of the inverse squares
                       x
of the primes up to x inclusive is
                    /* dx       1     1 log x _
               C+Jx*loex + 2x*~6~xT~ "
or
                     c+li(i)+inearly-
The value of c is the sum of the series ad infinitum, for all the
other terms vanish when x is infinite. It was computed by
Euler at -454224.7.
   Generally, we shall find that the sum of the inverse wth
powers of the primes up to x inclusive is nearly
                                       1
                       •+¦(?=.)
                                   + 2^'
where c is the sum ad infinitum ; and similar formulas apply
to negative fractional powers. The logarithm-integrals may be
found by means of Soldner's table and formulae.
   Case 5. Let <px=\ogx; then the sum of the logarithms of
the primes up to x inclusive is
                c+fdx+±\ogx+±^-..
or
                      c + x+ -logx nearly.
This theorem, which imports that the sum of the logarithms of
the primes from y exclusive to x inclusive is nearly x—y (more
                    1     x\
accurately x—y + 5 log- j, may be verified by trial, and will
                    2     yj
be found to be true of large numbers in an average sense. It
is true in the same sense as the formula for computing the
number of primes, and is in effect identical with it. If we
take limits between which there are more than the average
number of primes, the sum of the logarithms will be too large,
and vice versd ; but as x increases, the sum of the logarithms
of the primes up to x becomes equal to x.
   Case 6. If fr=log f 1 — \ , we shall find approximately
^{(-ro-ro-r-KT}
     «+logl„gx+i|i(i)+Ili(^)+t.i(^) + ....

       On Electricity in the Act of Muscular Contraction,         53
 which, as x increases without limit, approaches to c-f-log log.r
or log log (a-K), where x or tc is a constant, which may be found
 by computation.
    Now as x increases without limit, we have
         log 0 + \ + 5 + 1 + ¦" + JO =iog iog ^ ;
so that the expression to which              ( 1 — -J    ( 1 — -j
 (l — — )    ...(l      )    approximates arithmetical 1'- is not
 l + 2+^+T+--+-.               as was      before   observed,   but
    The expression here discussed was calculated by Legendre,
and tabulated up to #=1229. (See Theorie des A'ombres,
tab. IX. vol. i.) The value of c, as derived from x= 1229, is
•581078; as derived from #=1213, it is -580698; and as de
rived from ,r = 947) it is '58101 ; and it is not improbable that
its theoretical value is the constant "5771213 of the ordinal
series. It may be observed, that the difference between this
constant and that which enters in the sum of the reciprocals
of the primes corresponds exactly with the analytical value of
this constant y; for the value of this difference is
and the value of y is
Cl+logl)+(| + logi) + (i+log|)-r(I+log|)+...
ad infinitum.
    The preceding investigations may be made available for the
determination of the law which regulates the occurrence of
numbers which are composites of two primes, of three primes,
&c. ; but I have not hitherto investigated this part of the sub
ject with sufficient minuteness.
VI. On the Development of Electricity in the Act of Musadar
               Contraction. By M. Becquehel*.
 IHAVE repeated unsuccessfully the experiment of M. Du
      Bois Reymond, relative to the production of an electric
current in the act of muscular contraction, making use of the
arrangements which he indicated in a letter addressed to
             • From the Comptei Rendut for May 28, 1849.

 S4t     On Electricity in the Act of Muscular Contraction.
 M. Arago by M. de Humboldt, dated the 1 7th of May *, ex
 cluding however all those secondary causes which could give
 rise to electric currents, excepting that one the action of which
 is described.
     Ishallcommence by recalling to mind the observations which
 I made in studying the electric effects obtained with a con
 denser, the plates of which were made of platinum or copper
 gilt (Traite de V Electricite et du Magnetisme, t. v. 2e partie,
 page 10) :—
     " The electro-chemical effects produced on the contact of
 acid solutions with the liquids whicli moisten the fingers, must
 be taken into account. In these various reactions the acids
 acquire the positive electricity, which is transmitted to the
 plate, and the liquids which moisten the fingers the negative
 electricity. With the alkalies the effects are inverse."
     It follows from this, that if one of the plates is covered ex
 ternally by a very thin layer of hygrometric water, and that
 it is touched with a finger moistened with perspiration, elec
 tric effects, resulting from the reaction of the perspiration
 upon the water, ensue. It is also produced when a finger in
 a great state of transpiration is applied upon one of the plates,
 after having been previously moistened with water ; in this
 case the water acquires the positive electricity, and the con
 trary electricity flows into the body of the experimenter. If
 we add to these effects those which take place when foreign
 bodies are adherent to the skin, we must conceive that a large
 number of complex electric effects would be produced in
 plunging two fingers, as is done by M. Du Bois Reymond,
 into two capsules filled with water in which are contained two
 plates of platinum in communication with a multiplier. This
 is not all : when, in virtue of these various causes, a current
 has circulated in the liquid and in the wire, the two plates of
 platinum are polarized in opposite directions, as may be shown
 by withdrawing the fingers and establishing the communication
 between the two capsules by means of a siphon filled with the
 same liquid as that which they contain. This current, during
 the first few moments, having the same intensity as the primi
 tive current, annuls it ; but if, in the act of contraction, the
 finger of the contracted hand become more or less immersed
in water, the inverse current may be less or superior to the
direct current. I guarded not only against the effects of the
inverse current, but also against the effects resulting from the
greater or less immersion of the fingers by smearing with fat
those parts of the fingers which might temporarily come into
contact with the liquid. By proceeding in this manner, I found
it impossible to observe the effects described by M. Du Bois
Reymond.
                   * See Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiv. p. 543.

                              L  55    ]
  VII. Note relative to the Electricity developed by Muscular
              Contraction. By M. C. Despretz *.
THE note which I have the honour of communicating, is a
       simple enumeration of the experiments which I made with
the view of reproducing the phaenomena announced by M.
Du BoisReymond of Berlinf. I shall not discuss these phaeno
mena, my only object being to reproduce them. This appears
to me the most philosophical manner of proceeding in the ap
preciation of a new fact. We are not sufficiently acquainted
with the intimate nature of bodies, of heat, light or electricity,
we know too little regarding vital phaenomena, to reject a
priori a physico-physiological fact, however singular it may ap
pear at first sight. The wisest and most prudent course is,
first to confirm it, and afterwards by a profound analysis of
the phasnomenon, to ascertain the various sources of error to
which it is exposed. It must not be forgotten that Galvani's
researches upon animal electricity have given rise to one of
the most important discoveries of modern times.
    I shall not enter further upon the history of the subject, in
doing which I should have to quote numerous researches, and
particularly those of the illustrious philosopher who made
known to the Academy the principal result obtained by M.
Reymond, and whose name is connected with so many import
ant researches which have been made since the end of the last
century.
    I have not inserted in the Comptes Rendus the results of the
experiments which I alluded to at the last meeting of the Aca
demy, because these results did not appear to me sufficiently
demonstrative. The only conclusion I should deduce from my
first experiments, would be the uncertainty which the inter
vention of the metallic plates in galvanometers appears to me
 to throw upon the results of many experiments, as I have had
 the honour of stating to the Academy.
    The galvanometer which I used was made by M. Ruhm-
korflf, whose skill is well known. The diameter of the wire was
yjjth of a millimetre, and its length 300 metres. The wire
made about 1800 convolutions round the frame of the appa
 ratus. The delicacy of the instrument is shown by the fol
 lowing numbers.
    A copper wire £ths of a millimetre in diameter, when im
 mersed to a depth of 2 centimetres, afforded a deflection of 3°
 in distilled water, 25c in the water of the river Seine, and 68°
 in a solution of chloride of sodium, containing from four to five
 per cent, of the salt.
    Plates of gold, the surfaces of which were nearly one square
      • From the Comptes Rendu* for May 28, 1849.
      + Comptes Rendus, May 21 j and Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiv. p. 543.

5G                M. Despretz on the Electricity
centimetre, afforded under the same circumstances deflections
of 11°, 24° and 85°. The gold, which was perfectly pure,
had been recently prepared at the Mint of Paris, in the labo
ratory of M. Pelouze and M. Peligot. The needle, when set
free, took about half a minute in moving from 50° to zero.
    I was not at first acquainted with M. Reymond's method of
proceeding. In my earliest experiments, two cylindrical
conductors were held in the hands, and when the needle had
returned to zero, or had acquired a perfectly stationary posi
tion, one of the arms was powerfully contracted ; the deflec
tion was then observed, and when the needle had again be
come stationary after the cessation of the contraction, the other
arm was strongly contracted, also observing the deflection.
    These first experiments were made with common copper
conductors. But for the sake of avoiding the objection which
might arise from the ready oxidation of this metal, I had
them covered with gold-leaf. Other conductors were coated
with silver, platinum and gold.
    The experiments were made by three persons. Were there
no occasion for using galvanometers, we should be inclined to
believe that silver, and especially gold and platinum, which
preserve their polish and lustre in contact with moist air,
 would be appropriate for these experiments, on account of
their unalterability. This is however not the case; silver,
gold and platinum afford currents which are almost as strong
 as copper. When the platinum conductor is held in the
 hand, and the needle has become stationary, merely touching
it with one finger more, or less, is sufficient to change the posi
 tion of the needle several degrees.
    In these experiments the needle was deflected 50°, 75° and
even 90°. When one of the conductors was squeezed power
 fully, the needle moved in one direction, and when the other
conductor was squeezed, the needle moved in the same or in
 an opposite direction.
    It is indispensable to repeat these experiments several times,
 without which we should be liable to errors. Thus it happens
 that the deflections of the needle occur alternately in one and
 the other direction ; but on multiplying the experiments, we
 find that the deflections frequently take place in the same di
 rection, although the compression is produced first by one and
 then by the other arm. If the chemical action was regular
 like that of a watch-spring, we ought to obtain currents in the
 opposite direction. We only experimented in this way, be
 cause, on the one hand, we were unacquainted with M. Rey
 mond's method of proceeding ; and on the other, we thought
 that silver, and especially gold and platinum, when simply
held in the hand without any compression, would only afford

                developed by Muscular Contraction.             57
a very weak current. But experience unfortunately proves
that gold and platinum are under these circumstances as im
pressionable as brass, if I may be allowed to use such an ex
pression. I have repeated M. Keymond's experiment several
times, both following rigidly and varying his method of pro
ceeding.
    I first wished to ascertain whether the instrument, which I
 had not yet used, was sensible or not to changes of tempera
 ture. For this purpose, I heated one of the places at which
 it was soldered to the melting-point of wax, the communication
 being established by the hands between the two plates ; I also
 augmented the temperature of one of the two solutions of
 common salt, by immersing in it glass tubes filled with boiling
 water, the communication being always kept up by the hands;
 in neither case did I observe the slightest deflection, which
 might be anticipated from the known properties of thermo
 electric phenomena; nevertheless it appeared to me of use to
 verify this in the present instance. To avoid the effect of a
  more or less deep immersion of the metallic plates, in conse-
 Sience of the introduction of the fingers, I partly covered
    ese plates with black wax, so that the uncovered surface was
  always in contact with the solution.
     As regards the fingers, I attempted to immerse them to the
  same extent in all the experiments, having found that in
  plunging successively one, two or three, or more fingers, or a
  single finger to a greater or less depth, the intensity of the
  deflections varied. This result indeed had been anticipated.
  I had even had some long kinds ofcopper thimbles gilt, so as
  to regulate the immersion better. But I abandoned this
  method of proceeding, because it differed too much from that
  adopted by M. Du Bois Reymond.
     In experiments made according to M. Du Bois Reymond's
   process, the alternate contraction of each arm has sometimes
  afforded deflections in the same, sometimes in the opposite
  direction.
      In other experiments, each arm was successively contracted
   out of the water, and on each contraction the vessels were
   connected by means of the fingers. In others, large capsules
   were used, so us to allow more freedom of motion of the hands,
   and so as to permit the immersion of the closed hands, either
   contracted or not contracted. The results of these two series
   of experiments are sometimes favourable, sometimes contrary
   to the assertion of M. Reymond. The necessity of multiply
   ing the experiments is very distinctly shown in this case.
   The results of two or three experiments agree with the results
   announced by M. Reymond ; and then, if they are continued,
   opposite results are obtained. A singular fact is also remarked

58                M. Despretz on the Electricity
in these experiments, viz. that the fingers are influenced much
in the same way as metallic conductors ; they lose part of their
efficacy by repeated immersions.
   I was desirous of reducing the experiment to a greater
amount of simplicity. I replaced the galvanometer by a frog
which was properly prepared. Several persons, separately or
in connection, having strongly contracted one of their arms,
in vain endeavoured to produce convulsive movements, by
connecting the two arms by means of the most sensible parts
of the animal. Nevertheless with a very fine copper wire and
a plate of zinc, without the use of any liquid, very marked con
tractions were produced both before and after the experiment.
   I also endeavoured in vain to deflect a very delicate astatic
magnetic needle, by the union of the two hands, whilst one
hand was strongly contracted. Finally, I attached a cylin
drical gilt conductor to the back of each hand by silk cord : the
contraction of one or the other arm did not perceptibly change
the deflection of the needle, which amounted to 10° from the
simple contact. The effects of the contact were increased in a
marked degree by moistening the back of the hand with a few
drops of salt water ; but the contraction of one or the other
arm did not produce deflections alternately in one or the other
directions.
   These three experiments appear to me to be under more
favourable conditions than those of M. Reymond. The re
sults of them are removed from the intervention of the im
mersion of metallic laminae in saline solutions, which is always
somewhat obscure. Unfortunately they only furnished nega
tive results.
   In conclusion, if we are only to admit as true that which is
clearly demonstrated, we think that the experiments detailed
in this note show, that if the contraction of one arm gives rise
to an electric current, this current is not appreciable to our
present means, at least to those which we have employed.
   We are however far from believing that the tetanic contrac
tion of a limb does not give rise to the decomposition of a
certain quantity of electricity. The friction of the parts upon
each other, and the unequally heated state of heterogeneous
parts would give rise to electric decompositions ; but recompo-
sitions ensue immediately. This is probably the case in all the
chemical actions which occur in the ceconomy.
   Until chemistry has discovered a metal or an alloy which
does not afford any current by the contact of liquid conductors,
we shall always be exposed to numerous errors in researches
upon the currents of animals and vegetables.
   The galvanometer is a very valuable instrument, but it re
quires a very large amount of skill and prudence on the part

                developed by Muscular Contraction.               59
of the experimenter. If it is made but slightly sensible, it
only indicates powerful phenomena; if it is made very deli
cate, it obeys the slightest perturbating causes. It is not im
possible that a large number of experiments upon the currents
in animals and vegetables may merely arise from illusions, and
that what is attributed to animal and vegetable currents, may
be nothing more than the action of liquids upon the plates of
f;old or platinum of galvanoscopes, or upon other different
  iquids. If the two plates of gold of a galvanoscope are in
serted in any direction in a potato which has either budded
or not, in an apple, or a cabbage-stalk, or the flesh of beef;
if any two parts of the skin, slightly moist, are touched with
these same plates, we have currents; if first one and then
the other plate be withdrawn in succession, and after having
washed and wiped it, it be replaced, the current is reversed ;
if the plates are more or less deeply immersed, reversions may
also occur.
    It is possible that the convulsions experienced by the frog
 from the contact of the crural nerves with the muscles of the
legs, may depend only upon the heterogeneity of the liquids
 which moisten these parts. It is possible that the permanence
 of the direction of what is called the current of the frog may
 be owing to a different alterability of the extremities of the
 animal by the various solutions employed in these experiments.
 In the experiment as arranged for determining the true or
 false current in the frog, we merely require to substitute for
 the animal a cord of thread impregnated with common salt,
 and one of the ends of which has been touched with the stopper
 of a bottle of sulphuric acid, and the other with the stopper
 of a bottle of nitric acid, to reverse the current a great many
 times, as is done in the case of the current of the frog.
    There is one experiment upon this subject which would
 have a certain value without being decisive, it is that of the
 action of a circuit of frogs upon a magnetic needle.
    I arranged a chain of frogs in the same manner as the pairs
 of a voltaic pile are arranged ; this chain traversed a bell-glass,
 beneath which a very delicate astatic needle was suspended.
 I did not observe any distinctly-appreciable effect at the mo
 ment at which I united or separated the extremities of the
 chain. Had an effect been obtained, the objection of the ac
 tion of the heterogeneous moist parts would still remain.
    It does not appear to me that the existence of electric cur
 rents in frogs and plants is a perfectly proved fact. I speak
 openly, submitting my doubts to those philosophers who have
 made most interesting, and in some cases very ingenious ex
 periments upon this subject.

                                  [    60     ]                           ' '. i.
                                                                          i
 VIII. Some facts relative to the Spheroidal State of Bodies,
     Fire-Ordeal, Incombustible Man, fyc. By P. H. Boutigny
     (d'Evreux)*.
 IN the year 241, Sapor or Chapour ordered the Magi to do
      all in their power to persuade them and bring them back
 to the faith of their ancestors. It was then that one of the
 pontiffs of the dominant religion, Adurabad-Mabrasphand,
 offered to submit to the fiery ordeal . . . . " He proposed
 that eighteen pounds of melted copper, issuing from the fur
 nace, all hot, should be poured on his naked body, on con
 dition that, if he was not injured by it, the unbelievers should
 yield to so great a miracle. The trial was said to be attended
 with such success, that they were all converted." The his
 torian adds, with an air of doubt, certainly allowable in such
 a matter, " We see that the religion of Zoroastre had also its
 miracles and its legendsf-"
     Now this fiery ordeal, undergone with such success by
 Adurabad-Mabrasphand, is in plain truth an experiment of
primitive facility and simplicity, and which is anything but
miraculous.
     I stop here an instant, for I fancy that I see the smile of
 incredulity rise on the lips of some who do me the honour of
listening to me ;—that smile, so discouraging to one who is in
sincere, but which only heightens the ardour of him who in
tends to practise no deception, and who does all in his power
not to deceive himself.
    To such persons then I would offer this encouragement ;
the little that I have still to relate appears improbable, but
it is true, and that is enough. Having said this, I continue.
    In France, in England, in Italy, wherever I have had
occasion to speak of bodies in the spheroidal state, I have
met with persons who have put to me this question : May
there not be some connection between these phaenomena and
that presented by men who run barefooted over liquid metal (?)
still incandescent, or who plunge their hand into molten lead,
&c. {? To all I have answered, Yes, I believe that there is
an intimate relation between all these facts and the spheroidal
state. And then, in my turn, I put this question : Have you
witnessed the fact which you tell me? And the answer has
invariably been in the negative.
    I avow that all these on-dits and the marvellous legends
   • From the Comples Rendusfor May 14, 1849.
   f Dictionnairc historique, critique et 6'tbliographiqiie, t. xxvii. p. 417.
   I I have alluded to these facts in the work entitled, NouveUe brunclic
de Physique, or Etudes xur let Corps a VElat spheroidal, p. 36.

M. P. H. Boutigny on the Spheroidal State of Bodies, Sfc. 61
which I had read in various works* on the fiery ordeal and
incombustible men, admitted without reserve by some, obs
tinately denied by others, excited my curiosity greatly, and
gave me a great desire to verify all these phenomena, and to
recall them to the recollection of contemporary observers ; for,
alas ! all this is as old as the world ; nil sub sole novum.
   I wrote first to my friend Dr. Roche, who passes his life in
the midst of the blast furnaces of the Eure, and who is the
physician of a portion of the Cyclopean population who feed
them. I requested of him precise particulars. AH that he
could ascertain was, that a man named La Forge, of from
thirty-five to thirty-six years of age, very corpulent, walked
step by step barefooted on the pigs after the casting: but he
had not seen this. This was not enough to dispel my doubts.
   I then applied to a foundry at Paris, where I was laughed
at and shown the door. I retired, hanging down my ears,
thinking over the difficulties of verifying a single fact, and
such a simple one.
   Subsequently I was fortunate enough to meet with M. Alph.
Michel, who lives iu the midst of the forges of Franche-Comte.
M. Michel promised me, with the greatest kindness, to inquire
into these facts, and to report upon them if desired.
   The following is an extract from the letter which he did me
the honour to write to me, dated the 26th of last March :—
   " On my return home, I did not fail to obtain information
from the workmen of the facts of the case (the immersion of
the finger in the incandescent melted metal), and most of them
laughed in my face, which did not deter me. Lastly, being
one day at the forge of Magny, near Lure, I put the question
again to a workman, who answered that nothing was more
simple ; and, to prove it, at the moment when the metal in a
state of fusion issued from a Wilkinson, he passed his finger
into the incandescent jet. A person employed in the esta
blishment repeated the experiment with impunity : and I
myself, emboldened by what I saw, did the same ... I may
observe, that, in making this trial, none of us moistened his
finger.
   " I hasten, Sir, to acquaint you with this fact, which seems
to support your ideas on the globular state of liquids ; for the
fingers being naturally more or less humid, it is, I think, to
this moisture passing to the spheroidal state, that we must
ascribe their momentary incombustibility."
   The following are the experiments which I have made :—
   I divided or cut with my hand a jet of melted metal of five
  * Des Erreuri et det Prtjuget repandut dam let diverse* chutes de la
SocUU, t. xii. p. 183.

 62        M. P. H. Boutigny on some/acts relative to
 to six centimetres, which escaped by the tap, then I immedi
 ately plunged the other hand in a pot filled with incandes
 cent metal, which was truly frightful to look at. I invo
 luntarily shuddered. But both hands came out of the ordeal
 victorious. And now, if any thing astonishes me, it is that
 such experiments are not quite common.
    I shall of course be asked, what precautions are necessary
to preserve oneself from the disorganizing action of the incan
descent matter? I answer, None;—only to have no fear, to
make the experiment with confidence, to pass the hand ra
pidly, but not too rapidly, in the metal in full fusion.
    Otherwise, if the experiment were performed with fear, or
with too great rapidity, the repulsive force might be overcome
which exists in incandescent bodies, and thus the contact with
the skin be effected, which would undoubtedly remain in a
state easy to understand.
   To form a conception of the danger there would be in
passing the hand too rapidly in the metal in fusion, it will
suffice to recollect that the resistance is proportionate to the
square of the velocity, and, in so compact a fluid as liquid iron,
this resistance increases certainly in a higher ratio.
   The experiment succeeds especially when the skin is
humid ; and the involuntary dread which one feels at facing
these masses of fire, almost always puts the body into that
state of moisture so necessary to success; but by taking some
precautions, one becomes veritably invulnerable. The fol
lowing is what has succeeded best with me : I rub my hands
with soap, so as to give them a polished surface ; then, at the
moment of making the experiment, I dip my hand into a cold
solution of sal-ammoniac saturated with sulphurous acid, or
simply into water containing some sal-ammoniac, and, in de
fault of that, into fresh water.
    Regnault, who has occupied himself with this subject, says,
" Those who make a trade of fire handling and holding it in
the mouth, sometimes employ an equal mixture of spirit of
sulphur, of sal-ammoniac, of essence of rosemary, and onion-
juice." All volatile substances, we see, which, in evaporating,
render a certain portion of heat latent.
   Let us now seek the rational explanation of these facts.
    We have the formula met, which gives the quantity of
heat contained in any body.
    Let m be the mass expressed in kilogrammes,
         c the specific heat of the body,
         t its temperature.
   But here the factor m must be abstracted, because there is
no contact between the hand and the metal in fusion, and the

                 the Spheroidal State of Bodies, eye.                     63
experiment presents no difference, being made either with 10
kilogrammes of metal, or with 1000 kilogrammes. The sen
sation which is felt is the same in either case, and this is
readily conceived, knowing the repulsive force of incandescent
surfaces which is opposed to the contact of any body.
    The finger or the hand is then isolated in the midst of the
mass in fusion, and thus preserved from the disorganizing
action of the incandescent matter. I repeat, that the mass
must be abstracted.
    There remain the two factors c, t. I will suppose, and it
is a sufficient approximation, that the value of c = 0"15, and
that of i = 1500 degrees, the temperature of the metal in
fusion ; now the product of 1500 degrees x 0'15 = 225. Thus
the epidermis of the experimenter would only be exposed to
225 degrees of heat. Undoubtedly this is a respectable quan
tity of caloric, but it is too high, as we shall see.
    There is no contact between the hand and the metal; this,
in my estimation, is a fact positively established. If there is
no contact, the heating can only take place by radiation, and
it is enormous, it must be acknowledged ; but if the radiation
is annulled by reflexion, and it is so, it is as if it did not exist,
and, definitively, the operator is, so to say, placed in normal
conditions.
    I think that I have established, a long time ago, the fact
that water in the spheroidal state has the property of reflecting
radiating heat*, and that its temperature never attains that of
its ebullition ; whence it follows that the finger or the hand
being humid, cannot rise to the temperature of 100^ Centig.,
the experiment not continuing long enough to permit the hu
midity to evaporate entirely.
    To recapitulate what I have stated on this point, I say,—
in passing the hand into any metal in fusion, it becomes iso
lated ; the humidity which covers it passes into the spheroidal
state, reflects the radiating caloric, and does not become
heated enough to boil. This is all.
    I was right then in saying at the outset, this experiment,
dangerous in appearance, is almost insignificant in reality.
    I nave often repeated it with lead, with bronze, &c, and
always with the same success f.
   • Nouvelle branche de Physique, or Etudes sur les Corps 4 1'h.tat sphe
roidal, pp. 24 el teq. and 13-i et seq. See also our two letters to the Aca-
demie des Sciences, dated the 14th and 21st of July, 1845. In the places
indicated will be found the explanation of this phenomenon.
   t The experiments on the cast iron were made in the foundry of M. Da
 vidson, at La Villette ; and, on the bronze, in that of M. Nerat.Rue I'ierre-
 Levee. I am happy to have an opportunity of publicly thanking these
 gentlemen for their kind assistance.

                               [   64     ]
                IX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                            ROYAL SOCIETY.
                    [Continued from vol. xxxiv. p. 532.]
March 8, " A DDITION AL Observations on the Osteology of the
   1849.      ¦£*¦ Iguanodon and Hylaeosaurus." By Gideon Alger
non Mantell, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S., V.P.G.S., &c.
   This memoir is supplementary to the author's former communi
cations to the Royal Society on the same subject, and comprises an
account of some important additions which he has lately made to
our previous knowledge of the osteological structure of the colossal
reptiles of the Wealden of the South-east of England.
    The acquisition of some gigantic and well-preserved vertebrae and
bones of the extremities from the Isle of Wight, and of other in
structive specimens from Sussex and Surrey, induced the author to
resume his examination of the detached parts of the skeletons of the
Wealden reptiles in the British Museum, and in several private col
lections ; and he stateu as the most important result of his investi
gations, the determination of the structure of the vertebral column,
pectoral arch, and anterior extremities of the Iguanodon. In the la
borious and difficult task of examining and comparing the numerous
detached, and for the most part mutilated bones of the spinal column,
Dr. Mantell expresses his deep obligation to Dr. G. A. Melville,
whose elaborate and accurate anatomical description of the vertebrae
is appended to the memoir. The most interesting fossil remains are
described in detail in the following order.
    Lower Jaw.—Since the author's communication on the lower jaw
of the Iguanodon, published in the Philosophical Transactions, part
ii. 1 848, he has discovered the right angular bone, which was pre
viously unknown : from the circumstances under which this relic
was found, he considers it probable that it belonged to the same
individual as the teeth figured in Plate XVIII. of the Philosophical
Transactions for 1848.
     Vertebral column.—The vertebrae hitherto assigned to the Igua
nodon consist of the middle and posterior dorsal and anterior cau
dal, as identified by means of the Maidstone specimen in the British
Museum : the cervical, anterior dorsal, lumbar, and posterior and
terminal caudals, were previously either undetermined or referred to
other genera of saurians. The investigations of Dr. Melville have
established the important and highly interesting fact, that the cervi
cal and anterior dorsal vertebra? of the Iguanodon were convexo-
concave — that is, convex in front and concave behind—as in the
fossil reptile of Honfleur termed Streptospondylus, and in the exist
ing pachyderms ; the convexity gradually diminishing, and the an
terior face of the body of the vertebra becoming flat, in the middle
and posterior part of the dorsal region. The supposed Streptospon-
dylian vertebrae of the Wealden (named S.major by Professor Owen
in British Association Reports on fossil reptiles) are, in the opinion
of the author and Dr. Melville, the true cervical vertebrae of the

                              Royal Society.                          65
Iguanodon. The convexo-concave type of vertebrae was not con
fined to a single genus—the Strcptosponrlylus of the Oolite—but
prevailed in two, and probably in several, genera of extinct sau-
rians of the secondary geological epochs; in like manner as the re
verse form, the concavo-convex, predominates in the existing cro-
codilians and lizards.
    Other large vertebrae found with ribs and bones of the extremities
of the Iguanodon, and referred by Professor Owen to one or more
species of Cetiosaurus, are regarded, in consequence of the peculiar
structure of the neural arch, as belonging to the posterior dorsal and
lumbar vertebrae of the former colossal reptile ; and certain some
what angular vertebrae, also previously assigned to a species of Ce
tiosaurus, are presumed to be the middle and distal caudals of the
Iguanodon.
     The Sacrum, of which portions of several examples belonging to
individuals of much disparity in size have been obtained, is shown
to consist of six anchylosed vertebrae ; not offive, as stated by Pro
fessor Owen ; and the typical specimen in the possession of Mr. Saull,
 which the author figures and describes, is adduced in proof of the
 correctness of this opinion. The anterior vertebra, and the two
 posterior ones, are much larger and stronger than the three inter
 mediate elements which occupy the centre of the arch of the sacrum.
     Pectoral arch.—A perfect scapula discovered in the strata of Til-
 gate Forest, and which corresponds with the coracoid bone, provi
 sionally assigned to the Iguanodon in the memoir of 184-1 (Phil.
 Trans. PI. IX. fig. 11), Dr. Mantell has been enabled to refer to that
 reptile, by the fortunate interpretation of portions of two scapula?
 which are preserved in the Maidstone specimen, but had not pre
  viously been recognized as such. As the clavicles were long since
  determined, the essential elements of the pectoral arch are now as
  certained, and the author gives a restored outline of this important
  part of the skeleton, based upon these data.
     Humerus.— A humerus three feet long, discovered by Mr. Fowles-
  tone in the Isle of Wight, has been ascertained by the author to belong
  to the Iguanodon, from the presence of a small but corresponding
  bone in the Maidstone fossil. This bone, from its disproportionate
  size in comparison with the femur with which it is collocated—being
  one-third shorter—was formerly assigned by Dr. Mantell to the fore
  arm ; but the large humerus from the Isle of Wight, which, except
  iu magnitude, is identical with that from Maidstone, leaves no doubt
  upon the subject. It is now therefore, for the first time, ascertained,
   that in the Iguanodon, as in many fossil and recent reptiles, the an
  terior extremities were much shorter and less bulky than the poste
   rior. The radius and ulna are still undetermined, but the author
   states that there are some imperfect bones in his former collection,
   now in the British Museum, which he thinks will be found to belong
   to the fore-arm.
      Hinder extremities. — The colossal magnitude of the Iguanodon is
   strikingly shown by some femora- and leg-bones recently discovered.
   One femur is 27 inches in circumference, and must have been 4 feet
       Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 233. July 1849.               F

66                           Royal Society.
8 or 10 inches in length ; and a tibia, found with the same, is
4 feet long.
    Dermal scutes and spines.—The author figures and describes se
veral dermal scutes and spines, and states that a microscopical exa
mination of the large angular bones of the Hylseosaurus (Phil. Trans.
 1841, PI. X. fig. 1), supposed by him to be ossified dermal spines,
but which Professor Owen regarded as the abdominal extremities of
ribs, proves the correctness of his own opinion ; their structure being
identical with that of the acknowledged dermal scutes.
    In the summary which concludes the memoir, Dr. Mantell states
that the facts described, confirm in every important point the phy
siological inferences relating to the structure and habits of the Igua-
 nodon and Hylaeosaurus, enunciated in his former communications;
 and thus, after the lapse of a quarter of a century, he concludes his
attempts to restore the skeletons of the colossal saurian herbivores,
of whose former existence a few water-worn teeth and fragments of
bones were the only indications, when, in 1825, he first had the ho
nour to submit to the Royal Society a notice on the teeth of the
Iguanodon.
    March 15      "Researches in Physical Geology." Part II. By
 Henry Hennessy, Esq. Communicated by Major Beamish, F.R.S.
    In this communication the author states that, having in Part I.
 (read to the Society in December 1846) endeavoured, by general
 izing the hypothesis on which is usually founded the theory of the
 earth's figure, not only to improve that theory, but also to establish
 a secure basis for researches into the changes which may have taken
 place, within and at the surface of the earth, during the epochs of
 its geological history, his object here is to discover relations between
 the interior structure of the earth and phenomena observed at its
 surface, and also the effects of the reaction of the fluid nucleus, de
scribed in Part I., upon the solid crust. This memoir is divided
 into sections, each containing a distinct investigation ; and the state
 ment of the geological results is given at the end.
 I. Tfie Pressures of the Sliell and Nucleus at their surface of contact.
    In the investigation of these pressures the earth is supposed to
 consist of a nucleus of fluid matter inclosed in a solid shell, the inner
 and outer surfaces of which are spheroidal, but nearly spherical ;
 and both shell and nucleus are supposed to consist of strata varying
 in density according to some unknown inverse law of the radii. The
 pressure at the inner surface of the shell is conceived to be due to a
 constant pressure, which is the same for every point, and a variable
 pressure, arising from the difference in form of the surface of the
 nucleus and inner surface of the shell. On these suppositions, simple
 expressions for the pressure on any stratum of the nucleus and on
 the shell's inner surface are deduced.
          II. The Variation of Gravity at the eart/t's surface.
    The author does not assume in this investigation that the laws of
 arrangement of the particles composing the shell and the nucleus

                             Royal Society.                            67
are necessarily the same ; so that the expression which he obtains
for gravity at any point on the earth's surface, besides being a func
tion of the latitude of that point, and of the radii and ellipticities of
the shell's inner and outer surfaces, contains functions depending on
the constitution of the shell and nucleus. He states that this ex
pression for gravity is not merely speculative, but that it will be
found to assist in explaining certain apparent anomalies detected by
observation in the variation of gravity at the earth's surface, as well
as in pointing out the limits assigned by observation to the thickness
of the crust.
          III. The Laws of Density of the Shell and Nucleus.
   According to the author's views in a subsequent section, it ap
pears that the solidification of the earth could not proceed simulta
neously from the centre towards the surface, and from the surface
towards the centre. He therefore, in determiuing the laws of den
sity of the shell and the nucleus, restricts his investigations to the
latter case, in which the solidification proceeds from the surface to
wards the centre.
               IV. The Forms of the Strata of the Shell.
    The author conceives a surface to exist which may be called the
effective surface of separation of the perfect fluid of the nucleus and
the imperfectly fluid portion adhering to the shell, the form of which
surface will depend on the pressures which the fluid exerts. As it
 may be shown that the pressure of the perfect fluid will not be con
 stant, the surface of separation will tend to assume a form different
from that of the inner surface of the shell. If we admit that the
matter composing the nucleus becomes denser in assuming the solid
state, the author concludes that the inner surface of each stratum
added to the shell will be more oblate than its outer surface ; and*
that thus the tendency will always be to render the inner surface of
the shell more and more oblate. He then deduces an expression
for the ellipticity of the fluid surface.
           V. The principal Moments of Inertia of the Earth.
    From his investigations the author concludes that, as the thick
 ness of the shell increases, the difference between the greatest and
 the least moment of inertia of the earth also increases ; which con
 clusion is independent of any knowledge of the absolute laws of
 density of the earth's interior.
       VI. On the existence of a Solid Nucleus within the Earth.
    The conclusion arrived at here is, that if a solid nucleus existed,
 as the pressure on it would be continually diminishing, while its
 temperature would remain nearly constant, this nucleus, instead of
 increasing in magnitude, would tend to return to its original fluid
 state.
                                   F2

68                            Royal Society.
VII. The directions oft/ie Fissures in the Shell which might be pro
            duced by the action of the pressures in Section I.
    The author states that the tendency of the variable pressure is in
the first instance to produce fissures parallel to the equator; that
when such a fissure was once commenced the tendency would be to
propagate it along a parallel of latitude, until the force of the ten
sions became sufficiently lessened by the separation of the extended
portion of the shell ; and that similar fissures would be formed si
multaneously and symmetrically on each side of the equator. Sub
sequently, as may readily be deduced from Mr. Hopkins's investiga
tions, the tendency will be to form fissures at right angles to those
previously existing. If, however, the constant pressure were far
greater than the variable, the directions of the fissures would be go
verned chiefly by accidental causes ; but if a fissure commenced, it
would continue to be propagated in the great circle coinciding with
its first direction, unless accidental causes should alter its course.
   VIII. On the existence of a Zone of least disturbance in the Shell.
    The author investigates analytically the position of this zone, and
 from the results of his investigation, points out the conditions under
 which it will exist, and also the consequeuces that will follow from
 its non-existence.
    IX. This section is devoted to the calculation of some of the con
 stants contained in the formulas of the preceding sections.
    The following are the geological deductions from the foregoing
 investigations :—
     1. The stability of the axis of rotation of the earth will progress
 ively increase during the process of solidification.
    2. By employing the values of the constants obtained in Section
 IX., it appears that the thickness of the earth's crust cannot be less
.than 18 miles, and cannot exceed 600 miles.
     3. The earth's primitive cllipticity, when entirely fluid, was less
  than its present ellipticity ; but their difference may be neglected.
     4. If a zone of least disturbance existed near the parallel of mean
  pressure, the directions of great lines of elevation should be in ge
  neral parallel or perpendicular to the equator. Its non-existence
  there, which observation seems to show, proves at least that the va
  riable pressure did not predominate over the constant. Since, as yet,
  observation goes to prove that such a zone does not exist on the
  earth's surface, we must provisionally conclude that the constant
  pressure greatly predominated over the variable, and, consequently,
  that the directions of the lines of elevation must be comparatively
 arbitrary.
     5. That great friction and pressure exist at the surface of contact
  of the nucleus and shell, is shown from the conclusions arrived at in
  Section IV., combined with the important result obtained by Mr.
  Hopkins in his second memoir on Physical Geology (Phil. Trans.
  1840, p. 207).
     6. The amount of elastic gases given off from the surface of the
 nucleus rapidly decreases as the thickness of the shell increases.

                            Royal Society.                           69
   7. The expression obtained for the variation of gravity shows that,
if the angular velocity of rotation of the earth remained unchanged,
the waters on its surface would tend to accumulate towards the
equator, for the increase of gravity, in going from the equator to the
poles, would be less according as the shell's thickness increased.
    March 22 "An Account of the Aurora Borealis of the 17th of
November 1848." By the Rev. Charles F. Watkins. Communicated
by the Marquis of Northampton, V.P.R.S.
    The author states that: " About half-past 7 p.m. the sky assumed
the appearance which it usually does immediately preceding the ac
tion of what are called the Northern Lights. In the northern half
it was quite clear for about forty-five degrees from the meridian, of
a pale blue, and covered with a faint light, such as generally ushers
in the moon at her rising. Towards the east and west this light
gradually diminished, and south of those cardinal points the dimness
as gradually thickened.
    " Soon after eight the coruscations began by the usual lambent
strokes of a shining filmy matter, like the sudden shooting forth and
instantaneous retroceding of a serpent's tongue. They commenced
in the north-east, and shot upwards in an angle of about 70 degrees
of inclination towards the south, and to about 60 degrees in length,
 more or less, leaving the sky clear to the north, and in a manner
gradually chasing the clouds, upon whose receding bounds they
glanced further to the south.
    " In a short time the same kind of electrical action commenced
 in the north-west quarter of the heavens, and continued simultane
 ously with that from the north-east, both increasing in rapidity, in
 tensity and depth of colour ; till at length an entire hemispherical
arch of crimson and purple, but with uneven edges, spanned the
heavens from east to west, and remained suspended there for seve
ral minutes. By degrees this arch broke up into separate masses of
highly and parti-coloured clouds, resembling those which are seed
 floating about after the setting of an ardent sun. Meanwhile the
lighter coruscations continued,—now glancing upwards on the north
 ern edges of the clouds, which were still slowly receding to the south,
 and now shooting up beneath them as they steadily retreated. At
 the same time others of a redder hue played now alternately, and
 now in union with them.
    " About a quarter past nine an extraordinary phenomenon oc
curred, such as I never before witnessed ; the zenith assumed the
appearance of a CTimson coronary apex to distinct but connected
 bands of various shades of crimson, green and purple, in which the
 crimson prevailed, flowing down from thence like a canopy, encir
 cling the upper portion of the heavens, which to me presented the
 inside view of a ribbed and vaulted cupola. By degrees this beau
 tiful creation dissolved, and the body of clouds, against which the
 electrical forces seemed to have been in hostile pursuit, fled away to
 the south ; the elementary action ceased : a silent calm returned,
 and nothing but the tranquil light, still shining in the north, re
 mained to indicate the recent scene. The wind had blown with a

70                            Royal Society.
fresh but steady breeze from the north-west, during the continuance
of the phenomenon.
   " Without entering at present into any disquisition upon the causes,
I will now state the meteorological results which I immediately an
ticipated and have seen to follow these atmospheric phenomena.
   " I have observed, and have stated my observations for some years
past, that the certain result of all meteoric coruscations and irides
cences in the sky, is a fall of rain, snow or hail,—on this general prin
ciple, that the condensation of the crystalline particles of floating
vapours which ensue upon electrical action, must be followed by pre
cipitation ; and these coruscations and iridescences are both the
reflected evidences of such condensation of crystalline matter, and
therefore the harbingers of such precipitation. It is the case with
solar and lunar rainbows, falling stars, mock-suns, halos, lightning,
aurora, and that undefined pearly lustre which sometimes appears
in the neighbourhood of the sun.
   " Accordingly, on the following morning, Saturday the 18th, I
found the barometer had sunk considerably, and the wind had veered
round from north-west to south-west, against the course of the sun,
both in general, and especially when united, the forerunners of rain.
Accordingly at 2 o'clock p.m. a smart shower came on in Northamp
ton, but was of short duration. At 9 p.m. a heavier shower was ex
perienced at Brixworth ; and in the course of the night, but I cannot
say at what hour, I was awakened to a still heavier shower ; but the
quantity of rain that had fallen did not seem to have affected the
ground much on the following morning, and therefore I conclude
that it was not great.
   " Sunday the 19th was fine and bright; the wind went up to the
westward, and the barometer rose rapidly— a general indication of
an early change. Towards morning of Monday the 20th, another
shower fell, and the wind went back to the south-west with a falling
barometer. In such cases I generally find that rain ensues about
midday, or at least when the wind and sun meet in the south-west.
But on this occasion it continued blowing strong all the day, and
for some time in the night with increased violence. But at last the
wind fell, and was succeeded for awhile by heavy rain, thus verify
ing my anticipations on this particular occasion, and the general
theory which I have discussed."
   April 19.—"On the Meteorology of the Lake District of Cum
berland and Westmoreland." By John Fletcher Miller, Esq. Com
municated by Lt.-Colonel Sabine, R.A., For. Sec. R.S., &c.
   This paper contains the results of meteorological observations
made during 1848, similar to those made in the same district in
preceding years, which were last year communicated to the Society.
On these results the author remarks that the fall of rain in the lake
district, during the year 1848, greatly exceeds the amount in any
other year since the register was commenced in 1844; and that
there is a similar excess with reference to the number of wet days.
The total depth of rain, in 1848, at Seathwaite, the wettest station,
was 160-89 inches ; and of this quantity, 114"32 inches fell in the

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               71
six months, February, July, August, October, November and De
cember. In February there fell the unprecedented quantity 30*55
inches.
   The mountains flanking the lake-district valleys increase in alti
tude with great regularity towards the head or eastern extremity of
the vale, and it appears that it is there that the greatest depth of
rain is invariably found. The amount increases rapidly as the sta
tions recede from the sea, and towards the head of the valley the
Incremental ratio is exceedingly great. At Loweswater, Buttennere
and Gatesgarth, about two miles apart in the same line of valley,
the depths of rain were respectively 76 inches, 98 inches and 133*5
inches.
   From the observations of the thermometer, the author concludes
that the climate in the mountain valleys in this district is milder and
more equable, not only than in the open country in their immediate
vicinity, but also than in that considerably to the south. This he
attributes to the lakes giving out during the winter the heat absorbed
by them in the summer, and to the radiation from the rocky moun
tain breasts in the valleys, but principally to the heat evolved in a
sensible form by the condensation of enormous volumes of vapour.
   Last summer a pair of Rutherford's self-registering thermometers
were stationed by the author on the summit of Sea Fell Pike. He
states that from the maximum thermometer no correct readings
could be obtained ; but that the minimum gave the following :—
July, 22°: August, 24.°; September, 18°; October, —6°; November,
—6°; December,— 9°. It appears that on the night between the 2nd
and 3rd of January the minimum thermometer indicated the extra
ordinary low temperature — 34° Fahr. : at the same date a naked
thermometer on grass at Whitehaven fell to +4°, and one on raw
wool to — 2°*8.
   The author states that the results obtained from the mountain
gauges during the last year, are in strict accordance with those of
the two preceding years, and thus confirm the correctness of the
conclusion drawn from them in his former paper, " that the quantity
of rain increases from the valley upwards to an altitude of about
2000 feet, above which it begins to diminish." He does not, how
ever, by any means infer that the law which appears to regulate
the distribution of rain in the mountain district of Cumberland will
 equally apply to every similar locality.
            X. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
       ON THE AURORA BOREALIS OF FEBRUARY 22, 1849.
      To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
 I BEG leave to occupy a small space in your valuable journal for
      a notice of the Aurora Borealis which I observed on the 22nd
 of February of this year.
    About ten minutes to seven there was a low arch of white light.

 72            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 with many streamers ; the height of this arch, estimated by )i Dra-
 conis, was about 8°. Again, at 7h 4>5m, there was a brilliant display
 of streamers, and an arch which was about 12° in altitude. There
 was also at the height of 3° or 4° a long sinuous line of white light.
 A day or two afterwards I was in Northamptonshire, not far from
 Banbury, and found that on the night in question the arches had
 been noticed at considerable altitudes : my observation then became
 of use ; for having a base line of as nearly as possible twenty miles,
 and the small angle accurately taken, the angle at the other end being
 large, a considerable inaccuracy in this angle will not greatly affect
 the result. If we take the crown of the arch to have been in the
 zenith of this station at 7h 45m p.m., as I was informed at that time
 it was about over head, and could not be seen without going out of
 doors, we shall find the height of the crown of the arch to have been
 4^ miles, or about 22,400 feet. From a rough estimate of the space
 which the arch subtended in azimuth, the distance between its feet
 was twelve or fourteen miles, which rested, as it appeared, on con
 fused masses of auroral light in the N.E. and N.W., which must
 have been about the height of the ordinary cirrus. The true shape
 of the arch therefore appears to have been a long flat curve, of which
 the subtense was equal to six or seven times its altitude.
    It seemed also that the long sinuous line which I mentioned as
 seen through the arch was formed of a number of these arches at a
 much greater distance, the direction of which was not in a straight
 line, though possibly parallel to one another.
    From frequent observation, I believe that the streamers which
 usually attend the display of Aurora are parallel to the earth's sur
face and to one another, and that their convergence is apparent only,
and produced by perspective. Probably also, whenever the elec
 tricity in this state is in sufficient quantity and of opposite kinds,
arches are formed, the true shape of which appears to resemble the
magnetic curve. The varying proximity of these electro-magnetic
clouds will also very well account for the disturbance of the needle.
                              I am, Gentlemen,
                                       Your obedient Servant,
   Rose Hill, Oxford, June 15.                       John Slattbr.
    ON LIQUID STORAX AND BALSAM OF PERU.               BY M. KOPP.
    The author states, that having in preceding memoirs studied the
resins of benzoin and the balsam of Tolu, there remained to complete
the general history of the balsams to examine the balsam of Peru
and storax.
    Balsam of Peru had already yielded MM. Fremy and Plantamour
very interesting results. M. Fremy had determined the presence of
cinnamic acid, cinnamein and several resins : in some species of
balsam of Peru he met with a solid crystalline matter, to which he
gave the name of metacinnamein. According to this chemist, when
cinnamein is submitted to the action of potash dissolved in alcohol,
it is converted into cinnamic acid, and peruven, which is a liquid
body.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                73
   According to M. Plantamour, there are besides formed under these
circumstances cinnamic jether and a new acid, the carbo-benzoic.
   M. Kopp states that his researches confirm the results of M. Fr6my,
but not those of M. Plantamour.
   Storax has been examined with much care by M. Simon of Berlin,
who found an essential oil in it, styrol, a crystalline body, styracinc,
cinnamic acid and several resins. He stated that styracine is trans-
formed by potash into cinnamic acid and liquid styracone.
   These results are quite exact, only the author has not assigned
the true composition to the isolated bodies.
   The author observes that he has already shown that styrol is iden
tical with cinnamen orcinnamol (CIC H18), which is obtained by the
dry distillation of cinnamate of copper, or of a mixture of cinnamic
acid and caustic barytes. M. Kopp's researches also prove that
great analogy of composition exists between storax and balsam of
Peru.
   Styracine, which may exist either in the amorphous or viscous
state, or crystallized, is identical in the former condition with cinna-
mein, and in the second with metacinnamein. Its formula is C"
H,s CR Peruven is identical with styracone, its formula being
C Hu O. The transformation of styracine into cinnamic acid and
styracone under the influence of caustic potash, is expressed by the
following equation :—
                Ci8 h>« 0* + HaO=CB H« O+C1 H'* O.
                Styracine.       Cinnamic acid. Styracone.
   Styracine then possesses strong resemblance to neutral fatty mat
ters, which, under the influence of alkalies, are converted with the
absorption of an atom of water into fatty acids and glycerine.
   As storax is the most readily treated and least expensive of these
different bodies, the author selected it for his experiments.
   The first operation is to distil the storax with five or six times its
weight of water, in a copper alembic furnished with a refrigeratory.
An oil floats on the condensed water, which is to be poured off, dried
by chloride of calcium, and distilled at 290° F. ; it is then cinnamen
or pure cinnamol. It is not advantageous to employ in the distilla
tion water containing carbonate of soda in solution, for it causes the
mass to rise too readily and afterwards to run over. The residue
of the distillation is boiled with a weak solution of carbonate of soda,
 which removes the free cinnamic acid, and cinnamate of soda is
 formed which remains in solution. This operation is to be repeated
 many times, till at last, especially when the mixture cools, it becomes
 more and more spongy, and retains in its interstices a viscid, yellow
 ish oily matter. The watery liquids containing the cinnamate of
 soda and a slight excess of carbonate, and also a little resinate of
 soda, are to be much concentrated, and then decomposed with excess
 of boiling hydrochloric acid. The greater portion of the impure
 cinnamic acid is deposited in the liquor in a concentrated state in
 the form of a heavy brown oil, which solidities on cooling, and the
 aqueous liquid is filled with crystals of cinnamic acid. The resinous
 matter is to be removed, and the crystals, after being strongly pressed
 and washed with a little cold water, are to be distilled from a glass

 74            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 retort. The first product of the distillation is cinnamic acid nearly
 pure ; the last products are rendered impure by empyreumatic oils ;
 by dissolving, however, this impure acid in boiling distilled water
 and filtering, the oil remains on the filter, and the filtered liquor is
 filled with very white and perfectly pure crystals of cinnamic acid.
 This is the most ready and least expensive process for obtaining this
 acid in a state of absolute purity.
    The resinous, ductile, spongy matter containing the yellow opake
 liquid in its pores, becomes when squeezed more and more compact,
 and the yellow liquid flows from it ; this is to be filtered, the opera
 tion goes on very slowly, and the surface of the liquid readily
 solidifies. By this means a brownish yellow oily matter is obtained,
 which after some time becomes a stellar crystalline mass of impure
 styracine. In order to purify it, it is dissolved in about ten times its
weight of alcohol at 1'22° F. ; the solution is poured off and subjected
 to a low temperature. The styracine then crystallizes in very fine
 white flexible needles. The compact resin from which the styracine
has been pressed becomes hard and brittle by cooling. It still retains
 a considerable quantity of styracine, and it is advantageous to employ
it in the preparation of styracone ; there is thus obtained an additional
 quantity of alkaline cinnamate, mixed with the resins ; to effect
 this it is put into an alembic, with a concentrated solution of potash
 or soda, and distillation is to be cautiously performed. A milky
 liquid passes over, which when saturated with common salt yields
 on its surface a creamy matter, which gradually unites into an
 oily stratum ; it is to be removed, filtered, and rectified. There
 is thus obtained a colourless liquid, which boils at about 490° F.,
 crystallizes at a low temperature, becomes solid at 46°, and has a
peculiar odour. It is styracone. In the alembic there remains a
 blackish brown and very alkaline liquid, in which there float numer
 ous mammillated grains of a yellowish colour, consisting of a mixture
of cinnamate and resinate of soda. The liquor may be filtered in a
funnel containing broken glass ; the resinate is to be washed with a
little water, which, added to the alkaline liquor, may be employed
 to decompose a fresh quantity of storax. When water is added to
the globules, a resinous matter is deposited, and the solution contains
much cinnamate and some resinate of soda ; the cinnamic acid and
the resin are to be precipitated by hydrochloric acid ; these two
substances are to be separated by boiling water or solution of am
monia, which does not dissolve the resins. To obtain the latter in
a pure state they must be successively washed with acidulated and
ammoniacal water, and lastly with boiling water. The different
resins are separated by means of their different solubility in alcohol,
aether, and pyroxylic spirit. They are hard and brittle, not readily
fusible, and but slightly coloured.
    Styracine is the most interesting substance contained in storax. It
may exist in two conditions : crystalline and fusible at 100° F., and
liquid, viscid and uncryHtallizablc. When pure crystals of styracine
have been melted, the liquid frequently does not solidify on cooling.
    Sometimes also on operating on storax, the styracine is obtained in
a liquid uncrystallizable state, especially when it has been left for

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              75
too long a time in contact -with acids, for the purpose of separating
the last traces of soda.
    When styracine is treated with the caustic alkalies, it combines
with them, and forms a solid mass consisting of agglomerated grains.
By the application of heat, styracone distils, and cinnamic acid is
obtained. Submitted to the action of chlorine, chlorinated styracine
is obtained. By distilling this compound under the influence of
chlorine, a volatile chlorinated liquid and a chlorinated crystalliza-
ble acid are procured; the latter very readily forms salts. With
nitric acid, styracone forms oil of bitter almonds, hydrocyanic and
nitrobenzoic acids ; with chromic acid it gives hydruret of benzoil,
benzoic acid and resin ; with concentrated sulphuric acid, it yields
cinnamic acid and a brown substance, soluble in water and insoluble
in aqueous saline solutions.—L'Institut, Juin 6, 1849.
              IDENTITY OF BROOKITE AND ARKANSITE.
    We learn by a note from Professor Miller, dated the 2nd of May,
that he has found an exact agreement between the forms and angles
of a mineral from the United States, lately described by Professor
Shepard, and named Arkansite, and the previously established species
Brookite ; and as both consist almost entirely of oxide of titanium,
they must, we conclude, be regarded as varieties only of the same
mineral.—Ed.
   ON THE ESTIMATION OF MOLYBDIC ACID.               BY M. H. IIOSE.
    Molybdic acid, MoO3, may be estimated in the state of sulphuret
 by precipitating its solutions, rendered acid, with sulphuretted hy
 drogen. This method possesses some inconveniences : on one
 hand, the precipitation always takes place slowly, and the washings,
 which have usually a blue colour, require to be heated with solution
of sulphuretted hydrogen to precipitate the last portions of molyb-
 den : on the other hand, it is requisite to calcine the brown sulphu
 ret of molybden obtained, in order to convert it into gray sulphuret
 MoS*, the weight of which serves for calculating the quantity of
 molybden.
     M. H. Rose finds it more correct and convenient to estimate the
 molybdic acid by reducing it in a current of hydrogen gas to the
 state of perfectly fixed oxide of molybden. He uses in this opera
  tion a platina crucible, which has a tubulated cover, by which the
 hydrogen gas is conveyed. The heat of a spirit-lamp is to be em
 ployed, in order that the temperature may not be raised high enough
 to reduce any of the oxide of molybden to the metallic state. The
 weight of the oxide of molybden obtained serves for calculating
 that of the molybden or the molybdic acid. —Journ. de Ph. et de Ch.,
 Janvier 1849.
                   ON GLAIRINE.      BY M. BONJEAN.
     This substance is a vegeto-animal matter produced at the sul
  phurous spring of Aix in Savoy. According to M. Duby, who has
  examined it microscopically, it conlists of extremely minute frag
  ments of a plant, of an extraordinarily fine, close, undulating tissue,

76            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
which is insoluble in water, and has the appearance of an animal
remain.
   Glairine is produced by the immediate action of the air on the
sulphurous water, and is deposited on the pavement of the pumps.
It retains a large quantity of water, which it does not lose by long
exposure to the air: it is not entirely expelled below 104° F. Thus
dried it is quite colourless, completely inodorous, of a homy appear
ance, and is reduced to about one-tenth of its weight; when water is
added to it, it is rendered again mucilaginous, becomes nearly of its
original size, but remains inodorous. When dried and thrown upon
burning charcoal, it gives the smell of burnt horn, without any trace
of sulphurous acid, and the gases which it yields tum reddened lit
mus paper blue. The absence, in this experiment, of sulphurous
acid seems to indicate that this substance contains no sulphur; it
will soon be shown that it contains so little, that it can only be
isolated by means of aether. Water, alcohol, oil of turpentine, nitric,
hydrochloric, sulphuric, phosphoric, oxalic. acetic acids, &c., solution
of chlorine, dilute alkalies, all dissolve a small quantity cold, and a
little more when heated, but some of them occasion peculiar modi
fications in it. The nitric, concentrated hydrochloric acid, and
liquid chlorine, immediately destroy the gray colour which it acquires
out of water and restore its natural whiteness. Separated from these
acids, it becomes more gray by exposure to the air: other acids do
not decolorize it. Alkalies precipitate it from solution in acids in
white flocculi which have a bluish reiiexion. The nitric solution,
filtered and evaporated to dryness in a small porcelain capsule, leaves
a yellowish sharp residue, which is slightly acid, diilicultly decom
posable in a strong heat, and insoluble in water and in alcohol:
glairine does not decompose nitric acid unless it be heated. When
hydrochloric acid decolorizes glairine blackened by contact with the
air, it assumes a yellow colour, derived from the formation of a per
salt of iron. This shows that this organic matter contains peroxide
of iron in combination, derived, unquestionably, from the carbonate
of iron which the water holds in solution. Concentrated sulphuric
 acid, instead of decolorizing it, like the fore-mentioned acids, im
parts to it the colour of wine dregs, which becomes lighter when acidu~
lated water is added. The caustic alkalies do not act upon it
 when cold; but when heated a green colour results, which acids
 cause to disappear immediately. Bromine also decolorizes it; but
at first it gives it a red colour, and the decoloration of the glairine is
not perfect until all the bromine is volatilized. If it should retain a
yellow tint from some remaining bromine, washing with distilled
water renders it perfectly white. Iodine colours it brick-red; and
this colour does not disappear, either by long exposure to the air or
frequent washings. Alcohol and oil of turpentine dissolve a small
quantity, and acquire a slight yellow tint; alcohol becomes sweetish,
and its consistency is sensibly increased. lf these two liquids be
evaporated to dryness in a porcelain capsule, the lower portion is
carbonized by slightly increasing the heat.
    Glairine is totally insoluble -in aether. If they be mixed in a well
stopped phial, and shaken occasionally during two or three days, the

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                77
aether -when filtered leaves by evaporation small rounded grains of
perfectly pure sulphur ; they are yellow and brilliant, of the size of
a pin's head, and when thrown on a burning coal burn with a fine
blue flame and the disengagement of sulphurous acid.
   When glairine is gradually heated on a platina crucible, it loses
its interposed water slowly, and even begins to be decomposed
before it has parted with the whole of it ; towards the end of the
calcination it exhales the odour of burnt horn, without any sensible
disengagement of sulphurous acid, and leaves a coaly residue. It
does not fuse, and it is difficult to incinerate it ; it does not lose
its odour by numerous washings with cold water, but imparts a
very distinct one to it, with a sweetish taste, without giving it
colour ; long boiling takes away the greater part of it ; the solu
tion has a strong smell, and the residue is very small. This liquor
when filtered is yellowish, has a sweetish animal taste, is not muci
laginous, and does not coagulate on cooling ; when evaporated to a
syrupy consistence in a porcelain capsule, it colours the sides of it
strongly yellow. The residue is of a deep yellow, with a slight
smell and bitterness ; the sulphuric and nitric acids, whether con
centrated or diluted, do not sensibly act upon it. When glairine is
subjected to dry distillation in a glass retort placed in a reverberatory
furnace, it swells at first, and boils in the water which it retains inter
posed. This water soon begins to distil by drops, is colourless, haB
a strong smell of animal matter, and the apparatus is filled with
vapours. The odour of burnt horn soon replaces that of animal
matter, and drops of a yellow colour then fall into the receiver.
Lastly, when the heat becomes very strong, the retort contains char
coal, and the neck is covered with a black substance, of which a few
drops only fall into the receiver with the yellow liquor and imme
diately solidify. The yellow distilled liquor has a strong burnt odour
and taste, with slight bitterness. It reddens litmus feebly, and dis
solves in all proportions in water and alcohol. ./Ether does not dis
solve it, but separates a small quantity of yellow fatty matter, which
it leaves by evaporation ; it is insoluble in water, but very soluble in
alcohol.
   The coaly residue of the distillation treated with distilled water
yielded a slightly alkaline solution ; during distillation the gases
disengaged restored the blue colour of reddened litmus. The dry
residue of the distillation was a very light, black and friable charcoal,
which yielded O7o of ash composed of silica, carbonate of lime, and
peroxide of iron. No trace of iodine could be detected.
   The preceding experiments on glairine lead to the following con
 clusions : it contains very little nitrogen and no iodine ; it dissolves
 sparingly in water, alcohol, oil of turpentine, and rather more readily
 in concentrated acids, from which the alkalies precipitate it in bluish-
 white flocculi ; heat in all cases increases the solvent power of the
 liquids ; it is quite insoluble in aether, which isolates perfectly the
 small quantity of sulphur which it retains interposed between its
 molecules ; it becomes rapidly of a more or less blackish-gray
 colour when taken from the water and exposed to the air ; but it is
 sufficient to treat it with nitric or hydrochloric acid, bromine or

78              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
chlorine, to restore its natural whiteness : sulphuric acid, far from
decolorizing it, imparts to it the colour of wine-lees ; the concen
trated alkalies render it green when heated, and the alkalies destroy
it ; when in water it has but very little odour, but as Boon as taken
from it, it acquires a most disgusting smell, which is not dissipated
by long exposure to the air, at least while it retains a little water ;
nor is it got rid of by much washing with cold water, or by long
boiling, although in the latter case the greater part of it disappears.
Lastly, it becomes perfectly inodorous by thorough drying in a stove,
assumes a horny appearance, and is reduced to about one-tenth of
its weight. —Journ. de Ph. et de Ch., Mai 1849.
                  ON GLAIRIDINE.        BY M. BONJEAN.
    The author observed that when the sulphurous waterB above de
scribed become mixed with rain-water, another vegeto-animal matter
appears, to which he has given the name of glairidine.
    The principal characters of this substance are, that it is of a deep
gray colour, instead of being colourless, like glairine ; it is inodorous,
and remains so even when exposed to the air. Long exposure to
the air does not alter its colour; but if a glass bottle be immediately
filled with it, it soon acquires a smell, which in a few days becomes
as disagreeable as that of glairine taken from water. If it then be
taken from the bottle and exposed to the air, it becomes quite inodo
rous, and dries perfectly in a few days ; on the contrary, it has been
shown that glairine does not lose its interposed water till exposed
 to a heated stove. Glairidine is not decolorized either by any acid
or by liquid chlorine. Like glairine, it renders hydrochloric acid
yellow on account of the peroxide of iron which it contains. Water,
alcohol, oil of turpentine, and the acids, dissolve a small quantity of
it ; it is insoluble in aether ; it separates sulphur, but in so minute
traces, that to perceive them it is requisite to operate on a great
quantity of the matter. The caustic alkalies do not render it green,
either cold or hot. If it be thrown on a filter, it retains a little
water ; and when afterwards dried on a stove, it loses only two-thirds
of its weight. In this state, instead of having a horny appearance,
like glairine, it presents a uniform, friable, solid mass, and does not
swell in water. The water which runs through the filter is as in
odorous as the substance itself, and it contains a very small quantity
of go'iodine. When decomposed in a glass tube, it exhales the odour
of burnt horn, and yields gases which strongly restore the blue colour
of reddened litmus. Lastly, glairidine yielded by analysis very evi
dent traces of iodine, which, as already stated, glairine did not.—Ibid.
                   ON ZOIODINE.       BY H. BONJEAN.
    The author has given this name to a new substance from two
Greek words, expressive of ita azotized nature and its violet colour.
In order to obtain it, it is requisite to employ very white glairine,
which cannot be procured except when the sulphurous waters ere
in a state of perfect purity, and nearly at their maximum of sulphu-
ration. This substance exists in the state of strongly iridescent scales
of a fine deep violet colour ; it has neither taste nor smell ; it is un

                        Meteorological Observations.                               79
alterable by the action of light and air, and is insoluble in water.
By concentrated nitric acid it becomes of a yellowish red colour, and
of a rather deeper yellowish red by hydrochloric acid ; concentrated
sulphuric acid renders it of a fine blood-red colour. Oxalic and
phosphoric acids also redden it, but not so strongly as the preceding
acids ; acetic and arsenic acids produce no sensible effect ; and in
all cases diluted acids act almost as powerfully as when concentrated.
Chlorine does not alter it ; alkalies render it of a brown colour,
which the stronger acids bring back to red. Lastly, when heated in
a glass tube, it decomposes without subliming, and leaves a coaly
residue, upon which acids exert no action. During calcination it
yields a smell of burnt horn, and evolves auimoniacal vapours which
restore the blue colour to reddened litmus. —Journ.de Ph. et de Ch.,
Mai 1849.
         METEOROLOGICAL. OBSERVATIONS FOR MAY 1849.
    ChUurick. —May 1. Cloudy. 2. Foggy : overcast. 3. Foggy: fine. 4. Very
fine. S. Clear and fine : thunder, lightning, rain and hail in afternoon : cloudy
at night. 6. Overcast. 7, 8. Overcast and cold : fine : cloudy. 9. Fine: showery.
 10. Overcast: slight rain. 11. Cloudy and cold. 12. Fine: overcast. IS. Very
 fine. 14. Rain: fine.       15. Cloudy: fine.     16. lluin : cloudy. 17. Cloudy:
 slight rain. 18. Overcast.      19. Cloudy and fine. 20. Itain throughout. 21.
 Hazy. 22. Rain: fine. 23. Fine. 24. Very fine: densely overcast at night.
 25. Cloudy: very fine. 26. Overcast : very fine. 27. Very fine ; cloudy : rain.
 28. Overcast: very heavy rain. 29,30. Very tine.           31. Dry hate: overcast:
clear at night.
       Mean temperature of the month                                   55°"19
       Mean temperature of May 1848                                    58-12
       Mean temperature of May for the last twenty-three years ... 54 '28
        Average amount of rain in .May                                   1'8'Jinch.
     Boston. — May I. Cloudy. 2. Cloudy: rain early a.m. and late r.M. 3—5.
 Fine. 6—9. Cloudy: la Rain : rain a.m. and p.m. 11, 12. Cloudy. 13,14.
  Cloudy: rain r.M.      15. Cloudy.     16. Rain: rain a.m. and p.m.        17. Fine:
 rain a.m. and r.M.      18. Rain: rain a.m. and r.M.      19. Cloudy.      20. Rain:
 rain a.m. and p.m.      21. Cloudy: rain p.m.      22. Cloudy: rain, with thunder
 and lightning p.m.      23. Cloudy : rain p. si. 24. Fine.     25. Rain : rain, with
 thunder and lightning early a.m. £6. Fine. 27. Rain : rain early a.m. : rain p.m.
 28. Cloudy : rain early a.m. 29. Fine: rain early a.m. 30,31. Fine.
     Ajiplegarlh Manse, Dumfrici-shirc. — May 1. Remarkably fine day. 2. Dull,
 but fair. 3. Fiery heat : dry and parching. 4. Fiery heat. 5, 6. Fiery heat :
 heat less. 7. Fiery heat : a few slight drops of rain. 8. Fiery heat. 9. Mild
  day: wind variable. 10. Mild day: shower on the hills. 11. Chill and piercing :
  ungenial. 12. Mild and genial : rain at night. 13. Dropping day : most wel
 come rain. 14. Wet morning : bright afternoon. 15. Mild and damp: showers.
  16. Heavy showers. 17. Wet morning : very fine and hot. 18. Slight showers:
  fine cool evening. 19. Hot forenoon : blowing evening. 20. Heavy showers :
 dull. 21,22. Very fine day : damp evening.           23. Showers in forenoon : very
 fine. 24. Fair, but dull. 25. Fair and clear : cloudy p.m. 26. Fair and very
  fine. 27. Beautiful day. 28. Binutiful day : still warmer. 29. Fine, though
  cloudy : showers p.m. 30. Fine : clear bracing weather. 31. Slight rain : wind
  high p.m.
             Mean temperature of the month                             50°-5
             Mean temperature of May 1848                              52 -9
             Mean temperature of May for twenty-five years             51 "09
             Rain in May for twenty years                                 1*G9 inch.
     Snndwick Mouse, Orkney.— May 1. Fine: clear. 2. Cloudy. 3. Clear: fine.
  4. Fine. 5. Cloudy : fine. 6. Cloudy : clear.        7. Cloudy : fine. 8. Cloudy.
  9. Bright : cloudy. 10. Fine.        11,12. Cloudy. 13. Rain : vine. 14. Fine:
  drizzle.    15, 16. Cloudy: drizzle.    17. Cloudy: rain.      18. Drizzle: cloudy.
   19. Clear. 20, 21. Cloudy. 22. Cloudy: hazy. 23. Bright : clear. 24. Bright:
  rain. 25, 26. Bright : clear. 27. Cloudy : clear.         28. Bright : cloudy. 29.
   Cloudy. 30. Bright : clear. 31. Bright : cloudy.

     -•aij^iunQ                                                                    •6
  ¦a
 H     •uojsoa
      •V!»".M3
                                            S3 i         ooc^ooonoiNoi
      ¦gaping
       '.(JUHH)    | 2 s i g I g I J g * « *' \ i i % i = i - s 5 « s' « * *
   c
      -faujuina    S«iSs'         i s" g g d g s I •» - i * ii i * i - \ * i i i i i i
 is     •UOltOfl
                                                g = |s- jiS£s'«^5»j!1!<*J
         •urd i
                              «   g g   g g  g  i  a   *  i*   i i  i  *  *i*i       i  »    iiii         <U+25BA>' i  i
                                    p4N
                   **W       "«ei                  -4m —« ->io                          - -i _ rt
                   ^i^t>jt>l'"ico'«*ininin-'»ON«r-*aor".ci 'ffwroo o — — o wr-oe*^
                   S!^^^130***^^^^ — — *o ^r — r» -— "<* o -<f co ¦«* co m — ^ oo — vb
                   &^2££i2S£2.Si£.ri^£:3;© ^t^o © r^*noN© oooo © «o com
                   c^^^^^Trcoco^^co^^^^inrr^u^to*r*rcoioin,**inin'«i,in-*r
                   ISSJ^S^jyS! ^^ Tr"^l° °* ^^ ^^ cuo o vo — vo on to c» cor-ao mr^ON
                   On cp op ap ap ap ONONr-r^apapaoci ci -co ci to io t^ o< oo <o in o on © r* go co
                   ^^^S^^H^S^^S^^^^^^^^ao cViONONONONONdNONONcS© oionon
                   C«CICICICICIC»CICICICICICIC*CICICICICICIC*CICICICICIOICOCIC<CI
                   9£!5CrJSSi^?9StS ^r^r-*.rocoinr-.coc*r^inc ci c< oo ao o ao ¦«*© co o
                   o^ co co go oo oo co cjnoo r^-r-oo u*d co co .— on on in to i/)nf t^io^o o ONt— r--
                   ^<^^^ONONONONcrt6^o\6NONONONONcbcb onononononononcnono on on on
                   ^^CrSSS?^0^0 ^^ooon^o — ox ooo w c<»NoooiC'OWh»r*nfon
                   S.;£i^^<^i^£2^0NdN6NONONdNON^6NONd>6NdN6 on on on 6 5 6 6 6\
                   cocicic^cicicococicic«cicic»cic*eic*c»cic»cicocicictcococococ*
                   «99as^c^O-oo^QOOa)Tfri(>iaDcicooiO'Trsor«®o^-*'-iOx
                   &^^^^^&^S^^21£,2vC1^a^eN<^,(^0^^^0 onoSon© 6 6 ©n
                   C<flO»OOC10C<COOOOOO>OC O tN^fflOflO OMJD 0>OOW5>0 0</50
        'urvfg     f* 'P ?* T* 7*" *P '•P C* *P T'pop f)Ci © © cp o^Tfcona^^th''Tu^ioinr»o «c
       ¦ii'i|'i»ii ^^^S,^^^^^t^a^c>a^a^(^,^(3Dti> CnOnONOO ONO>OnOiONONO\CNO%
                   go "^r r^ C» — CO ON TOiCh. c» oo *oao                   — — co                —    — m >c o
                                                                                                     o roo
                 = 8*TJ
                       00
                          ON C»Q0 — GO ON f*»0 r"5 r^c* ci co ir>co ion
                          t^ CO t"*-00 00 CNa\cp op — r* *n in
                                                                                     r-»co -r     - —ON— -i
                                                                                     ON O ON                 o o^
       M
       E
                s  6 ON   ON              ON On On On
                                          <M d C* C<
                                                                                     6n6 on
                                                                                     C* COC*
                   — *o o o on n on IOC* ^,— imoo- wooo — ko \o
                              ¦**- ^r oo                                                          CO « co 00 co o>
                   rr lo —                — On— O o co ci r- c* r-*m o (N C0"0                    — ao r^o   00 On
       u         M — ONQ0 00 COCO ON O ONON — CI o vo in         •^rcpap  o 00 00 CO C« CI ON     o — — c*   — ON
                 S  6 ON ON
                   c-NC* Cl
                                          6 onono
                                          coc* c* ro
                                                                 On On ON O          6 6 on
                                                                                     CO roc*                 O On
                                                                                                             CO CM
                     'cicoTfinvor^co ono — ci co^io"or^oooNO* — cJco^fin^dt-^cdoAO —^
JO t&9Q                                         — — — — '- — — — — — cicicicicic*ctcic»cicor-5
              23                        o                      v                  m                    ^1

                                THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                      [THIRD SERIES.]
                       AUGUST 1849.
  XI. On the Lignites and Altered Dolomites of the Island of
         Bute. By James Bryce, Jun., M.A., F.G.S.*
                         I. Introduction.
 I. npHE only account which we possess of the geology of
     A Bute is that given by Dr. MacCulloch in his " De
scription of the Western Islands of Scotland." During the
thirty years that have elapsed since the publication of that
work, no observations that I am aware of have been put on
record, either supplementary to this account or in correction
of it. Indeed the island seems to have been entirely over
looked ; the superior grandeur and interest of the sister isle
of Arran having wholly absorbed the attention of geologists.
Yet Bute has many points of great interest in itself; and phse-
nomena which in Arran are but obscurely shown are here
fully exhibited. During a residence in the island for a part
of last summer, I had frequent opportunities of testing the
accuracy of Dr. MacCulloch's account; and it is but justice
to the memory of that distinguished geologist to say, that I
have found the description of the phaenomena to agree very
closely with my own observations; and his work to be, here
as well as in other places, a safe and pleasant guide.
          II. Corrections and Supplementary Remarks.
   2. The island of Bute is naturally divided into four por
tions, by three deep depressions or valleys, which traverse it
perpendicularly to its greatest length. These low tracts ter
minate on either side of the island in deep bays, between
which there can be no doubt, as well from the lowness of the
ground as from the marine character of the materials of which
these tracts are composed, the sea once flowed ; thus forming
                 • Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 234. Aug. 1849.        G

82      Mr. J. Bryce on the Lignites and Altered Dolomites
 three straits or narrow channels dividing Bute into four
 islands. From measurements made by Robert Chambers,
 Esq., and given in his beautiful and interesting work on An
 cient Sea-Margins, just published, it appears that these low
 tracts are about thirty feet above the present sea-level ; an
 elevation very nearly the same as that of the flat region between
 Loch Lomond and the Clyde, in which we have the additional
 and more satisfactory evidence derived from shelly deposits.
    Another interesting feature in the structure of Bute, and
 one intimately connected with the origin of the low tracts re
 ferred to above, is the terrace which surrounds almost the
 whole island, at the height of between twenty and thirty feet
 above high-water mark, and along which the road is conducted
 throughout the greater part of the coast. The cliffs, which
 in many parts rise above this terrace, are often worn into
 caves, and bear other obvious marks of the action of the sea.
 This terrace is no doubt the former beach. It is well-marked
 along the opposite coast from Gourock to Largs, in the Cum-
 brays, in Arran, and on most of the sea-lochs connected with
 the great estuary of the Clyde. Taking this along with other
 evidence accumulated by Mr. Smith of Jordan Hill in various
 papers, we cannot hesitate to admit, that at a comparatively
 recent period such a change of level has been effected in Bute
 as to convert a detached group of islands separated by narrow
 straits, into continuous land.
    3. The valleys just described are the boundaries between
 dissimilar strata, the line of junction generally keeping the
 middle of the valley, but often concealed either by marshy
ground or accumulations of shingle. The northern portion
of the island, between the Kyles on one side and Kaimes and
Ettrick bays on the other, is composed of mica-slate. The
district south of this, bounded by the Rothsay Valley, presents
siliceous and common clay-slate; while the portion extending
from this valley to that of Kilchattan is occupied by red sand
stone, usually conglomerate ; and finally, the southern portion
is composed of various rocks of the trap family erupted through
the sandstone and overlying it. The connexion of these strata
with the mainland is most intimate. The slate and sandstone
are the terminal portions of those great bands of sedimentary
strata which extend from Angus to the Clyde, being parallel
throughout to the granitic axis of the Grampian chain ; while
the erupted rocks in the south of the island are a prolongation
of the great outburst of the igneous formations, which, affect
ing a general parallelism with the same axis, stretches from
sea to sea in considerable ranges, as the Kilpatrick and Camp-
sie Hills, the Ochills and some minor ridges in the south-east

                      ofthe Island of Bute.                    83
of Perthshire. The valleys intersecting the island seem ob
viously a part of that great system of parallel fractures which
run in a north-east and south-west direction on both sides of
the Grampians, and are probably due to the original upheaval
of that chain, and partly to the subsequent eruption of the
 igneous rocks just mentioned through the old red sandstone,
 and the coal formation which rests upon it.
    4. The strata of sandstone are fully exposed on the shore
and in the cliffs from Rothsay to Ascog. South of Bogany
 Point limestone appears interstratified with the sandstone, the
two rocks gradually passing into one another at the junction.
Dr. MacCulloch describes one bed — I noticed several others;
but the beds being thin, of small horizontal extent, and con
taining generally much siliceous matter, the rock is of little
ceconomical importance in this place. On the north side of
the small rocky promontory south of Ascog Mill thin courses
of nodular limestone traverse beds of brown shale. Subordi
nate to the sandstone, the shale is of considerable thickness,
and appears again in the high banks above the road.
   The south side of the same promontory presents the follow
 ing strata:—The lowest bed is a fine-grained bluish-gray
nodular limestone; it is succeeded by a black bituminous
 shale, containing veins of coal less than a quarter of an inch
 thick. A bed of concretionary limestone rests on the shale,
the base or paste being a dark-coloured limestone, and the
concretions rounded lumps of the same rock, often of consi
derable size. The upper part of the cliff is occupied by trap
in various prismatic forms. By the contact of the trap, both
the base itself and the imbedded lumps are so much altered
as very closely to resemble the trap itself. The trap rock
occupies a considerable area inland, and is upwards of 100
feet thick. Dr. MacCulloch has fallen into a slight error
regarding it: he says, " When examined on. the shore it ap
pears rather to pass through the sandstone than to lie over it;
but there is considerable obscurity in this place, as the lateral
junction of the two is concealed by a cavity filled with earth."
The junction is better exposed at present, probably in con
sequence of the continued action of the sea; and there can be
no doubt that the relative position of the strata is such as
above described. The trap reposes upon the sandstone, and
does not pass through it.
   5. The most considerable mass of limestone in the island
occurs on the south side of Kilchattan Bay. Its characters
are accurately describeil by Dr. MacCulloch, but he has mis
taken its position. "This bed seems to lie over all the sand
stone strata at this place, and to be the rock immediately in
                              G2

84      Mr. J. Bryce on the Lignites and Altered Dolomites
contact with the superincumbent trap." A little way above
the limestone quarry, near the ruins of Kelspoke Castle, the
beds of sandstone are distinctly seen dipping towards the trap,
both the dip and inclination being the same as below the lime
stone; and it thus appears that the limestone is here, as in
other parts of the island, subordinate to the sandstone, and of
cotemporaneous origin.
    6. The limestone and shale which are interstratified with
the sandstone in several places, and at Ascog are also accom
panied by very thin veins of coal, bear a striking resemblance
to true coal measures; and it is therefore not surprising that
coal has been thought to exist in or under this sandstone, and
 that several attempts have been made to discover it. These,
 however, have been fruitless, and must always prove so; since
 there can be no doubt that the sandstone is the old red, and
 therefore inferior to the whole coal formation. The reasons
 for this opinion may be briefly stated.
    (I.) Since in the adjoining tracts the series of rocks succes
 sively superimposed on the central granite is complete, and
old red sandstone occupies in these its proper place, we may
 fairly infer that the sandstone which in Bute succeeds the
 slate series must be the old red. (2.) This sandstone, if con
 tinued on the line of its bearing, would coalesce with that
 which forms the Cumbrays, and with that which, rising to the
 west from beneath the great mineral basin of Ayrshire, skirts
 the coast from Ardrossan to Gourock, and from Toward
 Point to Dunoon, and appears again on crossing the Firth,
 in Dumbartonshire and Stirlingshire, forming the lower por
 tions of the Kilpatrick and Campsie hills, and thus constituting
 a well-marked boundary between the coal basins of Lanark
 shire and the primary ranges of the Highlands. (8.) The
 true coal formation associated with carboniferous limestone
 exists in Arran, separating distinctly the old red sandstone
 from the new. This old red sandstone of Arran incloses beds
 of limestone which are similar to those of Bute, and contain
 the same fossils as those limestones termed cornstones, which
 in England are subordinate to the old red system. Thus the
 red sandstone of Bute seems to be identified with the Devo
 nian series of Arran and England. The evidence derived
 from fossils is unfortunately not applicable, as I was unable
to find a trace of any organic substance either in the limestone,
 sandstone, or shale ; and the same statement has been made
 by Dr. MacCulloch. It is probable, however, that organic
 remains will yet be found on a more extended and careful
 search.

                         of the Island of Bute.                           85
                        III. The Lignite Beds.
   7. The trap rocks at Ascog derive their chief interest from
being the repository of beds of lignite; a substance so rare in
Scotland, that I believe no well-marked beds occur on the
mainland, and but few in the other islands; and these in
situations very difficult of access. I was led to a careful ex
amination of this carbonaceous deposit by the statement of
Dr. MacCulloch, that some of the beds occurring here were
unlike any he had seen in his survey of the western islands.
   The principal bed is situated in the face of the cliffs above
the road, a little to the south of Ascog Mill, as shown in the
annexed section giving the various beds.
  *, sandstone j r, terrace and road ; ff, greenstone ; a, trnp-tuff; b, red
ochre; c, ligni'.e bed; d, pisolitic ochre; e, porphyritic amygdaloid, the
upper portion much-altered.
   The lowest bed resting on the sandstone is a small-grained
rudely columnar greenstone; the junction is, however, con
cealed. Over this is a trap-tuff with a base of greenstone,
and imbedded spherical lumps of the same substance. This
is followed by a bed of red ochre of coarse texture, traversed
by numerous black iron seams, which have doubtless been
produced from a change in the oxidation of the component
iron. Over this is the lignite bed : it is three feet thick, and
consists of hard stony coal, interstratified with a yellowish-
white shale, both being much intermixed with pyrites. The
coal has been so much altered throughout its whole thickness
by the contact of the trap rock, that Mr. Rose of Edinburgh,
to whose examination I submitted the best specimens I could
find, in order that he might determine the species of wood, but
without mentioning the geological situation of the coal, was
" unable to obtain a slice in consequence of the structure being
altered by the contact of a whin dike." The coal has been

 86     Mr. J. Bryce on the Lignites and Altered Dolomites
 worked to some extent by driving an adit inwards on the line
 of the dip, which is about 20° to the westward ; but the work
 ings have been for some lime abandoned, and the inner and
 lower portions are now full of water.
    The floor of the coal has been already described. The
 roof is a peculiar rock. It consists of a base or paste of an
 ochreous steatite, with imbedded round pieces of the same
 substance, and may hence be called a pisolitic ochre; it is :¦> 1
yards thick. The bed above this is of the same character ;
 but the base feels less unctuous, and with the imbedded stea
 tite it contains also imbedded calcareous spar. The base
 effervesces briskly with an acid ; and hence we may call the
 rock a calcareous amygdaloid. The upper portion of this bed,
 to the thickness of a few inches only, is very hard, and has a
semivitreous appearance, and thus closely resembles a por
phyry. In common with the trap above, and, indeed, all the
beds in this locality, it contains much disseminated iron. The
rest of the cliff is occupied by greenstone, which is the same
as the lower bed resting on the sandstone.
    Another bed of lignite occurs on the opposite, or north
west side of the trap district, overlooking Ascog Lake. The
coal dips to the interior of the area, that is, nearly south. It
is of about the same thickness, and is accompanied by beds of
steatite and red ochre, very similar to those above described ;
but the nature of the ground is such that a complete section
cannot be had, and the precise number, therefore, and order
of the beds cannot be exactly stated. The association, how
ever, of the lignite with ochres and steatites here also is suffi
ciently distinct, and it is even probable that these beds are
persistent throughout the whole of this district. It is to these
ochreous and steatitic beds that Dr. MacCulloch refers, when
he says that he " has met with no similar substance among the
numerous trap rocks examined in the course of the survey of
the western islands." He has not indeed described any such
strata; yet casual mention is made (vol. i. p. 376) of an iron-
clay and jaspery substance, forming extensive beds in the trap
of the cliffs of Talisker, in Skye—the same in which the lignite
also occurs — and that these are often variegated with red,
gray, and purple colours. No further description is given,
nor is the precise position of the coal mentioned, the cliffs
being very difficult of access.
    But even by such a brief notice the steatitic beds and varie
gated ochres are easily recognised; and though these charac
ters are not very distinctly marked in the beds we have been
describing in Bute, yet they apply exactly to the red and va
riegated ochres, which occur as members of the trap series of

                      of the Island of Bute.                     87
 the north-east of Ireland. These rocks attain a much more
complete development than in this country, both geographi
cally and in relation to the number and variety of the beds.
They extend continuously over an area of upwards of 1000
square miles ; and while the thickness is, on an average, about
300 feet, in very many cases it reaches to ] 100 or 1200 feet.
The whole series reposes on the chalk formation, while the
corresponding rocks of this country rest upon the old red and
carboniferous systems. Now in this series the lignites occupy
a determinate place ; they occur in the middle region, asso
ciated with the steatites and variegated ochres, which are
always largely developed wherever the series approaches to
completeness. Instances may be seen at various points in the
cliffs at the Giant's Causeway, at Ballintoy, at Glenarm, and
at numerous places in the interior of the district. Similar
beds are associated with the lignites of Bute and Skye, and
most probably also of others of the Western Isles, though the
notices are too vague to be relied on. We are thus led to
the interesting conclusion, that such association is not acci
dental, but has been determined by the prevalence, over a
considerable area, of certain similar and fixed conditions,
regulating the succession of the igneous eruptions, the mode
of their consolidation, and the periods of repose during which
 the productions of the adjoining dry land were swept down
and entombed.
                     IV. Altered Dolomites.
   8. The dikes of Bute are composed of greenstone or basalt,
and are extremely numerous. They traverse the different
strata in every possible direction, and are well seen upon the
rocky parts of the coast. All the usual phaenomena are re
markably well exhibited by them, and can be studied together
in a small space. Crystals qf quartz and other substances are
developed in the shale beds near the contact. The dikes can
in some instances be traced continuously for several miles,
preserving the same direction, and the same width— two or
more are sometimes seen to meet and coalesce for some di
stance and again to separate—a narrow dike branches off into
several filaments, which unite again—portions of the rock
which is traversed are frequently found entangled in the dike;
and these, as well as the contiguous strata, present the usual
alterations now universally acknowledged to be the result of
igneous action.
   A remarkable change is produced on the Kilchattan lime
stone by one of these dikes. Its direction is very nearly the
same as the dip of the limestone, and the effects are well seen at

88      Mr. J. Bryce on the Lignites and Altered Dolomites
the eastern side of the quarry. Along the plane of contact with
the dike the limestone is altered to the state of a granularsac-
charine marble, which on the application of a slight pressure
crumbles into a fine powder. This is succeeded by a hard
crystalline marble, the crystals appearing in distinct flakes.
Between this and the first change, which is one of simple in
duration, there are many gradations. Similar effects are
common at the contact of limestone with plutonic rocks; in
some localities they are accompanied by other singular changes
of a chemical nature. Magnesia, and sometimes silica and
alumina, are introduced into the composition of the limestone,
so that simple carbonate of lime becomes a double carbonate
of lime and magnesia. The question whence this magnesia
has been derived has occasioned much difference of opinion
among geologists. Some imagine that it has been transferred
from the plutonic rock to the limestone ; while others hold
that, as fractures and dislocations of the earth's crust accom
panied the eruption of these plutonic rocks, gaseous exhala
tions might find" their way from beneath, and introduce car
bonate of magnesia and other substances into rocks near the
surface. In confirmation of this view, Mr. Phillips has shown
in his Geology of Yorkshire, that "common limestone is do-
lomitized by the sides of faults and mineral veins far away
from igneous rocks of any kind;" and some distinguished
chemists have expressed their belief that carbonate of mag
nesia may be sublimed by the action of great heat. (Rep.
Brit. Assoc, for 1835, Trans. Sect. p. 51 ; Phillips's Geology,
vol. ii. p. 98.) Much doubt, however, still hangs about this
subject. Cases occur in which magnesia has been introduced,
although the limestone could not have been subject to such a
pressure as would confine its carbonic acid when the rock
was softened by heat.
   Being anxious to elucidate, if possible, this obscure subject,
I submitted two specimens of the rock to Mr. John Mac
adam, lecturer on chemistry in this city, for examination with
reference to the presence or absence of magnesia. The fol
lowing is Mr. Macadam's report; the specimen referred to
as No. 1 is the saccharine marble from contact with the
dike; No. 2 is the unaltered limestone— both were average
specimens.
   " I have carefully subjected to chemical analysis the spe
cimen of limestone No. 1, with special reference to the pre
sence or absence of magnesia; and I find from the indications
given, that carbonate of magnesia constitutes about '1\ per
cent, of the whole mass. The mineral is not, therefore, a
double carbonate of lime and magnesia. Its other and prin

                       of the Island of Bute.                  89
cipal ingredients are carbonic acid and lime, besides which
silica is present, as also traces of oxide of iron and alumina.
   " In the specimen No. 2 I find magnesia in great abun
dance, the amount present being equivalent to 33*72 per cent,
of carbonate of magnesia. The other constituents present are
similar to those reported in No. 1. From the large propor
tions of carbonate of lime and carbonate of magnesia present
in specimen No. 2, it would appear to be a species of dolo
mite. It may be noticed that the physical characters of No. 2
are very different from those of No. 1 ; the former is difficult
to pulverize, the latter is extremely susceptible of division.
   " The action of strong hydrochloric acid on both specimens
causes a portion of gelatinous silica to appear, showing the
presence of a silicate, which may be that of magnesia, since
the quantity of gelatinous silica is about sufficient to combine
with the 1*28 per cent, of caustic magnesia existing in the
specimen No. 1. There is a less quantity of this gelatinous
silica in No. 2. The greater portion, however, of the silica
present in both specimens remains undissolved in the gritty
or pulverulent condition, and is hence in a state of mere me
chanical mixture with the other constituents of the limestone.
It would require a minute quantitative analysis to determine
whether the 1*28 per cent, of magnesia exists as a carbonate
or silicate, or partly as both."
   The phenomena are thus of a contrary character to what
I had anticipated; the unaltered rock is a dolomite, and con
tains nearly 34 per cent, of carbonate of magnesia, while the
altered rock contains less than 3 percent. What has become
of the constituent magnesia? Has it been driven off by the
heat to which the limestone was exposed ? Most chemists are
unwilling to admit that this is possible ; and it may reasonably
be objected, that if the limestone had been exposed to so high
a temperature as to vaporize its magnesia, the silica would not
be mechanically present, but would have entered into chemical
combination with the lime or the magnesia, and have formed
a silicate.
   That whin dikes have sometimes been the means of pro
ducing such a combination has been shown by an eminent
chemist. In a valuable paper by Dr. Apjohn on the Dolo
mites of Ireland, published in the Dublin Geological Journal,
vol. i., the details of an analysis of the white chalk of An
trim, altered to the state of a saccharine marble, are given
(p. 376); and it is remarked in conclusion, that "the stone
under consideration consists of silica, combined with the mixed
oxides of calcium, magnesium and iron (the carbonate of
lime being mechanically present), and is therefore a mixture

 90      Mr. J. Bryce on the Lignites and Altered Dolomites
 of trisilicates, very analogous in its composition to olivine.
  We are thus enabled to understand why olivine should be so
 very frequently found in trap rocks, and to refer its origin to
 the contact of silex at a high temperature with an excess of
 the basic oxides ; and we have in some degree a demonstra
 tion that the dolomites which contain siliceous sand could not
 have been exposed at any time to a heat sufficiently high to
 account for the introduction into them of magnesia in the
 vaporous state; for by such a heat a silicate of lime or mag
 nesia, or of both, would have been produced."
    The presence of these silicates in both our specimens is
 shown by the gelatinous silica appearing; yet a greater quan
 tity of silica is present mechanically, which, as already stated,
 seems inconsistent with the exposure of the rock to intense
 heat; unless, indeed, we could suppose that the silica has been
 introduced by infiltration, or the magnesia removed by the
 solvent power of free carbonic acid at a period subsequent to
 the consolidation of the dike from a state of igneous fusion.
 But it is needless to pursue the subject further with our pre
 sent limited knowledge of facts.
                   Postscript. —Altered Dolomites.
    The preceding account was drawn up some months ago for
 insertion in the Philosophical Magazine. On consideration,
however, it was thought best to withhold it until careful quan
titative analyses of the limestones should be obtained. This
has now been accomplished through the kindness of Dr. Ro
bert D. Thomson, of Glasgow University, of whose skill and
competence it would be presumption in me to speak. It is
hoped that these will afford definite terms of comparison with
other analyses, such as those of Dr. Apjohn already referred
to ; and that their publication may lead to the formation of
clearer views respecting an obscure question in theoretical
geology.
    The analyses kindly furnished me by Dr. Robert D. Thom
son are as follows : —
    Specimen No. 1 is the saccharine marble from contact with
the dike at Kilchattan, —in the highest state of alteration.
    No. 2 is the hard crystalline marble, having the crystals in
distiifct flakes, more remote and less altered than No. 1.
    No. S is the unaltered limestone from the middle of the
quarry, remote from the dike,—an average specimen.
    No. 4 is the altered limestone from contact with the over
lying trap at Ascog Mill ; it is an impure dark-coloured rock
of an earthy aspect, and very like the trap which rests upon it.

                     of the Island of Bute.                           91
                   No. 1. Spec. grav. 2*710.
                   By Mr. J. H. Turnbull. By Mr. Henry S. Thomson.
                                              r.                 II.
?Jiea.                     \ 691             5-16               570
Alumina
Protoxide of iron . .       .      1*68      1-50               1-28
Carbonate of lime . .       .     90 65       ...             91-08
Carbonate of magnesia        .     100        ...               1-17
                                 100-2+                       99-23
                  No. 2. Spec. grav. 2-570.
                                                   I.             II.
Silica
                                       1-9*      028            0-28
Alumina ....
Protoxide of iron . .
                              }
                              .        052         ...          0-56
Carbonate of lime . .         .      9648      98'76          96-58
Carbonate of magnesia          .       1*23        ...          2-24
                                   10017                     99-66
                  No. 3. Spec. grav. 2-679.
                                        I.       II.
Silica
                                      9-70        ...          9-08
Alumina ....
Protoxide of iron . . .
                              }       1*12        ...          1*12
Carbonate of lime . . .            67*42      72-12          67-00
Carbonate of magnesia .             1 7*3 1       ...        18-06
Water, coaly matter audi              ^5          _
   carbonic acid . . . J
                                  100-00                   100-00
                                 No. 4.
                                      64-21            64-46
Protoxide of iron . .                  6-42             6-60
Carbonate of lime . . .               24-00            21-20
Carbonate of magnesia                  4-62             2-85
Water and carbonic acid .              1-75        . 4-89
                                   100-00            100-00
   The silica present is in a state of mechanical mixture.
   These analyses are confirmatory of the main points of the
views already stated, and seem clearly to establish the new
and remarkable fact, that by the igneous action in these in
stances the magnesia has been driven off from the limestone.

92      Prof. J. D. Forbes on an Instrument for measuring
The unaltered rock is a dolomite containing nearly 70 per
cent, of carbonate of lime, and nearly 20 per cent, of carbonate
of magnesia ; while the altered rock contains but from 1 to 2
per cent, of the latter ingredient. To what cause are we to
assign the changes that have taken place ? Has the magnesia
been sublimed by heat? or has it been withdrawn by the sol
vent power of free carbonic acid? On the nature of these
and the other chemical changes that have been induced, I do
not feel myself competent to express an opinion ; and from
such limited premises it would be unphilosophical to draw
any general conclusions. The subject is one, however, of
great interest both to the geologist and chemist, as the facts
are directly opposed to the received views* ; and as no instance
of similar changes on dolomitic rocks has, so far as I am aware,
ever been put on record.
   High School of Glasgow,
          June 1849.
             XII. Notices. By Prof. J. D. Forbes f.
 1. On an Instrumentfor measuring the Extensibility of Elastic
                                  Solids.
THIS instrument is almost a faithful reproduction of
       S'Gravesancle's apparatus described in his Physices Elc-
menta Malhematica, 1742 (but not in the previous editions).
 It is described or alluded to by few modern writers, except
 Biot in his Traiti de Physique. It consists of a strong
 wooden table or frame, with a vice at each end, between which
 a wire or lamina may be stretched with a determinate tension
 by means of a weight attached by a cord, passing over a pulley
 in the manner of the musical apparatus called a monochord.
 After the tension is adjusted both vices are screwed fast, the
 space included between them being exactly fifty inches. If,
 now, any deviation of the middle point of the wire included by
 the vices be made (similar to the action of sounding a harp-
 string), the force required to pull it a certain distance aside
 will depend,— 1st, on the length of the wire; 2nd, on its ten
 sion; Srd, on its extensibility, or the modulus of elasticity.
    S'Gravesande employed his apparatus to verify Hooke's
 law, that the extension is as the extending force within the
   • For the latest and best account of the views of geologists on this sub
ject see the well-known work of Dr. Daubeny on Volcanos, 2nd edit., re
 cently published ; also an admirable resume in the eloquent address of
 Prof. Oldham of Dublin University, which has just appeared.
   t From the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

                  the Extensibility of Elastic Solids.            93
limits of perfect elasticity. But it does not seem to have oc
curred to him, nor (singularly enough) to later experimenters,
to deduce from the forces required to produce given devia
tions, the specific extensibility, or what Dr. Young calls the
modulus of elasticity of the body.
    It is essential that the deviation from the rectilinear position
of the wire should be ascertained with great nicetv, and
^Gravesande's contrivance effects this in a very neat and
satisfactory way. A fine steel chain attaches by a hook to
the middle point of the extended wire, the other end being
secured to the circumference of a nicely-centred wheel. An
other chain attached similarly to the wire of the same wheel
has a scale attached to it, a weight placed in which causes the
wheel to revolve, and by means of the first chain and hook
pulls the wire out of the straight line. A long index fixed to
the same axis with the wheel points out the deviation on a
much-magnified scale, referred to a divided semicircle of brass.
 Thus a weight being placed in the scale, the corresponding
deviation is instantly shown.
     Let P be the weight in the scale, D the deviation of the
 wire, s = half the length of the wire between the vices; it was
 proved in this communication that
                          p=.tB+m(?)',
 where M is the modulus ofelasticity, measured in grains, which
 is easily reduced to the equivalent length of a similar wire or
 lamina, according to Dr. Young's definition. This is on the
 supposition that Hooke's law of elasticity (the extension is as
 the extending force) is correct ; and that law is verified if the
 term M( — J be found for the same wire practically to vary
 as the cube of the deviation. The value of M, the modulus,
 is also at once given by a single observed deviation, the ten
 sion being known.
     A small correction in the value of P is to be made for the
 weight of the wire deflecting it from a straight line. This
  small correction had not escaped the notice of S'Gravesande
  when he verified Hooke's law.
      Example. A steel pianoforte wire, tension 50,000 grains
  =T; s=25 inches.
           lines of D.
            25 inch
                          Values of P.
                          1100 grains
                                            2T°
                                            1000
                                                      O 100
           •50 ...        2720 ...          2000        720
           '75 ...        5400 ...          3000       2400

 94 On the Refractive and Dispersive Power of Chloroform.
    The numbers in the last column should vary as the cubes
 of those in the first, or be as 1, 8,27. If we deduct 10 grains
 from each of them for the action of the weight of the wire
 depressing it, we shall have these numbers—
                     90        710           2390;
 dividing respectively by 1, 8, and 27,—
                     90         89           88-<:.
                                    /D\3                      D
    Hence the mean result for Ml — 1 , for D = -25, or— =T£0,
 is nearly 89 grains, consequently,
                              M
                                 T3 =S9>
                            (100)3
and M = 89,000,000 grains.
    But a foot in length of the wire in question weighs 1 1 grains.
 The equivalent modulus of elasticity is therefore very nearly
 8,000,000 feet of the wire in question, which agrees closely
with the received numbers for steel wire.
    2. Note respecting the Refractive and Dispersive Power of
                             Chloroform.
    From an experiment made in very cloudy weather, and
therefore rather unfavourable light, I determined the following
indices of refraction for pure chloroform, prepared by Dr.
George Wilson, ofsp. gr. 1-4966.
    The measure of the refracting angle of the prism was 39°
41'. References were made to the principal lines of the spec
trum, as below : the temperature of the fluid was probably 54°.
       Extreme red                                    /x= 1-4475
       B (in the red)                                     1-4488
       D (in the orange-yellow)                           1-451
      b (in the green)                                    1-456
       F (in the blue)                                    1-457
      H (in the violet, being the least refran-1
         gible of the two groups so designated) J
      Extreme violet                                      1 -4675
    Hence the refractive index is by no means remarkably great,
being nearly that of wax, spermaceti, and several of the essen
tial oils.
                                 JJ
    The dispersive power, or         -, is equal to -045, which again
agrees nearly with that of the essential oils. The high specific
gravity of the body appears to have no marked influence in
increasing its action on light.

        On an Experiment to determine the Earth's density.              i)5
    3. Note regarding an Experiment suggested by Professor
                                  Robison.
     In his memoir of Dr. Chalmers, lately read to this Society,
  Mr. Ramsay has referred to an experiment which Dr. Chal
 mers was anxious to have performed on the tide-wave in the
 Bay of Fundy. The object was to determine the earth's den
 sity by the attraction of the tide-wave on a plummet or spirit-
 level, on the same principle as Maskelyne's experiment on
 Schiehallion, but with the superior advantages arising from
 the perfect homogeneity of the attracting mass, and from the
 circumstance that all the observations might be made at a
 single station. The experiment might, in short, appear to
 unite the advantages both of Maskelyne's and Cavendish's
 methods of determining the earth's density.
    The suggestion was Dr. Robison's, and Dr. Chalmers had
 it from him. It is contained in the Elements of Mechanical
 Philosophy, edit. 1804, page 339, and is given in the follow
 ing words :—" Perhaps a very sensible effect might be ob
 served at Annapolis- Royal in Nova Scotia, from the vast ad
 dition of matter brought on the coast twice every day by the
 tides. The water rises there above 100 feet at spring-tide.
 Ifa leaden pipe a few hundred feet long were laid on the level
 beach at right angles with the coast, and a glass pipe set up
 right at each end, and the whole filled with water, the water
 will rise at the outer end, and sink at the end next the land
as the tide rises. Such an alternate change of level would
give the most satisfactory evidence. Perhaps the effect might
 be sensible on a very long plummet, or even a nice spirit-
 level."
    It is needless to observe that the methods proposed by
Dr. Robison are not the best which might be suggested ; but
 that, in consequence of the extreme simplicity of the observa
tion, considered as a purely astronomical one, a deviation of
 the direction of gravity of only a very few seconds could be
 ascertained within small limits of error*.
    I thought it worth while to make the calculation approxi
mately for an assumed height of the tide-wave. Had the
result been at all encouraging, I should have taken pains to
ascertain, on good authority, the exact rise of the tide, and
the circumstances of the locality whence the rise is greatest.
   * The micrometric observation of a plumb-line, as in a zenith sector,
would be sufficient ; or, as Professor Smyth has suggested to me, the view
of the wires of a trunsit-instrument, with a collimating eye-piece, as re
flected in a mercury trough,— an observation, the accuracy of which may,
he states, be brought within one-twentieth of a second.

 96         Mr. E. C. Summers on a Simple Apparatus
    I have calculated the horizontal attraction of a semicylinder
 of water 100 feet thick, and of about two, four, and eight miles
 radius upon a point at the extremity of the axis of such a se
 micylinder; because these conditions can easily be reduced to
 calculation, and because they represent very approximately
the circumstances of an attracted point placed at high water
mark on a vertical sea-wall facing a basin or estuary. The
radius of the attracting mass of water being represented (more
accurately) by 10,000, 20,000, and 40,000 feet, I find the
influence of a tide-wave 100 feet thick upon a plumb-line to
produce a deviation of only 0"-44 (forty-four hundredths of a
 second), 0"'50, and 0"-53; the effect increasing extremely
slowly with the radius, as might be expected. If the tide rose
only fifty feet, the first effect would be reduced to 0"*246.
    Even the greatest of these calculated deviations affords no
ground for hoping that the method of Robison could be ap
plied with any success to determine the earth's density.
    It is rather singular that this ingenious suggestion is not
once alluded to, so far as I am aware, by any writer on the
figure and density of the earth ; yet surely it was as worthy
of notice as Dr. Mutton's proposal to measure the attraction
of an Egyptian pyramid. (Phil. Trans. 1821.)
   XIII. On a Simple Apparatusfor Washing Precipitates.
                    By Eustace C. Summers*.
MY attention has been lately drawn to an account by M.
          Bloch, given in the May Number of the Annates de
Chimie et de Physique, vol. xxvi. p. 126, 3rd series, of a new
method of washing precipitates by means of a self-regulating
siphon. The instrument proposed by M. Bloch is, however,
open to several serious objections. In the first place, as soon
as the requisite quantity of water has been supplied to the
filter, the water rises in the exterior air-tube to the level of
the liquid in the vessel from which the supply is obtained.
Now if the precipitate be very light, part of it also is liable to
gain access to the tube and adhere to its sides. Again, when
the level of the water in the filter falls, the column of water
in the air-tube does not always fall so as to leave free access
to the air. On the contrary, the whole or part of it is fre
quently carried upwards by the pressure of the air, and falls,
not into the filter, but into the reservoir; and should any of
the precipitate be carried with it, which is far from improbable,
of course an analysis might be at once invalidated. I say
                     • Communicated by the Author.

                      for Washing Precipitates.                 Ul
nothing of the difficulty, which, however, is by no means
slight, of bending the two concentric tubes; because all the
advantages, together with greater convenience for washing,
&c, may be obtained by having the tubes entirely distinct.
    The apparatus of M. Gay-Lussac, as described in Mohr
and Redwood's Pharmacy, is far superior to that now proposed
by M. Bloch, inasmuch as the air-tube does not communicate
with the fluid in the filter. The following contrivance has,
however, occurred to me as furnishing the most simple and
effectual way of attaining the object in view, and has the ad
vantage of being applicable upon any scale of magnitude.
    It consists of a reservoir, fig. a, having the mouth placed at
its base. This, when
the vessel is filled with
water, is closed by a
cork, pierced by a
straight tube b, pass
ing through it ob
liquely downwards.
It is now obvious that
the water will rise in
the tube b so long as
air can gain access to
the interior of the re
servoir; which, how
ever, is prevented
when the water in the
tube is sufficiently
high to cover the
whole of its lower ex
tremity. A siphon is then introduced through this tube so
as to project into the reservoir slightly beyond the lower ex
tremity of the tube, care being taken to leave sufficient space
to allow of the passage of air between the siphon and the sur
rounding tube. The funnel is placed beneath the long leg of
the siphon, so that the edge of the filter is a little above the
level of the water in the straight tube. In this condition the
apparatus works. As long as the level of the water in the
filter is lower than the level of that in the tube b, the column of
water ce will be heavier than the column cd, and consequently
the siphon will keep up a supply of water, bubbles of air ob
taining access to the interior of the reservoir, as the level of
the water in the tube b is reduced by the action of the siphon.
But no sooner does the water in the filter attain the same
level with that in the tube, than the column of water cd is
equal in pressure to the column ce, and consequently the action
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 234.. Aug. 1 819. "        H

98              Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.
of the siphon is stopped, the water in the tube b remaining
at just sufficient height to exclude the air from the interior of
the reservoir.
    This simple apparatus may be affixed to any convenient
vessel having an aperture at the bottom ; all other openings
being of course closed, so as to prevent the ingress of air ex
cept by the tube b. A common salt glaze earthenware wash
ing-bottle, or a Griffin's gas-holder, will be found to answer
the purpose perfectly.
   Glasgow College Laboratory,
          July 6, 1849.
XIV. On the Sources of the Nile ; being an attempt to assign
   the limits of the Basin ofthat River. By Charles T. Beke,
   Esq., Ph.D., F.S.A. Sfc*
 IN treating of the sources of the Nile, it is not intended to
       regard any particular source or spring as being more
especially and exclusively the true head of that river. It will
not even be discussed whether this or that large branch of the
river should be considered to be the principal one. Such ques
tions at the outset are not likely to lead to any satisfactory
result. Our object must be in the first place to determine the
entire limits of the basin of the river; we have next to ascer
tain what principal arms unite to form the main stream ; we
must then trace to their heads the several smaller streams
which form those branches ; and when we have succeeded in all
these points, we shall then — but not before—be competent to
decide which of these numerous ramifications has the fairest
claim to be regarded as the true source of the Nile.
    It may however be objected, and not without a show of
reason, that though this is the theoretical method of investi
gating the subject, yet the question is susceptible of a more
practical solution; —that, as in the case of most other rivers,
there is some particular stream which by common consent is
looked on as the source of the Nile, and this without regard to
its being actually the head of the longest or the largest branch.
Were this really the case, we should in one sense be bound
to acquiesce in the recognition of such a source, even though
it might not possess all the attributes of the true head of
the river.       But the fact is not so. The Abai, the river
of Abessinia, whose source was visited and described by
the Portuguese Jesuits in the beginning of the seventeenth
   * Communicated bv the Syro-Egyptian Society of London, having been
read before that Society on the 9th of January 1849.

                 Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.                     99
century, and 150 years later by Bruce, is (as I know from
personal experience) undoubtedly considered by the modern
Abessinians to be the Nile. But among the ancient Abessi-
nians, (or more properly speaking the Axomites of Northern
Abessinia, who were known to the civilized world in the first
ages of the Christian aera,) it was the Takkazie, and not the
Abai, which was regarded as the Nile. Of this a direct proof
is given in the second Adulitic inscription, which, recording
the victories of one of the princes of that country, says :—
" After this, I reduced Ava and Tziamo, Gambela and the
country round it, Zingabene, Angabe, Tiama, and the A'thagai,
Kalaa, and Semenc, a nation beyond the Nile, among moun
tains difficult of access and covered with snow ; in all this
region there is hail and frost, and snow so deep that the
troops sunk up to their knees. I passed the river, and sub
dued them :"—in which passage it is manifest that refer
ence is made to the well-known province of Samien beyond
the Takkazie, in which province are the loftiest mountains
of Abessinia topped with snow, or more properly speaking,
a light kind of hail*. It is not unimportant to the present
question to remark that in the ancient Ethiopic language,
the word Tikkazie is not a proper name, but an appellative
signifying river in general; so that " the Takkazie" is simply
" the river ;" and it is in this sense that in the Ethiopic Scrip
tures it is said that the waters of the T&kkazie were turned by
Moses into blood.
    But the question of superiority is far from lying between
these two rivers, the Takkazie and Abai, alone. Proceeding
further southwards up the direct stream of the Bahr el Abyad
or White River, we come, in about 9° N. lat., to another large
nrm named Sobat, Telfi, or River of Habesh, which in its upper
course is called Bako, then Uma, and afterwards Godjeb. The
source of the Godjeb is in Kaffa, where it is revered by the
natives as the head of the Nile. Nevertheless there is no
more real ground for such a preference of the Godjeb than
there exists in the case of the two other rivers already men
tioned. The recent expeditions sent by Mohammed Ali, Pasha
of Egypt, to explore the Nile, have ascended the White River
   • " Snovr i? very rare in Abessinia; it is seen on days when the clouds
are but little raised above the earth, and are at the same time widely ex
tended. The flakes are small, triangular, and radiated.
   "Hailstones which fall at an altitude of 4650 to 4700 metres [15,500 to
1 5,600 English feet] have the form ofa truncated polyedric pyramid, hollow-
The edges of the pyramid are granulated. This hail is almost as light as
ed at the base and summit ; the hollow being in the form ofa reversed cone.
snow."—Letter from M. Schimper, on the Meteorology of Abessinia, in the
Comptet Rendu*, vol. xxvi. No. 7. (Feb. 14, 1848), p. 229.
                                     H2

  100           Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.
 as far as the country of Bari in 4° N. lat., 500 miles above
 the confluence of the Sobat or River of Habesh ; and still
 the head of the Nile is there said to be distant a month's
journey further to the south.
    In the absence, then, of unanimity among the people of the
 countries watered by the several branches of the Nile, who each
 regard, not unnaturally, their own particular river as the prin
 cipal stream ; it is manifest that the question is an open one,
 and that its solution must be attempted on general and scien
 tific principles.
    When we trace the course of a river, from its mouth up
 wards, to the furthest extremity ofeach of its several tributaries,
 we arrive ultimately at a point where the waters no longer
flow towards that river, but take their course in the opposite
 direction. This is called in Latin divortia aquarum—the
 parting (or flowing in contrary directions) of the waters—and
 in German die Wasserscheide, which means the same. English
geographers have of late years adopted, through the geologists,
the expression watershed, which is evidently a mere corruption
of the German Wasserscheide, and was probably first brought
into use among us by miners from Germany. But such an
expression is objectionable; as to the mere English scholar it
would seem to be a native compound of the words water and
shed, and hence might give rise to the idea of a river's basin
being intended rather than the division between two adjoining
basins. The word waterparting is far preferable. For it is a
literal English translation of the Latin divortia aquarum and
of the German Wasserscheide ; it expresses the true sense, and
it is not susceptible of ambiguity.
    The waterparting between the basins of two rivers is not
necessarily coincident with a mountain-chain, or identical
with it. On the contrary, we have instances of a river's pass
ing through a mountain-chain, and taking its rise in an ex
tensive elevated plain, so level in appearance as to render it
difficult, at first sight, to determine in which direction the
waters flow, or ought to flow. But though the waterparting
may not be identical with an abnormal elevation, such as a
mountain-chain, it must, in the nature of things, be the great
est normal elevation : it must be that point—or rather that line
or series of points—at which the waters from the heavens, no
longer continuing to find a passage in the one direction, seek
it in another. Thus the waterparting forms the extreme
limits of the basin of a river, and the boundary-line between
the several distinct hydrographical systems of which a conti
nent is composed.
   The sources of the Nile, then, are all those head- streams

               Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.                  101
which rise along the extreme limits of the basin of that river,
at the waterparting between it and the conterminous basins of
other African rivers flowing towards the Red Sea, the Indian
Ocean, the Atlantic and the Mediterranean respectively, or
possessing (as is the case with some rivers of Asia and America,
and even of Africa) separate inland hydrographical systems
unconnected with the ocean. It is in this sense that I propose
to treat of the sources of the Nile.
   Commencing at the isthmus of Suez, and proceeding south
wards to about the 1 6th parallel of north latitude, we find a
tract of desert country lying between the Nile and the Red
Sea, and presenting no point of very great elevation. As,
however, we approach the parallel of 16° N. lat., the land
rises considerably, and forms the plateau or table-land of
Abessinia. It is only of late years that the true character of
this elevated region has been determined. Formerly it was
generally considered that Abessinia consisted of a succession
qf terraces rising one above the other, the lowest being toward
the Red Sea and the highest being in Enarea, where the water-
parting between the Nile and the rivers having their courses
towards the Indian Ocean was supposed to exist. Recent
explorations have, however, determined that this opinion is
erroneous. Instead of the country's rising in terraces as it
recedes from the coast, its summit or culminating line is toward
the coast itself, whence the land falls gradually towards the
interior. This is best shown in the two sections of Abessinia,
the one being from north to south and the other from east to
west, published in the fourteenth volume of the Journal of
the Royal Geographical Society of London.
   In the beginning of the year 1841 I explored the water-
parting from Ankobar, the capital of Shoa, northwards about
forty miles, as far as Gedem; and in the printed account of
this excursion * I remarked, that " as the longitude of the
waterparting in that direction [about 40° E. long.] corresponds
very nearly with that of the waterparting in Northern A bes-
sinia, it may perhaps be not unreasonable to infer that they
are both formed by a continuation of the same central high
land." This was before I was aware of the results of Dr.
Riippell's labours, and before I had carried my own series of
levels further across the country to the west of Ankobar. The
comparison of these has not only proved the correctness of
my surmise, but, combined with the personal explorations of
Dr. Krapf and M. Lefebvre along the waterparting between
 Shoa and Tigre, and with what we know, though only more
indefinitely, of its continuation to the south of Abessinia, it
       * Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, vol. xii. p. 99.

102            Dr. Beke on the Sottrces of the Nile.
enables us to arrive at tolerably satisfactory conclusions re
specting the general character of the table-land of Eastern
Africa.
   As a whole, this table-land may be described as a succession
of undulating plains, declining very gradually towards the
west and north-west, irregularly studded with loftier mountain-
masses, and intersected by numerous streams; which streams,
after a short course on the level of the plateau, fall abruptly
into deep-cut valleys, in which they soon attain a depression of
from 3000 to 4000 feet below the general level of the table-land.
The valleys of the larger streams, though at first mere fissures
in the rocks, soon open to a considerable width : that of the
Abai, in the south of the peninsula of Godjam, is at least
twenty-five miles from the extreme points where it breaks
from the table-land on either side. And, as the country within
these valleys is exceedingly wild and irregular, possessing all
the characters of a mountainous one ; nothing is easier tor a
traveller, who has not first taken a comprehensive view of the
entire region, and who, on crossing a river, finds himself shut
up within a mass of broken country rising around him on all
sides to a relative elevation of 3000 or 4000 feet, or even more,
—than to suppose that, in ascending this broken country on
either side, he is crossing a mountain-chain; whereas, on
reaching the summit, he has merely arrived on the level of the
table-land.
   The fall of the rivers within their deep-cut valleys dimi
nishes gradually as they flow north-westwards to join the main
stream of the Nile; which latter, skirting the western flank of
the high land, is the sink into which the Takkazie, the Bahr
el Azrek or Blue River, the Godjeb, Sobat or River of Ha-
besh, the Shoaberri, and whatever other rivers there may be,
are received; its current being very sluggish, and almost
stagnant in the upper part of its course, except during the
floods. In the dry season its bed would indeed almost seem
to consist of a succession of lakes and swamps, rather than to
be the channel of a running stream. At Khartum, at the
confluence of the Blue River with the Nile, the bed of the
united stream is only 1 525 feet above the ocean ; and it is far
from improbable that even as high up as the 5th parallel of N.
latitude its absolute elevation does not much exceed 2000 feet.
   On the seaward or eastern side of the waterparting, the
declivity being much more abrupt and the extent of country
much more limited than on the western side, the rivers must
necessarily be of secondary importance. Thus, proceeding
from the north, we do not meet with a stream deserving of
name till we come to the Hawash ; and even this river is, near

               Dr. Beke on the Sources ofthe Nile.            103
 Aussa, lost in lake Abhebbad before reaching the ocean. The
 Doho, Wabbi, or Haines's River, which is the next in succes
 sion, appears in like manner not to have sufficient water to
 reach the sea; at least not at all times of the year. Further
to the south, we find the Wabbi-Giweyna, or Gowin, or Juba
 River, possessing a substantive character as an ocean stream ;
but this river, during the dry season, has at its mouth a depth
of only two feet. At a short distance to the south of the
Equator is the Ozi or Mart), which river, though said to be
ofgreat extent, has very little water at the entrance. A short
distance to the south of the Ozi is the Sabaki, which enters
the sea near Melindah, and has a breadth of sixty yards at its
mouth ; but inland it is said to be very much larger. Yet
further to the south, in about 8° S. hit., we find the Lufidgi,
a considerable river, of which the Kwavi, in about 9° S. laU,
appears to be one of the mouths ; and beyond this, in between
 10 and 11° S. lat., is the Livuma, also a large stream.
    These rivers of the coast have been enumerated for three
reasons :—1st. They all of them—as far at least as the Lufidgi
—diminish very considerably in size as they approach the sea ;
which is a proof that they have not a sufficient supply of water
to keep their channels open during the dry season : from
which it also follows that the area of their respective basins
cannot be very large. 2nd. They are all said to rise in the
mountains of Abessinia; an expression which must be ex
plained as meaning, not merely the "Abessinia" of Europeans,
but the entire elevated laud of Eastern Africa, which is known
to the Arabs by the name of Habesh, and to the people of
Sennar by that of Makadah. And thirdly, all these rivers are
stated to communicate either with the Nile, or with the great
lake called Nyassi, said to exist in the interior. This last
statement, if not explained, might lead into error ; and there
is no doubt that a similar assertion with respect to other rivers
of Africa—especially as regards the alleged union of the Niger
with the Nile—has been the cause of much confusion and mis
understanding in the hydrography of that continent. What
ever may be the meaning attached to such an expression
among Europeans, in the native phraseology of Africans it is
merely the enunciation of the fact, that the several sources of
these rivers of the coast are at the waterparting between their
basins and those of the Nile and the streams draining into
Nyassi ; the contiguity of the respective sources being, accord
ing to the native mode of thinking, equivalent to an actual
water-communication between the streams themselves.
   To some persons it may hardly seem possible that such a
mistake should occur. I will therefore give an example from

 KH             Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.
my own personal experience. In August 1 842, when at the
 town of Yaush in Godjam, I obtained a good deal of valuable
 information respecting the countries lying to the east of the
 Abai and to the north of Shoa, from an intelligent Christian
 Abessinian merchant named Negaderas* Fanta, who traded
 between the market of Baso in Godjam and those of Warra-
 liemano and Warrakallu in Eastern Abessinia.
     On my inquiring of Fanta as to the course of the Milli and
 Berkonna, two rivers of Eastern Abessinia both tributary to
 the Hawash, he answered that he knew them well, and that they
joined the Abai. As I was well-aware that this was not and
 could not be the case, I began to fear that all the other informa
 tion with which my friend had been supplying me might be of
 a similar character. But a little explanation showed me that
 he was quite right—that is to say, according to his own way of
 thinking and speaking. On my expressing myself doubtingly
 as to the correctness of his assertion, he at once appealed to my
 self as an eye-witness of the fact. " Do you not say (asked he)
 that you came to Shoa by the way of the Adal country?" I
 admitted that I did. " Consequently you crossed the Hawash,
 into which river the Milli and Berkonna flow." This, too, 1
 could not deny. " The Hawash, after passing between Adal
 and Shoa, runs round to the south of the latter country, be
 tween it and Guragie. Does it not?" As I now began to con
 ceive Fanta's meaning, I did not think it worth while to dispute
 the correctness of this assertion ; though 1 knew the fact to be
 thatthecourseof the river inquestion isyiwnandnottothe south.
 " Well, then, the Hawash joins the Muger, the confluence of
 which river with the Abai you have seen with your own eyes,
 if I mistake not." This last was true enough. And so the good
 man, Fanta, by merely making the Hawash run the wrong
 way, and regarding the Muger as the continuation of it, because
 the two rivers have some of their sources in close contiguity on
 Mount Saldla, succeeded in demonstrating, to his own if not
 to my entire satisfaction, that the Milli joins the Abai ! The
 alleged communication between the Kwara or Niger and the
 Nile, is doubtless to be understood in a similar manner ; the
 sources of the eastern arm of the former and those of the west
 ern arm of the latter being at the waterparting between the
 respective basins of the two rivers, and thus "communicating
 with one another," according to the ordinary African phrase
 ology.
    * Nigaderat means literally the head (ras) of the merchant! (negade), equi
valent perhaps in its primary application and value to the Console dc' Mer-
canti of the Levant—whence our modern title of consul is derived. But
it is now given as a complimentary appellation to mosflRders of standing.

               Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.              105
    How far the high table-land of Eastern Africa extends
southwards it is impossible to determine in the existing im
perfect state of our knowledge on the subject. But it would
seem that we may safely trace its continuation beyond the
Equator. The country of Mono-Moezi, which lies to the
south of 2° S. lat., is described as an elevated plain, the ascent to
which lies chiefly in the territories of the M'sagara and Wohaha
tribes occupying the low lands to the north-west of Zanzibar,
which elevated plain may be regarded as a continuation of the
Abessinian plateau. And, indeed, what knowledge we possess
of the geography of Southern Africa leads to the inference
that the same high land extends along the entire eastern side
of the Continent as far as its southern extremity ; its higher
eastern edge and waterparting being distant from the Indian
Ocean much less than from the South Atlantic, whereby the
rivers all along the eastern coast are far less considerable than
 those of the western coast.
    We have not the means of deciding how far this great
 waterparting of Southern Africa continues to form the boun
 dary of the basin of the Nile. It is manifest, however, that in
 proceeding along it from north to south, we must at length
 reach a point where the waters on its western side, instead of
 continuing to flow northwards into the Nile, take their course
 westwards across the Continent. Consequently, beyond this
 point the waterparting of Southern Africa is between the hy-
 drographical systems of the Indian Ocean and the Southern
 Atlantic; while at the same time a new waterparting comes
 into existence between the hydrographical system of the
 Southern Atlantic, as represented by the river Congo, and
 that of the Mediterranean, as represented by the Nile; which
 latter waterparting may, in a general way, be considered to run
 from east to west, or perhaps rather from south-east to north
 west.
     In the ordinary maps of Africa we 6nd a chain of mountains
 laid down as stretching across the Continent from west to east,
 between the 7th and 8th parallels of north latitude. This
 chain bears the name of the " Mountains of the Moon ;" it
 is supposed to be a continuation of the Kong Mountains of
  Western Africa, in which the rivers Senegal, Gambia, and
  Joliba or Niger, have their sources; and on its northern flank
  the sources of the Nile are also supposed to be situated.
     The recent Egyptian expeditions to explore the Nile have,
  however, demonstrated that such a mountain-chain does not
  exist; for they have sailed over the alleged site of these "Moun
  tains of the Moon," and have advanced as far as the country of
  Bari, in the 4lh parallel of north latitude, without meeting with

 106           Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.
any mountains that could lay claim to this title. A detailed
account of the second of these expeditions, being the one which
penetrated the furthest, has recently been published by M.
Ferdinand Werne of Berlin, who took part in it*. The author
states that, according to Lakono, king of Bari, the course
of the river continues thence southwards a distance of thirty
days' journey, as far as the country of Anyan, where it divides
into four small branches. It may not be easy to determine
at what rate this distance of thirty days' journey is to be cal
culated ; but if we roughly estimate it at twelve miles per
diem (merely as a first approximation), we shall have a di
stance of 360 miles, or six degrees of latitude ; which distance,
measured from Bari, carries us to two degrees south of the
equator.
   This brings us into the country of Mono-Moezi, of which
mention has already been made ; and this (coupled with va
rious other circumstances which it is unnecessary to enter on
heref) afibrds not only a plausible derivation of the name of
the " Mountains of the Moon," in which the Nile is, by uni
versal consent, considered to have its origin, but it serves at
the same time to determine the position of those mountains in
a manner that would seem to be but little, if at all, removed
from the truth.
   The " Mountains of the Moon " are an established feature
of African geography. All writers, whether Arabian or
European, mention them; all travellers in central Africa hear
of them; and yet so indefinite, so various, so contradictory
are the statements respecting these mountains, that nothing
in the least degree satisfactory has been decided about them.
There is however good reason for believing, that all that has
been written and said on the subject of the sources of the Nile
in the Mountains of the Moon, is founded on the statements
of the celebrated astronomer and geographer Claudius Ptole-
mseus of Alexandria, who flourished in the second century of
the Christian oera. One thing is certain, which is, that he is
the first writer by whom the Mountains of the Moon are
mentioned; and it is most probable that he derived his infor
mation respecting them from the Greek traders of Alexandria,
who, from the time of Hippalus's discovery of the monsoons
in the middle of the preceding century, if not previously, fre
quented the east coast of Africa.
   Our only sure method of proceeding seems, then, to be,
that we should refer back to the original statements of Pto
lemy ; and that, without regarding the numerous commentaries
  * Reise zur Entdeckung der Quellen den Weiiten Nil. 8vo. Berlin, 1848.
  t See Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xlv. p. 221 el icq.

                Dr. Beke on the Sources of' the Nile.        107
and glosses upon those statements, we should ourselves exa
mine and attempt to elucidate them with the help of the ex
tended geographical knowledge which we possess at the pre
sent day.
    Now, in the 9th chapter of the 4th book of his Geography,
Ptolemy describes the eastern coast of Africa as stretching
" towards the east from Cape Rhaptum on the Barbarian
Gulf, which is also called the Rough Sea on account of the
shoals, as far as Cape Prasum ; beyond which the country is
unknown." And he proceeds to describe Cape Prasum as
being situate in 80° longitude east of Ferro, and 15° S. lat.;
and that "near it, towards the north-east, is an island,
named Menuthius, which lies in 85° E. long, and 12° 30* S.
lat." He adds, that " round the gulf dwell certain cannibal
negroes (iEthiopes Anthropophagi), on the west of whose
country are the Mountains (or hill-country) of the Moon —
to tt)<> SeXfjvr?? opo<;—the snows of which are received into the
lakes of the Nile." And he describes these Mountains of the
 Moon as lying in 12° SO7 S. lat.; the one extremity of them
being in 57°, and the other in 67° E. long.
    On testing, by means of the information possessed by us
 at the present day, the results arrived at by the geographer
of Alexandria, we are at once struck with the great extension
 in a southerly direction, which Ptolemy has given to the
 courses of the Nile and its two great tributary streams, the
 Astaboras and Astapus, as likewise to the eastern coast of
 Africa, as far as it was then known. For the correction of
 this fundamental error our means are two. The one is the
 positive knowledge respecting the courses of the rivers them
 selves, which has been acquired from the recent Egyptian
 expeditions up the Nile and the explorations of travellers in
 Abessinia; the other is the like positive information derived
 from the surveys made of the east coast of Africa, and from
 the particulars respecting the interior of the Continent col
 lected at various points along the coast.
    From the former of these sources of information we are
 enabled to lay down, with almost absolute accuracy, the course
 of the Astaboras, now known as the Atbara or Takkazie, and
 that of the Astapus, Blue River or Abai. From the same
 source we further learn that in about 9° N. lat. the main
 stream of the Nile divides into three arms; namely— 1st, the
 Bahr el Abyad or White River, which has been ascended to
 about the 4th parallel of N. lat. ; 2nd, the Sobat, Telfi or
 River of Habesh, which falls into the central stream from the
 east, and is considered to contribute to the Nile nearly a
  moiety of its waters; and 3rd, the Bahr el Ghazal or Kei'luh,

  108           Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.
  which joins the Nile from the west, and is described as being
 a magnificent stream, with a tolerably rapid current.
     It will be observed, however, that by Ptolemy the main
 stream of the Nile is laid down as consisting of two principal
  arms, the junction of which is placed by him in the second
 parallel of north latitude, or nearly seven degrees to the south
 of where the junction of the three principal arms actually takes
 place. In order to prevent misunderstanding, it is proper to
 direct attention to the fact, that I am not alluding here to the
 confluence of the Bahr el Abyad and Bahr el Azrek— the
 White and Blue Rivers—which are commonly but erroneously
 called the White and Blue Niks. This confluence takes place
 at Khartum in 15° 37' N. lat. ; and, as it will be plainly seen,
 it is merely the junction of the Astapuswith the Nilus. Pto
 lemy's bifurcation of the Nile is, on the contrary, formed by
 the union of the Sobat, or River of Habesh, with the White
 River, in 9° 20' N. lat., more than six degrees of latitude to
 the south of Khartum. It is important to bear this in mind ;
 as one of the most fertile sources of error in the consideration
 of this subject, has been the regarding of the Blue River, or
 " Bruce's Nile " as it is frequently called, as one of the main
 arms of Ptolemy's Nile, which it manifestly is not.
    Turning now to the east coast of Africa, our first point is
to identify the island of Menuthias; and though the subject
is not altogether free from difficulties, the greatest amount
of probability is certainly in favour of the island of Zan
zibar. As it is essential to the investigation of the subject
that we should advance from some fixed point, it shall be
assumed that the identity of Zanzibar with Menuthias is esta
blished. And such being the case, it follows that the Bar
barian Gulf is the bay or bight in which Zanzibar is situate;
and that the country of the Anthropophagi or cannibals dwell
ing round this gulf, is that portion of the east coast of Africa
which is opposite to that island. Further, as the Mountains
of the Moon are stated by Ptolemy to lie on the western side
of this country of the Anthropophagi, and in the same latitude
as Menuthias, we can have no hesitation in placing those
mountains somewhere in that part of the main land which, in
like manner, lies opposite to Zanzibar.
    If, now, we apply to these general results the knowledge
which we possess of the physical configuration of the plateau
of Eastern Africa, of which a brief outline has already been
given, we shall perceive that the seaward or eastern edge of
this plateau, when viewed from the lowlands along the shores
of the Indian Ocean, presents the appearance and indeed
possesses the character of an extensive range of lofty nioun

                Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.                   109
tains. And that portion of this range which bounds the
country of Mono-Moezi, and which lies in a general direction
to the west or north-west of the island of Zanzibar, corre
sponds so satisfactorily with the " Mountains of the Moon,"
described by Ptolemy as lying on the western side of the
country of the Anthropophagi who dwelt on the shores of
the Barbarian Gulf near Meuuthias, that we may, with every
show of reason, consider the identification as absolute, and
place here the source of Ptolemy's eastern arm of the Nile.
   The name Mono-Moezi itself affords a strong argument in
corroboration of this conclusion. This expression is a com
pound word, significant in many of the languages of the Kafir
class, which are spoken throughout the entire continent of
Africa south of the Equator, as far as the limits of the Hot
tentots. The first component of this name, Mono or Matii,
is of frequent occurrence in the designations of countries in
Southern Africa, such as Mani-Congo, Mani-Puto (as the
Portuguese possessions in Africa are called), Mono-Motapa,
&c. ; and its meaning appears to be king or ruler. The second
component, Moe"zi, which alone is properly the name of the
country, has the signification of moon in the languages and
dialects of the Saw&hilis and of the natives of the countries of
Mono-Moezi, Congo, Mozambique, and various others. The
Sawahilis, among whom the word is thus significant, are the
inhabitants of the sea-coast of Zindj, or Zangebar ; and I con
ceive that the Greeks of Alexandria who traded with that coast,
obtained from these Sawahilis the particulars respecting the
eastern portion of the African continent and the sources of the
Nile, which are recorded by their countryman the geogrnpher
Ptolemy; and that, as it was not an unusual practice among the
Greeks to translate significant proper names into the equiva
lents in their own language, the designation given by Ptolemy
to the mountains in which those sources are situate—SeX^vty?
opo<;, " the mountains, or hill country, of the moon"— is simply
a translation of the Sawdhili expression, " the Mountains of
Moezi*."
   * The discovery of Mount Kilimanjaro, covered with perpetual snow,
recently announced by the Rev. J. Rebmann (see Church Missionary
Intelligencer for May 1849, vol. i. p. 17 et tea.), affords an additional
argument in support of the above hypothesis. Ptolemy states that " the
lakes of the Nile receive the snows of the Mountains of the Moon ;" the
upper course of the direct stream of the river has been carried southwards
to about 2° S. lat. and 34" E. long. ; and Mount Kilimandjaro, which is
crossed by the road from the coast to the country of Mono-Moezi, is placed
by Mr. Rebmann in 3° 40' S. lat. and 36° E. long. Hence the snow-capped
Kilimandjaro may be regarded as forming part of the " Mountains of the
Moon (Moezi)," in which the Nile has its origin.
   Mr. Rebmann mentions that the natives have no specific name for mow,

110              Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.
    It is unnecessary to go into further details to show the rea
sonableness of the opinion that these " Mountains of the
Moon " form the south-eastern rather than the southern limits
of the basin of the Nile. As regards the southern limits
themselves, no more can be said, in the existing state of our
knowledge (or want of knowledge) on the subject, than that
they are most probably formed on the east by the basin of the
 Lutidji or some other large river flowing into the Indian
Ocean, and on the west by that of the Upper Congo. It must
however not be omitted to be mentioned, that we possess evi
dence of the existence, somewhere in this direction, of a great
lake, which is very incorrectly shown in the ordinary maps
under the title of Lake Maravi, and which is more correctly
designated Nyassi or "the sea;" an expression apparently
equivalent to the Arabic Bahr, which is used indefinitely to ex
press a sea, a lake, or a large river,—the "great water," in fact,
of Africans generally ; but whether this " Nyassi" is connected
 with the upper course of the Nile, or of the Congo, or of the
 Lufidji, or whether it possesses a separate hydrographical
system of its own, like the Caspian Sea, we have not for the
 present the means of determining. Should the latter happen
 to be the case, then it may be the basin of this inland lake,
 and not those of rivers flowing in opposite directions into
 the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, which forms the southern
 boundary of the river system of the Nile. But however the
 case may eventually be found to be, the result will not mate
rially affect the arguments already used on the subject; and, at
all events, some of the north-eastern arms of the Congo will
 still have their sources at the waterparting between them and
the extreme south-western branches of the Nile. It is to be
 hoped that Dr. Bialloblotzky, who is on his way to explore
those regions, will be enabled to clear up some of these dark
questions of African geography*.
    It only remains for us to consider the western limits of the
basin of the Nile ; upon which subject an almost total want of
positive information precludes us from saying much.
     According to the information furnished to M. Werne by
Lakono, king of Bari, the direct stream of the Bahr el Abyad,
there called Tubiri, comes from a distance of thirty days'
which they call coldness. But in this there is nothing singular. In the
Arabic and Amharic languages, blrtd means cold (coldness) generally,
while barad (in Amharic more frequently barado) — which is substantially
the same — means hail specifically. —July 1 1, 1849.
    * Since this paper was read this traveller has been compelled to abandon
his undertaking. It must now be left to more favoured explorers to per
form what was hoped for from him.

               Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.          Ill
journey to the south. But M. Lafargue, a French traveller
who ascended the Bahr el Abyad in 1845, states that he was
informed that the main stream comes from the west at a di
stance of only six days' journey south of Bari, It will be seen
that this information is not necessarily opposed to that of M.
 Werne, since both arms may well exist ; but it shows also that
we are still in ignorance with respect to an extensive and pro
bably an immense division of the basin of the Nile—namely,
 the whole of that portion of it which lies to the west of the
direct stream ascended by the Egyptian expeditions. In the
 absence of any certain data, it would be mere speculation to
 attempt to fix the waterparting in this direction, except that
 we know that it cannot possibly lie much, if anything, beyond
 the 20th meridian of east longitude, where the basin of the
 Nile must necessarily be limited by that of Lake Tchad.
     We will therefore descend the main stream of the White
 River northwards as far as 7° 43' N. lat., where the officers
 of the second Egyptian expedition found it to receive three
 branches from the south and west. These tributaries were
 considered to be of no importance, and to appear to proceed
 only from the neighbouring marshes. But they require to be
 more closely examined before it can positively be asserted that
 they are not streams of some, perhaps even considerable im
 portance. Thence continuing to descend the river, we come
 at length, in 9° 2(y N. lat., to the great western arm, called
  Bahr el Ghazal or Keilah, which has been already described.
  The first exploring party was almost in doubt whether this
  was not the principal arm of the river; but as their instruc
  tions from the Pasha were imperative as to their exploring
  the direct stream, they did not afford it that attention which
  it evidently deserves. M. Lafargue, who subsequently en
  tered the mouth of this river, describes it as a magnificent
  stream with a tolerably rapid current.
      M. Werne, in speaking of the Bahr el Ghazdl, states that
  it was described to him as coming from Barbary ! This our
  positive knowledge enables us to assert to be impossible. For
  Denham and Clapperton crossed the continent of Africa from
  the Mediterranean to Lake Tchad, in about the 15th meridian
  of east longitude; and we know that there does not exist on
  their route any watercourse which might be considered as the
  upper portion of this river. It would, however, doubtless be
  wrong to understand the expression "Barbary" in the sense
  in which we usually employ it; as it is not to be imagined that
   the inhabitants of the valleys of the Bahr el Abyad and Bahr
  el Ghazal have any actual knowledge of that portion of Africa
   to which we give this name. We must therefore suppose that,

   112            Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.
  in speaking of the origin of the latter river, they made use
 of some expression equivalent to the Arabic Belad-cl Gharb;
  which, though the name given by Orientals to Barbary, means
  literally the west country, Barbary being so called simply because
  it lies to the west of them. Lfnder this view of the case, the
  statement must be understood to have been, not that this west
  ern arm of the Nile rises in Barbary, but merely that it comes
  from some country in the west*.
     The fact of the existence of this great western arm, which
 is beyond all question, gives rise to serious considerations.
  More especially it requires us to re-investigate a statement
 made by the historian Herodotus respecting the upper course
 of the Nile—a statement which geographers of modern times
 have concluded could only be applicable to the Niger, Joliba
 or Kwara (Quorra) of Western Africa.
     In treating, in his second book, of the origin of the Nile,
 the historian says: — "This river flows from the west and the
 setting of the sun ; but beyond this no one is able to speak with
 certainty, for the rest of the country is desert by reason of the
 excessive heat. But I have heard the following account from
 certain Cyrenaeans, who say that they went to the oracle of
 Ammon, and had a conversation with Etearchus king of the
 Ammonians ; and that, among other subjects, they happened
 to discourse about the Nile,—that nobody knew its sources :
 whereupon Etearchus said, that certain Nasamonians once came
 to him ; this nation is Libyan and inhabits the Syrtis, and the
country for no great distance eastward of the Syrtis; and that
 when these Nasamonians arrived, and were asked if they could
give any further information touching the deserts of Libya,
they answered, that there were some daring youths amongst
them, sons of powerful men ; and that they, having reached
 man's estate, formed many other extravagant plans, and more
over chose five of their number by lot to explore the deserts
of Libya, to see if they could make any further discovery than
those who had penetrated the furthest.                  That when the
young men deputed by their companions set out, well-furnished
 with water and provisions, they passed first through the inha
 bited country; and having traversed this, they came to the
region infested by wild beasts; and after this they crossed the
desert, making their way towards the west; and when they had
traversed much sandy ground, during a journey of many days,
they at length saw some trees growing in a plain ; and that
they approached and began to gather the fruit that grew on the
trees; and while they were gathering, some diminutive men,
    • Algarvc, the southernmost province of the kingdom of Portugal oppo
site Barbary, derives its name from the Arabic eUGharb.

               Dr. Beke on the Sources of the Nile.             113
less than men of middle stature, came up, and having seized
them carried them away ; and that the Nasamonians did not
at all understand their language, nor those who carried them
off' the language of the Nasamonians. However, they con
ducted them through vast morasses, and when they had passed
these, they came to a city, in which all the inhabitants were of
the same size as their conductors, and black in colour : and
by the city flowed a great river, runningfrom the west to the
east, and that crocodiles were seen in it. Thus far I have
set forth the account of Etearchus the Ammonian ; to which
may be added, as the Cyrenseans assured me, that he said
the Nasamonians all returned safe to their own country, and
that the men whom they came to were all necromancers.
 Etearchus also conjectured that this river, which flows by
 their city, is the Nile; and reason so evinces: for the Nile
flows from Libya, and intersects it in the middle, and (as I
 conjecture, inferring things unknown from things known) it
sets out from a point corresponding with the Ister             So I
think that the Nile, traversing the whole of Libya, may be
properly compared with the Ister. Such, then, is the ac
 count that I am able to give respecting the Nile*."
     The objection usually made to the supposition that this
 river of Herodotus is the upper course of the Nile, is, that
 the Nasamonians travelled, not southwards but westwards,
 and that consequently they could not have reached any river
 but the Niger. But, if the historian's expressions are to
 be taken as strictly meaning that the road lay throughout in a
 westerly direction, it is manifest that it would be just as impos
 sible for the travellers to have arrived at the Niger as to have
 reached a western arm of the river of Egypt. In either case,
 then, we are bound to suppose that they first proceeded south
 wards —to what distance we cannot say— and then, by con
  tinuing during the last part of their journey in a westerly di
  rection (which is in no wise to be understood as meaning due
 west), they may without difficulty have come to the Nile, that
  is to say, to the upper course of this great western arm, pos
  sibly at no very great distance to the east or north-east of
  Lake Tchad.
     The mention of this lake induces me to suggest the proba
 bility that Nyassi and Tchad, the one at the extremity of the
 southernmost and the other at the extremity of the western
  most arm of the Nile, are the originals of the two lakes
  which Ptolemy describes as receiving the snows of the Moun
  tains of the Moon.
     It has merely to be added, that, according to a sketch-map
                    • Lib. ii. § 31-34; Cary's translation.
      Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 234. Aug. 1849.           I

114                   Mr. Grove on the Effect of
of Darfur, drawn at Cairo in 1841 by Dr. Perron, under the
dictation of Sheikh Mohammed el Tunisi, there is a large
river in the west of that country named Bare ; and that from
the evidence collected by M. Jomard in his Preface to the
 Voyage ait Darfour of the Sheikh, it may be concluded that
both that country and Kordofan lie within the basin of the
Nile, and that this river Bare is an affluent of the Bah r el
Ghazal of the Egyptian expeditions.
    We have thus brought the limits of the hydrographical
system of the Nile round again to the confines of Nubia and
 Egypt; in which countries, as it is well known, the basin of
that river, on the western as on the eastern side, consists of
little more than the bed of the stream itself.
   St- Mildred's Court,
      Dec. 30, 1848.
 XV. On the Effect of surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition.
            By W. R. Grove, Esq., M.A., V.P.R.S.*
 IN the Philosophical Magazine for December 1845, I
     pointed out a striking difference between the heat gene
 rated in a platinum wire by a voltaic current, according as
 the wire is immersed in atmospheric air or in hydrogen gas,
and in the Bakerian Lecture for 1847 I have given some fur
ther experiments on this subject, in which the wire was ignited
in atmospheres of various gases, while a voltameter enclosed
in the circuit yielded an amount of gas in some inverse ratio
 to the heat developed in the wire. It was also shown, by a
 thermometer placed at a given distance, that the radiated heat
was in a direct ratio with the visible heat.
    Although the phenomenon was apparently abnormal, there
were many known physical agencies by which it might pos
sibly be explained, such as the different specific heats of the
surrounding media, their different conducting powers for elec
tricity, or the varying fluency or mobility of their particles
 which would carry off the heat by molecular currents with
different degrees of rapidity.
    The investigation of these questions will form the subject
of this paper.
    An apparatus was arranged, see fig. 1. Two glass tubes A
and B, of 0-3 inch internal diameter and 1*5 inch length, were
closed with corks at each extremity; through the corks the ends
of copper wires penetrated, and joining these were coils of fine
   * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1849, part i.; having been
received by the Royal Society August 10, and read December 14, 1848.

               surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition.                     115
 platinum wire, one-eightieth of an inch diameter and 3*7 inches
 long when uncoiled. Tube A was filled with oxygen, tube B
 with hydrogen, and the tubes thus prepared were immersed in
 two separate vessels, in all respects similar to each other, and
containing each 3 oz. of water. A thermometer was placed in
 the water in each vessel ; the copper wires were connected, so
as to form a continued circuit, with a nitric acid battery of eight
cells, each plate exposing eight square inches of surface. Upon
the circuit being completed the wire in the tube containing
oxygen rose to a white heat, while that in the hydrogen was
 not visibly ignited ; the temperature of the water, which at
the commencement of the experiment was 60° F. in each
vessel, rose in five minutes in the water surrounding the tube
of hydrogen from 60° to 70°, and in that containing oxygen
from 60° to 81°*.
    Before I enter into a further detail of experiments, I would
remark upon the extraordinary character of this result. The
same current or quantity of electricity passes through two
similar portions of wire immersed in the same quantity of
                                    Fig. 1.
   • After the publication of the Bakerian Lecture, my experiment on the
peculiar effect of hydrogen on the ignited wire was noticed in a paper by
M. Matteucci, which though I had it in my hand shortly after its publi
cation, I regret to say I did not read with the attention it deserved. 1 have
read it since the experiments in this paper were commenced, and I see that
I am now executing a task assigned to me by my friend. M. Matteucci,
for a different object, makes a somewhat similar experiment to the one
given above, which however differs from mine in the material point, that
he operated first on one gas and then on the other, and thus did not com
pare the effects produced by the same quantity of electricity. I cannot
quite agree in the conclusions deduced by him from this and the other
experiments he cites, but I will not here contest them, as it would lead me
away from the main point of this paper.
                                      I 2

H6                     Mr. Grove on the Effect of
liquid, and jet, in consequence of their being surrounded by
a thin envelope of different gases, a large portion of the heat
which is developed in the one portion appears to have been
annihilated in the other. Similar experiments, varying the
gas in one tube while hydrogen was retained in the other,
gave the following results. In five minutes the thermometer
rose—
                     In the hydrogen.            In the associated nitrogen.
        1st. From 60° to 69°'5.                From 60° to 81°-5.
                       In hydrogen.                  In carbonic acid.
        2nd. From 60° to 70o,5.                From 60° to 80°.
                      In hydrogen.                   In carbonic oxide.
     . 3rd. From 60° to 70°.                    From 60° to 79°-5.
                       In hydrogen.                    In olefiant gas.
       4th. From 60° to 70°-5.                  From 60° to 76°-5*.
     On a different day I tried the following experiments; all
the circumstances were the same, excepting that the battery
was in more energetic action, for which reason I have not
tabulated them with the others.
     In oxygen associated with coal gas the thermometer rose in
five minutes—
                In oxygen.                             In coal gas.
        From 60° to 82°.                       From 60° to 76°.
     In hydrogen associated with coal gas the thermometer rose
in five minutes—
               In hydrogen.                             In coal gas.
       From 60°'to 77°.                        From 60° to 82°-5.
 From this it would appear that coal gas should be placed, as
to its cooling effect on the ignited wire, between hydrogen
and olefiant gas.
     On another day sulphuretted hydrogen associated respec
tively with oxygen and hydrogen was tried ; the wire in the
sulphuretted hydrogen was at first ignited to a degree some
what inferior to that in oxygen, but the gas was rapidly de
composed ; sulphur being deposited on the interior of the
vessel and the intensity of ignition gradually decreased, so as
ultimately to be scarcely superior to the ignition in hydrogen :
    * I should perhaps remark, that several test experiments were tried to
ascertain the working of the apparatus; thus, the same gas was placed in
both tubes, and the results given by the thermometer were found to be
accurately the same in both vessels. The tubes were also changed with
reference to the containing vessels and to the contained gases. The water
was always agitated to render its temperature uniform previously to reading
off, &c. &c.

              surroutiding Media on Voltaic Ignition.                      1 17
indeed the gas by this time had become nearly pure hydrogen.
The following were the effects on the thermometer in five
minutes, all being arranged as before :—
               In oxygen.                       In sulphuretted hydrogen.
      From 60° to 86°.                         From 60° to 76°.
              In hydrogen.                       In sulphuretted hydrogen.
      From 60° to 79°.                         From 60° to 81°-5.
   This result would place sulphuretted hydrogen between
hydrogen and coal gas ; but as the gas was rapidly decom
posed, the greater part of the experiment was made with hy
drogen containing small quantities of sulphur combined, and
not with sulphuretted hydrogen. I therefore think that proto-
sulphuret of hydrogen, or the gas which consists of equivalent
ratios of the two elements, would be much further removed
from pure hydrogen ; probably it would be about equal in its
cooling effect to carbonic acid or carbonic oxide.
   In phosphuretted hydrogen the platinum wire is destroyed
by combining with the phosphorus the instant it reaches igni
tion, so that its relation to the other gases could not be ascer
tained.
   Protoxide and deutoxide of nitrogen are, as I have ob
served in the Bakerian Lecture, decomposed by the ignited
wire; they, as well as atmospheric air, are, as nearly as may
be, equal in their effect to their elements separately.
   In the vapour of aether the ignited wire is extinguished
nearly as completely as in hydrogen ; I have not yet tried its
comparative effect, but should judge it to be nearly the same
as coal gas or olefiant gas.
   In my former experiments* the following was the order of
the gases, testing the intensity of ignition by the inverse con
ducting power of the wire, as measured by the amount of gas
in a voltameter included in the circuit.
                                             Cubic inches of gas evolved in
       Gases surrounding the wire.            the voltameter per minute.
               Hydrogen                                   7*7
               Olefiant gas                               7'0
               Carbonic oxide                             66
               Carbonic acid                              6*6
               Oxygen                                     6*5
               Nitrogen                                   6*4
Assuming that in the present experiments the heat in the
water is a correct indication of the intensity of ignition in the
wire, the order is the same in both series of experiments.
 • Philosophical Transactions, 1847, p. 2. [Phil. Mag. S. 3. vol. xxxi. p. 21 .]

118               Mr. Grove on the Effect of
Hydrogen is however so far removed from both oxygen and
nitrogen in its effects upon the ignited wire, that in order
more accurately to ascertain the relative position of the latter
two gases, I made a few further experiments on them as con
trasted with each other, and not with hydrogen. I first re
peated my former experiment on these two gases, varying it
only by changing the circumstances in the manner suggested
by the present experiments, which on account of the vessel
containing the wire being immersed in a given quantity of
water, instead of being exposed to the external atmosphere,
would occasion greater equality in the surrounding cooling
effects, and would give me the opportunity of combining both
methods in one experiment.
   I filled both tubes A and B with oxygen, and included a
voltameter in the circuit ; in two minutes 3"4S cubic inches of
hydrogen were evolved in the voltameter, and the thermometer
in each cell had risen from 60° to 63°. A similar experiment
with nitrogen gave in two minutes 3-4 cubic inches of hydro
gen, and the thermometer rose from 60° to 63°.
   This experiment accords with my previous one as to the
voltameter test, but indicates no difference in oxygen and
nitrogen with the thermometer test; I therefore in the fol
lowing three experiments associated nitrogen with oxygen in
the apparatus, fig. 1. All things being disposed as witli the
experiments on hydrogen associated with other gases, in five
minutes the thermometer rose—
                       In the oxygen.    In the associated nitrogen.
   Exp. 1st. From 60° to 71°-5.          From 60° to 73°.
          2nd.        60° to 77°.                60° to 76°.
          3rd.        60° to 75°.                60° to 76°.
   Mean ... 60° to 74°-5.                        60° to 75°.
   The battery had increased somewhat in power after the
first experiment, but as both wires formed part of the same
circuit in each experiment, the variations in battery power do
not affect the comparative results. The second experiment
gives a variation in the position of oxygen and nitrogen with
reference to the first and third experiments, but the gases so
nearly approach in their cooling effects, that these slight dif
ferences are not much to be relied upon ; however I applied a
further test. I associated in turn oxygen and nitrogen with
carbonic acid ; the following were the results. In five minutes
the thermometer rose—
                        In oxygen.             In carbonic acid.
   Exp. 1st. From 60° to 75".            From 60° to 75°.
         2nd.         60° to 76°.                60' to 75°.

             surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition.              119
                       In nitrogen.             In carbonic aciJ.
    Exp. 1st. From 60° to 74°.                     60° to 73°.
         2nd.         60° to 73°.                 60° to 72°-5.
   The battery had in the last experiment a little decreased in
power; the oxygen and nitrogen both produced a less cooling
effect than the carbonic acid, but the oxygen came nearer to
it than the nitrogen, thus according with the previous experi
ments. Upon the whole it would appear that oxygen pro
duces a somewhat greater cooling effect on the ignited wire
than nitrogen, but these gases may, for the purposes of this
paper, be fairly regarded as equal. Atmospheric air produces .
a similar effect to oxygen and nitrogen separately, though I
am inclined to think that a slight chemical change takes place
when atmospheric air is exposed to the ignited wire, and that
nitrous acid is formed; for if litmus paper be held over a vol-
taically ignited platinum wire in the air, a slight but very per
ceptible tinge of red marks the portion of it immediately over
the wire.
   With the view of ascertaining whether the specific heat of
the surrounding media were the cause of the phaenomenon, I
proceeded to try the effect of the wire carrying a voltaic cur
rent on different liquids; all things being disposed as in the
previous experiments, and 3 oz. of water being associated
respectively with the same quantity of the following liquids.
The thermometer rose in five minutes—
In water, from 60° to 700,3. In spirit of turpentine 60°to88°.
In water, from 60° to 70o,3. In sulphuretofcarbon 60°to87o,l.
In water, from 60° to 69°.     In olive oil   ... 60° to 85°.
In water, from 60° to 70°*1. In naphtha       .  .   . 60°to78°-8.
In water, from 60° to 70°'5. Inalcoholsp.gr. 0-84 60° to 77°.
In water, from 60°torJ8°-5. In aether . . . . 60°to76Oll.
    I do not much rely on the last experiment,— the battery
was in more feeble action ; and though each of the above re
sults is the mean of three experiments, yet the variations in
the results of the different experiments with aether being con
siderable (while in the others they were very trifling), lead me
to place no great dependence on it. The rapidity of evapo
ration and the readiness of ebullition of the aether require that
a larger quantity should be used ; but as this for the purpose
 of comparison would have required all the experiments to be
 repeated with different quantities of liquid, I have not thought
it worth while to go through the series a second time. It will

120                  Mr. Grove on the Effect of
be observed, that the effects with the above liquids are by no
means in direct relation with their respective specific heats ;
but in order to bring the results of the experiments with
liquids into comparison with those with gases, I now asso
ciated a gas with a liquid, viz. hydrogen with water. All
things being disposed as before, the tube A was filled with
hydrogen gas, the tube B with water, both being immersed in
S oz. of water. The thermometer rose in five minutes —
                  In hydrogen.                        In water.
          From 60° to 75°*5.               From 60° to 72°.
    This experiment of itself conclusively negatives the possi
 bility of specific heat alone accounting for the phenomenon
 under consideration; and though, doubtless, specific heat
 must have some influence on the cooling effects of different
gases and liquids, yet in the former it is apparently of very
 trifling import in comparison with the real physical cause of
 the differences, whatever that may be.
    Supposing, as is stated by Faraday*, that gases possess
feeble conducting powers for voltaic electricity, and supposing
hydrogen, from its close analogy in chemical character to
the metals, to possess a greater conducting power than the
other gases, this would account for its peculiar effect on the
ignited wire, as a certain portion of the current, instead of
forcing its way through the wire, would be carried off by the
surrounding gas. In order to ascertain this I arranged the
following experiments.
    1st. Into the closed end of a bent tube, fig. 2, a loop of
platinum wire, AB, and two separate platinum wires CD,
 were hermetically sealed, the extremities of the latter being
approximated as closely
as possible, and the in-                      Fi6- 2>
terval between them be
ing close to and imme
diately over the apex of
the loop. The tube was
filled with hydrogen,
and the wire AB con
nected with a voltaic
battery of sufficient
power to raise it to as
high a degree of igni
tion as it would bear
without fusion; C and
D were now connected
            * Experimental Researches, §§ 272, 441 and 444

             surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition.          121
with the poles of another battery, a delicate galvanometer
being interposed in the circuit. Not the slightest effect on
the galvanometer needle could be detected, and a similar
negative effect took place when the tube was filled with atmo
spheric air.
   2nd. Parallel portions of platinum wire were now arranged
in close proximity (see fig. 3.), and so that each might be
ignited to a full incandescence by separate insulated batteries.
When surrounded by atmospheres, both of atmospheric air
and of hydrogen, and fully ignited, not the slightest conduc
tion could be detected, across the interval between the wires,
with ten cells of the nitric acid battery, and being enabled by
the kindness of Mr. Gassiot to repeat this experiment with
his battery of five hundred well-insulated cells of the nitric
acid combination, air did not conduct when the ignited wires
were approximated to the one-fiftieth of an inch ; on ap
proaching them nearer they came within striking distance,
were instantly fused, and the galvanometer needle, which had
up to this time been perfectly stationary, was whirled rapidly
round.
   I think I am entitled to conclude from this, that we have
no experimental evidence that matter in the gaseous state con-
                               Fig. 3.
ducts voltaic electricity; probably gases do not conduct
Franklinic electricity, as the experiments which would seem
prima facie to lead to that conclusion, are explicable as re
sulting from the disruptive discharge.
   In Faraday's experiment two wires were approximated in
the flame of a spirit-lamp, and a slight conduction across the
interval in the flame wa3 observed. This conduction might
have been due to certain unconsumed particles of carbon ex
isting in the flame, or possibly to the flame itself; according
to Dr. Andrews, flame, even that of pure hydrogen gas, con
ducts voltaic electricity*.
   I now endeavoured to ascertain whether any specific inductive
effect of the hydrogen might have an influence: parallel wires
of platinum and parallel coiled copper wires were placed in
atmospheres of hydrogen and of atmospheric air, one of which
parallel wires conveyed the current, and the other wire was
connected with a delicate galvanometer. I could detect no
                   * Phil. Mag., vol. ix. p. 176.

122                 Mr. Grove on the Effect of
difference in the arcs of deflection of the needle at the instant
of meeting or breaking contact, whether the wires were in
atmospheres of hydrogen or of atmospheric air ; nor when
parallel platinum wires with their surrounding atmospheres of
gas were immersed in a given quantity of water, could I detect
any difference in the resulting heat, whether the current passed
in the same or in a different direction through each wire.
   My next object was to ascertain whether, in cases of ordi
nary ignition, the same apparent annihilation of heat took
place in hydrogen gas as with voltaic ignition. Two iron
cylinders AB, fig. 4, each weighing 390 grains, were attached
to long iron wires bent back
in the form shown in the
figure. The cylinders were
placed together in a crucible
of fine sand, and the whole
heated to a uniform white
heat. The cylinders were
now taken out of the sand,
placed at the surfaceof equal
portions of water in the ves
sels C and D ; two inverted
tubes, e,f, the one of hy
drogen, the other of atmo
spheric air, were placed over
them, and the whole quickly immersed in the water, and re
tained by a little contrivance, which I need not particularize,
in the position shown in the figure. The temperature of the
water at the commencement of the experiment was 60° Fahr.
In four minutes the water surrounding the hydrogen had risen
to 94°, and became stationary there, while that surrounding
the air had only reached 87 , in ten minutes the water sur
rounding the hydrogen had sunk to 92°*5, while that sur
rounding the air had risen to 93°, which was the highest tem
perature it reached; thus the respective maxima were 94° and
93° ; but considering the greater time which the water sur
rounding the air required to attain its maximum temperature,
and that being during this time at a temperature above that
of the surrounding atmosphere, it must have lost something of
its acquired heat, we may fairly consider the maxima to be the
same, and that the difference of effect in the two gases had
reference solely to the time occupied in the transference of the
heaU In a second experiment the results were similar, the
maximum being in this experiment 92'5 in hydrogen, and 91
in air*.
  * Iron wire produces a similar effect to platinum wire in the voltaic ex
periments.

             surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition.          123
   As far as ordinary ignition is concerned, hydrogen has been
shown by the experiments of Leslie and Davy to produce a
more rapid cooling effect than air; and the above experiment
having shown that it does not alter or convert into any other
force the actual amount of heat given off, my next step was to
inquire whether this rapidity of cooling effect of the hydrogen
would account for the effects observed with voltaic ignition.
Although the two classes of effects were apparently very dif
ferent, it might be that the improved power of conduction
arising from the rapid cooling effect of the hydrogen might,
by enabling the current to pass more readily, carry off the
force in the form of electricity, which if the wire offered more
resistance (as it would when more highly ignited) would be
developed in the form of heat. By employing the same me
dium, but impeding the circulation of the heated currents in
one case, while their circulation was free in the other, some
light might be expected to be thrown on the inverse relation
of the conducting power to the heat developed. The follow
ing experiment was therefore tried.
   In the apparatus represented in fig. 1, tube A was uncorked,
so as to allow free passage for the water, while tube B was
filled up with fine sand soaked with water, and then corked
at both ends ; the current was passed and the following was
the result. In the vessel containing tube A, the thermometer
rose in five minutes from 52° to 60°, and in that containing
tube B from 52° to 60° also; during a second five minutes,
the thermometer rose in the vessel containing A from 60^ to
67°, and in the vessel containing B from 60° to 67° also.
   I tried another analogous experiment: a coil of platinum
wire was placed in a very narrow glass tube one-sixth of an
inch diameter; this was hermetically sealed at one end, and
the other drawn into a very narrow aperture, little more than
sufficient to allow the platinum wire to pass, and filled with
water (it was necessary to leave a small aperture to prevent
the bursting of the tube by the expansion of the heated water);
in the other vessel a similar coil of platinum wire was placed,
but without any glass tube at all. The circuit having been
completed as before, the thermometer rose in five minutes—
      In the water without the tube, from . 60° to 87°.
      In the water containing the tube, from 60° to 86°.
Here the difference, slight as it was, was against what theory
would have led one to anticipate ; the exact equality however
of the previous experiment, and the close approximation of
the results in this one, afford no conclusive information as to
the point under consideration, though the negative result

 124                Mr. Grove on the Effect of
rather tends against the view which would assimilate the effects
of voltaic to those of ordinary ignition.
   As another method of attaining the object before mentioned,
viz. the inverse relation of the conducting power of the wire
to the beat developed in it, I tried the following experiment.
A platinum wire of one foot long and one-eightieth of an inch
diameter was ignited in air by ten cells of the battery, a volta
meter being included in the circuit; the amount of hydrogen
given off by the voltameter was one cubic inch in forty-four
seconds : half the wire was now immersed in water of the
temperature of 60° F. ; by this means the intensity of ignition
of the other half was notably increased ; the voltameter now
yielded one cubic inch in forty seconds: two-thirds of the
wire immersed, gave one cubic inch in thirty-seven seconds;
and five-sixths immersed, gave one cubic inch in thirty-five
seconds. The heat of the portion of wire not immersed in
water had in the last experiment nearly reached the point of
fusion of the platinum. By this result it appears that the
increased resistance to conduction of the ignited portion is not
equal to the increased conducting power of the cooled portion
of the same wire.
   With a view of seeing how far the cooling effect upon the
ignited wire might he due to the greater or less fluency or
mobility of the particles of the different media surrounding it,
I have looked into the papers of Faraday * and of Graham f.
In the experiments of the former, it appears that the escape
of different gases at a certain pressure through capillary tubes,
or the velocities of revolution of vanes or floats surrounded by
different gases, was in some inverse ratio to the density of
such gases ; and the experiments of the latter show that the
effusion or escape of gases through a minute aperture in a
plate, takes place with velocities inversely as the square root
of their specific gravities. In Graham's experiments, how
ever, when the escape took place through capillary tubes, the
results seemed subject to no ascertained law, though the com
pounds of carbon with hydrogen passed through with greater
facility than other gases.
   The cooling effects of gases on the ignited wire are decidedly
not in any ratio with their specific gravities ; thus, carbonic
acid on the one hand, and hydrogen on the other, produce
greater cooling effects than atmospheric air; and olefiant gas,
which closely approximates air, and is far removed from hy
drogen in specific gravity, much more nearly approximates
hydrogen, and is far removed from air in its cooling effect.
            * Quarterly Journal of Science, vol. iii. p. 354.
            f Philosophical Transactions, 1846, p. S73.

              surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition.                     125
    Upon the whole, we may conclude, from the experiments
detailed in this paper, that the cooling effect of different gase3,
or rather the difference in the cooling effect of hydrogen and
its compounds from that of other gases, is not due to differences
of specific heat ; it is not due to differences of specific gravity ;
it is not due to differences ofconducting powers for electricity ;
it is not due to the character of hydrogen in relation to its trans
mission of sound, noticed by Leslie, for reasons which I have
before given*; it is not due to the same physical characters
of mobility which occasion one gas to escape from a small
aperture with greater facility than another; but it may be,
and probably is, affected by the mobile or vibratory character
of the particles by which heat is more rapidly abstracted. I
at one time thought that the effect might have relation to the
combustible character of the gas, and that the electro-negative
gases were in respect to it contra-distinguished from the elec
 tro-positive or neutral gases, but the experience I have ob
 tained from the experiments detailed here induces me to
 abandon that supposition.
    I incline to think, that, although influenced by the fluency
 of the gas, the phenomenon is mainly due to a molecular
 action at the surfaces of the ignited body and of the gas. We
 know that in the recognised effects of radiant heat, the physical
 state of the surface of the radiating or absorbing body exercises
 a most important influence on the relative velocities of radia
 tion or absorption; thus, black and white surfaces are, as
 every one knows, strikingly contra-distinguished in this re
 spect: why may not the surface of the gaseous medium conti
 guous to the radiating substance exercise a reciprocal influ
 ence? why may not the surface of hydrogen be as black, and
 that of nitrogen as white to the ignited wire? This notion
 seems to me the more worthy of consideration as it may esta
 blish a link of continuity between the cooling effects of differ
 ent gaseous media and the mysterious effects of surface in
 catalytic combinations and decompositions by solids such as
 platinum. Epipolic actions will, I feel convinced, gradually
 assume a much more important place in physics than they
 have hitherto done; and the further development of them
 appears to me the most probable guide to the connexion by
 definite conceptions of physical and chemical actions.
     The difference of the cooling effect of hydrogen, and of
 those of its compounds, where it is not neutralized by a pow
 erful electro-negative gas, from all other gases, is perhaps the
  most striking peculiarity of the phaenomena I have described.
    * Philosophical Transactions, 1847. [Phil. Mag. S. 3. vol. xxxi. p. 22.]

  126     On the Effect of surrounding Media on Voltaic Ignition.
  The differences of effect of all gases other than hydrogen and
  such compounds are quite insignificant when compared with
  the differences between the hydrogenous and the other gases.
  There are some phaenomena which I have before observed,
  and which were, at the time I noticed them, inexplicable to
  me ; but they now appear dependent on this physical pecu
  liarity of hydrogen. Thus, if a jet of oxygen gas be kindled
  in an atmosphere of carbu retted hydrogen, the flame is smaller
  than when the converse effect takes place. The voltaic arc
  between metallic terminals is also much smaller in hydrogen
 gas than in nitrogen, though both these gases are incapable of
 combining with the terminals; indeed to obtain an arc at all
 in hydrogen is scarcely practicable.
     Davy has, in his Researches on Flame, given several expe
 riments which are similarly explicable; but though noting the
 results, he nowhere, as far as I am aware, attributes them to
 any specific peculiarity of hydrogen.
     Of the phaenomenon which I have examined in this paper,
 I first published an account in connexion with some experi
 ments on the application of voltaic ignition to lighting mines,
 and it does not appear impossible that the experiments now
 detailed may ultimately find some beneficial application in
 solving the problem of a safety-light for mines. A light which
 is just able to support itself under the cooling effect of ordi
nary atmospheric air would be extinguished by air mixed with
hydrogenous gas.
    I am far from pretending to have devised any means of ful
filling these conditions, and yet supplying an efficient light;
I merely throw it out as a suggestion for consideration, know
ing that there are no additions to our knowledge which are
not ultimately valuable in their practical application; and
that a suggestion, however vague,—a new point to those whose
minds may be occupied with the subject, may lead them to
results which he who makes the suggestion is unable to attain.
    P.S. Since this paper was communicated I have received a
paper from Dr. Andrews of Belfast, who published as early
as 1840, in the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy, ex*
periments similar to those of mine first published in 1845.
My experiments were made in the same year as those of Dr.
Andrews, but as I withheld their publication, Dr. Andrews is
fully entitled to priority. Had I known of his experiments
earlier, I should have recited them in the first part of this
paper.

                                  [   127   ]
XVI. Practical application of the Law pointed out by Dr. R.
   D. Thomson, of the proper Balance of the Food in Nutri
   tion. By Dr. C. Remigius Fresenius, Professor of Che
   mistry at the Agricultural Institute of Wiesbaden*.
IN reference to the question concerning the relation which
     must subsist between the nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous
nutritive substances in the food of men and animals, it is but
due to Dr. R. D. Thomson to acknowledge, that he considers
this the most important circumstance in nutrition, and was
the first to call attention to it.
   This relation is obviously different in various classes of
animals, and besides it must be different even in the same class
of animals, according to their mode of life and to the amount
of exercise they undergo.
   An animal which is hard worked will require a different
proportion to one which stands at rest in a stable; still
more different must be the proportion when our object is to
fatten the animal. I consider it to be one of the most im
portant tasks of dietary and the feeding of cattle, to fix the
requisite proportions suited to the various modes of life, for it
may be understood that these limits cannot be overstepped on
either side without injury.
    Let us suppose, for instance, an animal requires under cer
tain circumstances the proportion of 1 nitrogenous (nutritive)
to 5 non-nitrogenous (calorifiant) constituents in its food ; but
if we give it food in which the proportion of 1 to 10 prevails,
there will be, in the process of nutrition, for every 1 part
nitrogenous only 5 parts non-nitrogenous assimilated ; the
other half of the non-nitrogenous (calorifiant) aliment will be
wasted t-
    But it is not the pecuniary loss alone which arises through
this, that deserves consideration ; for it is clear that the animal
will be burdened with the process of getting rid of the unas-
similated half; for this object strength is required, which
might otherwise have been spared.
    If we give it food containing too large a proportion of nitro
genous aliment, in favourable circumstances it will consume
 the dearer instead of the cheaper non-nitrogenous aliment;
   * Translated from the Lehrbuch der Chemiefiir Landiuirthe, Forslmanner
 und Cameralisten von Dr. C. Remigius Fresenius (1847), page 480, by Wil
 liam Augustus Perston.
   + The original passage is "So wird es beim Ernahrungsproces.se auf je
 1 Thl stickstoffhaitige eben doch nur 5 Thle stickstoffreie Besthandtheile
 verwenden, die andere Halfte der slickstoffhaltigen Nahrungsmittel wird
 vergeudet." The true reading it is apprehended ought to be stickstoffreie
 Nahrungtmitt. I, and ithas thus been rendered in the English version.—Trans.

 128         On the proper Balance of the Food in Nutrition.
 but in unfavourable circumstances it will become diseased, by
 being compelled to act in opposition to nature.
    Taking it for granted that the requisite proportions for dif
 ferent circumstances were ascertained, the choice of aliment
 could be regulated on the most rational basis.
    [We speak here primarily only of the absolute strength of
 nourishment, without noticing the greater or less degree of
 digestibility possessed by equally nutritious substances, and the
 proportion of unassimilable constituents which they contain.]
    We observe, for instance, that cows on a meadow, feeding
only upon grass, enjoy good health. Now let us endeavour
to ascertain how we can produce the same proportion of non-
nitrogenous and nitrogenous aliment with other descriptions
of food.
    The proportion which exists in grass or hay is 1 to 8'3, as
in the following Table: —
                                             The following quantities contain 1 part
                     Relation                        of nitrogenous matter.
                     of 1 part Relation
                     nitroge   of 1 part  Nitroge
                      nous to  nitroge   nous, non-
                    non-nitro   nous to               Dried at    Dried in   Fresh sub-
                                 salts.    nitroge      212°.        sir.     stauces.
                      genous.             nous and
                                            salts.
                         I.        II.       III.        IV.          V.         VI.
  French beans ..       1-81     015          2-96       3-45         4-00
  Lentils               1-87     0-09         2-96       345          4-00
  Field beans           208      015          3-23       3-66         4-29
  Peas                  214      011          3-25       3-66         4-28
  Wheat                 2-42     Oil          3-53       4-21         4-85
  Oats                  4-08     0-24         5-32       6-41         7-35
  Barley          ,     4-25     0-27         5-52       6-53         7-57
  Rye                   4-42     013          5-55       6-29         7-24
  Red turnips ..        5 08     0-42         6-50       6-45                    35-3
  Red clover .....      608      0-60         7-68       7-68        "972        320
  White turnips.        6-39     0-55         794        7-91                    651
  Indian corn           6-55     010          765        813        "9:34
  Mangel-wurzel         726      0-44         8-70       8-65                    48-8
  Carrots               7-84     0-55         9-39       939                     67-6
  Meadow-grass          8-30     0-73       1003       10-73        12-47        32-8
  Potatoes              9        0-40       10-40                                41-2
  Oat-straw ....       12-5      204        15-54      40-00       55-55
  Wheat-straw .,       14-2      2-48       17-68      4000        54 05
  Rice                 14-8      010        15-90      16-61       18-41
  Rye-straw ....       24-4       1-93      27-33      53-48       65-79
  Barley-straw .       293       308        33 38      5235        58-82
  Cherries             41-       018        4218                                175-4
  Pears              121 6       040      123 00                              1250-
   This TntuV, as given by Fresenius, is derived from German authorities,
including several results obtained and published by Dr. Thomson in his
Resenrches on Food, p. 167. See also Phil. Mag., vol. xxxii.p. 459. There is
therefore some discrepancy when compared with English grain, the German
grain being richer in nitrogen. See Dr. Thomson on the Composition of
German and English Bread, Phil. Mag. vol. xxiii. p. 321.

         On the proper Balance of the Food in Nutrition.      lfl&
Were we then to give them carrots, in which 1 part nitroge
nous is contained for every 7'84 parts of non-nitrogenous con
stituents, the proportion would not be materially disturbed ;
but were we to give them potatoes (1 : 9), we disturb the pro
portion somewhat more. It is therefore expedient to feed
them with a substance which is richer in nitrogen ; this proper
proportion may be obtained with exactness by mixing 1 nutri
tious equivalent of red clover with 3 nutritious equivalents of
potatoes :—
                     1x1:6 =1:6
                    3x1:9-00 = 3:27
                                  4:33 or 1 : 8'25.
   To produce this mixture, we feed them by giving them
9'7 lbs. of dried clover for every 123*6 lbs. of potatoes.
    If we wished to give them the same proportion in white
turnips and oat-straw, we must supply for every 2 nutritious
equivalents of the former 1 nutritious equivalent of the latter;
for this mixture gives the proportion of 1 to 8*4 ; that is, they
must be fed with 130 lbs. of fresh white turnips for every
55'55 lbs. of dried oat-straw.
    A horse that works hard requires the proportion of 1 to 4.
For this we give him oats which represent that proportion.
But if we wished to give him the same proportion in Held
beans and hay, we must take for every 2 alimentary equiva
lents of the former 1 alimentary equivalent of hay, for such a
mixture has the proportion of 1 to 4-1. We feed him there
fore with 8*58 lbs. of dry field beans for every 12*47 lbs. of
dry hay.
    A man requires for a certain mode of life the proportion of
 1 to 3. He wishes to eat beef and potatoes; he must, there
 fore, for every 2 alimentary equivalents of beefeat 1 alimentary
 equivalent of potatoes, for this mixture gives the proportion
 of 1 to 3*01 ; he must therefore use for every 2 lbs. of boiled
 beef (reckoned without water) 41 lbs. of potatoes (reckoned in
 the fresh state).
    If he wished to produce the proportion of 1 to 4 with car
 rots and raw bacon, he will attain it by mixing 5 alimentary
equivalents of the former with 6 alimentary equivalents of the
latter, which represent the proportion of 1 to 3'99. For this
purpose he must eat 338 parts of fresh carrots for every 1 1
 parts of raw bacon (reckoned free from water).
    Concerning the question, as to what is the proper quantity
of aliment (possessing the due proportions) which is to be
given under different circumstances, experience alone can de
termine it. For the computation, how the necessary quantity
   Phil. Mag.S. 3. Vol.35. No. 234. ,%. 1849.              K

 130      On the propei- Balance of the Food in Nutrition.
 may be given in diverse properly assorted alimentary mixtures,
 we would refer to the divisions III., IV., V. and VI. of the
 foregoing table.
    If a cow requires in twenty-four hours 10 kilogrammes
 (22 05 lbs. avoirdupois) of air-dried hay, how many kilo
grammes of the mixture given above of clover and potatoes
 would it require to replace it?
     10 kilogrammes of air-dried clover contain in all 8*04 kilo
 grammes (17*728 lbs. avoirdupois) of nutritious matter, for
                       12-47 : 10-03=10: x
                                   *=8-04.
 That mixture will consist of 9*7 kilogrammes (21-38 lbs. avoir
 dupois) of dry clover, which contain in all 7*68 kilogrammes
 (16*93 lbs.) of nutritious matter and 123*6 kilogrammes (272-5
 lbs.) of potatoes, which contain in all 31*20 kilogrammes
 (68*79 lbs.) of nutritious matter.
    133*3 kilogrammes (293*93 lbs.) of the mixture contain ac
cordingly 38*88 kilogrammes (85*72 lbs.) of nutritious matter.
    38-88 kilogrammes (85*72 lbs.) of the joint nutritious mat
 ters are equal to 133*3 kilogrammes (293*93 lbs.) of the mix
 ture. How many are 804 equal to? x = 27*5 (6063 lbs.).
    27*5 kilogrammes (6063 lbs.) of the mixture in question
are equivalent to 10 kilogrammes (22*05 lbs.) of hay in the
proportion and quantity of nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous
alimentary substances. In a precisely similar manner the
kind and quantity of the salts must be attended to in practice.
                   Conclusionsfrom theforegoing.
    We have approximated much more closely to the object
we had in view, viz. a completely rational system of nutrition,
than it has hitherto been possible to do, and can answer the
proposed questions with perfectly accurate average numbers ;
and we have now only duly to consider the influence which
the unappropriated portions of food exert on the body (the
getting rid of them involves a waste of strength) ; and further,
the greater or less degree of digestibility (der leichteren oder
schwereren, schnelleren oderlangsameren Verdaulichkeit) of each
species of aliment, in order to do it with perfect precision.
    But we can even now, from what has already been staled,
educe safe and weighty conclusions, namely the following :—
     1. It is an impossibility to sustain either a man or a beast
on food entirely devoid of nitrogen, however great in quantity
it may be.
    2. All that has been said in the older as well as in many of
the newer books on husbandry, respecting the relative nutri
tive value of different kinds of forage, cannot, inasmuch as it

         On the proper Balance of the Food in Nutrition.       131
was not arrived at by experience, but deduced from theoretical
views, possibly be correct, because these views do not accord
with facts.
   3. The discovery of the true relative value of aliment, and
of the proportion in which it may be replaced, may be ascer
tained without much difficulty, so long as chemists and farmers
work hand in hand for the exact solution of the above ques
tions.
   4. A completely rational system of nutrition, that is such an
one as combines the greatest amount of strength with the
least consumption of nourishment, will then be possible.
   5. A loss of nutritious matter and of strength often takes
place where it would be least expected, namely by the con
sumption of all kinds of food (or forage) where the due pro
portion between nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous constituents
does not exist, say by eating only fruit or potatoes.
   6. It can with safety be decided by the above under what
circumstances substitutes for bread may be employed, and
what is their respective value for each desired proportion.
               Raw and cooked Articles of Food.
   Many kinds of food cannot be eaten raw by man ; others,
although they may be eaten raw, agree much better with us
when cooked.
   Hence boiling, roasting, baking, &c. has a twofold effect;
primarily, it converts indigestible or food difficult of digestion
into a digestible or more easily digestible condition. Thus,
starch is converted into gelatinous starch, into dextrine or
sugar; cartilaginous substances into glue; and chondrine,
fibrine, into changed fibrine, &c. Secondly, it frequently
confers upon them an agreeable taste.
   But can the real nutritive value of food be augmented by
cooking? Impossible ! Still it may be of the greatest benefit
in feeding cattle to cook their food. The advantage accrues
in this way : that potatoes, turnips, &c. are more quickly and
more easily digested when boiled than raw ; and thus there is
much less chance for any portion to be thrown off in an un
digested state (unassimilated). Its warmth gives also a slight
advantage to cooked food; it deprives the body of no heat;
and the non-nitrogenous substances, which in the cold food
would have been required to afford heat, can be used for the
production of fat. But whether cold or warm food is to be
preferred in a practical point of view cannot from all this be
conclusively deduced. It is a question only to be answered
by experience, for the result is entirely dependent on the na
ture and requirements of the animal.
                              K2

                               [   132    ]
XVII. On the alleged Evidence for a Physical Connexion
    between Starsforming Binary or Multiple Groups, arisingfrom
    their Proximity alone. By Prof. J. D. Forbes, F.R.S. $c.
  To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       GENTLEMEN,                                   Melrose, July 13, 1849.
IN conformity with usage and with the spirit of your Journal,
       I may perhaps be permitted to suggest a doubt as to the
legitimacy of certain reasonings with respect to the evidence
for the physical connexion of binary or multiple stars arising
from the mere fact of their juxtaposition, as stated and applied
by some of the most eminent writers on sidereal astronomy.
I should probably have hesitated to oppose my solitary opinion
to that entertained by the eminent writers whom I am about
to quote, had I not found it to be entirely supported by the
eminent authority of two friends to whom I separately pro
posed it.
     Nearly a century ago, Mitchell computed the chances to be
 500,000 to 1 agiinst the stars composing the group of the
 Pleiades hexngfortuitously concentrated within the small ap
 parent space which they occupy; and he thence infers the
 probability of a physical connexion between them. Struve
 has pushed this consideration much further. In his classifi
 cation of double stars he has applied the same argument to
 estimate the improbability of the occurrence of even singlepairs
 of stars in close proximity. He " calculates the odds at 9570
 to 1 against any two stars from the 1st to the 7th magnitude
 inclusive, falling (if fortuitously scattered) within 4" of each
 other. Now the number of such binary calculations actually
 observed at the date of this calculation was already 91, and
 many more have been added to the list. Again, he calculates
  that the odds against any such stars fortuitously scattered fall
  ing within 32" of a third, so as to constitute a triple star, is
  not less than 173,524 to 1. Now, four such combinations occur
  in the heavens." Sir John Herschel, from whose Outlines of
  Astronomy I take this statement of Struve's results, adds,
  '• the conclusion of a physical connexion of some kind or other
  is therefore unavoidable*."
      Now I confess my inability to attach any idea to what would
 be the distribution of stars or of anything else, if " fortuitously
  scattered," much more must I regard with doubt and hesita
  tion an attempt to assign a numerical value to the antecedent
 probability of any given arrangement or grouping whatever.
     * Outlines of Astronomy, p. 564. If I recollect aright, the passage clots
 not occur in the edition in Lardner's Cyclopaedia.

           Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Quaternions.                 133
An equable spacing of the stars over the sky would seem to me
to be far more inconsistent with a total absence of Law or Prin
ciple, than the existence of spaces of comparative condensa
tion, including binary or more numerous groups, as well as of
regions of great paucity of stars. Thus, to take a familiar
instance :— No bad representation of stars and their distribu
tion may be made by sparking viscid white paint from a coarse
brush upon a dark ground. It is impossible to conceive a
nearer approach to a ''random scattering." But I am assured
by an ingenious friend, who has used this contrivance in aid
of pictorial effect, that such an artificial galaxy will present
every variety of grouping, with double and treble points in
numerable (as I have indeed myself witnessed); nor can I
well see how upon any reasonable theory of chance it should
be otherwise.
   I wish to restrict this letter to the end proposed, that of
nakedly setting forth a serious difficulty in an inferential inter
pretation of nature, sanctioned by high and also cumulative
authority. I shall not therefore attempt now to inquire more
minutely into the history of the error, if error it be, nor to insist
on the great importance of arguing correctly in cases which
admit of so very extensive application.
                   I remain, Gentlemen,
                                    Yours faithfully,
                                                 James D. Forbes.
XVIII. On Quaternions; or on a New System of Imaginaries
   in Algebra. By Sir William Rowan Hamilton, LL.D.,
    M.R.I. A., F.R.A.S., Corresponding Member of the Insti
   tute of France, $c., Andrews' Professor of Astronomy in the
    University of Dublin, and Royal Astronomer of Ireland.
                  [Continued from vol. xxxiv. p. 439.]
 82. PT^HIS seems to be a proper place for inserting some
       JL notices of- investigations and results, respecting the
 inscription of rectilinear (but not generally plane) polygons,
 in spheres, and other surfaces of the second degree.
    Let p and a be any two unit-vectors, or directed radii of an
 unit-sphere; so that, according to a fundamental principle of
 the present Calculus, we may write
                            p3 = ,7*=-l                        (237.)
  We shall then have also,
                 0 = <r9-p'! = <7((r-p) + (<r-p)p,     . . .   (238.)

 134         Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Quaternions.
 and consequently
                  <r=—(<T—p)p(<r-p)-l=—\p*-1,          .  .  (239.)
 if X he the directed chord <r— p itself, or any portion or pro
 longation thereof, or any vector parallel thereto. If then p, p„
 Pv ••• ?m °e any series or succession of unit-vectors, while Ap
 Aj, ... >n are any vectors respectively coincident with, or
 parallel to, the successive and rectilinear chords of the unit-
 sphere, connecting the successive points where the vectors
 p . . p„ terminate; and if we introduce the quaternions,
             flri=xi» 5,2 = X9An ?s=Vaxi 5 &c-» • • (24(>-)
 we shall have the expressions,
    Pi = -°iP9i~u> Pi=+°d>9a~,i Ps=-<IaPy3~'i &c- (2*l->
 Hence if we write the equation
                               pn-P                          (242.)
 to express the conception of a closed polygon of n sides, in
 scribed in the sphere, we shall have the general formula,
                          w.-(-»)V«f«                        (2*3-)
 which is immediately seen to decompose itself into the two
 following principal cases, according as the number n of the
 sides is even or odd :
                           PQ2m=+qimP;                       (244.)
                           P9'lm+1=— ?2m+iP                  (245.)
 The equation (244.) admits also of being written thus, by the
 general rules of quaternions,
                             0 = V.PV?2m;                   (246.)
 and the equation (245.) resolves itself, by the same general
 rules, into the two equations following :
                     0aSq3m+l; 0 = S. qim+,p. . . . (247.)
 We shall now proceed to consider some of the consequences
 which follow from the formulas thus obtained.
     83. An immediate consequence of the equations (247.), or
 rather a translation of those equations into words, is the fol
 lowing quaternion theorem \- -If any rectilinear polygon, with
 any odd number ofsides, be inscribed in a sphere, the continued
product of those sides is a vector, tangential to the sphere at the
first corner of the polygon. It is understood that, in forming
 this continued product of sides, their directions and order are
 attended to ; the first side being multiplied as a vector by the
 second, so as to form a certain quaternion product; and this
 product being afterwards multiplied, in succession, by the
 third side, then by the fourth, the fifth, &c, so as to form a

             Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Quaternions.             135
series of quaternions, of which the last will (by the theorem)
have its scalar part equal to zero ; while the vector part, or the
product itself, will be constructed by a right line with a cer
tain definite direction, which will (by the same theorem) be
that of a certain rectilinear tangent to the sphere, at the point
or corner where the first side of the inscribed polygon begins.
 [The tensor of the resulting vector, or the length of the pro
duct line, will of course represent, at the same time, by the
general law of tensors, the product of the lengths of the factor
lines, with the usual reference to some assumed unit of length.]
And conversely, whenever it happens that an odd number of
successive right lines in space, being multiplied together suc
cessively by the rules of the present Calculus, give a line as
their continued product, that is to say, when the scalar of the
quaternion obtained by this multiplication vanishes, then those
right lines may be inferred to have the directions of the suc
cessive sides of a polygon inscribed in a sphere.
   8*. Already, even as applied to the case of an inscribed
gauche pentagon, the theorem of the last article expresses a
characteristic property of the sphere, which may be regarded
as being of a graphic rather than of a metric character ; inas
much as it concerns immediately directions rather than mag
nitudes, although there is no difficulty in deducing from it
metric relations also : as will at once appear by considering
the formula which expresses it, namely the following,
           0 = S.(P-P4XP4-pa)(p6-PJ(Pi-Pl)(Pl-p). . (248.)
(See the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy for July
1846, where this quaternion theorem for the case of the in
scribed pentagon was given.) For the theorem assigns, and
in a simple manner expresses, to those who accept the lan
guage of this Calculus, a relation between the Jive successive
directions of the sides of a gauche pentagon inscribed in a
sphere, which appears to the present writer to be analogous
to (although necessarily more complex than) the angular rela
tion established in the third book of Euclid's Elements, be
tween thefour directions of the "sides of a plane quadrilateral
inscribed in a circle. Indeed, it will be found to be easy to
deduce the property of the plane inscribed quadrilateral, from
the theorem respecting the inscribed gauche pentagon. For,
 by conceiving the fifth side p4p of the pentagon p...p4 to tend
 to vanish, and therefore to become tangential at the first corner
 p, it is seen that the vector part of the quaternion which is the
 continued product of the four first sides must tend, at the
 same time, to become normal to the sphere at p;-in order
 that, when multiplied into a tangential vector there, it may

  136       Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Quaternions.
 give a vector as the product. Hence the vector part of the
 product of the four successive sides of an inscribed gauche
 quadrilateral pp,p4Pg, is constructed by a right line which is
 normal to the sphere at the first corner; and more generally,
 either by the same geometrical reasoning applied to the theo
 rem of art. 8Sj or by considering the signification of the for
 mula (246-.), we may deduce this other theorem, that the vector
 of the continued product of the successive sides of an inscribed
 gauche polygon p . .P2m-i, of any even number ofsides, is normal
 to the sphere at thefirst corner p. Suppose now the inscribed
 quadrilateral, or more generally the polygon of 1m sides, to
 flatten into a plane figure; it will thus come to be inscribed in
 a circle, and consequently in infinitely many spheres at once;
 and the only way to escape a resulting indelerminateness in
 the value for the vector of the product, is by that vector -va
 nishing: which accordingly it may be otherwise proved to do,
 although the present mode of proof will appear sufficient to
 those who examine its principles with care. And thus we
 shall find ourselves conducted to the well-known graphic pro
 perty of the quadrilateral inscribed in the circle, and more
 generally to a corresponding theorem respecting inscribed
 hexagons, octagons, &c, under the form of the following pro
 position in quaternions, which expresses a characteristic pro
 perty of the circle : — The vector part of the product ofthe suc
 cessive sides of any polygon, "with any even number of sides, in
 scribed in a circle, vanishes; or, in other words, the product
 thus obtained, instead of being a complete quaternion, reduces
 itself simply to a positive or negative number. On the other
 hand, it is easy to see, from what precedes, that the product of
 the successive sides of a triangle, pentagon, or other polygon of
 any odd number of sides, inscribed in a circle, is a vector, which
 touches the circle at thefirst corner of the polygon, or is parallel
  to such a tangent.
    85. Although the precise law of the relation between the
directions of the sides of an inscribed gauche pentagon, hep
tagon, &c, expressed by the first formula (247.), is peculiar
 to the sphere ; yet it is easy to abstract from that relation a
part, which shall hold good, as a law of a more general cha
 racter, for other surfaces of the second order. For we may
easily infer, from that formula, especially when combined with
the other equations of art. 82, that if the first 2m sides of an
inscribed polygon of 2m sides, p/p,]p/2 . . Pa™, be respectively
parallel to the successive sides of another polygon of 2m sides,
pp,. . Pim_i, inscribed in the same surface, then the last side,
p'amP'j of4he former polygon, will be parallel to the plane which
touches the surface at the tfirst corner p of the latter polygon :

         Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather.              137
and under this form of enunciation, it is obvious that the theo
rem must admit of being extended, by deformation, to ellip
soids, and other surfaces of the second degree. We may then
enunciate also this other theorem, respecting the inscription
of rectilinear polygons in such surfaces (which theorem was
communicated to the Royal Irish Academy in March 1849):
—If, after inscribing, in a surface of the second degree, any
gauche polygon of 1m sides, pp, . . pim- lf vie thai inscribe in the
same surface another gauche polygon, of+m + 1 sides, pV, . . p'4m,
under the following 4/« conditions ofparallelism :
    pV, 1| pp, ; p'1p'9 || p,pa; . . . p^-V*, || P2n_,P ; (249.)
and
p,*«p*»+i||pPi; p,«m+lp'»m+»l|PiPs; ...p'<m_iP'4I.,||pam-iP;. (250.)
(the first corner p* of the second polygon being assumed at
pleasure on the surface, and the other corners p*,, &c, of that
polygon, being successively derived from this one, by drawing
two series of parallels as here directed ;) then the diagonal
plane v,F,2mv'im, which contains thefirst, middle, and last corners
of the polygon with 4w+ 1 sides, will be parallel to the plane
which touches the surface at thefirst corner p of the polygon with
1m sides. In fact, the two rectilinear diagonals, pV2i„ and
P'jmP^iBj will, by a former theorem of the present article, be
parallel to that tangent plane. For example, if the first,
second, third, and fourth sides, of a gauche quadrilateral in
scribed in a surface of the second order, be parallel to the first,
second, third, and fourth, and also to the fifth, sixth, seventh,
and eighth sides respectively, of a gauche enneagon inscribed
in the same surface; then that diagonal plane of the enneagon
which contains the first, fifth, and ninth corners thereof, will
be parallel to the plane which touches the surface at the first
corner of the quadrilateral.
                          [To be continued.]
XIX. On the Weather during the Quarter ending June 30,
   1849. By James Glaishek, Esq., F.R.S., and of the Royal
   Observatory, Greenwich *.
DURING the past quarter I have inspected the locality
       and the instruments at Exeter, Southampton, Latimer,
Aylesbury, Stone, Hartwell House, Hartwell Rectory, Ox
ford, Cardington, Liverpool, Leeds, Stonyhurst, York, White
haven and Newcastle.
   The results furnished to the Registrar-General for the past
                    * Communicated hy the Author.

 138       Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather
quarter are mostly satisfactory; these I have as usual examined
and reduced.
   The daily temperatures of the air till April 28 and after
June 6 were for the most part below their average values ; the
mean. amount of deficiency in the former period was 3°*7, and
in the latter it was 2°*7. The daily temperatures between
April 29 and June 5 were alternately in excess and defect; the
mean temperature of the interval was somewhat above its
average value. The days whose mean temperatures departed
the most from their averages were April 17, 19, 20, 21 ; May
10 and June 12 ; the defect in these cases were 11°*2; I4°-5;
10°'4; 11°-1 ; 10°-2; and 10o,7 respectively. The mean tem
perature of the three months ending May, constituting the
three spring months, was 46°"6, and that of the average of the
seventy preceding springs is 460,7. The several subjects of
research in the past quarter are detailed below.
   The mean temperature of the air for the month of April
was 43°2, being less than the average of seventy years by 2°7,
and less than the average of the preceding eight years by
5°-0.
   For the month of May was 54o,0, exceeding the average for
seventy years by 1°2, and being less than the average of the
preceding eight years by 0°*4. The mean of the quarter was
51°7, being 0°'5 less than the average of seventy years, and
20,1 less than the average of the preceding eight years.
   For the month of June was 57 9, being of the same value
as that of the average from seventy years, and being less than
that of the preceding eight years by 1 0-9.
   Generally the differences of temperature at one place from
the average values for that place sufficiently indicate the de
partures from the means for all other places ; but in the past
three months this has not been the case, the northern part
of the country having been subjected to a longer continuance
of low temperature than usual, and the departures from the
mean temperatures in the northern parallels of latitude have
been greater than in the southern. This will be more clearly
seen in the following table.
                   Mean Temperature of the Air in the Quarter ending June 30.
  Year.   In Cornwall       South of       Between the       Between the
              and           Latitude        Latitudes of     Latitudes of     North of
           Devonshire.        if.           52° and 53°.     63" and 54°.       84°.
  1847        5°l-3           5°l-9             5°l-2            52-0           4°8-4
  1848        .141            540               53-6             520            507
  1849        520             521               500              49-9           49-8

           during the Quarter ending June 30, 1849.                   139
    The mean temperature of evaporation at Greenwich—
    For the month of April was 41°* 5 ; for May was 49°'0 ; and
for June was 48°*7. These values are 2°"6, 1°*7 and 6°*7 below,
respectively, the averages of the same months in the prece
ding eight years.
    The mean value for the quarter was 46°*4, which is S°*6
below the average of corresponding quarters of eight years.
    The mean temperature of the dew-point at Greenwich—
    For the months of April, May and June, were 390,1, 430,9,
and 48°*4 respectively. These values are 1°*8, 3°*9 and 4°*0
below, respectively, the averages of the same months in the
preceding eight years.
    The mean value for the quarter was 4S°*8, which is 3°*2
below the average from the preceding eight years.
    The mean elastic farce of vapour for the quarter was 0342
inch, which is 0*038 inch less than the average for the pre
ceding eight years.
    The mean weight of water in a cubic foot of air for the
quarter was 3*5 grains, which is 0*3 grain less than the average
for the preceding eight years.
     The mean additional weight of water required to saturate a
cubic foot of air was 1*2 grain.
    This value for the preceding eight years was l'l grain.
     The mean degree of humidity in April was 0'864, in May
was 0*703, and in March was 0*715. The averages for the
eight preceding years were 0*802, 0*797, and 0*778.
     The mean reading of the barometer at Greenwich in January
was 29*517 inches, in February was 29*766 inches, and in
 March was 29*868 inches. These values are respectively 0*215
inch less, 0*022 inch less, and 0080 inch greater than the
averages of the same months for the preceding eight years.
     The average weight of a cubic foot of air under the average
temperature, humidity and pressure, was 534 grains ; the
average for the eight preceding years was 535*4 grains.
     The rain fallen at Greenwich in April was 2*2 inches; in
 May was 3*9 inches; and in June was 0*2 inch. The amount
 for the quarter was 6*3 inches ; the average amount for the
preceding eight years was 4*74 inches. This excess of rain
was experienced only in the southern part of England. The
fall of rain between the latitudes of 52° and 53° was about the
average for this parallel. North of 53° the fall has been
 small, and but little more than half the usual amount.
     The horizontal movement of the aiVhas been less than usual ;
 its direction is uncertain ; observers in the same locality have
 deduced the average direction differently*.
    * Within the lust few weeks a system of daily returns of the direction
 of the wind, taken simultaneously at many different places in England, the

  140          Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather
     The average daily ranges of the thermometer in air, at the
  height of four feet, were 16o,0, 1 6°-3, and 20°*6. The average
  ranges of these three months from the observations of the
  eight preceding years, were 16°-8,iy0-2, and 190-2 respectively.
      The readings of the thermometer on grass in April was at
  and below 32° on nineteen nights, the lowest was 19'; between
  32° and 40° on eight nights, and above 40° on three nights.
  In May the lowest reading was 26"*7; and the readings were
  below 32D on four nights; between 32° and 40° on seven
  nights ; and above 40° on twenty nights. In June the read
  ing was 32° on one night; at and below 40° on nine nights ;
  between 40° and 50° on eighteen nights; and above 50° on
  one night.
     At St. John's Wood the lowest reading of a thermometer
  with its bulb placed in a parabolic reflector and fully exposed
  to the sky, was 20°-2 in April, 27°2 in May, and 31° in June.
     At Cardington the reading of a thermometer on grass was
 less than 32° on eight nights in June; the lowest reading was
  26°5.
     At Wakefield, on June 12 and 13, water exposed to the
  sky was frozen on both nights.
     At Whitehaven the month of June was unusually cold, and
 vegetation was subjected to very low temperatures at night; a
 thermometer placed on grass on a layer of wool frequently fell
  many degrees below the freezing-point, and on two nights it
 fell to 25°. Ice was seen on several mornings, and snow fell
 amongst the mountains on the 3rd, a phenomenon which has
 not been witnessed in June since the year 1827.
     During the month of June the readings at night were un
 usually low, even the temperature of the air in many places
 nearly fell to 32°, and actually did so in York, which was a
 point lower than the observer Mr. Ford had ever before seen
 in June.
     There were four exhibitions of the aurora borealis during
 the quarter ending June 30, 1849 ; it occurred on May 31, and
 was seen at Stone; on June 15 at Stone; on June 26 at La
 timer, auroral streamers passed from S.W. nearly across the
 zenith to the horizon in the N.E. ; and on June 30, at Latimer,
 some beautiful auroral flushes were seen at 10h 30m p.m.
     Thunder-storms occurred on April 28 and on May 2 at
 Stone ; on May 3 at Uckfield, Stone, Saffron Walden, and
 Nottingham; on May 4 at Uckfield; on May 14 at Saf
 soiith of Scotland, and which it is to be hoped will soon embrace some por
tions or Ireland, have been organized. All the stations from which returns
arc now sent, I have visited and given instructions to the observers so as to
ensure accuracy. The observations arc published daily in the Daily New*
newspaper. If this system be continued some time valuable information
will be collected.

           during the Quarter ending June 30, 18+9.            141
fron Walden, Holkham, and Nottingham; on May 17 and
1 8 at Leicester and Nottingham ; on May 22 nt Nottingham ;
on June 4 at Uckfield and Nottingham ; on June 5 at Nor
wich ; on June 6 at Holkham ; on June 7 at Helston ; on June
9 at Helston; on June 16 at Hartwell; and on June 17, 18
and 19, at Helston.
    Lightning was seen but thunder was not heard on May 3,
at Uckfield; on May 4 at Uckfield, Nottingham and Stone;
on May 14 at Leicester; on June 3 at Uckfield; on June 4
at Wakefield ; on June 5, 7 and 9, at Helston ; and on June
12 at Nottingham.
     Thunder was heard but lightning was not seen at Wakefield
on April 6 ; at Exeter on May 5 ; at Uckfield on June 4 and
8; at Hartwell on May S, 14, 15, 18, and June 6; and at
Norwich on June 28.
     Hail fell at Hartwell on April 2; at Manchester on April
 1 1 ; at Truro and Saffron Walden on April 13 ; at Hartwell
on April 14; at Truro and Saffron Walden on April 17 and
 18; at Truro on the 19th; at Truro, Saffron Walden, Hart
well and Holkham on April 20; at Holkham on April 21;
 at Fxeter on May 5; at Holkham on May 14; at Helston
 on June 7 and 9; at Hartwell on June 16; and at Helston
 on June 17 and 19.
     Sturm fell at various places on April 13, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
 and 21.
     Solar halos were seen at different places on April 2, 8, 25,
 27; May 12, 13, 19, 29, 30, 31; June 15, 18, 23 and 24.
 This unusual number of solar halos indicates a very unusual
 prevalence of the cirrostratus cloud during the day. A lunar
 halo was seen at Hartwell on May 31.
      The reading of the barometer on April 1 was 29"4 inches;
 it decreased to 29*3 inches on the 2nd, and increased to 29*55
 on the 3rd. On the 4lh it decreased quickly, and was 29*28
 on the morning of the 5th. From this time to the 8th the
 change of reading was small. On the 9th the reading was
 29*34; it began to increase, and was 29*71 on the morning of
 the 12th, when it began to decrease rapidly, and it was 29*09
  during the afternoon of the 13th. On the 14th it increased
  slowly, and on the 15th it was 29*6. The reading continued
  about this value till the morning of the 18th, when it was 29*77;
  it then began to decrease quickly, and on the morning of the
  19th was 29*08, which was the lowest during the month.
  During the remainder of the 19th and till the evening of the
  21st the reading increased, and was 29*83 at the latter time.
  The reading decreased on the 22nd, and was 29*48 on the
  23rd. From the 24th to the 28th it was about 29*6, and then
  increased to 30* 15 on the 29th, and to 30*18 on the morning

 142         Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather
 of the 30th. This reading was the highest in the month ; but
 it soon again decreased, and before midnight descended below
 30 inches. The range during this month was 1*09 inch.
     On May 1 the reading was 2992, which decreased to 29*63
 on the 5th ; increased to 29*86 on the 9th ; it then decreased
 to 29*72 by the evening of the 1 1th, increased to 30*09 by the
  12th, and decreased to 29'18 on the 17th ; this was the lowest
 reading during the month. The reading, with slight excep
 tions, increased till the 24th, when it was 30*07 ; it then de
 creased and increased alternately, but the changes were small
 till the end of the month. The highest reading was 30*08,
and it took place on the 29th. The range within this month
 was 0*90 inch.
     During the month of June the changes of reading were
small. The lowest reading was 29*63 on the 16th, anil the
 highest was 30*06 on the 22nd. The range therefore within
 the month was 0*43 inch only.
     The following are the agricultural reports with which I have
been favoured.
     At Guernsey, the particulars having been furnished by Dr.
Hoskins, F.R.S.
     In April, from the 10th to the 20th, there were cold winds
with showers of hail and sleet which checked the forward ve
getation and destroyed crops of early potatoes. In May, fogs
with high temperatures were prevalent, and there were frequent
light gales and heavy showers of rain. Vegetation generally
recovered from the checks it received in April ; grass and other
crops were luxuriant, asparagus fine and abundant; wall-
fruit, horse-chestnuts, sycamores, and other trees of early
foliage, in exposed situations were much injured by blight.
    In the early part of-June there were frequent thunder-storms,
with fine sultry weather. Towards the end of the month fogs
were prevalent ; there was an unusual prevalence of easterly
winds; strawberries were abundant and well-flavoured, crops
of grass luxuriant, as well as other vegetation, notwithstand
ing the paucity of rain.
    At Uckfield, the particulars having been furnished by C. L.
Prince, Esq.
     On April 19 very heavy rain fell early in the morning; at
3 p.m. on this day the wind shifted suddenly to N.E., and a
severe gale and heavy snow continued for eight hours ; as the
temperature of the air at the time fell to 32°, it almost de
stroyed the gooseberry bloom, as well as that of the early
cherries. The wall-fruit was much injured, and in some places
the trees were killed, being cased with ice during the night,
and thawed suddenly by the sun on the 20th.
    At Leeds, by Charles Charnock, Esq.

          during the Quarter ending June 30, 18+9.             1*3
   The cold and dry parching winds are seriously affecting
spring-sown crops on dry soils. The Swedish turnips are a
very patchy crop and have been resown in many places.
Barley and oats are short. Beans are affected with the Aphis.
Wheat on strong soils is very deficient, but on light soils it is
better. Potatoes have been much cut down by the white
frosts. On the whole the country is suffering much from the
want of rain. Cattle and sheep are healthy. Employment
for agricultural labourers is scarce, and as a body they are
suffering severely.
   Hampshire, the particulars having been furnished by John
Clark, Esq. of Timsbury Farm, near Romsey.
   The prospect for those farmers who have been in positions
to do justice to their operations, is cheering; every crop pro
mises to be abundant. The hay harvest is nearly completed,
and in the most satisfactory manner. There have however
been many instances of the truth of the old saying, that more
hay is spoiled in fine weather than in catching seasons. The
vigorous and thick growth of the grass has required more
time to perfect than many farmers have allowed, and injury
has resulted.
   The crops on badly-farmed lands are thin and poor, oats
are generally indifferent. The season for turnip tillage has
been all that could be desired, excepting on neglected stiff"
lands, and there the needful pulverization of the land has not
been obtained for want of moisture. Now, July 6, every de
scription of root-crop is languishing for want of rain. The
turnip-fly has not been so troublesome as in past seasons.
Potatoes appear generally healthy. There is every prospect
of a full average yield of wheat, and should there be a con
tinuance of fine weather, it will be gathered much earlier than
usual.
   At Stonyhurst, the particulars having been furnished by the
Rev. Alfred Weld, F.R.A.S.
   The lambing season began in this neighbourhood on the
23rd of March, and continued three weeks; there were several
losses in the country owing to the severity of the weather.
During April and the early part of May the weather was re
markably dry and unfavourable to the growth of grass; this,
added to the general dryness of the season, has caused the
hay crop to be very late. The season for sowing was very
favourable; oats were sown first on March 23, and now make
a fine show. Early potatoes planted before April 1 are grow
ing well and without any signs of disease. The crop is very
abundant, frequently producing 20 to 30 to a root. Later
potatoes planted in April escaped the effects of the frosts, which
are said to have destroyed a considerable portion of the crops

 144        Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather
 in the neighbourhood of Manchester and Liverpool. Oats
 have been infested with charlock to a great degree. The
 sowing of beet began May 5 ; the crop is health)' and forward.
 Turnips planted about May 10 are very luxuriant and pro
 mising; no fly has appeared. Sheep-washing took place about
 May 21, which is about the usual time in this part of the
 country. Some ewes shorn on June 14 died from cold. On
 June 9 vegetation appeared to stop from the cold weather,
 which continued till the 15th. The showers which brought
 on the green crops so well were not sufficient for the grass,
 which is still very short, though full in the root. The hay
 season generally begins in this part about June 26, whereas
 this year (now July 8) none is cut except one or two small
 patches ; the grass is still growing fast, and promises to be an
 abundant crop. Wheat has been in ear about twelve days;
 oats are just opening out.
    Nottingham, the particulars furnished by E. J. Lowe, Esq ,
 F.R.A.S.
    Wheat, barley and oats look well; the grass crops are heavy,
 and potatoes promise well. The frost of April 18 did great
 injury to fruit.
    The monthly values of the several subjects of research ap
 pear in the Registrar-General's Quarterly Report ; the quar
 terly values are shown in the subjoined table: —
    The mean of the numbers in the first column of this table is
 29-618 inches, and this value may be considered as the pres
 sure of dry air for England during the quarter ending June 30,
 1849.
    The mean of the numbers in the second column, for Guern
sey and those places situated in the counties of Cornwall and
Devonshire, is 52o,0; for those places situated south of latitude
of 52°, including Chichester and Hartwell, is 520,1 ; for those
places situated between the latitudes of 52° and 53°, including
Saffron Walden and Leicester, is SO^'O ; for those places
situated between the latitudes of 53° and 54°, including Derby
and York, is 49^-9 ; and for Whitehaven and Newcastle is
490,8. These values may be considered as those of the mean
temperatures of the air for these parallels of latitude during
the quarter ending June 30, 1849.
   The average daily range of temperature in Cornwall and
Devonshire was 14°*8; at Liverpool and Whitehaven was
12°-1; south of latitude 52° was 19°-9; between the latitudes of
52° and 54° wasl7°-6; and at Whitehaven and Newcastle was
17°-6.
   The greatest mean daily ranges of the temperature of the air
took place at St. John's Wood, Latimer, Aylesbury, and
Beckington : that at St. John's Wood is very large ; is it right ?

            during the Quarter ending June 30, 18*9.          1*5
and the least occurred at Truro, Liverpool, Guernsey, and
Whitehaven.
   The highest thermometer readings during the quarter were
88° at Southampton, 86° at Walworth, 85° at St. John's
Wood and at Latimer. The lowest thermometer readings
were 24° at Leicester, 24°-3 at Highfield House, and 25° at
Uckfield and at Aylesbury. The extreme range of tempe
rature of the air during the quarter in England was therefore
about 61°, considering the true extremes as 24° and 85°.
   The average quarterly range of the reading of the thermo
meter in Cornwall and Devonshire was 430,0; at Liverpool
and Whitehaven was 41°-5; south of latitude 52° was 55°*5,
and north of 52° was 51°*1.
   The mean temperature of the dew-point in Cornwall and
Devonshire was 430-7 ; south of latitude 52° was 43°*5; be
tween 52° and 53° was 42°% and north of 53° was 43°'6.
   The amount of cloud seems to have been less than usual.
   Rain has fallen on the greatest number of days at Hartwell,
Wakefield, and Cardington. The average number at these
places was 54. It fell on the least number of days at Maiden-
stone Hill, Hereford and Beckington, and the average num
ber at these places was 33. The stations at which the largest
falls have taken place are Truro, Newcastle and Helston.
The smallest falls occurred at York, and generally in the north
of England. The average fall in the counties of Cornwall and
Devonshire was 8*1 inches; south of latitude 52° was 6'4
inches; between the latitude of 52° and 53° was 7"4 inches;
between 53° and 54° was 5*5 inches ; and at Newcastle and
Whitehaven was 7*8 inches.
   The numbers in the columns 15 to 18 show the mean values
of the hygrometrical results; from which we find that—
   The mean weight of vapour in a cubic foot of air at all
places (excepting Cornwall and Devonshire) in the quarter
ending June 30, 1849, was 3*5 grains.
   The mean additional weight required to saturate a cubic
foot of air in the quarter ending June 30, 18*9, was 0'9 grain.
   The mean degree of humidity (complete saturation — 1 ) in
the quarter ending June 30, 1849, was 0"776.
   The mean amount of vapour mixed with the air would have
produced water, if all had been precipitated at one time on
the surface of the earth, to the depth of 4"2 inches.
   The mean weight of a cubic foot of air under the mean
pressure, temperature and humidity, was 532 grains at the
average height of 1 70 feet
   And these values for Cornwall and Devonshire were 3'5
grains; 09 grain ; 0*749 ; 43 inches ; and 534 grains, nt the
average height of 120 feet.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 234. Aug. 1849.           L

      •ess aqj jo pA»| i>qi
                                                       emai^at            o» ms © o o o         =                                   : — © o — .
     3Aoq« laiamoicq oqj           -——                 jmcom
                                                       ~      ;i
                                                                          n n x c-« <o 'O
                                                                             K W X ;i :i
                                                                                               •/>
                                                                                               «
     jo owjsp jo iqztaH
         'jitj jo jooj oiqna                          « M f -
                                                      P) « « i. ..
       b jo )q3i3A uc;»m                              m n n « n w          'laujia ien)               ¦omaneiiiii)
                 ¦.u.ii|iN
         -oruiB jo wimps                               oufttna . « — © © —
                                                       ¦» ¦* n ^ f *                                  ?¦»«*«>« noono
     p:.ti] l.' \ e Ul r.nv..y\ jo
     lUIU'llli: ,)[IM[A\ UB3|*J
                                                                                                                                       8:5?,
          jo *)jri.!|p UEJJ\[                         o o o o o o                                     o o <= e o o
        ¦jib   jo   jooj  3iqii3
C.     oi«iii)i!« o) piimbsu
•*      jnod«A jo )qiJt3A\                                                                            -eo-cb              oo — oo " — © ~~
00       ptUOIJlppK UBJJU
                  •JIB JO
                                                                                                      non oito rs.        us •* « «o •«   .«»-¦*
      )ooj Jiqtu o ni mod
o     -BA JO )i|.ii.t W UBOJV
                                                                                                      n *^ n 0* CO n      n n n A CO       CO CO
                     ¦D3)J3|
                 -103 junoiuv
             "II3i l! q3iq« uo      cnnotu .aoinNa               N3- 'j= «i cc — t-, o) co .nN»o«?;o                      — ¦* r^ oxoc?.:i
              - £«p jo jj'[uih\      n n ^ co n .neon eo<o«j*"#'*totOT« . so -a •» to -» «o -o                            •» « t
 e                 •pnop                                 ¦ CKO        . © «p <* OS tO ?N. W -O CD   . Ol   . * f    .to   O    . « 06 (^ .   .
                                                           ib<ct<.    'NKibcoenV u                  '«     "wis     ¦«©   to   •«¦<U+2666>« "       *
 c       jo junouro ubojoj
 u
                      ¦notj                                                              33 . .33 .32 ^
                                                                                         33 h -|33 ^33 *
                                                                                                                           • .     • •...=
                                                                                                                          * > *#* « s^:
      -3      - jJJip p'J.m .) ;-)
                                                                                         >>          >> >>                         53
                                                                                                                                   c c
                                                                                                                                               o
O1                 -qi9aai)8         . ve                                                                                   ... so ©
           1 p3]BlUt)B3 inufq
                                               • «  • • © «          ' « « -^ © ~ oo ei          '                                       :£ •=>
          •juxod-A43p aqj           °?           c**ooei<x30Q'o              ifti.'CXn                noo aco oi          x on x a         r>.p»
                                               ' M — CN WtC <C CO CO 'i»O»0*«W
    JO .UM|rj. dlill.ii UB3Jfl     onto     ;                                                         •V •* ¦» CO •* "*   v * ^ ^ *»
         ¦j.)]jimd oqi ui           pooppooeNonoiooeoMo                                                » o x o o t>       oooooooo
    ojnimaduiaj jo o3ub)j          cottb to *f © od o)9)^><bnixiO)b)K" —                               e c oc i - x ^p    n » ri i x 'i - -¦> i
                                    nT^ninv>oioiij«ioiQ«ioioi<3iO
    ¦.»iiu«j Appiiom UB3J\I         NN«nnoi»f ootxio xnoo                                            'f f. ',* ? ? 7
                                                                                                    ;o>k>a*c an
                                                                                                                          r>.ooo«©«>a
                                                                                                                          -ii a act- -»e
                                                                                                      nnn^s*^             n^-**eonnso
 u          •.iJMjrj.nlu.i.'il      «07«7^nfsoo«5onio-<-a                                   «         OM4x>oe             o«i>.to>oaDi'.ei4
*tc  jo ja'utii ^|rep ur.ijy;      °iz Z « i 2 £ tj g 5* - - c^- i^ w - S :2 : :i^bi2^? ZI JSSJS''^*'***"
_o
 o          ¦jajauiomjsip               OOOOOOXOO)0DOOOO>QO                                 O        'C C X O O SO        (OOOOCSOOO
 o   n[i [f. riuipiMj i>.r,\!i'|        o n ir x x >o x ifl i 'c t>r^<o tfnocji *c»                ' » st o if n ^f       ono !**{•+*) ue,c <«
                                        r, -n;ij)Nnjiwwfi^«MNW *o*                                 'nciMcxolM             n ^ si n « V* « ?»
        •j3i3inotruaqi aqj          oeocaioooooni^soo:                                 s    o         opioooo             eooooneoo
       jo 8utpB3J jsjqr>in          i-, t* t-.t£ i,uxxu»a!xxxxtsx                           t^. ¦     t-.wt>.ooi-»K.      t^cBKti^.K,°.n.
                •Jtn 3qj            oic i »<o n»p-«oo?ionM«jioiiN««)e) o»to «¦««« i4«<oon«-t
    JO .tJllllIJ.llllU^l into J;'  o*: — — osi-""f"> — — •¦Msi-Hwb — o o — ao — aax ab — ooo — vn^V*
                                    ^in>nii)Miqioiqii!isininia«ii)iQ«niQ««int^T>»4Mic4!au^«^'
         •B3* 3qj JO |3A3J                            Nni,U"i-i --cr*
                                                 ca -novaOQ—
       aq) o) p-tonp.u jra
                                               •o
                                               ; *> ¦ t>.«p »>. «o ip >n
                                                                                                   ¦ •-. x x "^           ?i ce          _ •« n
                                               • O - Oi ~ ^?. ~. ~; ~.
                                                                                                                        :«S
    \ Jp JO UIl«l)3id in:.) Jv'                  Ci   si :i n :i m :i                                                   - cS Oi
                                                                 iji                          i]
                                                                                              .0
                                                                                             : t-
                                                                                   = i £¦ : |
                                                                                  *M|6
                                                                                   : 3
                      1                                                                                                      31 -3
                     V.
                                       is¦ftj flv ^i 'J3c          -      l|lo
                                    H                 3 8 J!
                                                                         Iligiiiillfll                                             fi 111
                                                                                                                                   S3 o
                                                                                                                                   X X p*  52Z

                                [   1+7     ]
               XX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                             ROYAL SOCIETY.
                           [Continued from p. 71-]
 March 29, "/"^ ENERAL Methods in Analysis, for the resolution
    1849.      VJ of Linear Equations in Finite Differences and
Linear Differential Equations." By Charles James Hargreave, Esq.,
LL.B., F.R.S. &c.
    The investigations presented in this paper consist of two parts ;
the first offers a solution, in a qualified sense, of the general linear
equation in finite differences ; and the second gives an analysis of
the general linear differential equation with rational factors, so far
as concerns its solution in series.
    The author observes that there does not at present exist any ge
 neral method of solving linear equations in finite differences of an
 order higher than the first ; and that with reference to such equa
 tions of the first order, we obtain insufficient forms which are intel
ligible only when the independent variable is an integer. It is in
this qualified sense that the solutions proposed in this paper are to
 be taken ; so that the first part of these investigations may be con
sidered as an extension of this form of solution from the general
equation of the first order to the general equation of the nth order.
    In the second part, the author points out a method by which the
 results of the process above indicated may be made to give solutions
of those forms of linear differential equations whose factors do not
contain irrational or transcendental functions of the independent
variable, or contain them only in an expanded form.
    This object is effected by means of the theorem, relative to the
interchange of the symbols of operation and of quantity, propounded
 by the author in a former memoir published in the Philosophical
Transactions (Part I. for 1848, p. 31). It is one of the properties
of this singular analytical process that it instantaneously converts a
linear equation in finite differences into a linear differential equation ;
so that whenever the former is soluble, the latter is soluble also,
provided the result be interpretable ; a condition satisfied when the
functions employed are rational algebraical functions.
   Notwithstanding the qualified character of the solutions previously
obtained for linear equations in finite differences, the solutionsobtained
from them by this process are free from all restriction. The solutions
in series can be written down at once from the equation itself, inas
much as each series has its own independent scale or law of relation ;
and no difficulties arise from the appearanceof equalorimaginary roots
in the equation determining the incipient terms of the series. These
circumstances do indeed cause a certain variation of form; but they do
not compel us to resort to any special process in each individual case.
   The perfect separation and independence of the scales, or laws of
relation of the series enables the author to discuss the characters of
the series with reference to their convergency or divergency, and to
                                    L2

1 48                         Royal Society.
classify these equations into sets having peculiar and distinguishing
properties in regard to this subject.
   The first set includes those equations whose solutions can always
be found in convergent series of ascending powers of the independ
ent variable ; and if in such case the equation be solved in series of
descending powers (which can be done by this process), those series
are certainly always divergent.
   The distinguishing marks of this class of equations are,—that the
factor of the highest differential coefficient contains one term only;
and that (the terms being arranged in an ascending order) when
this term is a*, the factor of the next differential coefficient must
not contain a term lower than xP~l, the next not lower than it*-*,
and so on to the end.
   The second set includes those equations whose solutions can always
be found in convergent series of descending powers of the independ
ent variable; and if in such case the equation be solved in series of
ascending powers, they are always divergent.
   The distinguishing marks of this class of equations are,—that the
factor of the highest differential coefficient contains one term only ;
and that when this term is xp, the next factor must stop at a?-1, the
next at a*-2, and so on to the end.
   The third set includes equations whose solutions can be found in
series of ascending powers which for some values of the independent
variable are convergent, and for other values divergent; and whose
solutions can also be found in series of descending powers which are
divergent for all values for which the other series are convergent, and
convergent for all values for which the other series are divergent.
   The distinguishing marks of this class of equations are,—that the
factor of the highest differential coefficient contains two terms only,
and that with reference to the first of such terms the equation is
under the restriction mentioned with regard to the first set, and that
with reference to the second of such terms it is under the restriction
mentioned with regard to the second set.
   The fourth set includes equations whose solutions are or may be
divergent for some values of x, both in the ascending and descend
ing series. In some cases, the ascending series is necessarily diver
gent, and the descending series convergent or divergent according to
the value of .r ; in other cases, the descending series is necessarily
divergent, and the ascending series convergent or divergent accord
ing to value; and in the remaining cases, both series are convergent
or divergent according to value, but not so as to be necessarily com
plementary to each other in this respect.
   The distinguishing marks of this class are,—that the first factor
may contain more than two terms ; and that either the restriction of
the first set is transgressed with reference to the highest term, or the
restriction of the second set is transgressed with reference to the
lowest term. In this set the divergency arising from value is of a
finite character; and, as the series approach without limit to ordi
nary recurring series, there is a probability that the passage from
convergency to divergency is not attended with danger.

                             Royal Society.                         149
   The fifth set includes equations whose solutions, whether in as
cending or descending series, are always necessarily divergent.
   The distinguishing mark of this class is, that it transgresses both
the restrictions to one or other of which the last set is subjected. In
this case the divergency is infinite, and appears to be of an unma
nageable character.
   The analogy of the process leads to a presumption, that in all
cases of divergency, above referred to, the corresponding convergent
solutions are in series infinite in both the ascending and descending
directions.
   The author observes in conclusion, that the inverse calculus of
the process here developed may be employed for the discovery of
the generating functions of series whose laws of relation are given.
   April 26.—"A Report upon further Observations of the Tides of
the English Channel made by order of the Lords Commissioners
of the Admiralty in 1848, with remarks upon the Laws by which
the Tidal Streams of the English Channel and German Ocean appear
to be governed." By Captain F. W. Beechey, R.N., F.R.S. Com
municated by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty.
   The author commences this report by observing, that the result
of the observations upon the tides in the English Channel, made in
the course of the summer of 1 848, had confirmed in a satisfactory
manner the view he had taken of the tidal phenomena of the chan
nel, in the report communicated to the Royal Society last year, and
printed in the Philosophical Transactions (Part I. 1848), namely,
that there is a meeting and a separation of the streams between
Alderney and the Start : that the whole space between the Start
and Scilly is under the joint influence of the channel and offing
streams : that from the vicinity of the Start to the vicinity of Hast
ings the stream runs true up and down the channel ; and moreover
that this stream throughout turns nearly simultaneously with the
time of high and low water on the shore at the virtual head of the
tide, which he places in the vicinity of Dover; and lastly, that the
streams which meet off the Start are turned down into the Gulf of
St. Malo, and vice versd.
   He then takes a comprehensive view of the tidal system of the
English Channel and German Ocean together, and considering them
as one great canal open at both extremities to the free admission of
a great tidal wave, which might be supposed to meet and form a
combined or stationary wave (art. 187, Encyclopedia Metropolitana),
he infers that in such a case, there ought to be in the eastern half
of such a canal, a recurrence of the phenomena which had been
found to exist in the western half. He proceeds to explain that,
from a valuable series of observations in the German Ocean by Cap
tain Washington, R.N., and other authorities, it does appear that,
inverting the direction of the stream, there is a correspondence of
phenomena in almost every respect: that the offing and channel
streams meet off Lynn, as off the Gulf of St. Malo, at the same hours,
and at the same distance nearly from the virtual head of the tide :
that the phase of the tide at Lynn corresponds with the phase of the

J 50                         Royal Society.
tide at Jersey : that there is an increased rise there also ; and that
from the meeting of the tides off Lynn to the meeting of the streams
off Dover, there is, as in the former case, a stream which turns nearly
simultaneously with the high and low water on the shore at Dover ;
the incoming and outgoing streams coinciding with the rising and
falling water there ; and that there is, in fact, a complete identity of
tidal phenomena in both parts of the supposed canal ; of this an
illustration is given in two plans.
    The author states that the meeting of the waves which enter the
canal at opposite points does not occasion a stationary point of per
manent slack-water, but one wave alternately prevails, so that the
point of slack- water oscillates between Ramsgate and Hastings nearly,
and occasions an inversion of the stream at about two hours before
that of the true stream of the channel. He thinks it convenient for
the purposes of navigation to consider this an intermediate stream,
although in reality it is only a shifting of the place of the meeting
and divergence of the opposite channel streams. To illustrate this
part of the paper a table is given, in which the courses of the streams
in various compartments of the supposed canal are given at every
hour of the tide.
    The author thinks this system of tides sufficiently established for
the purposes of navigation, but with regard to the perfectly simul
taneous motion of the stream throughout the stationary wave, he is
of opinion that nothing but simultaneous observations will be con
sidered satisfactory to science upon such a point, and these lie hopes
will be supplied by the observations of the ensuing summer.
    The advantage of referring the motion of the stream to a standard
 such as that of the Dover tide-table will, it appears, be sensibly felt
 by the mariner, who will now have his course through the moving
 waters of the channel rendered simple and plain, instead of being
 perplexed with unsatisfactory references, and with calculations which
 in too many instances, it is believed, have caused the set of the tide
 to be wholly disregarded.
    The want of a standard to which desultory observations, made in
various parts of the channel, could be referred, the author believes
to have been the occasion of several erroneous impressions of a some
what dangerous tendency to navigation. As such he considers the
following : —that the tide in all parts of the channel partakes of a
rotatory motion and is never at rest, and that a ship's reckoning will
never be far out in consequence, as she will never be carried far in
one direction : that a vessel arriving off the% Start at low water
could, by sailing seven or eight knots an hour, carry ten or eleven
hours favourable tide to Beachy Head : that iii the German Ocean
the stream sets north-east on one side, whilst it is running south
 west on the other : that there is a tide and half-tide in the channel,
so that when the stream has done in shore, by standing out, a ship
will carry the stream three hours longer, or nine hours in one direc
tion : and lastly, that the stream runs strongest at high and low water
throughout the channel, and is motionless at half-tide.
   These impressions do not appear to be justified by the observa

                             Royal Society.                         151
tions. The stream when not diverted by rivers or estuaries appears
to run true up and down the channel, and from side to side nearly ;
between the Start and Hastings, in the English Channel, scarcely
varying a point for nearly five hours ; and in the German Ocean for
about four hours ; the varying of the stream there being due, in the
author's opinion, to the influence of the Thames and the rivers of
Holland. As the stream turns nearly with the high and low water
on the shore at Dover, there cannot be nine hours' current in one
direction. With regard to the time at which the stream attains its
greatest strength, he states that all the observations agree in fixing
it at about half-tide (Dover).
    The erroneous impressions above mentioned, the author considers
have arisen from the times of the observations when made having
been referred to the times of high water at places differing two or
three hours from the time of high water at the head of Oie wave, or
from an early popular opinion that the turn of the stream in the
offing coincides with the rise and fall of the water on the shore.
    The paper concludes with some remarks on the forms of the tide-
wave between Cromarty and the Land's End, which are exhibited in
two plans at every hour of the tide, obtained from a combination of
the ranges and establishments of Dr. Whewell with those of M.
 Chazallon ; and attention is particularly drawn to the relative lengths
of the stationary wave and the waves by which it is generated ; the
former wave being only halfthe dimensions of the latter. These forms
are exhibited on a reduced scale, but much exaggerated in height,
and afford a comparison between the curve assumed by the stationary
wave and that which the waves would have assumed had they rolled
on in an uninterrupted course.
    May 3.—" On the Reduction of the Thermometrical Observa
tions made at the Apartments of the Royal Society from the year
 1774 to 1781, and from the year 1787 to 1843." By James Glaisher,
Esq. of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. Communicated by John
Lee, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S. &c.
    In this paper the author states that he has examined all the ther
mometrical observations which have been made at the Apartments of
the Royal Society, with the view of ascertaining whether the diurnal
 variations at different epochs were in accordance with those which
he had determined from the Greenwich observations, and which are
contained in his paper published in the Philosophical Transactions
 for 1848. The result of this investigation was, that the corrections
 contained in the tables in his former paper were applicable to the
 observations of all the years since 1774.
    The author is led from these examinations to the conclusion,—
 1st, that the instruments used have been uniformly good; 2ndly,
 that the observations have been faithfully recorded as read from the
 instruments ; 3rdly, that the readings have been taken with great care
 with respect to the times stated; and lastly, that the observations
 were well worth the necessary labour of reduction. He finds, how
 ever, that some of the more recent observations of the self-register
 ing instruments are liable to some uncertainty.

1 52                         Royal Society.
    Having satisfied himself that the observations were well worth
any amount of labour that might be bestowed on them, the author
was anxious to reduce them to a useful form, but, in consequence of
 the great amount of work that would be required for the reduction
 of so extensive a series, he for some time hesitated to enter upou
 this labour. Finding however that there was a demand for the re
sults of trustworthy observations extending backwards many years,
and having, besides, the hope of connecting the Greenwich series of
 observations with these, he determined to perform the work. He
 states that the mean temperature of every month was determined in
 the first instance from the observations which had been made during
the day, and secondly, from the observations of the self-registering
 instruments. Tables are appended to the paper showing the monthly,
 quarterly and yearly mean temperatures, with those of groups of
 years, and other tables exhibiting the departure of every individual
 result from the mean of all.
    The author concludes by stating, that hitherto the mean tempera
 ture at Somerset House has been estimated a great deal too high.
 He does not here enter into the investigation as to whether the tem
perature as now determined is too high for the geographical position
and elevation of Somerset House, but proposes to do so, in a paper
he is preparing with the view of connecting the Somerset House
with the Greenwich series, and of bringing up all the results to the
present time. He hopes also, at some future time, to present results
 from the barometrical observations arranged in a similar manner.
    May 24.— 1. An appendix to a paper " On the Variations of the
Acidity of the Urine in the State of Health"—" On the Influence of
Medicines on the Acidity of the Urine." Bv Henry Bence Jones,
M.D., M.A., F.R.S. &c.
    The variations of the acidity of the urine in the state of health
having been shown in the original paper, and the effect of dilute
sulphuric acid also traced ; in this appendix the influence of caustic
potash, of tartaric acid, and of tartrate of soda, on the acidity of the
urine is determined.
   One ounce of liquor potassee, specific gravity 1072, was taken in
distilled water, in three days. It hindered the acidity of the urine
from rising long after digestion to the height to which (from com
parative experiments) it otherwise would have done ; but it by no
means made the urine constantly alkaline ; nor did it hinder the
variations produced by the state of the stomach from being very
evident.
   354 grains of dry and pure tartaric acid dissolved in water were
taken in three days. The conclusion from the observations is that
this quantity increased the acidity of the urine, but during that time
it did not render the effect of the stomach on the reaction of the
urine less apparent than when no acid was taken ; and therefore,
that this quantity of tartaric acid, during this time, does not produce
so much effect on the reaction of the urine as the stomach does.
   Tartrate of potash in large doses produces the most marked effect
on the alkalescence of the urine. 120 grains of pure dry tartrate

                             lloyal Society.                        153
of potash dissolved in four ounces of distilled water made the urine
alkaline in thirty-five minutes. In two hours the alkalescence had
disappeared, but after the next meal the effect of the tartrate of
potash was again apparent. 10 drachms of tartrate of potash taken
in three days produced but little, if any effect, on the acidity of the
urine twenty-four hours after the last dose was taken.
   2. " On the direct production of Heat by Magnetism." By
W. It. Grove, Esq., M.A., V.P.R.S. &c.
   The author recites the experiments of Messrs. Marrian, Beatson,
Wertheim and De la Rive on the phenomenon made known some
years ago, that soft iron when magnetized emitted a sound or musical
note.
   He also mentions an experiment of his own, published in January
184.5, where a tube was filled with the liquid in which magnetic
oxide had been prepared, and surrounded by a coil ; this showed
to a spectator looking through it a considerable increase of the
transmitted light when the coil was electrized.
    All these experiments the author considers go to prove that when
ever magnetization takes place a change is produced in the molecu
lar condition of the substances magnetized ; and it occurred to him
that if this be the case, a species of molecular friction might be
expected to obtain, and by such molecular friction heat might be
produced.
    In proving the correctness of these conjectures difficulties pre
sented themselves, the principal of which was that with electro
magnets the heat produced by the electrized coil surrounding them,
 might be expected to mask any heat developed by the magnetism.
This interference, after several experiments, the author considers
he entirely eliminated by surrounding the poles of an electro-magnet
 with cisterns of water, and by this means and by covering the
 keeper with flannel and other expedients, he was enabled to produce
in a cylindrical soft-iron keeper when rapidly magnetized and de
 magnetized inopposite directions a riseof temperature several degrees
 beyond that which obtained in the electro-magnet, and which there
 fore could not have been due to conduction or radiation of heat from
such magnet. A series of experiments is given with this apparatus.
    By filling the cisterns with water colder than the electro-magnet,
 the latter could be cooled by the water while the keeper was being
heated by the magnetization.
    The author subsequently obtained distinct thermic effects in a
bar of soft iron placed opposite to a rotating permanent steel mag
net, using a delicate thermo-electrical apparatus placed at his disposal
by Mr. Gassiot.
    To eliminate the effects of magneto-electrical currents, the author
then made similar experiments with non-magnetic metals and with
silico-borate of lead, substituted for the iron keepers, but no thermic
effects were developed.
    He then tried the magnetic metals nickel and cobalt, and obtained
 thermic effects with both, and in proportion to their magnetic in
 tensity.

  154          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    Some questions of theory suggested by the above experiments
 and relating to the rationale of the action of what are termed ' the
 imponderables' and to terrestrial magnetism, are then briefly dis
 cussed, and the author concludes by stating that he considers his
 experiments prove satisfactorily, that whenever a bar of iron or
 other magnetic metal is magnetized, its temperature is raised.
           XXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
        ON THE PREPARATION OF PURE OXIDE OF COBALT.
                             BY M. LOUYET.
 I^HE author observes that chemists are generally aware that no
       thing is less easy than to separate oxide of cobalt from the iron
 and nickel which it contains ; on this account the oxide of cobalt is
 rarely met with in commerce perfectly free from all traces of these
 metals.
    Among the methods which have been proposed to obtain from
 cobalt ores the oxide perfectly free from iron and nickel, M. Liebig's
 appears to have been preferred. This process, which depends chiefly
 on the property of sulphate of cobalt to resist a red heat, whilst the
sulphates of iron and nickel are totally decomposed, may undoubt
edly give good results, as applied to ores ; but the author states that
his researches in all other cases have failed to produce perfectly pure
oxide of cobalt.
   The author found that although sulphate of iron, when exposed
alone to a red heat, is perfectly decomposed, yet when mixed with
a large quantity of sulphate of cobalt, it sustained it without being
decomposed, and consequently without being rendered insoluble ;
the heat was very great, and kept up for several hours. If a mixture
containing cobalt, but no arsenic, be treated according to M. Liebig's
process, the iron, not being converted into an insoluble arseniate,
remains in the mass partly in the state of sulphate. This takes place
with zaffire, an arsenical ore of cobalt which has been roasted, and
from which the arsenic has consequently been expelled. It results
from what is above stated, that the sulphate of iron formed, partially
resists the action of the heat, and consequently that the cobalt even
tually obtained contains iron, though completely free from nickel.
   Although processes are already known by which cobalt and iron
are separated without much difficulty, the author states that one
which he has discovered is so simple, and its employment so certain,
that he thinks in making it known he may render service to the arts
which include the use of pure oxide of cobalt.
   This process depends on the difference which exists between the
affinities of oxide of cobalt on one hand, and on the other of the
protoxide and sesquioxide of iron for acids ; a difference which is
highly advantageous to the first of these compounds. Take a solu
tion of sulphate of cobalt, containing a certain quantity of sulphate
of iron, and add to this gelatinous hydrate of cobalt at least equiva
lent to the oxide of iron contained in the sulphate ; heat the mixture

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              1 55
to ebullition for some time ; the violet colour of the hydrate of cobalt
will soon disappear, and it will be replaced by a precipitate of a dirty
yellow colour. In this case the hydrate of cobalt decomposes the
sulphate of iron, is substituted for the proto- or sesquioxide of iron,
which it renders insoluble, and precipitates in the state of hydrated
sesquioxide ; this hydrate is necessarily mixed with a small quantity
of hydrate of cobalt, which should be used in excess, in order to be
certain of the complete precipitation of the oxide of iron. Nothing
remains to be done but to filter and wash the precipitate. The salt
of cobalt thus obtained yields no indication of the presence of iron
to the most sensible reagents. It yields, accordingly, no precipitate
whatever when, after having added hydrochlorate of ammonia to it,
it is supersaturated with great excess of ammonia.
    For the sake of greater simplicity, a solution of carbonate of soda
may be employed instead of the hydrate of cobalt, and the mixture
digested at a boiling heat for some time ; in both cases the precipi
tate will contain all the iron. [This appears to be identical with the
method proposed by Scheerer for separating iron from cobalt, de
 scribed in the Phil. Mag. for February 1840.—W. F.]
    To recapitulate : it follows that in order to purify oxide of cobalt
 it is sufficient to dissolve it in dilute sulphuric acid, to evaporate to
 dryness, and calcine at a red heat, treating the mass with boiling
 water, and adding to the solution either hydrate of cobalt or carbo
 nate of soda in the manner described. Sulphate of nickel appears
 to decompose more readily than sulphate of iron, under the circum
 stances described; when zaffre is treated according to M. Liebig's
 process, it yields oxide of cobalt quite free from nickel, but contains
 a large quantity of oxide of iron.— L'lnstitut, Juin 27, 1849.
             ON ALUMINATE OF COBALT.            BY M. LOUYET.
     M. Louyet remarks it as well known, that alumina and the salts
  of cobalt may combine in certain circumstances, and form a fine blue
 colour. It is by this process that M. Thenard prepared the blue
  which bears his name, by mixing certain proportions of alumina and
  phosphate or arseniate of cobalt, and subjecting the mixture to a
  long-continued calcination. All these substances are employed in
  the gelatinous or hydrated state. As the precipitate formed by
  carbonate of soda in a mixture of alum and a salt of cobalt also yields
  a blue compound by calcination, it has been inferred that the consti
  tuent elements of cobalt-blue were alumina and oxide of cobalt, so
  combined that the compound may be considered as a salt, or an alu-
  minate of cobalt.
     The facts which M. Louyet has ascertained are, that the sub
  stance obtained by the mixture of gelatinous alumina and phosphate
  or arseniate of cobalt, also in the gelatinous state, yields a blue when
  subjected to a red heat. At this temperature the mixtures of gela
  tinous alumina and hydrated oxide of cobalt yields only blacks or
  grays, whatever may be the proportions of the constituents. In order
  that the alumina and cobalt may produce blue, the mixture must be
   exposed to a temperature very near that of melting glass. It results

  1 56         Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 from this that the presence of certain fixed acids is favourable to the
 combination of alumina with oxide of cobalt. These observations
 explain the cause of failure which chemists occasionally incur, in
 attempting to prepare Thenard's blue without employing phosphate
 or arseniate of cobalt.—L'Institut, Juin 27, 1849.
                DETECTION OF IODINE AND BROMINE.
                        BY M. ALVAHO REYNOSO.
     The method employed to ascertain the presence of these bodies,
 when they exist as iodides or bromides, the author remarks, consists
 in dissolving them in water, to add starch in the state of paste, or
 aether and a few drops of solution of chlorine. The chlorine seizes
 the metal combined with the iodine or bromine, and these bodies
 colour the starch blue, or dissolve in the aether ; but iodine and
 bromine having the property of combining directly with chlorine,
 and of forming a chloride of iodine or of bromine, the chlorine,
 in order to detect the presence of these bodies, ought not to be em
 ployed in excess ; because the chlorides of iodine or bromine are
 decomposed by contact with water and produce hydrochloric acid,
 and iodic or bromic acid without acting on the starch or the aether.
     This experiment was very difficult to perform ; often, indeed,
 these bodies could not be discovered, and this was supposed to be
 owing to the above-described difficulty. Then the quantity of chlo
 rine was diminished, from the fear of exceeding the requisite pro
portions, and it happened that the quantity of chlorine was not suf
ficient to set the iodine at liberty. The manner in which the chlo
rine was employed also increased this error ; in fact, it is well known
 that a solution of chlorine is weakened by keeping, and that even
 tually its power is lost, in spite of every possible precaution. Thus
 on pouring into a solution of an iodide or bromide a very small
 quantity of aqueous solution of chlorine, it happened that the iodine
was not see free, and that all the chlorine was employed in forming
hydrochloric acid. This method, then, was not applicable to the
detection of small quantities of iodine or bromine, especially when
these bodies are mixed with substances capable of seizing the chlo
rine. It was therefore desirable that the iodine or bromine should
be isolated by means of a body incapable of acting upon them, what
ever might be its excess. Oxygenated water fulfills these conditions ;
it decomposes hydriodic or hydrobromic acid without at all acting
upon the iodine or bromine set free by it.
    The following is the method of proceeding for iodine : a bit of
binoxide of barium is to be put into a small glass tube closed at one
end ; then are to be added to it distilled water, pure hydrochloric
acid, and paste of starch ; the operator is to wait till bubbles arise
to the surface, and then the iodide is to be added. A rose-blue
colour is immediately procured if the quantity of iodine is but small,
but of a deep blue if the quantity of iodine is considerable.
    It is more convenient to operate on these conditions ; not only
considering them as manipulations which become very easy, but also
with regard to the success of the experiment. On this plan, the

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              157
requisite excess of oxygenated water is certain to be employed when
hyposulphites, sulphates, or sulphurets are present ; besides, the
hydrochloric acid employed in the preparation of the oxygenated
water, acts an important part, for it serves to set hydriodic acid free,
BaO* + (ClH)« + IH, KO + HO=BaO, C1H+KO, C1H+2(H0) + I.
   Although it is unquestionable that the hydrochloric acid, by react
ing on the binoxide of barium, in the presence of water, produces
oxygenated water, the author was desirous of satisfying himself that
it was in fact HO4 which actually produced the result obtained ; for
this purpose he substituted tartaric for hydrochloric acid, and ob
tained the same result. M. Thenard had also described the decom
position of hydriodic acid by pure oxygenated water.
   When the iodides are mixed with chlorides, sulphurets, sulphites or
hyposulphites, the process is equally correct ; only, as by the action
of hydrochloric acid on the sulphuret sulphuretted hydrogen is pro
duced, which is decomposed by oxygenated water, and the hypo
sulphites and sulphites are converted into sulphate by absorbing
oxygen, a larger quantity of oxygenated water is required than if
the iodide was pure.
   The hyposulphites and sulphites, on becoming sulphates, produce
a precipitate of sulphate of barytes in the liquor ; this might delay
the action, if agitation were not employed to detach the sulphate of
barytes from the surface of the binoxide of barium : it is also a pre
caution which ought always to be adopted to increase the production
of oxygenated water. By this process the presence of iodine is
readily detected in the urine of a patient taking O'lO centigr. of
iodide of mercury morning and evening. In the same urine no
iodine could be detected by means of chlorine ; this is therefore a
case in which, notwithstanding every precaution, the iodine passed
undetected by chlorine.
    This process detects the presence of iodine in the ash of sponge.
 A drop of a solution of 0010 gTm. of iodide of potassium dissolved in
 a litre of water, produced, each time that it fell into the tube, a ma
 nifest blue colour at the surface. By agitation the blue colour dis
 appeared, and the liquor assumed a rose tint ; on adding another
 drop, a fresh blue colour is obtained at the surface. This process,
 therefore, very easily indicates less than ^J—^ of iodide of potassium.
 The process is the same for bromine, excepting that instead of starch
 aether is employed; agitation is used, the bromine dissolves in the
 sether, and it becomes of a more or less deep yellow colour accord
 ing to the quantity.
    When, however, iodides and bromides occur mixed, they are de
 tected by adding an excess of starch and of aether. The iodine com
 bines with the starch, and the bromine, dissolving in the aether, rises
 to the surface ; so that the blue colour is obtained below, and the
 yellow tint high up.— Comptes Rendus, Avril 30, 1849.

  1 58         Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
              ON THE CHEMICAL NATURE OF THE EGG.
     M. Barreswil has presented to the Academy of Sciences a memoir
 in which he states that he has found sugar in the albumen of the egg,
 and that the albumen is alkaline owing to the presence of carbonate
 of soda ; he finds also that the yolk contains little or no alkali, and
 that its emulsive property is derived from a product resembling the
 pancreatic juice, which is not acid, and becomes so only by under
 going alteration. He further states that the acid reaction and pro
 perties of the gastric juice are owing to organic acid, and not to hy
drochloric acid. —L'Institut, Juin '20, 1849.
     ON THE FORMATION OF FATTY MATTERS IN VEGETABLES.
     M. Blondeau de Carolles remarks it as well known, that oleagi
nous grains do not, in an early stage of their development, contain
any trace of fatty substances ; and that it appears evident that the
latter are formed from the substances originally entering into the
constitution of these grains. The author was desirous of determi
ning which are the principles, the transformation of which gives rise
to the fatty bodies, and the mode in which it is effected.
    The author especially studied the formation of oil in the olive.
This fruit, carefully analysed, yielded scarcely an appreciable trace
of nitrogen ; it was not therefore owing to the presence of vegetable
albumen or caseine, neutral nitrogenous bodies contained in oleagi
nous grains, the transformation of which, according to MM. Liebig
and Dumas, is sufficient to explain the formation of fatty substances.
    The elements of this transformation must then be sought for in a
body analogous in composition to fecula, sugar or lignin.
    The analyses of olives, at first performed in an early state, and
afterwards as they approached maturity, showed that in the former
condition they contained no trace of oil ; but that from the moment
at which the oil began to appear till the fruit had attained its com
plete development, the proportion of tannin, and especially of lignin
gradually diminished as that of the oily liquid increased.
    From these circumstances the author concludes, that the formation
of oil in the olive is the result of the reciprocal action of tannin
and lignin, and experiment seemed to confirm this explanation :
some olives confined in a graduated receiver full of mercury disen
gaged after a few days, pure carbonic acid gas, and the sides of the
receiver were covered with the [condensed ?] vapour of water.
    The carbonic acid was four times greater in volume than that of the
olives from which it was produced ; and it could be formed only at
the expense of the elements contained in the fruit, the external air
being excluded.
    The following formulae explain the phenomena described in a
satisfactory manner : —
       3(CiaH14Ola) + C18H8Oia=Cs(iH3(iO«4-Cl803<i + H80".
          Lignin.         Tannin.      Oil. Carbonic acid. Water.
    This explanation was verified by experiment.

                        Meteorological Observations.                              159
   The analyses of the oil extracted from olives which had served for
experiment gave the following results : —
          Oil 0-361.                  Carhonic acid 1-043.           Water 0-377.
    Carbon            78661        According to the formula fC 76-05
    Hydrogen.. 1139 >                        C« H3« O                  ^ H 1295
    Oxygen.... 995 J                there should be obtained            (_0 11-00
                    10000                                                   10000
    These numbers approach each other sufficiently near to admit the
formula as expressing one of the most curious transformations pre
sented by organic chemistry.— L' Inst tut, Juin 20, 1849.
       METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR JUNE 1849.
   Chiswick. —June 1,2. Fine. 3. Fine: hazy: clear. 4. Very fine. 5. Sultry:
showery st night. G. Uniformly overcast. 7. Fine. 8. Fine : overcast. 9. Fine:
rather cold : overcast : clear.      10— 12. Overcast.    13. Fine : cloudy : clear.
14. Fine : slightly clouded. 15. Dusky hate. 16. Overcast : fine. 17. Fine:
dusky haxe. 18. Fine.         19. Slight rain. 20. Very fine. 21. Fine. 22,23.
Very fine. 24. Cloudless and very fine. 25. Overcast: very fine. 26—28.
Very fine. 29. Cloudy : rain.        30. Cloudy : clear and cold at night
       Mean temperature of the month                                    59°'SO
      Mean temperature of June 1848                                     59-58
      Mean temperature of June for the last twenty-three years ... 60 "85
       Average amount of rain in June                                     1-88 inch.
    Baton. — June I. Cloudy. 2— 4. Fine. 5. Cloudy: rain, with thunder and
lightning a. M. : rain r.M. 6—9. Fine. 10. Cloudy : rain early a.m. 11. Cloudy.
 12. Cloudy: rain r.M. 13,14. Fine. 15. Fine: rain P.M. 16. Cloudy. 17,
 18. Fine. 19. Fine: rain a.m. and r.M. 20. Fine. 21. Cloudy. 22. Fine.
23. Cloudy. 24. Fine. 25. Rain. 26. Fine. 27. Cloudy. 28. Fine. 29.
 Fine : rain p.m. SO. Cloudy.
    Api>legarlh ifante, Dumfriesshire.— June 1. Clear and bracing weather:
shower a.m. 2. Fine and growing : one shower p. m.           3,4. Fair and fine. 5.
Fair A.M. : one shower r.M. : electr.       6,7. Fair and fine.    8. Fair, but chilly
from n.e. 9. Fair : air highly electric : thunder. 10. Fair and very droughty.
 11. Fair and droughty : getting cloudy. 12. Fair and droughty : cleared away.
 13. Fair and droughty.       14. Fair and droughty, but getting cloudy. 15. Fair
and droughty : cloudy : thunder. 16. Slight shower : much thunder. 17. Again
droughty.      18. Cloudy : a few drops of rain.     19. Heavy rain, night : shower,
day. 20. Frosty during night: shower r.M. 21. A few drops : very high wind.
 22. Rain at intervals.     23. Fair and clear.    24. Light rain : very mild.       25.
 Cloudy a.m. : slightly showery. 26. Slight shower r.M. 27. Fine : warm : fair
all day.    28. Fair.     29. Rain r.M , not heavy but soft.    30. Fair all day and
warm.
            Mean temperature of the month                               53°"3
            Mean temperature of June 1848                               55 -7
            Mean temperature of June for twenty-five years              56 -1
            Rain in June for twenty years                                 3*16 inches.
    Sandwich Manse, Orkney.—June 1, 2. Bright : clear. 3. Bright : cloudy. 4.
 Showers: cloudy. 5,6. Bright: clear.           7. Haay: clear.      8. Bright : clear.
 9. Bright: snow-showers.         10. Cloudy.     11. Bright: clear.       12. Bright:
 cloudy. 13,14. Bright: clear. 15. Cloudy. 16. Drizzle: rain. 17. Clear:
 rain. 18. Rain.       19. Cloudy: damp.       20. Cloudy: rain.      21. Rain : clear.
 22. Cloudy. 23. Rain : cloudy.          24. Bright : clear. 25. Bright : rain. 26.
  Fog: drizzle. 27. Showers: hazy. 2P, 29. Bright : clear. 30. Bright : rain.

of
HMr.
the
Thompson
 OMMr.
  by
  Garden
  Society
  Chiswick,
   made
   oVeall,
    London;
    beby
      rat
       steat  vuralotiluornagslical
          irconear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0-31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0-72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3-33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3-46
                                    by ire
                                       u;
                                     Ohkmy.
                                     at
                                     SanduAck
                                   C.
                                    Rev.
                                    W.
                                    Dunbar,
                                    the
                                    Boston
                                        mhues-sh
                                    Clouston,
                                    Applegarth
                                    I)
                                    Manse,
                                    and
                                     Manse,
                                                                                    1:1111'                                                         010
                                                                                                                                                    -07                                                         -38 50                                 0-50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -27
                                                                                                                                                                                                         000                                                                                          012.
                                                     Rain.
                                                                                                                                1-35
                                                                                                                                        •30                     •03                •06.                  •12                 •34                                          •021                        ¦24
                                                                           MU         1                                                                                                                                      02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              •02
                                                                                                                                                         In. i   n.
                                                                  Sandwick.                                                                                                                                                                       esc. nnw. 11.                               wnw, DW.
                                                                         Orkney,                       s. sw. sw. sw. w. w. e. nw.                                                                 e. ne. sw. w. nw. s. n.
                                                                                   <¦'Z                                                        wbyn                    nw-w          w.-s.         s-se. ne-sw
                                                                 i si
                                                                                                              sw-w.               wnw. nw.                                                                                                             sw-w. e.-s. wnw. wnw.
                                                                                                       sw.            sw. sw.                        ne. nw. ne.                            sw.                 nw. sw. nw. sw. w.         II sw.                               sw. sw. e.
                                                     Wind.                                    Q                                                                                n.
                                                                                      0  c             wsw. calm calm calm             calm calm calm calm calm 1ne. calm                        calm calm calm calm               calm calm
                                                                                                                                I e.                                                n. w.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                  w. ne. nw. ne. lie. ne. ne. nw. ne. ne.                                                                               sw. ne.     ».     w. sw. 11    w.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51-21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             63
                                                                              trick.
                                                                               Sand        ¦se
                                                                                          *S                                                                                                                                                                                                  471
                                                               Orkney.                                 51 49 53 52 49 54 47 46 39 44                               1 !        44 45 44 48 47 48 48:                     ; 46                                        51 53 46 47                      49}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i47I   47 J   47i   48 49  j
                                                                                                                                                                                                               491                                           515                             505
                                                                                                       56 55 62 57 51 54                43 38  51 3848          38
                                                                                                                                                                 419          42
                                                                                                                                                                              47 36         49 49 51 53 48 50 52 51 52 53 54 54 50 52
                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                          47
                                                                                                                                                          37          j
                                                                                                                                                                      43 I
                                                                                                                                                                      35            47
                                                                                                                                                                                   39
                                                 Thermometer.  DuI
                                                                 mfrie,i.                                                 J41                                                                                         143 1         35 1  50                                    514                  44i
                                                                                                       47 50 4U                   49                                                              39 42 4.3 50                                   48} 50 50 47 52 48 46
                                                                        I     ] E
                                                                               ihire.
                                                                                                                          A 68.1 62
                                                                                                                          69            J                       58
                                                                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                                                                46-5                             635
                                                                                                                                                                                                  63J                                                                                               56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,644
                                                                                                      60 62 65                                 66} 65-5
                                                                                                                                                    58 60 56          55
                                                                                                                                                                      59 58   53 5661'. 59               61
                                                                                                                                                                                                         64 63 62*62  60 58 60 58-5 59 63-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60 62   159 6862 66 63 58 64 65-560 66 59 61 64 60  59
                                                                                                      63 71 71 68 66 6.3 60                                                                                                                                                                                 4613
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             72-47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6l-5'61-7
                                                                    Chi wick.                         48 47 51 57 57 51 50 42 43 42 37 40 34 40 48 46 40 41 43 50 42 48 52 46 53 51 47 48 56 35
                                                                                                      78 75 75 81 85 66 71 66 65 60 65 57 67 72 70 68 72 75 60 75 75 78 85 8y 79 75 78 76 73 63
                                                                                                      29-55 29-66 29-85 29-77 29-81 29-81 29-77 29-73 2944 2958 2948 29-61 29-69 2974 2976 29-63 29-54 29-72 29-90 2974 2996 2978 29-72 2992 2984 2974 2968 3004 3000 29-90
                                                                                               in.
                                                                                               p.
                                                              Orkney.Sandwick.
                                                                                                     29-5011 29-60        1 1
                                                                                                                          3977         2975                                                                                                                                           2992
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1I     3001
                                                                                                                     2970      !29-78 29-72 29-79 29-62 2952 29-50 29-48 29-67 2971 2975 2964 29-63 2978 29-66 2992 29-56 2996 29-61 29-85 29-88 2978 29-64                                         3003
                                                                                               a.m.
                                                                                                                         129-90 129-90                                             3002
                                                                                                                                                                                   j                                                                                                  30001
                                                                   Dumfries-fhire.                    2995 30-07 3010                          : 2998 29-68 29-80 2978 ;
                                                                                                                                        30-13! 3007                          29-86         2998 29-86 29-80 29-94 29-80 29-80 29-88 2998 2978 29-77      - 29-80 2972 2978 2978 2986 3007
                                                                                          3 p.m.
                                                 Barometer.                                                                                    3015
                                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                      29-83 2997 30- 11 3005 29-84 3005             30-00 29-90 29-71 2982 29-81 3000 3002 2990 2984 29-89 2992 29-48 29-98 29-83 3000 29-73 29-79 29-81 2977 29-76 29-89 29-95 3002
                                                                                               a.rn.
                                                                                                      2945 2955 2974 29-63 29-35 29-62 29-78 2956 29-50 29-30 29-     13 29-50 29-55 29-67 29-52 2935 2943 29-59 2933 2964 29-50 29-64 2938 29-40 2950 29-37 2940 2944 29-62 2950
                                                                                          si
                                                                                                                    17' 29-939 29795 30090 29920 29-892 29-793 29-668 29-797 29923 29-927 30116 29-791 29-750 29924 30038 29-822 30086 30050 30011 29-822 29-880 29-907 29.919 29-943 29-992 29-919 29-916
                                                                                                     30-040|30076;301
                                                                   Chltwlck.                Mm.
                                                                                                             30- 30-222 30-101, 29-987 30-
                                                                                                      30088; 162                        09 30-237 29990 29918 29-728 29-851 29-933 30-118 30-175 29-899 29-778 29-975 30066 29-906 30139 30-118 30166 29941 29-904 29979 29980 29969 128
                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                             30- 30079 156 30-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29745
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29-894
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -29-894
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mean.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29724
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30-027
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                     3. 4.              6. 7- 8. 9. 10.               n.      12. 113. 14- 15. 16. 17- 18. 19.                           21. 33. '23- 24. 25. 26.                            29. 30.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¦28.
                                                                                                                                 5O.                                                                                               §20.                                        2J7.

                                      THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH anb DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                       AND
           JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                            [THIRD SERIES.]
                        SEPTEMBER 1849.
        XXII. On the Production of Lightning by Rain.
                     By William Radcliff Birt*.
 /~\N the 26th of July, 184-9, a severe thunder-storm,acconipa-
 ^""' nied by the destruction of property and the loss of human
life, passed over the metropolis. About lh 30m p.m. the clouds
towards the north-east presented a very dark and threatening
aspect; they assumed an inky colour, and the velocity of their
motion was very slow ; in fact the appearance noticed was
strikingly of that character which the writer has frequently
observed to precede a thunder-storm. On this occasion his
attention was more particularly directed to the connexion
between the electric discharge and the sudden gush of rain
that more or less accompanies it, with a view to illustrate the
question occurring in the Report of the Committee of Physics
approved by the President and Council of the Royal Society,
p. 4-6, " Is this rain a cause or consequence of the electric dis
charge ?"f On the previous day, the 25th, about 3h 50m p.m.,
during a thunder-storm a sudden gush of heavy rain occurred,
   • Communicated by the Author.
   f The paragraph runs thus : " There is one point to which we wish that
some attention might be paid, — it is the sudden gush of rain which is almost
sure to succeed a violent detonation immediately overhead. Is this rain n
cause or consequence of the electric discharge ? Opinion would seem to lean
to the latter side, or rather, we are not aware that the former has been main
tained or even suggested. Yet it is very defensible. In the sudden agglo
meration of many minute and feebly electrified globules into one rain-drop,
the quantity of electricity is increased in a greater proportion than the sur
face over which (according to the laws of electric distribution) it is spread.
Its tension therefore is increased, and may attain the point when it is capable
of separating from the drop to seek the surface of the cloud, or of the newly-
formed descending body of rain, which under such circumstances, and with
respect to electricity of such a tension, may be regarded as a conducting
medium. Arrived at this surface, the tension for the same reason becomes
enormous, and a flash escapes."
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 235. Sept. 184-9.                   M

 162 Mr. W. R Birt on the Production of Lightning by Rain.
which within two seconds, by estimation, was succeeded by a
vivid flash of lightning: the thunder occurred at a further
interval of some few seconds. From this it would appear,
provided the heavy rain fell over the entire space between the
place of observation and that of the electric discharge, that it
was not a consequence of that discharge, the gush occurring at
a sensible interval previous thereto. The setting in of the
storm of the 26th, about lh 45m p.m., again called the atten
tion of the writer to this point; and several flashes occurred
between lh 45m p.m. and 2h 3m p.m. without being preceded
by a gush, although heavy rain more or less accompanied the
discharges, in one or two instances almost simultaneously or
immediately afterwards. At length, about 2h 4rn p.m., a most
violent and very remarkable gush of rain occurred, which was
followed within one minute by a most vivid flash of lightning,
the thunder succeeding almost instantaneously. The windows
of the house in which the writer was observing the storm were
sensibly shaken, and portions of the mortar between the arches
over the windows ami the frames thrust out, of course by con
cussion. Within a minute or two after this discharge a par
tial cessation of the heavy rain took place, but sudden gushes
occurred at short intervals within the next six or seven mi
nutes; they were, however, unaccompanied by lightning. At
the end of this period the atmosphere presented a very re
markable appearance ; a perfect stillness characterized the air,
which possessed great transparency, so that the surrounding
objects were seen with very minute distinctness of detail. The
stillness and transparency during the time they continued,
riveted the observer to their contemplation. It appeared that
during this time the storm was hushed, and a calm of a rather
extraordinary character succeeded it, during which a rather
large break in the clouds was seen towards the south-east, and
the entire phenomena at this time induced the idea that the
weather was clearing up. Within ten minutes, however, the
storm again burst forth; the lightnings played, the thunder
roared, and heavy rain, mingled with hail so thickly that com
paratively near objects could scarcely be distinguished, fell in
torrents, and the writer observed during the remainder of the
storm four or five sudden gushes that were quickly succeeded
by lightning. On all these occasions he is quite certain that
the sudden gush of rain preceded the electric discharge. Of
nil the discharges, which were very frequent, that at or near
 2h 5m p.m. appeared to the writer to be nearest his own locality;
the lightning appeared to him to be quite as, if not more, vivid
than that at any other discharge ; and the interval between it
and the thunder was certainly the shortest, the thunder being

Mr. W. R. Birt on the Production of Lightning by Rain, 163
the loudest. Between 2h 0m P.M.and2h15mP.M., according to the
concurrent testimony of several witnesses, and preceding the
precipitation of the hail nearly half an hour, a discharge struck
half-a-dozen houses, being Nos. 17 to 22 in West Street,
North Street, Whitechapel, between one-fourth and one-third
of a mile south of the writer's residence. The stroke appears
to have presented some phenomena of an interesting and re
markable character. Immediately behind and to the west of
the houses in question is situated a large open space of ground,
known as a Jews' burying-ground, in which is a piece of water
not far from the houses. The gable end of No. 22 faces the
west, the fronts of the houses the north, and their backs the
south; the flues of No. 22 form part of the wall at the gable
end. At the front and between every alternate house is a
metallic spout, for the purpose of carrying off" the water from
the roof; the water is received from the tiles in a leaden or
zinc gutter, which is in metallic communication with the spout;
but it does not appear that there is a metallic communication
between the gutters from house to house : these metallic spouts
are short, not in any case descending so low as the doors ;
they are replaced by wooden spouts, which convey the water
to the street. It appears that the stroke perforated one of the
chimney-pots of No. 22, descending the flue to the roof, which
 it stripped of a great portion of the tiles*, and then passed to
 the metallic spout in front, disrupting and tearing away the
lower wooden spout, a piece of which, seven feet in length, it
 rent off and hurled with great violence into the back yard of
 one of the opposite houses which abutted on the north side of
 West Street : a great portion of the piece rent from the spout
 was shivered into small splinters about two inches long. A
 portion of the stream appears to have been conducted by the
 gutter communicating with the metallic spout of No. 22 to
 that betweeen Nos. 20 and 21, down which it proceeded,
 thrusting the lower wooden spout about three or four inches
 from the wall, and chipping away portions of the brickwork
 in its passage through the front wall of No. 21, which it per
 forated (the aperture being of a considerable size), and imme
 diately passed to the principal wheel of a silk-winding ma
 chine. A woman who was attending the machine, and had in
 her hand at the moment a spindle, received a severe shock,
 and was hurled by the force across the room. This stream
 appears to have given off a lateral stroke, which manifested
 its effects at the box of the lock of the street door, tearing away
 the plastering and paper as it passed into the front room, in
    • The western wall of this house has been so shaken by the stroke that
it is considered necessary that it should be taken down and rebuilt.
                                     M2

 164 Mr. W. R. Birt on the Production of Lightning by Rain.
 which a pane of glass was shattered. A woman who was near
 this room at the time described the passage as being filled
 with a light of a blue colour, and saw the lightning pass out of
 the back window over her child's head. It would appear that
 at the time the lightning was passing from one metallic con
 ductor to another in the immediate front of the houses, a
young man named Thomas Johnson opened the street-door
 of No. 17: he was accompanied by a lad of about fourteen
years of age, who was, almost immediately after the door was
opened, thrown backwards. The shock was so sudden that
he knew not what happened to Johnson, who was found
shortly after lying on his side, his back to the wall, and feet
just beyond the threshold of the door, quite dead. He was
 evidently struck by the lightning, which, playing in the front
of the houses, was probably attracted by the metallic spout
that terminated a few feet above the door. The plaster just
above the door, and which was most probably over his head,
was torn away; but there is no mark or perforation to trace
its entrance from above ; the probability appears to be, that a
stream struck upwards immediately after striking him. The
two houses immediately opposite to Nos. 21 and 22 also re
ceived some injury from the lightning glancing sideways, as it
were, from the principal stream which shattered the roof of
No. 22.
    It cannot fail to be remarked, that the principal mischief
after No. 22 was struck occurred in the front, and more or
less in the neighbourhood of the metallic spouts, which
answered the purpose of imperfect conductors, the metallic
continuity being interrupted on the roofs by the leaden gutters
extending only a certain distance on each side of the metallic
spouts, and also in front of the houses by the wooden spouts
carrying the water to the earth. In connexion with the pre
sence of the lightning in the front, the altitude of the houses
struck renders it rather improbable that the stroke descended
immediately from the cloud. The houses in West Street are
the lowest in the neighbourhood ; those in the street immedi
ately to the north are rather higher; and at the further end of
the street, near No. l,are three houses in North Street consi
derably higher; so that had the stroke descended immediately
from the cloud above, which it is to be presumed was at the
usual elevation of clouds under these circumstances, the pro
bability is that the high houses in North Street would have
been struck rather than the low houses at the further end of
West Street. Should it have been the case that the stroke
emanated from an altitude but little above the houses struck,
we have evidently to seek the cause of the discharge below the

            Prof. De Morgan on Anharmonic Ratio.            165
cloud. It is extremely difficult to connect the stroke with the
discharge at 2h 5m p.m. ; although the concurrent testimony
of the witnesses would lead to the high probability that such
was the case, especially as one stated that it occurred some
considerable time previous to the hail that fell. The general
impression in the neighbourhood appears to have been, that
the lightning shot or glanced over the houses to the north of
West Street, when it struck the corner, and did not descend
perpendicularly from a considerable height. The discharge
at 2h 5m p.m. was, as we have already observed, precededby a
gush of heavy rain ; and taking the suggestion in the report
alluded to above into consideration, there appears to be great
probability that the formation of the lightning was in accord
ance therewith. For upwards of half an hour violent me
teorological action had taken place, the precipitation of rain
being very prominent. There can be no question that this
precipitation was accompanied by well-marked electrical phe
nomena ; and when, as at 2h 5m p.m., an increased but sudden
precipitation occurred, it is likely that an agglomeration of
the smaller drops took place, increasing, as suggested, the
electric tension to such an enormous extent, that a flash
escaped in the immediate neighbourhood ofthe houses struck; and
when we consider that at the time several millions of drops
must have been falling, each contributing its quota to the
general result, it is not to be wondered at that the tension of
the electricity was so great as to produce the very violent
effects witnessed.
  Bethnal Green, August 4, 1849.
XXIII. On Anharmonic Ratio. By Professor De Morgan*.
/"^ EOMETRICAL communications to scientific journals
^~* are not so common as they used to be, which may partly
be attributed to the expense of woodcuts, and partly to the
decline of taste for geometry. The latter is accelerated by the
paucity of geometrical reading arising from the former cause :
and its effect upon soundness of mathematical habits is deadly.
But there is no reason why the expense of woodcuts should
place any obstacle in the way. I am satisfied, from sufficient
trial, that when proper description of the diagram is given in
the text, the person who draws his own diagram from the text
will arrive at the author's meaning in half the time which is
employed by another, to whom the successive appearance of
the parts is prevented by his seeing the whole from the be-
                    * Communicated by the Author.

166         Prof. De Morgan on Anharmonic Ratio.
ginning. The great work of M. Chasles has not a single
diagram.
   It will be asked whether the omission of diagrams will not
cause a misprint (such as must sometimes occur) to be fatal to
the reader's chance of arriving at the result. Putting out of
view the very great confusion which a misprint causes when
it shows a variance with the diagram, and leaves the reader
unable to decide which is wrong, I will remark that it is pos
sible very greatly to diminish the risk of error in the descrip
tion of the diagram. This is all that is wanted: for grant the
reader once able to establish the diagram, and his position is
then as good as (at least, I say better than) that of the person
who has had the use of a woodcut. My plan would be to
double every letter the first time it occurs. Instead of ' Let AB
be a given straight line, and C a point without it,' I should
write ' Let AABB be a given straight line, and CC a point
without it.' This would present, I think, a twofold advantage.
First, neither author nor compositor is so likely to put in DD
instead of BB as D instead of B. Secondly, in looking back
to recover the meaning of a letter, the eye would be caught
by the reduplication which marks its first appearance, whereas
at present search is often necessary. I need not state that the
omission of the diagram would compel writers to be complete :
at present they sometimes (but always implying profession
ofthe contrary) rely upon it that the reader will supply omis
sions by the diagram.
   I propose in this present paper (which, however, will con
tain nothing elaborate enough to require any use of the pre
ceding suggestion) to state the mode in which the theories of
transversals, of the anharmonic ratio, and of the complete qua
drilateral, in their simplest parts, may be connected together,
by the help of a theorem which I believe to be new. I shall
hardly state more than results. I use the geometrical lan
guage of composition of ratios, and symbols representative of
it. It must also be noticed that no demonstration need in
volve any part of the sixth book except the first proposition.
   (1.) Let A : B represent the ratio of A to B, and (A : B)
(C : D) the ratio compounded of the ratios of A to B and C
to D. The symbol 1 : 1 may be used for a ratio of equality.
(2.) When a point is stated to be on a line, let it be under
stood that it may be on the line produced ; and when two lines
are stated as meeting, the point of intersection may be in either
or both produced. (3.) Two lines are said to be internal
segments of their sum, external segments of their difference :
so that AC, CB are always segments of AB, when A, B, C
are in one line. (4.) When there are four points, P,Q, R,S,

             Prof. De Morgan on Anharmonic Ratio.                     167
in one line, in any order, let (PQRS) denote the ratio com
pounded of PQ : QR and RS:SP, or (PQ: QR)(RS: SP).
This is what M. Chasles has styled the anharmonic ratio, by
an extension of its well-known case in which (PQRS) is 1 : 1,
in which case PR is said to be harmonically* divided in Q
and S. Since the letters P, Q, R, S can be written in twenty-
four different orders, there are as many forms in which an
anharmonic ratio may be presented. But all these forms are
only three ratios and their inverses : nor are these three di
stinct, for they are always of the connected forms A : B,
A : A + B, B : A + B. And the rules for separation and col
lection are as follows.
    To find the distinct anharmonic ratios. Take any one, say
(QSRP), advance the first letter one interval, and two inter
vals, giving (SQRP), (SRQP): these three are distinct; and
if the first be A : B, the second is A: C, the third is B : C, and
of A, B, C, some one is equal to the sum of the other two.
    To Jind forms of equivalent ratio. Invert all the letters, or
pairs, or one after the other ; thus(RSPQ), (QPSR), (PQRS),
(SRQP), are the same.
    To find theforms which have ratios inverse to that in any
givenform. Change either extreme into the other, or inter
change the first and third, or second and fourth : thus if
(SQRP) = A:B, either of these four (QRPS), (PSQR),
 (RQSP), (SPRQ), is B : A.
    To express the ratios circuitouslj/, or in the order A:B, B:C,
 C : A. Make two transferences of the first letter and of the
 second: thus if (PQRS) be A:B, (QRPS) is B : C, and
 (PRSQ)isCrA.
    Tofind convenient values of A, B, C. Look for the order
in which the letters occur on the line, say P, Q, R, S. Take
the rectangle under PQ and RS, with wholly unconnected
sides; under PS and QR, one of which contains the other;
and under PR and QS, in which each side is partly in and
partly out of the other. Call these A, B, C ; then C = A + B,
and (PQRS) = A : B. Call this, and its inverse, the primary
ratio.
    (5.) If two systems be anharmonically equivalent, the six
 ratios (counting inverses) of one being severally equal to those
 of the other, then the primary ratios are equal, each to each.
    (6.) To what is usually said on harmonic division, I should
 add the following. If C, D, and C, D' be conjugate pairs of
 points to AB, it is known that of the two. lines CD, CD', the
   * This mode of speaking is not exactly consistent with the derivation of
 the phrase ; it is PR which is an harmonic mean between PQ and QS, ac
 cording to the received use of the word harmonic.

 168          Prof. De Morgan on Anharmonic Ratio.
 less is entirely within, or entirely without, the greater. Hence,
 Pbeingany point, CPDand C'PD' cannot both be right angles;
 from which, by a very easy redvctio ad absurdum, it follows
 that if CPD be a right angle, PC bisects the angle APB. For
 an easy* mode of finding any number of pairs of conjugates,
 with a given line AB, proceed as follows. Take BAP iso
 sceles at A, and bisect BP in Q. Having a point C in AB,
 take in AP AC'= AC, and draw C'Q meeting AB in D : then
 C and D are conjugate.
     (7.) If two triangles, ABC, A'B'C, have their bases, AB
 A'B', in the same line, which cuts CC in Z, the areas are in
 the ratio compounded of the bases AB, A'B', and the segments
 of the line joining the vertices, CZ, C'Z. Join BC: then
 CAB: CA'B' is (CAB: CZB)(CZB : ZBC')(ZBC: C'A'B'),
 or (AB:ZB)(ZC:ZC')(ZB:A'B'), or (AB: AB')(CZ: C'Z).
 If the bases be equal, the areas are as CZ:C'Z. Hence
 the fundamental proposition on transversals is most easily
 proved. If the sides of ABC be cut by a line cutting BC in
 A', CA in B', AB in C, then the number of external sections
 is odd, and-(AC':C'B)(BA':A'C)(CB':B'A)=l : 1. Join
 AA', CC by vi. 1, and (7 ) : the compound just mentioned is
 (AA'C : BA'C) (BA'C : CA'C) (CA'C : AA'C) or 1:1.
 Many writers prove the converse incorrectly, both in this pro
position and others. If there be A' B' Con the three sides,
 with an odd number external, and (AC: CB)(BA': A'C)
 (CB': B'A)=1 : 1, then A', B', C are in one line. If not,
 let A'B' meet AB in C" : then C" may be written for C'in the
 hypothesis, whence AC: CB : : AC" : C" B, and either C and
 C" coincide, or they are conjugate points in AB. In the last
 alternative C" is internal or external, according as C is ex
 ternal or internal : but A', B', C have by hypothesis, an odd
 number of externals, therefore A', B', C" (in a straight line)
 have an even number or none, which is absurd.
    (8.) If O be any point, and OA, OB, OC, cut BC, CA, AB
in A', B', C, then an odd number of sides is cut internally,
(AC:CB)(BA': A'C)(CB' : B'A) = 1 : 1. This compound,
by(7.), is (AOC : COB)(BOA : AOC)(COB : BOA), or 1 : I.
Treat the converse as before.
    (9.) Let A'B'C be a triangle having its vertices on the
sides BC, CA, AB of the triangle ABC, and let A'B', B'C,
CA' cut AB, BC, CA, in C", B", A"; so that BC is cut in
A' and A", &c. Then the division is internal and external in
all, or in none. Let A'B'C be called an inscript of ABC,
and ABC a descript of A'B'C.
   * Even in drawing without ruler and compasses, this method will be
found a useful assistant to the eye.

             Prof. De Morgan on Anharmonic Ratio.                        169
   (10.) The three sides, AB, BC, CA, are anharmonically*
divided in the same manner, giving (ACBC") = (BA'CA")
= (CB'AB"). The transversals passing through A' show that
CA': A'B is both (CB" : B"A)(AC : C'B) and (CB':B'A)
(AC": C"B). A very easy form of the proof is this : each
of the ratios (AC'BC") &c. is nothing but the compound
(AC: C'B)(BA': A'C)(CB' : B'A). Converses may be made.
(11.) If two lines meeting in Z, be cut by three lines meeting
in O, in A, B, C, A', B', C', then they have similar anharmonic
divisions, and (ZABC) = (ZA'B'C). Draw AB', A'B, &c.
and there are six cases of inscription ; A'BO and AB'O are
inscripts of ZCC ; B'CO and BC'O of ZAA' ; C'AO and
AC'O of ZBB' : from which the theorem follows instantly,
and, of course, its extension to any pencil of four lines and
any pair of transversals. The particular case, where the an
harmonic ratios become those of equality, must of course be
noted. Also, that if two similar anharmonic systems have one
point in common, the lines joining the points of the three cor
responding couples meet in one point. (12.) Notice that
A"B"C" is an inscript both of ABC and A'B'C; and call it
the common inscript; or, when A"B"C" are in one straight
line, an evanescent inscript. (13.) When the inscript is har~
monic, that is when the sides of ABC are harmonically divided
by those of A'B'C, then A A', BB', CC meet in one point:
and the converse. (14.) When the inscript is harmonic, the
common inscript is evanescent ; and the converse.
    (15.) The complete quadrilateral is a triangle and a trans
versal, in four different ways. If, as before, ABC be the tri
angle, and A'B'C the transversal, then A, A' are opposite
points, as are B, B', and C, C. The triad of quadrilaterals is
ABA'B', BCB'C, CAC'A'. Draw the diagonals A A', BB',
CC, and let AA', BB' meet in C" ; BB', CC, in A" ; CC,
AA', in B". In the figure are seven lines, and ABA'B' and
its attendants are complete.           But there are six other sy
stems of quadrilaterals, each of which is incomplete, wanting
one diagonal, and dispensing with one of the seven lines.
Thus AA'BB' has the diagonals AB, A'B', wants CC", and
has nothing to do with CC'. Throw out the line CC, replace
   * I take this theorem to be new, which I should not have done from its
being new to me when I found it : but on communicating it to Mr. T. S.
Davies, whose research in this subject is far above mine, I found that it was
equally new to him. But I shall not definitively call it new till I hear what
 M. Chasles says on the subject. I may add, that the substitution of (10.)
for the celebrated proposition of Pappus in (11.) is the joint work of Mr.
 Davies and myself. On my communicating (10.), he returned me a de
monstration of it by means of (11.), from which I saw that (11.) was really
a case of (10.)

 170         Prof. De Morgan on Anharmonic Ratio.
it by CC", and AA'BB' is complete, while ABA'B', which
was complete, takes its place among the incomplete ones. As
follows :
     AA'BB' has diagonals AB, A'B' wants CC" and dispenses with CC.
     BB'CC       ...      BC, B'C ... AA"            ...        AA'
     CC'AA'      ...      CA, CA' ... BB"            ...        BB'
     AA'BB                AB', A'B ..,. C'C"                    CC
     BB'C'C              BC, B'C . .. A'A"                      AA'
     CC'A'A              CA', C'A .. . B'B"                     BB'.
   (16.) That each diagonal is harmonically divided by the
other two is well-known : but this is only a very small part of
the following. Take any two points and their opposites, say
A, C, A', C. Any triangle made from three of these, say
ACC, has BB'B" for an harmonic inscript, as proved by the
lines which meet in the fourth point, A'. This gives twelve
cases of harmonic inscription. (17.) Let A"B"C" be called
the diagonal triangle: it has four harmonic inscripts. Of the
remaining six letters take any three which are in the same
straight line, say A'BC. The other three AB'C, show an
harmonic inscript of the diagonal triangle, A'BC, first named,
being the evanescent common inscript.
   (18.) Hence it follows that A"A, B"B, C"C, &c. meet in
one point. Let them meet in 0 ; A"A, B"B', C"C, in 1 ;
A"A', B"B, C"C, in 2; A"A', B"B', C"C in 3. There are
then six new lines 01, 12, 23, 30, 02, 31. If C"A" be taken
as a seventh line, then 0123 is complete ; if B"C", then 1203 ;
if A"B", then 2013.
   The above will be sufficient for my purpose, and will show,
I think, the value of the anharmonic ratio. It will be observed
that I adhere closely to the language of geometry, and do not
admit that of algebra: but I go further, and, while thinking
of the subject, do not admit the notions of arithmetic. From
various writers I gather that they think, in compounding the
ratio, say of AB to CD and PQ to RS, there is no choice
except either to compare the rectangles under AB and PQ
and under CI) and RS, or else the products AB x PQ and
CD x RS, the linear symbols being interpreted numerically:
so that the composition of three linear ratios in plane geometry
is resisted as involving the use of solids. But if any one will
accustom himself to fix his mind upon alteration in a ratio as
an operation which can be conceived independently ofnumber,
and executed independently of rectangles, he will find that the
propositions of the geometry of transversals, &c. have a vitality
which the algebraic forms cannot give them. The following
process would not only help the confirmed algebraist to receive

      On the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies.            171
the notion for which I contend, but would be a useful exercise
in drawing. Form a triangle ABC, and a transversal A'B'C,
draw any line K, and make an attempt by unassisted estima
tion to alter K into L in the ratio of AC : C'B : and then
cover K over with a bit of paper. By estimation again, draw M
so that L : M as BA' : A'C, and N so that M : N as CB': B'A.
Then N and K should be equal. In all this there is neither
occasion to think of a solid, nor of an area, nor of a numerical
product.
XXIV. On the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies. By
   H. Rose, Professor ofChemistry in the University ofBerlin *.
                       [Continued from p. 24.]
    [The following are the Appendices referred to in the prece
ding portion of Prof. Rose's paper, at p. 4 et seq. of the present
volume. They have been slightly, but not materially, abridged,
and principally only in regard to the details of such analytical
methods of examination as have yielded unfavourable results
in the hands of the author, or such facts as have been described
in the preceding part.] \
                      Appendix I. and II.
  Examination of the Inorganic Constituents ofPeas and Pea-
                     strata. By M. Weber.
   300 grms. of peas and 100 grms. of pea-straw were used.
 After carbonization the mass was treated according to the
 method previously described.
    The aqueous extract, when evaporated to dryness, fur
 nished in the case of the peas, 1*14*0 grin.; in the case of the
 pea-straw, 1*417 grm.
    These residues gave the following results per cent.—
                                        Peas.          Pea-straw.
         Chloride of potassium         47*54              7*14
         Chloride of sodium .            8*16             6*65
         Potash                        30*26            57*10
         Lime                            ...              0*70
         Phosphoric acid . .             4*47              • ••
         Sulphuric acid      . .         0-79             2*12
         Carbonic acid . . .             8*88           28*12
         Silica                           ...             148
                                       9955             98-31
    These constituents, when calculated as salts, yield the fol
 lowing composition :—
              • From PoggendorfFs Annalcn, Ixxvi. p. 338.

1 72      Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
                        Peas.                         Pea- straw
      KC1 . . . 47-54                   KC1 . .     . 7*14
      NaCl . . . 8-16                   NaCl .      . 6-65
      3KO + PsOs       13-32            KO, S08     . 2-46
      KO, S03 . .        1-72          KO, COa      . 72-62
      KO, CO, . 26-16                  KO, SiOa     . 4-49
      KO, HO        .    3-13          KO, HO       . 3-88
                      100-03           CaO, S03     . 1'69
                                                      98-93
   Thus the chlorides exist in the aqueous extract of the car
bonized peas in far larger quantity than in that of the pea-
straw. Phosphoric acid exists only in the peas; it is entirely
absent from the aqueous extract of the carbonized pea-straw;
whilst the latter contains a much larger quantity of carbonate
of potash than the carbonized peas, so that the evaporated
aqueous extract of the carbonized pea-straw would have exactly
the same composition as several of the commercial kinds of
potash.
   The aqueous extract of both the carbonized peas and the
pea-straw contained some, although not a large quantity, of
free potash, formed by the above-mentioned action of the car
bon upon carbonate of potash. As we have already stated,
the conversion of the potash into the carbonate by the trans
mission of carbonic acid through the solution was omitted in
all the analyses. Hence it is calculated as potash in the eva
porated aqueous extract.
   Muriatic extract.—The carbonized peas after exhaustion
with water did not evolve carbonic acid when treated with
muriatic acid; the carbonized straw, however, effervesced
strongly, and hence contained a large quantity of earthy car
bonates. As the amount of carbonic acid could not be deter
mined directly, the lime and magnesia not precipitated from
the muriatic solution by ammonia in the form of earthy phos
phates are calculated as carbonates.
   The composition of the constituents in the two extracts was
as follows: —
                                     Peas.      Pea-straw.
        Potash                      54-63
        Soda .......                  7*56
        Carbonate of lime              ...        60-19
        Carbonate of magnesia          ...           5-26
        Lime                          8-22           6-92
        Magnesia                      6*52
                                      6-52           5-69
        Peroxide of iron ...          1-33           113
        Phosphoric acid . . . 20-79                18-29
        Silica                        0-95           2-52
                                  100-00         100-00

                       of Organic Bodies.                   1 73
    The large amount of potash in the acid extract of the car
bonized peas is very remarkable. The quantity of phosphoric
acid present is about sufficient to form with the lime and mag
nesia 2CaO, P9Os, and 2MgO, Pa05; the calculated quantity
of phosphoric acid would then amount to 21 '92 per cent.
Were it even admitted that the alkalies had formed with the
two earthy phosphates, compounds of ophosphoric acid inso
luble in water, the quantity of alkali would be far too great
for this purpose; for the potash alone requires more phos
phoric acid than was found to form 3KO, P405.
    The amount of phosphoric acid found in the acid extract of
the carbonized pea-straw is exactly sufficient to form 6-plios-
phates with the lime and magnesia ; the calculated per-centage
of phosphoric acid would then amount to 18*53. But both
the salts undoubtedly exist in the carbonized residue in the
form of c-phosphates, and the amount of the carbonates of lime
and magnesia must be less by so much as is requisite to form
c-phosphoric acid from the 6-phosphates.
    Remaining carbonaceous mass.—The following is the com
position per cent, of the ash obtained by incinerating the ex
hausted carbonaceous mass of the peas and pea-straw.
                                     Peas.     Pea-straw.
           Potash                   2V14
           Lime                       5-25        1-87
           Magnesia .... 11-22                   1466
           Peroxide of iron . .       0*85        7*73
           Phosphoric acid . . 58-03             20-80
           Silica                     0-51       54-94
                                   10000        10000
    Considering the large quantity of phosphoric acid in the
 ash of the peas, we must admit that one portion of the bases
 is combined with a-phosphoric acid, and another with 6-phos-
 phoric acid. If we calculate the lime and magnesia, as also
 the small quantity of peroxide of iron as b -phosphates (which
 certainly ought not to be done in the case of the peroxide of
 iron), 26*08 per cent, of phosphoric acid are required. If we
 assume that the remaining 31*95 per cent, of phosphoric acid
 are combined with the potash to form KO, Ps Os, we require
  21 09 per cent, of potash. The quantity found is 3*05 per
 cent, more than this.
    For the purpose of showing the important difference which
 occurs when the incineration of the exhausted carbonized mass
 is effected by the aid of a solution of platinum, or by my
 former method, by combustion in oxygen, the result of the
 examination of the ash of this substance may be brought for

174       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
ward here, as obtained by the latter defective method. In
this case it amounted to 1-424 grm. from 300 grms. of peas,
whilst by the other method 2-726 grms. were obtained.
   It consisted per cent, of—
                Potash . . .             17-83
                Lime ....                 8-77
                Magnesia . .             20-85
                Peroxide of iron          2-24
                Phosphoric acid          4698
                Silica     . . .           1-89
                                         98-56
   The amount of the potash and phosphoric acid is diminished
by the volatilization of the phosphate of potash ; whilst that of
the lime, the magnesia, the peroxide of iron, and the silica
have been increased.
   The proportion of the phosphoric acid to the bases in the
ash of the pea-straw is the same as that in the ^-phosphates.
Yet only lime and magnesia could have been combined with
the ^-phosphoric acid, since the quantity of this acid found is
only sufficient for these bases. If the two earths were con
sidered as i-phosphates, 21*60 per cent, phosphoric acid
would be required. The considerable quantity of peroxide
of iron must not be considered as existing in combination with
phosphoric acid in the ash.
   The following are the inorganic constituents contained in
the muriatic extract and the incinerated carbonized residue
of peas ; they have been added together, because they are
sometimes considered as constituting the portions of the ash
insoluble in water.
                Potash                   32-66
                Soda                      2-11
                Lime                      6*08
                Magnesia ....             9-91
                Peroxide of iron . .      0-98
                Phosphoric acid . .      47'62
                Silica                    0*64
                                        100-00
   We thus see the large amount of alkali contained in those
constituents which are insoluble in water, and the presence of
which has previously been almost always overlooked.
   The inorganic constituents of the muriatic extract and in
cinerated carbonized mass of pea-straw were—

                       of Organic Bodies.                      175
               Carbonate of lime            54-29
               Carbonate of magnesia          4-77
               Lime      . . .                6*42
               Magnesia . .                   6-58
               Peroxide of iron               1-78
               Phosphoric acid              18-52
               Silica . . .                   7-64
                                           100-00
   The following is the result of the analysis of the inorganic
constituents of peas: —
   In the aqueous extract of the carbonized peas 23*61 per cent.
   In the muriatic extract                         21*48    ...
   In the ash of the carbonized mass . . . 55*36
                                                  100-45
   The total amount of inorganic constituents of the peas was
1-64 per cent.
   Hence the constituents obtained in the three operations
were—
                                               Oxygen.
      Chloride of potass um         11*02
      Chloride of sodiun             1-89
      Potash . . .                 32-15      5-44-1
      Soda ....                      1*62     0-41
      Lime ....                      4*67      1-31 \ 10*33
      Magnesia     . .               7*62      2*94
      Peroxide of iron               0*76     0-23J
      Phosphoric acid               37*67    21*10^
      Sulphuric acid .               0*18     0*10
                                                     <U+25BA>22*84
      Carbonic acid .                1*94      1-39
      Silica ....                    0*48     0-25J
                                  100*00
   The pea-straw yielded—
Extracted by water from the carbonized muss        27*00 per cent.
Extracted by muriatic acid                         65-87    ...
Ash of the residuary carbonized mass . .            7*13
                                                  10000
   The total amount of inorganic constituents of the pea-straw
amounted to 5*25 per cent.
   The constituents obtained in the three divisions of the ana
lysis yielded—

1 76      Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
                                           Oxygen.
      Chloride of potassium          1-96
      Chloride of sodium             1-83
      Potash . . .                 15-68    2-65
     Lime      . . .              27-14     7-62
                                                  W3-18
     Magnesia . .                   6-50    2-51
      Peroxide of iron              1-30    0-40
      Phosphoric acid             13-52     7-57'
     Sulphuric acid                 0-57    0-34
                                                   26-37
      Carbonic acid               25-52    18-46 X
      Silica . . .                  5-98
                                 100-00
   The proportion of the oxygen of the bases to that of the
acids in both the peas and the pea-straw is therefore as 1 : 2.
The oxygen of the silica in the pea-straw is not added to that
of the other acids, because it is not combined with bases in the
straw.
   The manner in which the inorganic constituents of organic
substances are usually determined, consists in the direct in
cineration of the organic substance, and in arranging the
constituents found in the analysis, by uniting the strongest
bases with the strongest acids. The carbonic acid in many
cases was not determined directly ; and the portion of the
bases remaining, after calculating the salts formed by them
with the acids found, was assumed as carbonates. The above
results show to what very erroneous ideas this method of ar
rangement may lead. On calculating according to the above
principle the salts from the numbers quoted last, we should
obtain totally different arrangements, or at least totally differ
ent per-centage results from those obtained by the separate
exhaustions of the carbonized substance. Thus all the alkali,
for instance, in the ash of the peas remaining after calculating
the amounts of chloride and alkaline sulphate, would be re
garded as alkaline phosphate. The phosphoric acid then
remaining would be combined with other bases, and what
remained of the latter would be regarded as combined with
carbonic acid. But we have now seen that part of the potash
exists in the aqueous solution of the carbonized mass in the
state of carbonate, and that in the teleoxidic portion of the
carbonized mass the earths extracted by the muriatic acid
could only have been combined with phosphoric acid, because
no carbonic acid is evolved when an acid is added.
   This principle is seen to be still more erroneous in the de
termination of the inorganic constituents of the pea-straw.
No phosphoric acid exists in the aqueous extract of the car

                       of Organic Bodies.                     1 77
bonized mass, but almost all the potash is combined with car
bonic acid, whilst the earths in the teleoxidic portion of the
carbonized mass are mostly combined with carbonic acid, and
partly with phosphoric acid.
   The fact that organic substances, the ash of which consists
principally of earths, may be very easily incinerated, whilst
those which contain a large amount of alkalies are very diffi
cultly so, forms an important objection to the complete inci
neration of the organic substance for the determination of the
amount of ash contained in it. For by the prolonged heat
required in the latter case, the greater portion, and frequently
the whole of the alkaline chlorides, especially the chloride of
potassium, is volatilized ; or by the action of It-phosphates
with the aid of water, or by the hydrogen evolved and the
oxygen of the air, muriatic acid is liberated, and they are
thus converted into c-phosphates. Carbonic acid is driven off
in the same manner. For this reason, in the incineration of
those organic substances which abound in alkalies, Wacken-
roder has proposed to mix them with a weighed quantity of an
earth, to prevent their fusion and to promote the ready com
bustion of the carbon.
                    Appendix III. and IV.
  Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of Rape-seed and
                  Rape-straw. By M. Weber.
   Aqueous extract.—The following are the per-centage re
sults :—
                                      Rape-seed.     Straw.
         Chloride of potassium .         1-39         3-82
         Chloride of sodium         •     • ••       9-71
                                    .  67*88        58-91
         Lime                       •     • ••       0-32
         Phosphoric acid     .  .   .  1284
         Sulphuric acid .    .  .       2-08          1-86
         Carbonic acid .     .  .  .   11-11        25-32
                                         1-21         1-47
                                       96-51       100-41
   On calculating the salts from the constituents obtained, a
 very large amount of free potash remains in excess, which
 existed in the evaporated residue as hydrate of potash. The
 apparently considerable loss arises from the water of the hy
 drate of potash not having been given among the constituents.
 Moreover, on account of the large amount of fatty oil in the
 seeds, a very large quantity of olefiant gas was evolved during
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 235. Sept. 1849.           N

178      Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
the carbonization, and this caused the conversion of so large
an amount of carbonate of potash into potash.
   The above constituents, when calculated as salts, yield the
following composition :—
                                                Rape-seed
          Chloride of potassium . . .        .    1-32
          Tribasic phosphate of potash .         38-19
                                              .   4-51
                                                 34-89
          Tribasic silicate of potash .   .       4*86
                                                 15-10
                                                 98-87
   On calculating the hydrate of potash as the carbonate, the
composition of the aqueous extract would be—
          Chloride of potassium     ....          1*35
          Potash .                               66-28
          Phosphoric acid                        12-54
          Sulphuric acid                          2-03
          Carbonic acid                          16-61
          Silica                                  1*19
                                                100-00
or
          Chloride of potassium ....              1*35
          Tribasic phosphate of potash . .       87'29
          Sulphate of potash                      4*4 1
          Carbonate of potash                    52-20
          Tribasic silicate of potash . . .       4-75
                                                100-00
   The aqueous extract of the carbonized straw did not con
tain any free potash. The constituents of the extract, when
calculated as salts, give the following composition :—
          Chloride of potassium ....              3-82
          Chloride of sodium .....                9-71
          Sulphate of potash                      3*06
          Carbonate of potash                    79-53
          Tribasic silicate of potash . . .       4-46
          Sulphate of lime                        0-77
                                                101-35
   Muriatic extract. —The carbonized seeds, after exhaustion
with water, did not effervesce on the addition of muriatic acid ;
the straw, however, did so copiously.

                        of Organic Bodies.                    179
   The composition in 100 parts was as follows : —
                                      Seed.      Straw.
            Potash                    30-45
            Soda                        4-48
            Carbonate oflime . .         • ¦•    63-38
            Carbonate of magnesia .      • ••    20-46
            Lime                        8'06       4-45
            Magnesia                  14-34        046
            Peroxide of iron            1-36       2-13
            Phosphoric acid .         40-63        5-93
            Sulphuric acid .            0-32
            Silica ....                0-36        3-19
                                     100-00     100-00
   The composition of the phosphates precipitated by am
monia from the muriatic solution was as follows, after having
been heated to redness :—8CaO + P2 Os + 2MgO + P2 Os
+ 2Fe903 + SPs Os. The calculated quantity of phosphoric
acid in this precipitate amounts to 34*24 per cent. ; analysis
yielded 34-47 per cent. Thus there is an excess of 6*16 per
cent, phosphoric acid.
   The phosphates precipitated by ammonia from the acid
extract of the straw consisted, after having been heated to
redness, of 2CaO, P2 Os + 2MgO, P2 Os + Fe2 Oa.
   The remaining carbonaceous mass.—The ash it contained
consisted of—
                                       Seed.      Straw.
            Potash . . .              21-50
            Soda . .. .                 0-29
            Lime ... .                15-19      27-53
            Magnesia . .              14-08      13-51
            Peroxide of iron            0-46       4-20
            Phosphoric acid           45-79        9-29
            Sulphuric acid              1-87
            Silica . . .                0-82     45-47
                                     100-00     100-00
   The composition of the phosphates precipitated by am
monia from the acid solution of the ash of the seeds was
2CaO, P2Os + 2MgO, P2Os + Fe2Oa, 3P2 Os. The phosphoric
acid required by calculation is 44*17 per cent.; that found by
experiment amounted to 44-10 per cent. Hence there is an
excess of 1-69 per cent, phosphoric acid, which existed in the
liquid filtered from the earthy phosphates. Ammonia how
ever produced only a very slight precipitate in the acid solu
tion of the ash of the carbonized straw ; the fluid filtered from
this still contained lime and magnesia.
                               N2

180        Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
   The following results were obtained in the three divisions
of the examination of the inorganic constituents of the rape-
seed and rape-straw:—
                                          Seed.         Straw.
  Extracted by water from the car-~\
                                          9-50 p. c. 39-59 p.
     bonized mass                     J         °
  Extracted by muriatic acid . . . 35-60 p,            45-91 p.
  In the ash of the residue     . . . 54-90 p,          14-50 p.
                                        100*00 p. c. 100-00 p. c.
    The inorganic constituents of the rape-seed amounted to
248 per cent., those of the straw to 3*93 per cent.
    Hence the following are the whole of the inorganic consti
tuents of the rape-seed : —
                                                Oxygen.
    Chloride of potassium     . .     0-13
    Potash                           28-94        4-90
    Soda                              1-75        0-44
                                                            12-86
    Lime                             11-19        2-33 f
    Magnesia      . .                12-84        4-97 I
    Peroxide of iron                  074         0-22 J
    Phosphoric acid                 40-79       22-85
    Sulphuric acid .                  1-34        0-80
    Carbonic acid .                   1-58        114 y 25-15
    Silica ....                       0-70        0-36
                                   100-00
    The amount of oxygen in the acids is twice as great as that
 of the bases in the rape- seed as in peas.
    The rape-straw yielded the following inorganic consti
tuents :—
                                                Oxygen.
    Chloride of potassium     . .     1-48
    Chloride of sodium . . ,          3-79
    Potash                          23-02         390
    Lime                            2247          6-31
    Magnesia                          6*72        2-60 y 13-29
    Peroxide of iron ....             1-57        0-48
    Phosphoric acid ....              4-07        2-28
    Sulphuric acid                    0*76        0-45     27-10
    Carbonic acid                    27'51       1990 )
    Silica                            8-61        4-47
                                   10000
   Two analyses were also made of rape according to the old
plan, and were found to yield the same errors as those which
have been previously described.

                        of Organic Bodies.                     181
   On comparing the constituents of the ash of peas with those
of rape-seed, we find that the aqueous extract of the car
bonized peas diners essentially from that of the carbonized rape
in the large amount of alkaline chlorides which it contains,
and which are present in very small quantity in the rape,
whilst the latter contains more phosphate of potash than the
former. The muriatic extract of the carbonized rape also
contains much more phosphoric acid than that of the peas,
whilst the anoxidic portion of the carbonized mass of the peas
yields more phosphoric acid than that of the rape. The in
organic constituents of the pea- and the rape-straw are how
ever very similar to each other.
                          Appendix V.
      On the Amount of Silica contained in some Plants.
                         By M. Struve.
   As is well known, the stems of the Equisetacece when incine
rated leave a residue consisting of almost pure silica, which
retains the form of the original stem. It fuses before the
blowpipe on charcoal. If this residue be exhausted, first with
water and then with muriatic acid, which dissolve very small
quantities of alkaline salts, among which we find phosphoric
acid, together with sulphate and phosphate of lime, it no
longer fuses before the blowpipe. The ash of the following
species of Equisetum, after treatment with water and acids,
yielded the following composition:—
                                                        Impure
                                                      manganoso"
                         Silica.  Alumina.    Lime. manganic oxide.
   Equisetum hiemale     97-52      1-700     0-69
   Equisetum limosum     94-85     0-990       1-57      1-69
   Equisetum arvense     95-43     2-556       1-64
   The epidermis of the stolones of Calamus Rhodan, the
Spanish cane, which may be easily separated by repeatedly
bending them, consists almost entirely of silica, whilst the
woody substance itself contains mere traces of it. Muriatic
acid does not remove either alumina or other bases, excepting
a very small quantity of lime. This silica does not fuse before
the blowpipe. After treatment with muriatic acid, it had the
following composition :—
                     Silica . . . 99-20
                     Lime . . .         0'45
                                       9965
   Spongia lacustris, from the neighbourhood of Berlin, also

182        Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
leaves an ash having the form of the plant, which, as in the
preceding instances, is not destroyed after exhaustion with
 water and muriatic acid, which removes some lime. Its com
position was then as follows: —
                     Silica .    .    .    94-66
                     Alumina     .    .      1*77
                     Lime .      .    .     2*99
                                          99-42
   It is very probable that the substance stated to be alumina
in these analyses is really phosphate of lime or magnesia.
Alumina has not hitherto been detected with certainty in the
ash of plants.
                    Appendix VI. and VII.
      Examination of the Ash of Wheat and Wheat-straw.
                          By M. Weber.
   The quantity of substance used amounted to 300 grms. in
the case of the grain, and 100 grms. in that of the straw.
   Aqueous extract.—During evaporation it deposited copious
films of silica. That of the grain left a residue weighing 1-413
grin., that of the straw 1-216 grm. ; it had the following
composition :—
                                   Wheat-grain.     Straw.
         Chloride of potassium a          ...       48-09
         Chloride of sodium . . 27-05                2-84
                                                     2-17
         Sulphuric acid    .   .   •      •••        2-34
         Phosphoric acid .     .   .    81-72
         Silica                    .      ...       44-58
                                        98-78       99-92
   The presence of so large a quantity of silica in the aqueous
extract of the straw is very remarkable. A soluble compound
of chloride of potassium and silica must be formed under cer
tain circumstances. The films of silica deposited during eva
poration, were not changed by digestion with muriatic acid ;
nor did they exhibit any regular structure under the micro
scope, but consisted of pure silica.
   Potash and soda exist in the aqueous extract of the car
bonized wheat in combination with phosphoric acid in the
form of 6-phosphates. The amount of phosphoric acid re
quired by calculation is 32-72 per cent.

                        of Organic Bodies.                     183
   Muriatic extract.—The residue consisted of-
                                      Wheat.      Wheat-straw.
           Potash . . .                14-40
           Soda ....                    1-66
           Lime ....                    4-33        46-83
           Magnesia . .               22-35         10-56
           Peroxide of iron             1-72         2-96
           Phosphoric acid            54-77         33-54
           Silica ....                  0-77         6-11
                                     100-00        100-00
   In the muriatic extract of the wheat, all the bases com
bined with phosphoric acid are in the form of S-phosphates.
The quantity of phosphoric acid corresponding to these salts
amounts to 57-20 per cent. ; experiment gave only 54-77 per
cent.
   In the muriatic extract of the carbonized straw, the preci
pitate produced by ammonia consisted of 8CaO+ 3POs + 2Fe2
03 + 3Ps05; the phosphoric acid thus required amounts to
34-60 per cent. ; analysis yielded 33-54 per cent. The liquid
filtered from this precipitate still contained small quantities of
the carbonates of lime and magnesia.
   The exhausted carbonized mass.—The composition of the
ash was as follows :—
                                   Wheat-grain.     Straw.
           Potash . . .               22-70
           Lime ....                    7-30         1-97
           Magnesia . .                 9-86         0-66
           Peroxide of iron             1-76         1-13
           Phosphoric acid            54-05          1-54
           Silica    . . .              4-33        94-70
                                     100-00        100-00
   On calculating the bases in the ash of the residuary carbo
naceous mass as i-phosphates, there is an excess of phos
phoric acid, part of which formed a-phosphates. The bases
would require 44-19 per cent, phosphoric acid to form
6-phosphates. The principal constituent of the ash of the
straw was silica. The muriatic solution of the ash yielded
with ammonia a precipitate consisting of 8CaO + 3P2Os +
2MgO + P9Os+ Fe9 03+ P2Os. The liquid filtered from this
precipitate still contained small quantities of lime and mag
nesia, probably more than would correspond to the solubility
of the earthy phosphates in a solution of muriate of ammonia.
   The three divisions of the analysis of the grains and straw
of wheat gave—

18*       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
                                                Grain.     Straw.
   Extracted by water                           36-80      31-79
   Extracted by muriatic acid                   43-93      13-39
   Asli of the remaining carbonaceous mass      19*27      55-82
                                               100-00     10000
   The inorganic constituents of the grain amount to 1 -28 per
cent. ; those of the straw to 3'825 per cent.
   Thus the composition of the entire ash of the grain would
be—
                                           Oxygen.
      Chloride of sodium     . .  10*00
      Potash                      23-18      3*83
      Soda                         3-09      0-76
      Lime                         3-33      0-83   9-30
      Magnesia                    11-75      3-5*
      Peroxide of iron             I'll      0-34
      Phosphoric acid             46*36     25-97
      Silica ....                  1*18
                                 100-00
   The oxygen contained in the bases to that in the phospho
ric acid is nearly in the proportion of 2 : 5. It has already
been stated that the phosphates obtained in the various parts
of the analysis were pyrophosphates.
   The composition ot the entire ash of the straw is—
                                           Oxygen.
      Chloride of potassium       15*13
      Chloride of sodium .     .   0*89
      Potash . . . . •             0*68      0*11
                                   6*93      1*94 •3*00
      Magnesia ....                1*69      0-65
      Peroxide of iron . .         099       0-30
      Phosphoric acid              5-05      2-82
                                                   -3*28
      Sulphuric acid     . .       0-74      0-44
                                  67-90
                                 100 00
   As we have already stated, wheat-straw belongs apparently
to the meroxidic substances. But if we deduct the large
amount of silica, which must be regarded as existing in a per
fect slate of oxidation in the straw, from the anoxidic sub
stances, so very small a quantity of it remains, that the wheat-
straw may be regarded as an almost teleoxidic substance.

                        of Organic Bodies.                   185
                         Appendix VIII.
 Analysis of the Ash of the Blood of the Ox.     By M. Weber.
   The entire blood was carbonized by the method stated.
   Aqueous extract.—The blood requires to be washed for nearly
fourteen days to obtain a proper extract for the first portion
of the analysis.
   The residue of the aqueous extract consisted of—
      Chloride of sodium     59-31-)     rNa CI . .      5931
      Soda                   14-67 |     | KO, SOs .      078
      Potash . . .                         3KO, Pa05      1-58
      Phosphoric acid                      KO,COa .      15-31
      Sulphuric acid .                     NaO, COs.     19-67
      Carbonic acid .                      NaO, HO .      405
                             99-79                      100*70
   The small quantity of free alkali which is produced by the
action of the carbon upon the alkaline carbonate, and which
is considered as hydrate of soda, might perhaps be regarded
more correctly as alkaline carbonate.
   Muriatic extract. —This consisted of—
                 Soda                        41-39
                 Potash                      12-60
                 Lime                         6-95
                 Magnesia                     4-10
                 Peroxide of iron .   .   . 2160
                 Phosphoric acid .    .   . 13-36
                                            10000
    The amount of alkali present is very striking, and is much
too large to allow of the supposition that the alkalies com
bined with phosphoric acid had existed in the form of double
salts with the earthy phosphates. The quantity of phosphoric
acid found is exactly sufficient to form with the lime 8CaO
 + 3POs, and with the magnesia 2MgO + POs. The quantity
 required by calculation is 13*62 per cent. ; that found amounts
 to 13*36 per cent. Probably the alkalies existed as chlorides
 in the carbonized mass which had been exhausted with water,
 and had escaped its action. This is rendered more probable
 by the fact, that the sum of the constituents of the muriatic
 extract, including the alkalies, amounted to much less than
 the direct weight of the evaporated residue.

186     On the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies.
   Residuary carbonaceous mass.—It consisted of—
               Potash                        7'94
               Soda     ...... 47*22
               Lime                          4-09
               Magnesia                       1'46
               Peroxide of iron . .         16-69
               Phosphoric acid . .          18-37
               Sulphuric acid . .            061
               Silica                         3-62
                                           100-00
   The amount of phosphoric acid is too small to form c-phos-
phates with the earths and alkalies, much less can the peroxide
of iron be considered as combined with phosphoric acid.
   The relative amounts per cent, obtained by the three ope
rations are—
        Extracted by water                           60-90
        Extracted by muriatic acid ....               6-04
        Ash of the residuary carbonaceous mass 3306
                                                    100-00
   The whole analysis of the blood gave—
                                        Oxygen.
     Chloride of sodium . 36-16
     Soda                      27'08      6-92^
     Potash . . ,. . . 10-66              1-80
     Lime                        1*77     0-49 10-58
     Magnesia ....              0-73      0-28
     Peroxide of iron . .       6-84      1-09'
     Phosphoric acid . .        7'21      4-03 ^
     Sulphuric acid     . .     0*42
     Carbonic acid . . .        7*94
     Silica                     1-19      0-61 J
                              100-00
   Hence the statement formerly made, that the inorganic
constituents of the blood agree with those of many seeds,
is only partly correct. The inorganic constituents of the
wheat, excluding a considerable amount of chloride of so
dium, consist almost entirely of pyrophosphates. The inor
ganic constituents of peas and rape, which differ in regard
to the amount of alkaline chlorides they contain, nevertheless
agree generally in the amount of the oxygen of all the bases
being about half as great as that of the acids ; whilst in the
inorganic constituents of the blood the bases are combined with
much smaller quantities of acids, so that the oxygen of the

     The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.       187
base is about equal to that of the acids. There is especially
a much less quantity of phosphoric acid to a larger nmount
of peroxide of iron in the blood, than in the seeds of the Le-
guminosce or the Cerealia. At all events, the blood is a me-
roxidic substance; and the teleoxidic portion of it is only
apparently greater than the anoxidic, because the large quan
tity of alkaline chlorides in the former cannot be considered
as forming part of the teleoxidic portion.
                          [To be continued.]
               XXV. On the Theory of the Tides.
                 By the Rev. Brice Bronwin*.
'T'HE true principles of fluid motion were not known when
  -*¦ Bernoulli and Euler produced their Theories of the
Tides; and though Laplace in his Theory set out with the
proper equations, he did not succeed in integrating them.
After a very elaborate discussion of the subject, and arguing
in a retardation, he concluded by merely making the height
of the tide proportional to the disturbing forces of the sun and
moon. There are two grand defects in all these theories.
There is no retardation of the water resulting from the mathe
matical theory itself. If we set aside the contrivances to ac
count for, or argue in a retardation, they give high water
immediately under the luminary that raises it. And also they
in reality make the direct action of the sun and moon to pro
duce the whole of the effect ; whereas it is admitted that in
narrow seas at least their direct action produces no sensible
effect, which indeed is evident from very obvious considera
tions.
     It is upon the horizontal displacements of the water that
the height of the tide and the retardation chiefly depend. But
these have been neglected ; in fact all the difficulty lies here.
Laplace did not succeed in integrating his equations. The
thing wanted is, to make Ip, the variation of the pressure, a
complete variation. Until this be done, we cannot expect to
possess a theory which shall harmonize with the phsenomena.
 What, therefore, I propose in this and one or two more papers
 is, not to give a complete theory of the tides, the phaenomena
of which are in a great measure out of my way, but to attempt
 to make Ip a complete variation.
     Laplace's theory is contained in the first and fourth books
 of the Mccanique Celeste, from which I shall take the neces-
                    * Communicated by the Author.

 188    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.
 sary equations, retaining his symbols, which I suppose it will
 not be necessary to explain.
    From book 4, chap. 1. sect. 4, we have
         <xV=i(sin«i>- icos2wj(l+Scos20)
                 3L
              + -g-sin 0cos0sinucosucos(H< + w— \J/)
                 SL
              + --5sin90cos8wcos2(n*-t-«-— \J/). .    .   .  (1.)
    This is the part of aV which depends on the action of the
 sun or moon. That which depends on the disturbing force
 of the water, arising from the deviation of its form from that
of the equilibrium state, is insensible in small seas. And in
these the deviation of the attraction of the land from the regu
lar law of gravity will mostly be as great, or even greater,
than that of the water ; and its tendency will be in a consi
derable measure to annihilate the effects of the latter. We
shall therefore neglect this force.
   From book 1 . chap. 8. sect. 36, we have, making the den
sity unity and restoring j>, which the author had made nothing,
                 r980 (-j£ — 2n sin 0 cos 0 ~J
    + ^8w(sin*0 ^ +2nsin 0 cos 0 j£) = -gSy-Sp + SV.
   In this formula Laplace has very properly neglected the
vertical displacement (s), which is quite insensible in compa
rison of the horizontal displacements (k) and (»). He has
also left out the terms multiplied by Sr, which quantity ought
to be considered as of the same order with (s). If in this we
put r= 1, and make
       $„>=to(^ -2» sin 0 cos 0 ^) + Sur
           (sins0^+2nsin0cos0^)                             (2.)
the above becomes
                        ghy + tip = 8V — 8a).
This, integrated, gives gy+p=sc + V— to, where (c) is an arbi
trary constant. It may, however, contain equations of long
periods in (t), but cannot contain the angle nt + rs—b. Now

   The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theoiy of the Tides.        1 89
if we make/>=0, this will belong to the exterior surface, and
we shall have
                         gy=c+V-a>,                           (S.)
which gives (y), the height of the tide.
   From the place last referred to we have also
             d{fs)     . (du     dv     u cos 8 v
               dr +) \d9 + <fo + MnT/~°'
which is the equation of continuitv. In this equation the term
d(r*s)
-S— ¦ ought to have been left out in consistency with what the
author had done in the other formula. The quantities (u) and
(v) are many hundred, or even some thousand times larger
than (s) ; it cannot therefore be allowable to express this
exceedingly small quantity in terms of them. Leaving it out,
and differentiating relative to (t), there results
    By means of several hypotheses, very wide of the actual
case of nature, Laplace has contrived to integrate this equation,
with all its terms, relative to (r), and to make the terms in the
result all of the same order of magnitude by the introduction
of the depth of the sea into the larger ones as a factor. But
 such a result as this cannot be admitted with any tolerable
 regard to accuracy.
    The condition that See may be a complete variation is
 _(__2„S1„0COSS_)= j^MMy +2»S,nflcosfl^,
 or
 dri? ~2n S1° • C°S * M " H\m * d?) + 2n S,n * C0S *lMt
       + 2»(l-2sin«0)^,
 which by (4.) may be reduced to
           dri?=-dAsmid7)-2nsm6di- ' • • (5°
    From (4.) and (5.) we must determine « and v. To abridge,
 make <p = nt + -a—i>. We shall take account of terms depend
 ing on this angle only ; these in their most general form may
 be represented by A sin ip + B cos if. But A and B, being
 functions of 9 and /, may be developed in series, the single

190    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.
terms of which will be of the form A'a and B'S, A' and B'
being functions of 9 only, and a. and S functions of t only.
Therefore the values of u and v will be sums of terms of the
form
          A'a sin if + B'Scos if = C(a sin if + S cos if)
               + D(a sin if — S cos if),
if
                  C=|(A'+B'), D=i(A'-B'). .
But the two terms in the second number of this equation may
be put under either of the forms Aa sin i(f — S), or Aa cos i(f — G),
which are therefore the most general possible. We may
therefore make « and v, and also -3-, -j, equal to the sum of
terms of this form ; for the first general assumption applies to
the differential coefficients equally with the quantities them
selves.
   Let then
     -j- =2Aasin i(f— 6),        sin fl -j- = SB/3 cos i(f—S).
These values substituted in (4.) and (5.) will give results of
the form
                M sin i(f — S) + N cos i(f—S)= 0.
Whence M=0, N=0, will be equations for determining A
and B.
   From (4.) we get
                 (sin 6-jT- + cos 8A Ja — »'B|3 = 0.
As fl and t are independent of each other, this equation cannot
subsist unless one of them divide out. We must therefore
have
                                rfA
                /3 = a, sinfl-TT- + cos0A = iB. . . . (a.)
And there is no ambiguity ; for whichever of these equations
we assume, it leads to the other.
   If we had made (i = ka, we should have had £B everywhere
in the place of B; therefore making £B=B', the final result
would not be altered.
   Making the same substitution in (5.) which has been made
in (4.), we find, putting
                            d-\>    dS
                        "" A - * =pn

   The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.        191
               d
            ip^r (sin8B)-(22p-2sin88)A = o"
             'dl
                                                     •   •   (b.)
                 {£(-.«)-*}* -0
   The first of these has been divided by a, which multiplied
all the terms. We cannot make in the second
                       ^(sinJB)-iA = 0;
for this would reduce the first to 2sin89A = 0, which cannot
                                  da.
be. We must therefore have -j- =0, and
                                  at
                          a. = a, a constant                 (c.)
Then, since A and B are not functions of t, the first of (b.)
cannot subsist unless p be constant. We must therefore
make
                           d$     dty                        ,,>
                           dt+dt=CV>                         (d)
where c is a constant, and v is the mean motion of the planet,
the first member being of this order.
   If now we divide the first of (b.) by p=l— c-, neglecting
the powers of- above the first, we have
         . d
        'a (sinfiB)- (i*-2 sin80-2c- sin2 flj A=0.
                                                       V
And if in this we neglect the very small quantity 2c - sin8 9A,
we have
                 xJ-(sinflB)-(:,8-2sin8fl)A=0. .       .   .  (e.)
   From (a.), (c.) and (d.), we have
                   fima,        Tt=°,-Tl.                    (6.)
Eliminating B from (e.) by the second of (a.), there results
           sin9«^£+Ssiiiflcosfl=F+(l-i«)A=0.             .   (7.)
                  afl*                d9
Particular integrals of this are, when j = 2,
                                          s.n-
                  A2=a2(l+2cos8-j
                                             2

 1 92      Dr. A. Voelcker on the Chemical Composition ofthe
and when »=1, A, = a,, where a, and a, are the values of a
from the first of (6. ,.
    By means of these we easily find the other particular inte
grals. Let them be A^bjtt), A, =£,/,(«)• We shall find
that flfi) and/,(S) are infinite at the pole, and therefore inad
missible. Consequently we must have bt=0, £|=0, and
           As=fl8^l+2cos8-j              ^     A1=a,
                                    cos3-                           (8.)
                 Id.....             „      d
            B*= 2 dl (si" 9Aa)'      Bl = di (s'n "Al) .
where the values of B2 and B, are derived from the second of
(a.), and the arbitrages a, and a, are functions of r. It is to
be observed that in making 8* a complete variation relative to
9 and o only, and not to r, we shall lose no terms depending
on r ; for the arbitrary of the integral, not containing «r, and
therefore not p, must be rejected. And it is to be further
observed, that there are no more solutions than that obtained.
    Gimthwaite Hall, near Barnsley, Yorkshire,
                 July 28, 1849.
                            [To be continued.]
XXVI. On the Chemical Composition of the Fluid in the Ascidia
         o/Nepenthes. By Dr. A. Voelckbr of Frankfort*.
THE watery secretions of certain plants belonging to the genera
        Nepenthes, Cephalotus, and Sarracenia, have long attracted
the attention of botanists ; but whilst the secreting organs of these
plants have been minutely described, the chemical nature of the
fluid itself has been but very imperfectly examined. That these
liquids have not met with the attention to which their importance
entitles them, may be accounted for by the circumstance that few
chemists have an opportunity of obtaining the unaltered fluids,
and that even those who are fortunate enough to procure them,
seldom can command a sufficient quantity to enable them to inves
tigate their nature. With the exception of Dr. Turner's analysis
of the fluid in the ascidia of Nepenthes, I know of no other ana
 lysis of this fluid or of similar secretions. The botanists who
have given attention to the subject of the watery secretions of
the leaves of plants have found these secretions to consist in most
cases of nothing but pure water, and have only occasionally dis-
    * From the Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 2d Series, vol. iv.
 p. 128.

                 Fluid in the Ascidia of Nepenthes.               193
 covered in them some vegetable matter. Treviranus for instance
 observed a tasteless water in the corolla of Maranta gibba, which
 he however did not further examine; the same gentleman ex
 amined the watery secretion of Amomum Zerumbet, and caused
 Dr. Goppert to subject it to chemical analysis, from which it re
 sulted that the fluid between the scales of the spikes consisted of
 almost pure water, containing a small quantity of vegetable fibre
 and mucus.
    The most remarkable instance of a watery secretion from the
 leaves of plants is recorded in the ' Annals of Natural History '
 for 1848, in a paper by Mr. Williamson, who observed that the
 leaves of Caladium desiillatorium had the peculiar power of ex
 haling watery fluid from a point near the apex on the upper side.
 Each full-grown healthy leaf, according to Mr. Williamson's ob
servation, produced about half a pint of water during the night,
which, on being analysed, was found to contain a very minute
portion of vegetable matter.
   It appeared to me highly improbable that these fluid secre
tions should consist of pure water with merely a trace of vege
table matter, and no inorganic substances whatsoever. If they are
to be regarded as true secretions, we naturally should expect them
to contain some of the salts which we find in all juices of plants.
I was therefore anxious to examine this point, and I am glad that I
have an opportunity of bringing the results of my analysis of the
fluid in the ascidia of Nepenthes before the notice of the Bota
nical Society. It is through the kindness of Prof. Balfour,
Mr. Evans ofthe Experimental Gardens, Messrs. Jas. Dickson and
Sons, and Sir W. Hooker, that I have obtained the materials for
the following analysis, and I consider it my duty to express here
publicly my deep sense of gratitude for the kindness and libe
rality with which the above-named gentlemen have assisted me
in carrying on this inquiry. I have also to express my obliga
tions to Dr. George Wilson for kindly allowing me the use of
his laboratory.
   Linnaeus regarded the ascidia of Nepenthes as a natural reser
voir for rain, and thought that the water found in them was intro
duced from without, and was not secreted by the plant itself.
His opinion however has been contradicted already by many bo
tanists, especially Treviranus, who observed that the water in the
pitchers of Nepenthes destillatoria is always clear, and that there
exists a distinct secreting apparatus. Treviranus says, in an ar
ticle which appeared in the ' Edinb. New Philosoph. Journal ' for
Oct. 1832—April 1833 :—" The parietes of the leaf of Nepenthes
destillatoria are traversed by a multitude of proportionally large
anastomosing veins, which contain many true spiral vessels. The
upper half of its inner surface is covered with a blue rind, as parts
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 235. Sept. 1849.             O

194       Dr. A. Voelcker on the Chemical Composition of the
often are which require to be protected from the action of water ;
the under half is, on the contrary, shining and full of gland-like
eminences directed downwards, and having a hole almost visible
to the naked eye, which is uncovered by the cuticle which the
remainder possesses." The watery secretion reaches generally
to the level of these glands in the middle of the ascidium, and he
thinks that they are true secreting organs. This peculiar struc
ture alone gives a strong reason for thinking that the water in
the ascidia of Nepenthes is supplied by the plant itself, and the
circumstance that water is found in pitchers which have never
been opened is another argument against the supposition that it
comes from without. The subjoined analysis of the fluid more
over leaves no doubt that it is a true secretion.
   Before I enter into the particulars of my experiments I will
mention that I could not detect any oxalic acid in the fluid of
Nepenthes. It is stated in Lindlcy's rVegetable Kingdom ' that
Dr. Turner found this acid in combination with potash, and that
he also detected a trace of organic matter, which caused the
watery fluid when boiling to emit an odour of boiled apples.
Though I have examined the water of many pitchers from four
different localities, and paid particular attention to the detection
of oxalic acid, I have failed in finding a trace of it, and I am
therefore inclined to believe that Dr. Turner, on account of the
minute quantity of solid matter which he must have got on eva
poration of the water, was unable to subject the minute crystals
which he took for superoxalate of potash to a further examina
tion, which would have shown him that the crystals were not
superoxalate of potash, but chloride of potassium. The propor
tion of chloride of potassium which I found in the fluid is consider
able ; it is deposited from the liquid after evaporation in the form
of minute but very regular cubes. The odour of boiled apples
which Dr. Turner observed I found very distinct when the water
was heated to the boding-point. Besides chloride of potassium I
found malic and a little citric acid, in combination usually with
soda, lime and magnesia, and a small quantity of another orga
nic matter which gave a yellow tint to the water during its eva
poration. The quantity of the latter was too minute to enable
me to ascertain its chemical nature.
   I will now proceed to describe the experiments with the dif
ferent fluids in the ascidia of Nepenthes :—
   1. Fluid from an unopened pitcher»plant grown in the Bota
nical Garden, Edinburgh.
   The water which I got on the 12th of June, 1849, was per
fectly colourless and clear ; it had an agreeable, not very pro
nounced smell and a refreshing taste. Though its taste was not
sour, litmus paper showed the presence of an acid or an acid salt

                Fluid in the Ascidia of Nepenthes.              195
by the red colour it assumed when dipped in the water. When
heated it remained clear, and only assumed a slightly yellow
colour when the liquid became very concentrated. The residue
which remained on evaporation was cream-coloured, very hygro
scopic, and dissolved entirely in a small quantity of distilled
water. Litmus paper plunged in this solution was turned red
immediately j the acid which is present in the water therefore was
not volatilized during the evaporation.
   The quantity of the water from one pitcher amounted to
               17'41 grains,
which gave on evaporation
               0-16 of dry residue, dried at 212° F.
100 parts of the fluid consequently contained
               0*92 per cent, of solid matter.
   2. Water from unopened pitcher-plants grown in the Botani
cal Garden, Edinburgh, June 13th, 1849.
   The physical characters were the same as those of the preceding
liquid. Litmus paper likewise was turned red when dipped in
the water.
   The behaviour of the water towards chemical tests was as fol
lows :—
    Ammonia produced no change.
    Carbonate of ammonia produced no change.
    Lime-water produced no change.
    Chloride of calcium and ammonia produced no change.
    Nitrate of barytes produced no change.
    Nitrate of silver gave a white voluminous precipitate, inso
luble in nitric acid, but soluble in ammonia.
    Acetate of lead produced a white precipitate soluble for the
 greater part in boiling water.
    Basic acetate of lead gave a white voluminous precipitate in
the clear liquid filtered from the precipitate which was caused by
 neutral acetate of lead.
    Oxalate of ammonia produced a small white precipitate of
 oxalate of lime.
    Phosphate of soda and ammonia, added to the concentrated
 liquid filtered from the oxalate of lime, gave a crystalline white
 precipitate of phosphate of magnesia and ammonia.
    Chloride of platinum, added to the water after having been
 evaporated to a small bulk, produced a crystalline yellow preci
 pitate.
    The residue left on evaporation of the water coloured the alco
 hol flame yellow.
    These reactions indicate the presence of chlorine, potash, soda,
 magnesia, lime and organic acids, and prove the absence of other
                                 02

196       Dr. A. Voelcker on the Chemical Composition of the
bases and of sulphuric acid, tartaric acid, racemic acid, oxalic and
phosphoric acid.
   3. Fluid from unopened pitcher-plants grown in the Experi
mental Gardens, Edinburgh, June 13th, 1849.
   The water was perfectly clear and colourless, had an acid re
action on litmus paper, and exhibited the same physical and che
mical characters as the fluid from the pitcher-plants of the Bota
nical Garden.
   63-21 grains of water left on evaporation a residue which, dried
at 212° F., amounted to
                  0-58 grain.
100 parts of the fluid therefore contained
                  091 per cent, of dry residue.
   Exposed to a red heat the residue (0*58 gr.) turned black, and
gave off pungent fumes, and left a white ash after all the char
coal was completely burnt away, the weight of which was 0-42
of a grain.
    The loss by burning therefore was 25*86 per cent.
   The residue left on evaporation of this fluid was slightly co
loured, and gave an almost colourless solution with water. A
portion of this solution was kept in a closed bottle. After the
lapse of a fortnight the water in the bottle became turbid and
deposited some light white flakes. The acid reaction, which was
very distinct before, had now disappeared entirely.
   4. Fluid from opened pitcher-plants grown in the Experi
mental Gardens, June 14th, 1849.
   The fluid in the open pitchers was coloured yellow, but other
wise perfectly clear. The reactions with chemical tests were the
same as the preceding.
   97*74 grains of water left on evaporation 085 of a grain of
dry residue.
    100 parts therefore contained 0-87 per cent, of solid matter.
   This residue was coloured yellow, but redissolved entirely in a
little water.
   5. Fluid from unopened pitcher-plants grown in Messrs.
Dickson's nursery, June 17th, 1849.
   Fluid perfectly clear and colourless, reactions the same as above.
   31948 grains left a residue which, dried at 212° F., was found
to weigh l-88 grain; or
   100 parts of the liquid contained 058 per cent.
   6. Liquid from unopened pitcher-plants grown in Messrs. Dick
son's nursery, June 21st, 1849.
   Physical and chemical characters of the liquid the same as
above.
    19382 grains of water left on evaporation 1'22 grain of dry
residue, or 0-62 per cent.

               Fluid in the Ascidia of Nepenthes.                       197
   When burnt the 1-22 grain lost in weight 0*44 of a grain,
or 100 parts of the residue lost 3606 per cent.
   The solid matter of this liquid was very hygroscopic, and co
loured more yellow than that of the Botanical and Experimental
Gardens. 1 found that the total weight of the solid matter in this
fluid was not so large as in that of the Experimental Gardens, but
that the proportion of organic matter in the residue was larger
than that in the residue of the fluid procured from the Experi
mental Gardens.
   7. Water from opened pitcher-plants grown in Messrs. Dick
son's nursery, June 24th, 1849.
   This fluid was yellow-coloured and not quite clear. Litmus
paper was turned red when moistened with the water. The re
actions were the same as above, with the exception that nitrate of
barytes produced a slight turbidity, indicating the presence of
sulphuric acid. As I found no sulphuric acid in the liquid from
the unopened pitchers of the same plants, nor in any of the
liquids I examined, I think the sulphuric acid which I found
must have resulted from the water with which the plants had
been watered which had found its way into the open pitchers*.
In order to see if the liquid contained any volatile acid, I sub
jected about half an ounce of it to distillation. The distillation
was continued till the residue in the glass retort was evaporated
to dryness, and the generated steam carefully condensed in a
glass receiver. The distilled portion was perfectly pure water,
and experienced no change by any reagent.
   It results from this experiment that the liquid in the ascidia
of Nepenthes does not contain any volatile acids, such as acetic or
formic acid.
   8. Fluid from unopened pitcher-plants grown in the Royal
Gardens, Kew.
   Having been unable to detect any oxalic acid in the above-
mentioned fluids, I was anxious to ascertain whether or not the
fluid of plants grown in other localities contained oxalic acid. I
therefore applied to Sir W. Hooker, who with great liberality di
rected some liquid of unopened pitcher-plants grown in the Kew
Royal Botanical Gardens to be sent to me. The physical and
chemical characters of this fluid were precisely the same as those
of the previously examined liquids. The proportion of solid
matter it held in solution however was much smaller.
 299*87 grains of the liquid left on evaporation only
            0-82 of a grain of dry residue.
 100 parts of the liquid therefore contained
            027 per cent, of solid matter.
   * The water in this instance was procured chiefly from the Water of Leith.

198      Dr. A. Voelcker on the Chemical Composition of the
On burning, the 0-82 of a grain lost 027 of a grain, or
100 parts lost 3292 per cent.
   All the liquids from the different localities above-mentioned
which were left over I mixed together and evaporated the mix
ture to dryness. One-half of the dry residue I exposed to a red
heat, and used the remaining white ash for the determination of
the inorganic salts of which it was composed.
   The other half I dissolved in water and precipitated with basic
acetate of lead, in order to obtain the organic acids in combina
tion with lead. This precipitate I collected on a filter and washed
with cold distilled water. It was then removed from the filter
and suspended in water, through which a current of sulphuretted
hydrogen was passed. By this means I separated the lead as
sulphuret, and obtained the organic acids free dissolved in water.
This solution was colourless and very acid ; evaporated to a small
bulk in a water-bath it assumed a yellow colour, and dried at last
to a yellow crystalline mass, which deliquesced in the air and dis
solved readily in water and alcohol, leaving behind a trace of a
brown organic matter.
   Lime-water added in excess to a portion of the acid solution
produced no precipitate in the cold, but on boiling a small white
precipitate fell down which redissolved entirely in sal ammoniac.
   Chloride of calcium and ammonium left the liquid unchanged
in the cold, but on boiling a precipitate was formed which was
soluble in sal ammoniac.                                         .
   Acetate of lead gave a white precipitate insoluble in ammonia,
soluble in acetic acid.
   Basic acetate of lead added to the liquid filtered from the pre*
cipitate caused by neutral acetate of lead produced another abun
dant white precipitate. From these reactions it appears that the
precipitate with lime-water was caused by citric acid and not by
tartaric or racemic acid, the reactions of which acids are similar
to those of citric acid, for tartrate of lime is not soluble in sal
ammoniac, whilst tartrate of lead redissolves readily in ammonia.
Tartaric acid moreover is sufficiently characterized by the sparing
solubility of its acid potash salt, and as the acid liquid did not
give rise to the formation of such a salt with potash, we have
another indirect proof of the presence of citric acid. A little
tartaric acid added to the liquid in which tartaric acid was sought
in vain, after a few minutes produced the sparingly soluble pot
ash salt.
   Racemic acid is thrown down both by lime-water and by a
solution of gypsum ; the acid liquid of Nepenthes remained un
changed by either reagent, hence it cannot have contained any
racemic acid.
   The precipitate caused by chloride of calcium and ammonia

                Fluid in the Ascidia of Nepenthes.               199
and boiling was filtered hot, and alcohol and ammonia added to
the clear liquid. The addition of alcohol produced a voluminous
white precipitate, a reaction which indicates the presence of malic
acid. The quantity of this precipitate was much larger than that
of the lime precipitate which citric acid gave. The formation of
a precipitate, upon addition of alcohol to the liquid from which
the first had been separated by filtration, is characteristic of the
presence of malic acid, for no other lime-salts were present ; for
instance, no sulphate of lime was present which could have pro
duced a precipitate. But I thought it nevertheless necessary
to examine the precipitate caused by the addition of alcohol
further. When burnt it turned black, gave off pungent vapours,
and was converted into carbonate of lime. The solution of chlo
ride of calcium and ammonia used for the experiment remained
clear after the addition of alcohol; the acid liquid likewise re
mained clear when alcohol was added ; both put together imme
diately produced a white voluminous precipitate.
    Basic acetate of lead, as already mentioned, throws down from
the solution a white precipitate. I could not observe that this pre
cipitate melted below the boiling-point of water, as pure malate of
lead does, but it must be remembered that this reaction is di
stinctly marked only when the malate of lead is pure ; admixtures
of other salts of lead prevent it altogether ; and as I have shown
the presence of citric acid and another organic substance which
is. thrown down by basic acetate of lead, there can be no doubt
that this was the reason why the precipitate did not dissolve in
boiling water.
    Though I have not been able to obtain a sufficient quantity of
the acids of Nepenthes for an elementary analysis, I think the above
reactions prove the presence of malic and citric acid. Oxalic acid,
which is readily detected, as the weakest solution of an oxalate is
thrown down by lime-water, I failed to discover; on the contrary, I
have shown that the water contained lime, which excludes the co
existence of oxalic acid in a clear liquid. I have found that the
smallest quantity of oxalic acid immediately caused the water of
Nepenthes to become turbid.
    The second half of the residue left on evaporation of the mixed
fluids I exposed to a red heat in a platinum capsule. It turned
black, gave off pungent fumes, and left a white salt after all the
charcoal was burnt off.
    On analysis this residue was found to consist of
           Chloride of potassium                    76-31
           Carbonate of soda ...... 1644
           Lime                                      3-94
           Magnesia                                  3-94
                                                  10063

200           Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Qtiaternions.
    The unburnt residue left on evaporation of the fluid in the
ascidia of Nepenthes therefore consists, if we take the average of
the loss of the three determinations at 31-61 per cent, and reject
the carbonic acid of the ash, of—
              Organic matter, chiefly
              Malic acid and a little citric acid .        38-61
              Chloride of potassium         ....           50'42
              Soda                                           6-36
             Lime                                            2-59
              Magnesia                                       2-59
                                                          100-57
    It is remarkable that none of the fluids which I examined
contained any sulphuric acid, which acid has been found in all
juices of plants, and which I do not doubt also exists in the sap
of Nepenthes. An ash analysis of this interesting plant would
show the proportion of sulphuric acid at once ; and as we are not
in possession of an analysis of the ash of Nepenthes, which in
other respects might be of interest, I take the liberty of asking
those gentlemen who are in the possession of Nepenthes' plants
to preserve the clippings of branches, &c, which I shall be glad
to receive as materials for an ash analysis.
XXVII. On Quaternions; or on a New System of Imaginaries
   in Algebra. By Sir William Rowan Hamilton, LL.D.,
    M.R.I. A., F.R.A.S., Corresponding Member of the Insti
   tute of France, Sfc., Andrews' Professor of Astronomy in the
    University of Dublin, and Royal Astronomer of Ireland.
                            [Continued from p. 137.]
86. r|',HE same sort of quaternion analysis, proceeding from
        JL the formulae in art. 82*, and from others analogous
to them, has conducted the author to many other geometrical
theorems, respecting the inscription of gauche polygons in
surfaces of the second degree. An outline of some of these
was given to the Royal Irish Academy in June 1849; and
some of them may be mentioned here. To avoid, at first,
imaginary t deformations, in passing from an original sphere,
   * In art. 84, last line of page 135, for a tangential vector, read an arbi
trary tangential vector.
   In art. 85, fifth line from foot of page 136, for inscribed polygon of 2m
sides, read inscribed polygon of 2m + l sides.
   X While acknowledging, as the author is bound to do, the great courtesy
towards himself that has been shown by several recent and able writers, on
subjects having some general connexion or resemblance with those on which

              Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Quaternions.                      201
the surface in which the polygons are inscribed shall be sup
posed, for the present, to be an ellipsoid. Results of the same
general character, but with some important modifications,
(connected with the ordinary square root of negative unity,)
hold good for the inscription of such polygons in other surfaces
of the same order, as the writer may afterwards point out.
He is aware, indeed, that the corresponding class of questions,
respecting the inscription of plane polygons in conies, has
attained sufficient celebrity ; and feels that his own acquaint
ance with what has been already done in that department of
geometrical science is inferior to the knowledge of its history
possessed by several of his contemporaries, for instance, by
 Professor Davies. He knows also that some of the published
methods for inscribing in a circle, or plane conic, a polygon
whose sides shall pass through the same number of given
points, can be adapted to the case of a polygon formed by arcs
of great circles on the surface of a sphere, and inscribed in a
spherical conic ; and he has, by quaternions, been conducted
 to some such methods himself, for the solution of this latter
problem. But he acknowledges that he shall feel some little
surprise, though perhaps not entitled to do so, if it shall turn
out that the results of which he proceeds to give an outline,
 respecting the inscription of rectilinear but gauche polygons in
an ellipsoid, have been wholly (or even partially) anticipated.
 They have certainly been, in his own case, results of the ap
 plication of the quaternion calculus : but whatever geometrical
 truth has been attained by any one general mathematical me
thod (such as the Quaternions claim to be), may also be found,
 or at least proved, by any other method equally general. And
 those who shall take the pains of proving for themselves, by
 he has been engaged, he hopes that he may be allowed to say,—yet rather
 as requesting a favour than as claiming a right, — that he will be happy if
 the inventor of the Pluquaternions shall consent to his adopting or rather
 retaining a word, namely " biquaternion," which the Rev. Mr. Kirkman
 has indeed employed, with reference to the octavei of Mr. J. T. Graves and
 Mr. Cayley, but does not appear to want, for any of his own purposes :
 whereas Sir W. Rowan Hamilton has for years been accustomed to use
 this word Biquaternion,— though perhaps hitherto without printed publi
 cation,— and indeed could not, without sensible inconvenience, have dis
 pensed with it, to denote an expression entirely distinct from those octaves,
 namely one of the form
 where V — 1 is the old and ordinary imaginary of algebra (and is therefore
 quite distinct from i,j, Ic), while Q and Q' are abridged symbols for two
 different quaternions of the kind w+ix+jy+hz, introduced into analysis in
  1843. Biqualernions of this sort have repeatedly forced themselves on the
 attention of Sir W. R. H., in questions respecting geometrical impossibility,
 ideal intersections, imaginary deformations, and the like.

202          Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Quaternions.
the Cartesian Coordinates, or by some less algebraical and
more purely geometrical method, the following theorems (if
not already known), which have thus beenfound by the Qua
ternions, will doubtless be led to perceive many new truths,
connected with them, which have escaped the present writer;
although he too has arrived at other connected results, which
he must suppress in the following notice.
    87. I. An ellipsoid (e) being given, and also a system of any
even number of points of space, a,, av . . A3m, of which points
it is here supposed that none are situated on the surface of the
ellipsoid; it is, in general, possible to inscribe in this ellipsoid,
two, and only two, distinct and real polygons of 2m sides,
bb1 . . B2m_, and b'b'! . . b'j^-i, such that the sides of each of
these two polygons (b)(b') shall pass, respectively and success
ively, through the 2;/i given points ; or in other words, so that
ISA,!),, B1A2Bj, ... B2„,_,A2mB, and also b'AjB',, B^AjB'j, ... B'Jm_,
al,„,b', shall be straight lines; while b, b,, ... B2m_,, and also
b', b'„ ... n'2,„_i, shall be points upon the surface of the ellip
soid.
    [It should be noted that there are also, in general, what
may, by the use of a known phraseology, be called two other,
but geometrically imaginary, modes of inscribing a polygon,
under the same conditions, in an ellipsoid: which modes may
become real, by imaginary deformation, in passing to another
surface of the second order.]
    II. If we now take any other and variable point p on the
ellipsoid (e) instead of b or b', and make it thefi?st corner of
an inscribed polygon of 2m + 1 sides, of which the first 2m
sides shall pass, respectively and successively, through the 2m
given points (a); in such a manner that pa,p,, PjA^p.,, ...
Pjm-! A2m p2m, shall be straight lines, while p, p„ Pa, ... vlm
shall all be points on the surface of the ellipsoid : then the last
side, or closing chord, vimv, of this new and variable polygon
(p), thus inscribed in the ellipsoid (e), shall touch, in all its
positions, a certain other ellipsoid (e').
    III. This new ellipsoid (e') is itself inscribed in the given
ellipsoid (e), having double contact therewith, but being else
where interior thereto.
    IV. The two points ofcontact of these two ellipsoids are the
points b and b'; that is, they are the first corners of the two
inscribed polygons of 2m sides, (b) and (b'), which were con
sidered in I.
    [So far, the results are evidently analogous to known theo
rems, respecting polygons in conies; what follows is more
peculiar to space.]
    V. If the two ellipsoids, (e) and (e'), be cut by any plane

            Sir W. Rowan Hamilton on Quaternions.                208
parallel to either of their two common tangent planes, the
sections will be two similar and similarly situated ellipses.
    [For example, if the original ellipsoid reduce itself to a
sphere, then the two points of contact, B and b', become two of
the four umbilici on the inscribed ellipsoid.]
   VI. The closing chords ppSib are, also tangents to a certain
series or system of curves (d), not generally plane, on the sur
face of the inscribed ellipsoid (i-.'j ; and therefore may be
arranged into a system of developable surfaces, {pi), of which
these curves (d) are the ardtes de rebroussement.
   VII. The same closing chords may also be arranged into
a second system of developable surfaces, (d"), which envelope the
inscribed ellipsoid (e') and have their arites de rebroussement
(c") all situated on a certain other surface ()¦:"), which is, in its
turn, enveloped by the first set of developable surfaces (V) ;
so that the closing chords pp2m are all tangents to a second
set of curves, (c"), and to a second surface, (e").
   VIII. This second surface (e") is a hyperboloid oftwo sheets,
having double contact with the given ellipsoid (e), and also
with the inscribed ellipsoid (e'), at the points b and b'; one
sheet having external contact with each ellipsoid at one of
those two points, and the other at the other.
   IX. If either sheet of this hyperboloid (e") be cut by a
plane parallel to either of the two common tangent planes, the
elliptic section of the sheet is similar to a parallel section of
either ellipsoid, and is similarly situated therewith.
    [For example, the points of contact u and n' are two of the
umbilics of the hyperboloid (e"), when the given surface (e) is
a sphere.]
   X. The centres of the three surfaces, (e) (e') (e"), are situ
ated on one straight line.
   XI. The two systems of developable surfaces, cut the ori
ginal ellipsoid, (e), in two new series of curves, (f'), (f"), not
generally plane, which everywhere so cross eoch other on (e),
that at any one such point of crossing, p, the tangents to the
two curves (f*) (f1') are parallel to two conjugate semidiameters
of the surface (e) on which the curves are contained.
    [For example, if the original surface (e) be a sphere, then
 these two sets of curves (f') (f") cross each other everywhere
 at right angles, upon that spheric surface.]
    XII. Each closing chord pp2m is cut harmonically, at the two
 points, d, c", where it touches the inscribed ellipsoid (e'), and
 the exscribed hyperboloid (e") ; or where it touches the curves
 [d) and (c")-
    XIII. The closing chords, or the positions of the last side of
 the variable polygon (v), are not, in general, all cut perpcndicu-

 204              Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
 larly by any one common surface (notwithstanding the analogy
 of their arrangement, or distribution in space, in many respects,
 to that of the normals to a surface). In fact, the two systems
 of developable surfaces, (d') and (d"), are not generally rect
 angular to each other, in the arrangement here considered,
 though they are so for any system of normals.
     XIV. Through any given point of space, A2m+i, which is at
 once exterior to the inscribed ellipsoid (e'), and to both sheets
 of the exscribed hyperboloid (e"), it is in general possible to
 draw two, and only two, distinct and real straight lines, pV^
 and p"p"2m, of which each shall touch at once a curve (c') on
 (e'), and a curve (c") on (e"), and of which each shall coincide
 with one of the positions of the closing chord, rP2m ; in such a
 manner as to be the last side of a rectilinear polygon of 1m + 1
 sides, p'r'jP'a . . P,2m> or p"p", p"2. . p"2m, inscribed in the given
ellipsoid (e), under the condition that its sides shall pass, re
spectively and successively, through the 2m + 1 given points,
a,as . . A2mA2m+1. But if the last of these points were given on
either of the two enveloped surfaces, (e'), (e"), the problem of
such inscription would in general admit of only one distinct
solution, obtained by drawing through the given point the
tangent to the particular curve (c') or (c"), on which that
point was situated. And if the last given point A2m+I were
 situated within the inscribed ellipsoid (e'), or within either
 sheet of the exscribed hyperboloid (e"), the problem of the
 inscription of the polygon of 2m -f- 1 sides would then become
geometrically impossible : though it might still be said to admit,
 in that case, of two imaginary modes of solution.
                              [To be continued.]
XXVIII. On Colouring Matters. By Edward Schunck*.
 | N the report which I had the honour of presenting last year to
 ¦*¦ the British Association on Colouring Matters, I gave the results
of my investigation of the colouring matters of madder. This in
vestigation I have continued and brought to a conclusion. The sub
ject has however proved so extensive, the number of questions
arising in regard to this valuable and extensively-used tinctorial sub
stance being very great, that I have been unable to examine any other
colouring matters very minutely.
    I stated in my last report, that when finely-ground madder roots
are treated with hot water, a brown liquid is obtained having a
sweetish bitter taste, in which acids produce a dark brown precipi
tate. This precipitate 1 stated to consist of six substances, viz. two
colouring matters, two fats, pectic acid and a bitter substance. To
these I now add a seventh : it is a dark brown substance which re-
            * From the Report of British Association for 1848.

                 Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                 20.5
mains behind when the other substances have been removed hy
means of boiling water and alcohol ; it is soluble in caustic alkalies
with a dark brown colour, and seems to be the substance to which
the colour of the dark brown precipitate is due : I consider it to be
oxidized extractive matter. Concerning the method of separating
the other six substances contained in the dark brown precipitate, 1
have nothing to add to what I said in my last report, as I have not
been able to discover a shorter or better plan of separating them
than that which is there described. In regard to their nature, pro
perties and composition, which 1 have examined more minutely, I
shall in this report give a number of additional details; before
doing so however I shall make a few observations on the subject in
general. I may state, in the first place, that I have arrived at the
conclusion that there is only one colouring matter contained in mad
der, viz. alizarine ; the other substance, which I took for a colouring
matter in the first instance, and which I called rubiacine, I now con
sider to be no colouring matter at all, for reasons which I shall pre
sently state. I have also reason to believe that the two substances
which in my first report I called fats, are not fats, but resins ; they
are coloured resins similar to many others known to chemists. Of
these two resins I shall call the more easily fusible one, which dis
solves in a boiling solution of perchloride or pernitrate of iron, the
alpha-resin ; the other less easily fusible one, which forms an inso
luble compound when treated with perchloride or pernitrate of iron,
the beta-resin. The method of preparing them is the same as that
 which I described in my former report. After the dark brown pre
 cipitate produced in a decoction of madder by acids has been succes
 sively treated with boiling water and boiling alcohol, there remains
 behind a dark brown substance ; on treating this substance with
 caustic potash, it dissolves in great part with a dark brown colour ;
 on filtering there remains on the filter a mixture of peroxide of iron
 and sulphate of lime ; on adding a strong acid to the filtered liquid
 a substance in dark brown flocks is precipitated, which is thrown on
 a filter, washed and dried. This substance, when heated on platinum
 foil, burns without much flume, and leaves a considerable ash. It
 is easily decomposed by boiling dilute nitric acid, which converts it
 with an evolution of nitrous acid into a yellow flocculent substance.
 As it is insoluble in all menstrua except the alkalies, it may be
 asked, how it can be extracted from madder by means of boiling
 water, in which it is of itself insoluble, and whether it is not pos
 sible that it may be formed during the process of boiling by the
 action of the air on some substance contained in the extract. I think
  the latter supposition very probable, and I shall presently describe
 a substance of almost identical properties formed by the action of
 the air on xanthine, the extractive matter of madder. There can how
 ever be no doubt that the brown colour of the precipitate, which is
 produced by acids in a decoction of madder, is due to this substance,
 for the other bodies contained in it arc not brown, but yellow or
 orange -coloured in a precipitate state. This dark brown precipitate

206             Dr. Schunck on Colouring Mailers.
therefore consists of the following substances : —alizarine, rubiacine,
alpha-resin, beta-resin, rubian, pectic acid, and oxidized extractive
matter.
   I have examined the liquid filtered from the dark brown precipi
tate produced by acids more minutely since making my last report.
If oxalic acid be used as the precipitant, the excess of acid may
afterwards be removed by chalk, without leaving any lime-salt in
solution. The liquid, which had a light yellow colour, was evapo
rated on the sand-bath. During evaporation it gradually became
brown, and left at last a thick dark brown syrup, which never became
dry, however long it might be exposed to the heat of the sand-bath.
On redissolving this syrup in water, a considerable quantity of a dark
brown powder remained behind. On again evaporating the filtered
solution on the sand-bath, an additional quantity of this powder was
deposited, just as in the case of extractive matter. There can be no
doubt that this powder is formed by the action of the air, assisted by
heat, on some soluble substance contained in the liquid. On burning
a small quantity of the brown syrup in a crucible it swelled up
enormously, and gave off a quantity of empyreuinatic products,
which burned with a flame, leaving at last a considerable quantity of
white ash ; this ash was partly soluble, partly insoluble in water. The
soluble part had a strong alkaline reaction ; it consisted of a trace of
lime and magnesia, and a great deal of potash, combined with
carbonic, sulphuric and muriatic acids. The insoluble part consisted
of carbonate of lime, carbonate of magnesia, a trace of alumina, phos
phate of lime and phosphate of magnesia. The solution of the
brown syrup in water had an acid reaction. Tt gave no precipitate
or peculiar colour with a persalt of iron, and therefore contained no
tannic acid. The addition of alcohol produced no precipitate or
coagulate, and therefore there was no gum present. On adding
muriatic or sulphuric acid to it, and then boiling, it became dark-
coloured and deposited a green powder. Sugar of lead produced
in the solution a dirty brown flocculent precipitate, and basic ace
tate of lead a still more copious precipitate. A considerable quan
tity of the brown syrup was dissolved in water, and basic acetate
of lead was added until no more precipitate was produced. The
precipitate was separated by filtration, and washed with water.
The percolating liquid had a yellow colour. The excess of lead was
removed from it by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the filtered liquid
was evaporated over sulphuric acid, since, if evaporated by the as
sistance of heat, the substance contained in it was changed by the
air, became brown, and deposited a brown powder. After remain
ing over sulphuric acid for several weeks, there was left a yellow
or brownish-yellow syrup like honey, which did not become dry.
This substance, though not pure (as it contained salts of lime, mag
nesia and potash), I conceive to be identical with Kuhlmann's xan
thine and Hunge's madder-yellow.
   If madder contains sugar, it is evident that, provided the method
 c operating described above be followed, it must be contained in

                   Dr. Schunck on Colouring          'o Matters.                 207
the same liquid as this xanthine. I have however not been able to
prove its presence by direct experiment ; but I have succeeded in
ascertaining indirectly that madder does in reality contain sugar of
some kind by means of the following experiment. Half a hundred
weight of madder was treated with boiling water for several hours.
The liquor, after being reduced by boiling to a convenient com
pass, was mixed with some yeast, and allowed to ferment. By
distillation an alcoholic liquid was obtained, which, after a second
distillation, gave 21 £ ozs. of alcohol of sp. gr. 0-985, which is equi
valent to 9 ozs. of absolute alcohol. It is therefore evident that
madder contains sugar of some kind or other.
   The precipitate produced by basic acetate of lead in the solution
of the brown, syrup was decomposed with sulphuretted hydrogen.
The filtered liquid was evaporated, and left after evaporation a dark
brown syrup, having a strongly acid taste and reaction. The brown
colour was no doubt due to xanthine in its oxidized state. After
being repeatedly dissolved, and the solution being each time evapo
rated, a dark brown powder was deposited, just as in the case of the
original solution : nevertheless the acid taste always remained. It
might be supposed that this taste was due to some vegetable acid ;
and indeed if any such acid, or the compound of any one with the
alkalies or earths, had been extracted from the madder by boiling
water, it would most probably have been precipitated by the basic
acetate of lead, and it would be in the liquid obtained by the decom
position of the lead precipitate that we should have to look for any
such acid. Now the syrup obtained after decomposing the lead
precipitate and evaporating the liquid, though intensely acid, con
tained no oxalic, tartaric, malic or citric acid ; neither did it show
the least sign of crystallization ; but the watery solution gave a cry
stalline precipitate with ammonia and sulphate of magnesia ; and
after destroying the brown organic matter contained in it by adding
nitric acid and boiling, and then evaporating to drive away the
excess of nitric acid, it gave a yellow precipitate with nitrate of
silver and ammonia. I therefore infer that the acid to which the
sour taste of the brown syrup was owing, was phosphoric acid*.
The sulphuret of lead, produced by the decomposition of the lead
precipitate, was treated with boiling caustic potash. A dark brown
solution resulted, which after filtration gave with muriatic acid a
 dark brown precipitate. This precipitate, after filtration, washing
 and drying, cohered into masses, which were brittle and black, but
 became brown when powdered. It was totally insoluble in boiling
 water and alcohol. It was decomposed by dilute boiling nitric acid,
   * On one occasion, after having added nitric acid to the acid syrup and boiled,
I obtained on evaporation crystals of an organic acid, very similar to alizaric acid,
but not identical with it. It was sparingly soluble in cold water, but very soluble
in hot. It was volatile. The watery solution gave with acetate of lead a cry
stalline precipitate soluble in boiling water, with perchloride of iron a cream-
coloured precipitate, with acetate of copper a green crystalline precipitate, and with
nitrate of silver and ammonia a white flocculent precipitate. Alizarate of lead is
quite insoluble in boiling water, and not in the least crystalline.

  208              Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
  and changed into a yellow flocculent substance. It was soluble in
  concentrated sulphuric acid, forming a brown liquid, and was re-
  precipitated by water. I consider this substance, that formed in a
  solution of xanthine during evaporation by heat, and the dark brown
  substance contained in the precipitate produced by acids in a decoc
  tion of madder as the same, and that they are all produced from
  xanthine by the action of the oxygen of the air.
     It still remains for me to say a few words on the substances left
  behind in the root, after madder has been exhausted with boiling
  water. It has for some time been well known that if madder, which
  has already been used for the purpose of dyeing, be treated with a
  strong acid such as sulphuric or muriatic, and the acid be then
 carefully removed by washing with cold water, it is capable of being
 again used for dyeing in the same way as fresh madder. It is in this
 manner that the article known in commerce as garanceux is manu
 factured. This is a convincing proof that it is impossible to extract
 the whole of the colouring matter by means of boiling water, and
 that part of it must remain behind in some state in which it is inso
 luble in water. A quantity of madder was treated with boiling
 water until the liquor gave absolutely no more precipitate on the
 addition of muriatic acid. A very long boiling was necessary for
 this purpose. The colour of the madder was changed by this
 process from yellowish-brown, as it appears in the fresh state, to
 a dull red. It was then treated with boiling caustic potash ley. A
 liquor of a brownish colour was obtained, in which muriatic acid
 produced a gelatinous precipitate of a brown colour. This was se
 parated by filtration, and, after being washed with cold water in
 order to remove all the muriatic acid, was treated with a large
 quantity of boiling water, in which it proved to be almost entirely
soluble. The solution was light brown. It gave gelatinous preci
 pitates with acids, with lime and baryta water, alcohol and most
salts. On evaporation it left a substance in light brown, transpa
rent, brittle scales, which turned out to be pectic acid, much purer
indeed than that obtained in the first instance from the aqueous de
coction. No colouring matter, or any other substance besides pectic
acid, seemed to be extracted by the caustic alkali.
    Another quantity of madder which had been completely ex
hausted by boiling water, was treated with boiling muriatic acid, and
the liquid, after the boiling had been kept up for some time, was
strained through a cloth and supersaturated with ammonia, which
produced a pinkish- white precipitate. This precipitate was thrown
on a filter and carefully washed. The liquid contained an abun
dance of lime and magnesia. A part of the pinkish-white precipitate
was dried and heated to redness in a crucible. During ignition a
gas came off which was without odour, and burnt with a blue flame,
being probably carbonic oxide. After complete ignition it dissolved
in muriatic acid with an effervescence of carbonic acid, but without
leaving much carbonaceous residue. On adding ammonia to the
solution a white precipitate was again produced. The filtered liquid

                 Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                   209
 contained a large quantity of lime and a trace of magnesia. The
 precipitate consisted of alumina, peroxide of iron, phosphate of lime,
 and a trace of phosphate of magnesia. As it became probable from
 the preceding reactions that the pinkish-white precipitate contained
oxalate of lime, the rest of it was treated with boiling dilute sulphuric
acid. The liquid after filtration was evaporated. It gave crystals
 which were dissolved in alcohol to separate the sulphate of lime.
 The alcohol on evaporation gave colourless crystals of pure oxalic
acid. Hence I infer that the following substances were extracted
from the madder by means of muriatic acid :—lime, magnesia, oxa
 late of lime, phosphate of lime, alumina and peroxide of iron. The
madder which had been subjected to the action of muriatic acid was
now well-washed with water, and then treated with boiling caustic
potash ley. A dark red solution was obtained, which, after being
strained through a cloth, produced, on being supersaturated with an
acid, a dark reddish-brown precipitate. This precipitate was thrown
on a filter, and well-washed with cold water, to remove the excess
of acid. 1 found this precipitate to dye mordanted cloth quite full,
and of the same colours as madder itself. There could therefore
be no doubt about its containing alizarine. Moreover on treating
the precipitate with boiling alcohol, a brownish-yellow liquid was
obtained, which left on evaporation a brownish-red residue. A
small portion of this residue being heated between two watch-
glasses, an abundance of orange- coloured crystals of sublimed aliza
rine appeared on the upper glass. By treating the precipitate with
boiling water, and filtering boiling hot, the liquid deposited on
cooling orange-coloured flocks, which were impure alizarine, for they
dyed mordanted cloth, and after being dried and heated in a tube,
they gave a crystalline sublimate. The liquid gave on evaporation
poetic acid. That part of the precipitate which was left undissolved
by boiling water, was treated with a boiling solution of nitrate of
iron. The filtered liquid gave, on the addition of muriatic acid, a
slight yellow precipitate, which was probably rubiacic acid from the
rubiacine of the precipitate. The greater part was insoluble in ni
trate of iron. By treating the insoluble residue with boiling mu
riatic acid, filtering, washing with water, and treating with boiling
alcohol, an abundance of beta-resin was procured.
    I infer from these experiments that the substances extracted from
madder by caustic potash, after exhaustion with boiling water and
treating with acid, previously existed in the root in combination with
lime and magnesia ; that these substances are not different from
those extracted by boiling water, viz. alizarine, rubiacine, resins and
pectic acid ; that the compounds of these bodies with lime and mag
nesia are insoluble in water, and, with the exception of pectate of
lime, insoluble in caustic alkalies ; and that therefore, in order to
extract them by means of water or an alkali, it is first necessary to
remove the lime and magnesia with which they are combined by
means of an acid.
   I shall now proceed to give some further details concerning the
properties and composition of the substances extracted from madder.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 235. Sept. 1849.                P

 210             Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
    Alizarine.—Concerning the properties of alizarine I have nothing
 to add to what I stated in my last report, except that when crystal
 lized from alcohol it contains several atoms of water of crystalliza
 tion, which it loses when heated to 212° F. The crystals after being
 heated to this point have not lost their shape, but have become
 opake and of a much redder colour, resembling that of native
 chromate of lead. On placing them in a tube immersed in a sul
phuric-acid bath, and heating the bath, no further change takes place
 until about 420° F., when a sublimate of orange-coloured crystals
 begins to appear on the cold part of the tube.
    On subjecting alizarine to elementary analysis I obtained the
following results :—
    I. 0*3205 grm. of crystallized alizarinedried in theairgave.on being
burnt with chromate of lead, 0-6695 carbonic acid and 0-12 10 water.
    II. 0-3985 grm. of the same gave 0-8320 carbonic acid and 0*1 850
water.
    III. 0-3140 grm. gave 0-6565 carbonic acid and 0-1670 water.
    These numbers correspond in 100 parts to—
                                    I.           II.           III.
       Carbon                    5697          56-94        57-02
       Hydrogen                   4-19          5-13          5-87
       Oxygen                    38-84         37-93         37-11
                                100-00        100-00       100-00
    The great discrepancy in the amounts of hydrogen in the prece
ding analyses arises from the circumstance that alizarine loses its
water of crystallization with such extreme facility. No. I. was mixed
with warm chromate of lead in a warm mortar ; No. II. was mixed
with warm chromate of lead in a cold mortar ; and No. III. with
cold chromate of lead in a cold mortar. In the case of No. I. there
fore we see that the heat of the chromate of lead and the mortar
combined was sufficient to drive away more water than what corre
sponds to l£ per cent, of hydrogen, though this heat was not greater
than what might be borne by the hand. In order to determine the
amount of water of crystallization, crystallized alizarine was heated
in a water-bath until it lost no more in weight.
     I. 0"4015 grm. treated in this way lost 0-0735 water.
   II. 0-3575 grm. lost 0-0655 water.
   Alizarine which had been deprived of its water of crystallization
by heat, gave, on being burnt with chromate of lead, the following
results :—
     I. 0-2990 grm. gave 07575 carbonic acid and 0-1045 water.
   II. 0-3005 grm. of a different preparation gave 0-7620 carbonic
acid and 0-1095 water.
   III. 0-2765 grm. of the same preparation as the preceding gave
0-7010 carbonic acid and 0-1025 water.
   In 100 parts it contains therefore—
                                     I.          II.           III.
       Carbon                    69-09         69-15        69-14
       Hydrogen                   3-88          4-04          4-11
       Oxygen                    27-03         26-81        26-75
                               100-00        100-00        100-00

                Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                     211
   On analysing alizarine prepared by sublimation from pure cry
stals, I obtained the following numbers :—
     I. 0*3970 grm. gave 10115 carbonic acid and 0*1340 water.
   II. 0*4110 grm. gave 1*0510 carbonic acid and 0*1375 water.
   In 100 parts—
                                           I.          II.
           Carbon                       69*48        69*78
           Hydrogen                      375           3*71
           Oxygen                       26*77        26*56
                                      100*00       100*00
   It will be seen from this that sublimed alizarine does not differ
materially in composition from alizarine which has been freed from
its water of crystallization.
   Of the compounds of alizarine with bases I prepared the lime,
baryta and lead compounds. The two former were prepared by
dissolving alizarine in ammonia, and precipitating with chloride of
calcium and chloride of barium, the latter by dissolving alizarine in
alcohol and precipitating with an alcoholic solution of sugar of lead.
The latter forms a purple precipitate, which, after standing for some
hours, becomes of a dull red.
   The lead compound gave on analysis the following numbers :—
   I. 0*4800 grm. gave 0*2095 oxide of lead and 0*0245 metallic
lead, equivalent to 0*2359 oxide of lead.
   0*5125 grm. burnt with chromate of lead gave 0*7050 carbonic
acid and 0-8780 water.
   II. 0*5865 grm. of a different preparation gave 0*3970 sulphate
of lead, equivalent to 0*2920 oxide of lead.
    0*6915 grm. gave 0*9370 carbonic acid and 0*1005 water.
Hence was deduced the following composition :—
                                    Calculated           Yo™d-
                                    Numbers.        'T              7?
  Heqs.Carbon              84         37*57      37*51          36*95
    4 „ Hydrogen .. 4                  1*78        1*67           1*61
    3 „ Oxygen              24        10*75      11*70          11*65
    1 „ Oxide of lead 111*7           49*90      49*12          49*79
                           223*7     100*00     100*00         100*00
    The lime compound gave the following results: —
     I. 0*4685 grm. gave 0*2065 sulphate of lime, equivalent to
0*0857 lime.
    II. 0*4750 grm. gave 0*2125 sulphate of lime, equivalent to
0*0882 lime.
   Assuming that the formula for this compound is CM H4 03 + CaO
 + HO, its composition would be as follows :—
                                   _ , ...              Found.
                                   Calculated              ,
                                   Numbers.        »             jj
  1 eq. Alizarine           112       74*91
  1 „ Water                    9       603
  1 „ Lime                   28-5     19*06      18*30          18*58
                            149*5    100*00
                                  P2

212              Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
   The baryta compound gave the following : —
   0-2450 grm. gave 0*1 420 sulphate of baryta, equivalent to 0-09S2
baryta.
   Assuming that the formula of this compound is similar to that of
the last, viz. C14 H4 03 + BaO + HO, its composition would be as
follows :—
                                                  Calculated.      Found.
  1 eq. Alizarine                   112              56*65
  1 „ Water                            9              4-57
  1 „ Baryta                         76-68           38-78           38-03
                                   197-68          10000
   Neither of these compounds loses the equivalent of water which it
contains on being heated in a water-bath for several hours.
   The composition of crystallized alizarine must therefore be as fol
lows :—
                                                           Calculated.
         1 4 eqs. Carbon                         84           56*75
           8 „ Hydrogen                            8           5*40
           7 „ Oxygen                            56           37-85
                                                148         100-00
or'                                  Calculated           Found *.
                                      Numbers.         ',            ^
  1 eq. dry Alizarine         121       8176
  3 eqs. Water                 27       1824         18-33         18-32
                              148       00-00
   It follows that alizarine dried at 212° must consist of—
                                                            Calculated.
         14 eqs. Carbon                          84           69-42
           5 „ Hydrogen                            5           4-13
           4 „ Oxygen                            32           26-45
                                                121          100-00
    If this be the true composition of alizarine, it follows that there
exists a very singular relation between it and the composition of
benzoic acid. The formula of benzoic acid is CM H6 04, and ali
 zarine only differs from it therefore by containing one equivalent less
of hydrogen. If we compare alizarine with isatine, we shall find
that the latter only differs from the former by containing in addition
the elements of one equivalent of cyanogen. The formula of isatine
is C10 Hs N04 = CM H5 04 + C2 N. Anthranilic acid differs in
 composition from alizarine in containing in addition the elements of
 amidogene, for theformula of anthranilic acidisCl4H7N04=Cl4 H504
 + NH2.
    Alizar'w Acid. —In my former report I stated that alizarine, when
 treated with concentrated solutions of persalts of iron, is converted
 into a new acid, which I called alizaric acid. I stated at the same
                             • See pp. 210,211.

                  Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                  213
 time that I thought it probable that alizaric acid might also be formed
by acting on alizarine with nitric acid. This supposition has since
been confirmed. On treating pure crystallized alizarine with boiling
nitric acid, it is decomposed with an evolution of nitrous acid, and the
liquid on evaporation gives crystals of alizaric acid. It is however
not necessary to prepare pure alizarine in order to obtain alizaric
acid. 1 have found the following to be the easiest method :—Nitric
acid of about sp. gr. 1'20 having been put into a retort, garancine
is introduced into the acid, and the liquid is heated until the red
fumes have ceased to be evolved, and the colour of the garancine
has changed from dark brown to yellow. The reddish-yellow acid
liquid which is obtained, is filtered or strained to separate it from
the woody fibre, &c. of the garancine, and evaporated to crystalli
zation. A yellow crystalline mass is obtained, which is a mixture
of oxalic acid and impure alizaric acid. After being washed with
cold water to remove the excess of nitric acid, the mass is dis
solved in boiling water, and chalk is added until all effervescence and
acid reaction have ceased. The liquid is filtered, and the oxalate
of lime remaining on the filter is washed with boiling water, until
no more lime can be detected in the percolating liquid. The liquid
is a solution of alizarale of lime. Muriatic acid is added to it, and
it is evaporated to crystallization. A yellow mass is again obtained,
which may be washed with cold water to remove the chloride of cal
cium, then redissolved in boiling water. It forms a yellow solu
tion, which may be almost decolorized by animal charcoal. On
again evaporating, the alizaric acid is obtained in large crystals.
Should these crystals still retain a yellow tinge, which is generally
the case, they must be redissolved in boiling water. By passing
chlorine gas through the boiling solution, until every trace ofco*
lour has disappeared, perfectly colourless crystals of the acid are
obtained on cooling. Prepared in this way, it appears in large flat
rhombic plates: it has the properties which I described in my last
report.
   The salts of alizaric acid are mostly soluble. Alizarate of potash
is formed by neutralizing a watery solution of alizaric acid with
carbonate of potash : it is obtained on evaporation as a deliquescent
mass. Alizarate of lime is prepared by neutralizing alizaric acid
with carbonate of lime, and evaporating to crystallization. It crystal
lizes in prisms, possessing great lustre. Alizarate of baryta, prepared
in the same way by means of carbonate of baryta, crystallizes in
silky needles. Alizarate of silver, prepared by double decomposi
tion, is soluble in boiling water, from which it crystallizes on the
solution cooling. Alizarate of lead is an insoluble white powder,
obtained by precipitation of the acid with sugar of lead. With am
monia alizaric acid does not seem to form a neutral salt. On su
persaturating a solution of the acid with ammonia and evaporating,
the solution acquires during evaporation an acid reaction, and at
length a salt crystallizes out in flat plates, which is no doubt a super-
alizarate of ammonia. All the salts of alizaric acid, when strongly
heated, are decomposed with an evolution of a fragrant smell similar

214             Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
to that of benzine, and give, as a product of the decomposition, a
thick brown oil, to which without doubt the smell is owing ; while
the carbonates of the bases, or the bases themselves, remain behind
mixed with much charcoal.
    The elementary analysis of alizaric acid gave the following re
sults :—
    I. 0*2250 grm. obtained by means of perchloride of iron and
 burnt with oxide of copper, gave 1*1015 carbonic acid and 0*1810
water.
    II. 0*4670 grm. obtained by means of nitric acid and burnt with
chromate oflead, gave 0*9865 carbonic acid and 0*1685 water.
    III. 0*4475 grm. of the same preparation as the preceding gave
 0*9360 carbonic acid and 0*1625 water.
    IV. 0*4395 grm., purified by means of chlorine and burnt with
 chromate oflead, gave 0*9335 carbonic acid and 0*1510 water.
    These numbers give in 100 parts—
                       I.            II.           III.            IV.
    Carbon           57*20         57*61          57*10          57*92
    Hydrogen          3*83          4*00           4*03            3*81
    Oxygen .... 38*97              38*39          38*87          38*27
                    10000         100*00         100*00         100*00
    Alizarate oflead was analysed with the following results :—
    I. 0*8110 grm. gave 0*2665 oxide of lead and 0*2160 metallic
 lead, equivalent to 0*4991 oxide of lead.
    0*6660 grm. gave 0*5810 carbonic acid and 0*0915 water.
    II. 0*6230 grm. gave 0*2040 oxide of lead and 0*1655 metallic
 lead, equivalent to 0*3822 oxide oflead.
    0*6515 grm. gave 0*5560 carbonic acid and 0*0860 water. Hence
 was deduced the following composition :—
                                      Calculated             '"-a4
                                                        f
                                       Numbers.           I.        II.
    4 eqs. Carbon .... 84               23*37        23*79         23*27
    4 j> Hydrogen . .        4            1*11         1*52          1*46
     (i •> Oxygen        . 48            13*37       13*15         13*93
    2 »» Oxide oflead 223*4             62*15        61*54         61*34
                           359*4       100*00       100*00        100*00
    The baryta salt lost nothing in weight on being heated for several
 hours in a water-bath.
    I. 0*6725 grm. of baryta salt dried at 212° gave 0*5245 sulphate
 of baryta, equivalent to 0*3442 baryta.
    II. 0*7330 grm. gave 0*5700 sulphate of baryta, equivalent to
 0*3740 baryta.
    Its composition is therefore probably as follows :—
                                                             Found.
                                     Calculated.
                                                          I.        II.
   1 eq. anhydrous Acid . 136            46*26
   1 „ Water                   9          2*36
   2 eqs. Baryta            1533        51*38        51*18         6V0S
                            298*3      100*00

                 Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                       215
    It is probable that the silver salt also contains two equivalents of
base to one of acid.
    It follows from the analysis of the lead salt, that the hydrated acid
has the following composition :—
                                                         Calculated.
          14 eqs. Carbon                         84        57-93
           5 „ Hydrogen                           5          3*44
           7 „ Oxygen                          _56         38-63
                                               145        100-00
    By the action of nitric acid on alizarine the latter takes up three
equivalents of oxygen without losing any hydrogen, for CI4 Hs O4
 + SO = Cu H6 Oj. It appears also that alizaric acid contains one
equivalent of hydrogen less, and three equivalents of oxygen more,
than benzoic acid.
   Pyro-alizaric Acid.—When alizaric acid is heated it is totally vo
latilized, and forms a sublimate in the shape of long white needles,
to which I have given the name of pyro-alizaric acid. By the action
of heat alizaric acid loses water, or the elements of water. Pyro-
alizaric acid is soluble in boiling water. The solution, however, pro
duces exactly the same reactions as alizaric acid itself, and on eva
poration large rhombic crystals are obtained, which have quite the
appearance of the latter acid. It is probable therefore that, by
solution in water, pyro-alizaric acid takes up again the elements of
water, and is reconverted into alizaric acid. The following results
were obtained on analysing this acid: —
   I. 0-4105 grm. dried at 2 12° and burnt with chromate of lead, gave
1-0345 carbonic acid and 0-1185 water.
   II. 0-4255 grm. gave 0-9985 carbonic acid and 0-1215 water.
   From these numbers it may be inferred that the composition is as
follows :—
                                      Calculated            Fo,und-
                                      Numbers.         j             771
  28 eqs. Carbon             168        69-87        64-04         63-99
    7 „ Hydrogen               7         2-66         2-98           3-17
  1 1 „ Oxygen                88        33-47        32-98          32-84
                             263       100-00       100-00       100-00
    Hence it follows that by the action of heat two equivalents of ali
zaric acid lose three equivalents of water, and give one equivalent
of pyro-alizaric acid, since 2(Cn H6 07) — 3HO = Cjg H7 O,,.
    Rubiacine.— In my last report I described the method of prepa
ration, and the properties of rubiacine and rubiacic acid, and I have
nothing further to add to what I there stated. 1 may mention how
ever that I have arrived at the conclusion that rubiacine cannot be
considered as a true colouring matter, as it is impossible to dye
with it. I shall also show that, contrary to the opinion which I was
led to entertain in the first instance, rubiacine does not contribute to
produce any effect in the process of madder-dyeing.
   On subjecting rubiacate of potash and rubiacic acid to analysis,
I obtained the following results :—

 216             Dr. Schunck on Colouring Mailers.
     I. 0-4490 grin, rubiacate of potash gave 0*1090 sulphate of pot
 ash, equivalent to 0*0589 potash.
     0-4350 grm. gave 0*7950 carbonic acid and 0-0900 water.
     II. 0-3245 grin, gave 0*0790 sulphate of potash, equivalent to
  0-0427 potash.
     0-2890 grm. gave 0-5315 carbonic acid and 0-0665 water.
     From these numbers it may be inferred that the salt is com
 posed as follows :—
                                       Calculated
                                        Numbers.           I.               II.
   31 eqs. Carbon. . . . 186             51*63         51*50             51*82
     7 H Hydrogen,          7              1*94          2*29              2*55
    15 „ Oxygen .., 120                  33*31         33*09            32*47
     1 i, Potash . . . . 47*27           13*12         13*12             13*16
                          360*27       100*00         100*00           100*00
     I. 0*3785 grm. rubiacic acid, dried at 212° and burnt with oxide
 of copper, gave 0*7940 carbonic acid and 0 0845 water.
     II. 0*3605 grm. of another preparation gave 0*7610 carbonic
 acid and 0*0795 water.
     III. 0*4670 grm. of the same preparation as the preceding gave
 0*9775 carbonic acid and 0-1050 water.
     Hence was deduced the following composition : —
                              Calculated                   Fou"d-
                                               r ¦-'
                               Numbers.        I.             II.           III.
 31 eqs. Carbon .. 186          57*76        57*21        57*57           57*08
   8 „ Hydrogen          8        2*48        2*48          2*45            249
 16 „ Oxygen ..128              39*76        40*31        39*98           40*43
                       322     100*00       100*00      100*00          100*00
    0*3150 grm. rubiacine, dried at 2 12° and burnt with oxide of cop
per, gave 0*7740 carbonic acid and 0*0935 water.
    This gives the following composition:—
                                              Calculated.          Found.
       31 eqs. Carbon              186          67*63              67*01
          9 „ Hydrogen               9            3*27              3*28
        1 0 „ Oxygen            , 80            29*10              29*71
                                   275         100*00             100*00
    The formula of rubiacine being C31 H9OI0, and that of rubiacic acid
CaiH8016, it follows that when rubiacine is converted into rubiacic
acid, it loses one equivalent of hydrogen and takes up six equi
valents of oxygen, and that when rubiacic acid is reconverted into
rubiacine, it loses six equivalents of oxygen and takes up again one
of hyilrogen. This oxidation and reduction is accomplished with
the same certainty and precision as any similar process with inorganic
bodies.
   Alpha-resin.—This resin is a constituent of the dark brown pre
cipitate produced by acids in a decoction of madder. It dissolves
together with rubiacine, when this precipitate is treated with a boil

                Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                     217
ing solution of perchloride or pernitrate of iron, and is precipitated
together with rubiacine and ruhiucic acid when muriatic acid is
added to the solution. It is separated from the rubiacine and rubi-
acic acid by means of alcohol, in which it is easily soluble, while the
two former are but little soluble. It has a dark brown or reddish-
brown colour. When cold it is brittle, and may be easily pulverized.
It begins to become soft at 150°F., and melts to dark brown drops
between 200° and 212°. When heated on platinum-foil it melts,
swells up, and burns with flame, leaving much charcoal, which how
ever burns away without leaving any residue. When heated in a glass
tube it swells up, gives an oily sublimate, and evolves a strong smell,
leaving at last a bulky carbonaceous residue. It is slightly soluble
in boiling water, to which it communicates a yellow tinge. On the
solution cooling yellow flocks are deposited, which are increased in
quautity by adding an acid. It dissolves in alcohol with an orange
colour ; water makes the solution milky, and on the addition of an
acid the resin is completely precipitated in orange-coloured flocks.
The alcoholic solution does not redden litmus paper. It dissolves
in concentrated sulphuric acid with a dark orange colour, and is
reprecipitated by water in yellow flocks. It is decomposed by boil
ing concentrated nitric acid ;. on evaporating the acid a resinous mass
is left. It dissolves in caustic and carbonated alkalies with a pur
plish red colour. The solution in ammonia does not lose its am
monia on boiling, but on evaporation the resin is left in combination
with a little ammonia. The ammoniacal solution gives purple pre
cipitates with the chlorides of barium and calcium, and a dirty red
precipitate with alum. It dissolves in perchloride and pernitrate of
iron with a dark reddish-brown colour, and is re-precipitated by acids
in flocks. The alcoholic solution gives red precipitates with alco
holic solutions of sugar of lead and acetate of copper. If chlorine
be passed through a solution of the resin in caustic potash, it is
decolorized ; acids however now produce no precipitate, so that the
resin seems to have been entirely decomposed by the chlorine.
 If mordanted cloth be introduced into boiling water, in which a
quantity of the resin is suspended, the alumina mordant acquires
an orange colour, and the iron mordant a brown colour. Never
theless these colours are so slight, that it is not likely that this resin
contributes in any way to produce the desired effect in the process
of madder-dyeing. I shall presently show that, on the contrary, it is
rather injurious than otherwise in this process, since those parts of
the cloth which should remain white acquire from it a disagreeable
yellow tinge, which cannot afterwards be removed by merely wash
ing with water, so that even if it did contribute to produce any
greater intensity of colour on the mordanted parts, the advantage
would be more than counterbalanced by the injurious effect on the
 unmordantcd parts.
    Beta-resin.—This resin also forms a constituent of the dark brown
 precipitate produced by acids in a decoction of madder. If this
 precipitate be treated with a boiling solution of perchloride or per

218              Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
nitrate of iron, the beta-resin forms a compound with peroxide of
iron, which remains undissolved. By decomposing this compound
with muriatic acid, and dissolving the resin in boiling alcohol, it is
deposited on the alcohol cooling as a light brown powder. It
hardly melts at the temperature of boiling water, but merely becomes
soft and coheres into lumps. When heated on platinum foil, it melts
and burns, leaving a slight red ash. When heated in a glass tube,
it gives yellow fumes and evolves a disagreeable smell, leaving a car
bonaceous residue. It is slightly soluble in boiling water, to which
it communicates a yellow tinge ; on the solution cooling nothing
separates, but on adding acid some yellow flocks are deposited, while
the liquid becomes colourless. The alcoholic solution is dark yel
low ; it reddens litmus-paper. Water renders it milky, and acids
precipitate the resin completely in yellow flocks. The resin dissolves
in concentrated sulphuric acid with a dark brown colour, and is re-
precipitated by water in light brown flocks. Concentrated nitric acid
dissolves it on boiling and decomposes it; on evaporation there is
left a yellow, bitter astringent substance. It dissolves in caustic and
carbonated alkalies with a dirty red colour, inclining to purple in the
case of caustic alkali. It is re-precipitated by acids in brown flocks.
If chlorine be passed through a solution of the resin in caustic pot
ash, it is decolorized ; but the substance itself seems to be thereby
decomposed, as acids afterwards produce only a slight precipitate.
Tin: ammoniacal solution gives with the chlorides of barium and
calcium dirty yellow precipitates. The alcoholic solution gives with
an alcoholic solution of sugar of lead a red precipitate, and with
an alcoholic solution of acetate of copper a brown precipitate. The
ammoniacal solution loses its ammonia on evaporation, and the resin
is left as a transparent brown skin. This resin has the same effect
on mordanted cloth as the preceding; the alumina mordant acquires
an orange, and the iron mordant a brown colour, while the un-
mordanted parts become yellow and unsightly. These effects are
not however so decided as in the case of the alpha-resin, which is
probably owing to its being less soluble in water than the latter.
   Rubian.—I have given this name to the substance to which the
bitter taste of madder seems to be due. I have described its method
of preparation and properties in my last report. I may state, in
addition to what I there said, that rubian seems to be a nitrogenous
body, since, on treating it with boiling caustic alkali, ammonia is
evolved. This fact and the bitter taste seem to indicate that the
medical properties of madder, if indeed it possesses any, reside in
this substance.
    If a solution of rubian in water be evaporated in contact with the
air and with the assistance of heat, it deposits a dark brown sub
stance, which sinks to the bottom in resinous drops, so that on treat
ing the residue after evaporation with water, it is not completely re-
dissolved ; and if the filtered liquid be again evaporated as before,
a fresh quantity of the dark brown substance is formed, just as in
the case of extractive matter. This dark brown substance melts

                 Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                          219
into drops in boiling water, but when cold it is brittle. It dissolves
in alkalies with a dark red colour, and is re-precipitated by acids
in yellow flocks ; indeed it bears in all respects a great resem
blance to the body which I have called alpha-resin. Nevertheless
it seems to consist of more than one substance ; for if it be heated
in a glass tube over a lamp, an abundant sublimate, consisting of
shining yellow crystals, is obtained in the upper part of the tube :
these crystals very much resemble rubiacine. If it be treated with
a boiling solution of perchloride or pernitrate of iron, the liquid
becomes reddish brown, and gives after filtration a yellow precipi
tate with muriatic acid, which is a proof of its containing either
alpha-resin or rubiacine, or both. Hence it becomes very probable
that rubiacine, the alpha-resin, and perhaps also the beta-resin, are
formed from rubian by the action of the oxygen of the air. It be
comes still more probable when we consider the following facts :—If
an infusion of madder with cold water be allowed to stand in contact
with the air, it will be found that after some hours the liquid is filled
 with a number of long hair-like crystals, which are, as I have shown
on a previous occasion*, rubiacine, generally mixed with a substance
 having all the properties of beta-resin. I have had one specimen of
 madder which gave such quantities of rubiacine on allowing the
 infusion to stand, that it collected on the surface of the liquor as
 a bright yellow scum, and by crystallizing it from alcohol it was
 obtained almost in a state of purity. Now as rubiacine is insoluble
 in cold water, it must in this case either have been formed from
 some substance contained in the infusion by the action of the air,
 or else it was at first held in solution by some other substance, such
 as an alkali or alkaline earth from which it gradually became sepa
 rated, as by the formation of some acid in the liquid. I incline to
 the former supposition, and think it probable that it is the rubian
 which by its oxidation gives rise to the rubiacine.
    Xanthine.—This substance, the method of preparing which from
 a decoction of madder after the separation of the colouring matters,
 &c. by acid, I have described above, is of course not a pure sub
 stance, since after ignition it leaves a considerable quantity of fixed
 residue : it is also probable that it contains a small quantity of sugar,
as I stated before. Nevertheless it produces reactions of a peculiar
 kind, which cannot be attributed to sugar, gum, or any similar sub
 stance, and can only be due to a peculiar body which exists only in
 madder. It has the following properties :— When prepared as above
 described, it is a thick, viscid, yellow or brownish-yellow syrup,
 resembling honey in colour and consistency, which cannot be ren
 dered dry even by exposing it to a heat at which it begins to be de
 composed. When exposed to the air, it becomes more liquid on
 account of its attracting moisture. When heated to ignition, it swells
 up enormously, giving off at the same time a very perceptible smell
 of aceton and burns, leaving at last a considerable quantity of ash,
    * See the Report of the British Association for the Advancement of Science for
 1846.

  220              Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
  which consists of the carbonates of lime, magnesia and potash. It is
  without doubt the acetates of those bases which, being mixed with
  the substance, produce the smell of aceton during ignition. The
  acetic acid was of course derived from the basic acetate of lead
  used in the preparation of xanthine, and the acid with which they
  were originally combined must have gone to the oxide of lead.
  Now, as I stated above, the oxide of lead was found to be combined
  with phosphoric acid ; hence it is probable that the greater part,
  if not all, of the fixed bases left after the ignition of the xanthine
  existed in the plant as phosphates. Xanthine has a disagreeable taste,
  between bitter and sweet. The watery solution is yellow. It is
  soluble in alcohol, and is left after evaporation in the same state
  as before. It is insoluble in aether. On adding muriatic or sulphuric
  acid to the watery solution and boiling for some time, a peculiar
  smell is evolved, the solution becomes gradually dark green, and a
 dark green powder is deposited. This is the most characteristic
 property of xanthine. Nitric acid does not produce the same dark
 green powder, or any deposit on boiling ; nevertheless the powder
  which has once been formed by means of muriatic or sulphuric acid,
  is not dissolved by boiling nitric acid, but only turned yellow.
  Acetic acid produces no effect. Oxalic acid gives a white preci
  pitate of oxalate of lime. Bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid
  produce no effect on a solution of xanthine, even on boiling. On
 adding caustic potash to the solution it turns brown, and on boiling
  a slight smell of ammonia is evolved. Lime and baryta water,
 acetate and basic acetate of lead, the acetates of alumina, iron and
  copper, nitrate of silver, corrosive sublimate, and a solution of glue,
 produce no precipitate or effect whatever in a solution of xanthine.
 In fact it does not seem to be precipitated by any reagent whatever
 without undergoing decomposition.
     If a clear light yellow watery solution of xanthine be evaporated
 with the assistance of heat and in contact with the air, as on the
sand-bath, to a syrup, and this syrup be again mixed with water
and the solution again evaporated, the process being several times
 repeated, the solution gradually becomes dark brown, and at length
 a dark brown powder is deposited. The brown solution now gives
 with acetate, or basic acetate of lead, a thick brown precipitate. The
 filtered liquid is yellow, and if the excess of lead be removed by
sulphuretted hydrogen, the solution again gives, on evaporation
over sulphuric acid, a colourless or light yellow syrup, which how
ever, if redissolved and evaporated with the assistance of heat as
before, again becomes dark brown, and deposits a dark brown pow
der. There can therefore be no doubt that this brown powder is a
product of the oxidation of xanthine, that xanthine is a species of
extractive matter, and that the brown powder stands in the relation
to it of an apothema. This brown powder has the following pro
perties :—When dry it is a dark brown mass, easily reduced to pow
der. It is quite insoluble in boiling water and boiling alcohol. It
burns without flame, leaving much ash. It is soluble in concentrated

                Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.                    221
sulphuric acid with a dark brown colour, and is re-precipitated by
water. Boiling dilute nitric acid decomposes it with an evolution
of nitrous acid, and changes it into a yellowish-red fiocculent sub
stance. Concentrated nitric acid on boiling decomposes and dis
solves it entirely. It dissolves in caustic and carbonated alkalies
with a dark brown colour, and is re-precipitated by acids in light
brown flocks. The ammoniacal solution gives brown precipitates
with the chlorides of barium and calcium. The dark green powder
 which is produced by the action of sulphuric and muriatic acid on
xanthine, has the following properties: — When dry it has a dark
olive colour. It burns with a flame and a smell like burning wood,
leaving a large quantity of charcoal, which however burns away
without any fixed residue. It is decomposed by boiling dilute nitric
acid, and changed into a yellow floccuient substance. It is inso
luble in concentrated sulphuric acid, and also in boiling alcohol.
When treated with caustic potash, apart dissolves with a dark brown
colour, and is re-precipitated by acids as a dark brown powder,
while the other part remains undissolved as a black powder.
   Mordanted cloth acquires no colour in a boiling solution of xan
thine, if the latter is in its yellow unoxidized state ; but if the solu
tion has become brown by contact with the air, then both the alu
mina and the iron mordant acquire in the boiling solution a brown
colour, while the unmordanted parts, which should remain white,
become of a brown tint. Hence it follows that xanthine is injurious
in madder-dyeing, and must contribute, together with the two
resins, in impairing the purity of the colours, and sullying the white
ness of those parts which should attract no colour. To get rid of
the xanthine is one object of changing madder into garancinc.
   It remains for me to say a few words in regard to the part which
the different substances described above play in the process of mad
der-dyeing. I regret to say that in my last report there are con
tained some views on this head, which I have found, on more exact
investigation, to be erroneous. The two principal points to be
determined are, which is the substance that produces the chief effect
in dyeing with madder, and why is a certain proportion of lime,
either in the plant or in the dye-bath, necessary for the production
of fine and durable colours. In my last report I stated it as my
opinion, that both alizarine and rubiacinc take part in the process,
that rubiacine alone produces no effect, but that when it is in combi
nation with an alkali or an alkaline earth, it forms double com
pounds with the alizarine compounds of alumina and peroxide of
iron, and thus increases the intensity of colour in the latter. I have
since found that this opinion cannot be sustained, since rubiacine,
 whether free or combined, produces no beneficial effect in the pro
 cess of dyeing, and is therefore no true colouring matter, as the
 following experiments will show.
   Since the brown precipitate produced by acids in a watery ex

 222              Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
 tract of madder contains all the free colouring matter of the root,
and acts in dyeing in the same way as madder itself, it was evident
that by trying the constituents of this precipitate in conjunction with
one another, both in a free state and in combination with lime, a
 correct view of the part performed by each would be arrived at.
Having therefore taken a piece of calico on which three mordants
had been printed, one for red, one for purple, and one for black,
in alternate stripes, each stripe being one quarter of an inch broad,
and having intervals between them of the same width, it was divided
into pieces of six inches by three, and one of these pieces was taken
for each of the following experiments. As the tinctorial power of
alizarine is very great, so great that one quarter of a grain was
enough to over-dye one of these pieces, I took one or two grains
of crystallized alizarine, dissolved it in a measured quantity of water,
to which a little caustic alkali had been added, and was then able
to divide the solution into portions corresponding to quarters,
eighths, and sixteenths of a grain, so that by precipitating one of
these portions with muriatic acid, filtering and carefully washing,
I obtained small quantities in a state very well adapted for dyeing.
By treating one of these quantities while on the filter with lime-water,
and washing out the excess of lime, I obtained small quantities of
the lime compound of alizarine for the same purpose. The same
process was used for obtaining small quantities of rubiacine, alpha-
resin, beta-resin, peciic acid and rubian, and their lime compounds.
Each experiment was performed with the same quantity of water,
at as nearly as possible the same temperature, and occupied the same
length of time, viz. half an hour. The substances used, and their
quantities, were as follows :—
     1. ^ grain of alizarine.
     2. yj- gr. alizarine.
     3. -J^ gr. alizarine and -Jjr gr. alizarine in combination with lime.
     4. -£, gr. alizarine and fa gr. alizarine in combination with lime.
     5. X gr. alizarine and A gr. rubiacine.
     6. | gr. alizarine and J gr. rubiacine in combination with lime.
     7. J? gr. alizarine and j? gr. rubiacine in combination with lime.
     8. ^ gr. alizarine and £ gr. pectic acid.
     9. ^ gr. alizarine and \ gr. pectic acid in combination with lime.
    10. ^ gr. alizarine and ^ gr. alpha-resin.
    11. 51 gr. alizarine and ^ gr. alpha-resin in combination with lime.
    12. \ gr. alizarine and | gr. beta-resin.
    13. \ gr. alizarine and \ gr. beta-resin in combination with lime.
    14. X gr. alizarine and ^ gr. rubian.
    15. | gr. alizarine and ^ gr. rubian in combination with lime.
    Now the following results were obtained :— No. 1 was every
thing that could be desired in regard to all the colours. No. 2 was
of course only half as dark. No. 3 was lighter than No. 1, and the
white parts had a pink hue. No. 4 was a little darker than No. 3,
but not as dark as No. 1. No. 5 was much inferior to No. 1 ; the
red had an orange hue, the purple a reddish cast, and the black was

                 Dr. Scbunck on Colouring Matters.                 223
brown, while the white was yellowish. No. C was equal to No. 1,
but not darker, and in no respect superior. No. 7 was about equal
to No. 4. No. 8 had almost no colour at all ; the red, the purple
and the black were mere tinges of colour, such as might probably
have been produced by the tenth part of the quantity of alizarine
employed, if nopectic acid had been present. No. 9 was again equal
to No. 1. No. 10 was lighter than No. 1, the purple especially being
pale and reddish, while the white parts were yellowish. No. 11 was
equal to No. 1, but not superior. No. 12 was exactly the same as
No. 10, the purple having a disagreeable reddish cast, while the
white parts were yellowish. No. 13 was again equal to No. 1.
No. 14 and 15 did not differ from one another, and were equal to
No. 1. Hence we may draw the following conclusions : — Alizarine
produces the greatest effect in dyeing when used alone. The ad
dition of lime, even in very small quantities, does not increase its
 tinctorial power, but on the contrary neutralizes the effect of that
portion with which it combines. Rubiacine, the alpha-resin and the
beta-resin, in a free state, when used in conjunction with alizarine,
are injurious in about the same degree : they weaken the red, the
black, and especially the purple, while they render the white part
 yellowish. In combination with lime these substances do not in
 crease the tinctorial power of alizarine, they merely allow it to act
 without hindrance. Pectic acid almost destroys the effect of aliza
rine. Pectate of lime is perfectly indifferent. Rubian in a free
 Btate, and in combination with lime, has neither a beneficial nor an
 injurious effect. Of all the substances therefore contained in madder,
 none is of use in dyeing but alizarine, while all the others are inju
rious when in a free state. That which is the most hurtful is pectic
acid. When alizarine and pectic acid are present together in the
dye-bath, the pectic acid having most affinity for bases, combines
with the alumina and peroxide of iron, and the alizarine crystallizes
out when the bath cools, as I noticed in performing the experiment
 No. 8. The same is without doubt the case when using rubiacine or
the resins. The alumina and peroxide of iron combine with these
substances to the exclusion of the alizarine ; and these compounds
are either colourless, or have a poor and unsightly colour. The
use of lime is therefore easily explained ; it serves, not to increase
the tinctorial power of the colouring matter, but to combine with
and render harmless the substances which are injurious in a free
 state. Now if we treat madder with muriatic or sulphuric acid, we
 remove all the lime and magnesia from it ; the pectic acid, the rubia
 cine and the resins become free ; and if we wash with water, the
muriatic or sulphuric acid is certainly removed ; but those sub
 stances being but little soluble iu cold water, remain and destroy the
 effect of the alizarine in dyeing. But if previous to dyeing we add
 lime, the pectic acid, the rubiacine and the resins being more electro
 negative than alizarine, combine with the strongest base, which is the
lime; and the alizarine, which is less electro-negative, combines with
 the weakest bases, viz. the alumina and peroxide of iron. If we

224              Dr. Schunck on Colouring Matters.
add an excess of lime, then of course the alizarine also combines with
 the lime, and the alumina and peroxide of iron having no free body
 to combine with, remain colourless. The process is thus brought
into harmony with our previous knowledge of the relative affinity
 of acids and bases. It is probable that lime is not absolutely neces
 sary for the success of the operation, and that it might be replaced
 by potash, soda, magnesia or baryta ; but as lime is the cheapest
 substance that can be used for the purpose, it would be of no prac
 tical importance to find a substitute for it.
    I have in the preceding remarks left xanthine out of consideration.
During the process of madder-dyeing this substance no doubt be
comes oxidized, and deposits the brown substance mentioned above,
on all parts of the cloth. This substance, together with the pectic
acid, the rubiacine and the resins, are removed afterwards by passing
 the cloth through a boiling solution of soap. The alkali of the soap
 dissolves these substances, which have more affinity for alkalies than
alizarine, while the fat acid remains on the cloth in combination with
 the alizarine, the alumina and the peroxide of iron.
    In order to prove analytically that alizarine is the substance which
produces madder colours, I took several yards of cloth which had
been dyed purple with madder, but not soaped, and treated it with
muriatic acid, which removed the oxide of iron, and left an orange-
coloured substance on the cloth. After washing the cloth in cold
water until all the acid had been removed, it was treated with caustic
alkali. The brownish-red solution thus obtained was supersaturated
with an acid, and the reddish-brown precipitate formed was thrown
on a filter and well-washed with cold water : it was then treated with
boiling alcohol. The alcoholic liquid, which was dark yellow, was
spontaneously evaporated, and gave crystals of alizarine mixed with
a powder resembling beta-resin, and a few yellow micaceous plates,
which were probably rubiacine. There remained a brown residue in
soluble in alcohol, part of which dissolved in boiling water, and
proved to be pectic acid. On treating some cloth which had been
dyed with madder, and then soaped, with muriatic acid as before, and
then with caustic alkali, I obtained a purple solution, in which acids
produced a yellow precipitate. This precipitate was treated with
boiling alcohol like the other ; it gave a yellow liquid, which on eva
poration afforded crystals of alizarine, together with white masses of
fat acid. Hardly any residue remained undissolved by the alcohol.
    The preceding observations have a great bearing on the manufac
ture and treatment of garancine. Garancine is the technical name for
a preparation of madder, which is obtained by treating madder with
hot sulphuric acid until it has acquired a dark brown colour, then
adding water, straining and washing until all the acid is removed.
The advantages which garancine has over madder are, that it dyes
finer colours, that the part destined to remain white does not acquire
any brown or yellow tinge, and that its tinctorial power is greater
than that of the madder from which it has been prepared. These
effects have been attributed to various causes. It has been asserted

                    Notices respecting New Books.                     225
that the sulphuric acid destroys the gum, the mucilage, the sugar,
&c, and leaves the colouring matter unaffected ; hence the greater
beauty of garancine colours. To account for the greater proportional
effect ofgarancine.it has been said that a part of the colouring mat
ter is enclosed in cells of the wood, so that it cannot be dissolved by
water, and that the sulphuric acid destroys the wood and liberates
the colouring matter. To these views it may be objected, that con
centrated sulphuric acid, though it does not affect alizarine, does not
destroy any of the injurious substances in the root except the xan
thine, while the rubiacine, the resins, and the pectic acid, escape
its action : and as far as the wood is concerned, I can affirm that
the operation succeeds equally well if acid be taken of such dilution
as not to destroy woody fibre. I think that the superiority of garan
cine can only be attributed to two causes. In the first place, since,
as I have shown above, there is a quantity of colouring matter in
the root combined with lime and magnesia, by which it is rendered
insoluble and incapable of dyeing, one effect of the acid is to remove
this lime and magnesia, and to set the alizarine at liberty, which is
then capable of application. In the second place, the xanthine,
which has an injurious effect in madder-dyeing, is removed by
washing with cold water, since it is not precipitated by acids, while
the whole of the alizarine remains. If hot acid is employed, then
the xanthine, or a part of it, is converted into that dark green sub
stance which I have mentioned above as the product of the action
of muriatic and sulphuric acid on xanthine ; hence the dark colour of
garancine, which is not owing to the charring of the woody fibre, as
sometimes asserted. It must be remembered however that the ru
biacine, the resins and the pectic acid, as well as the alizarine, remain
uncombined after treatment with acid. Hence it becomes necessary
to add some base with which these substances may combine, so as
not to interfere with the action of the alizarine. I believe it is the
practice of garancine manufacturers to employ soda for this purpose.
I think it would be better to use a small quantity of lime-water.
   I may state in conclusion that the experiments described in this
and the last report were made with Avignon madder. The con
stituents and properties of Dutch madder, which is of rather a dif
ferent nature, remain to be examined.
   I have been lately engaged in examining the colouring matter of
fustic, which I have prepared in a state of purity, but the investiga
tion is not sufficiently advanced to justify me in making known the
results on the present occasion.
              XXIX. Notices respecting New Books.
 Introduction to Meteorology. By David Pubdik Thompson, M.D.
                         Blackwood and Sons.
INHERE is no branch of physical science which has made so little
       progress, and of whose laws our knowledge is so limited, as
that of Meteorology. Hence every encouragement should be given
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 235. Sept. 18*9.                Q

226                 Notices respecting New Books.
to every undertaking which endeavours to increase our knowledge
of meteorological science, either by improving instruments themselves,
their positions in observations, accuracy in observing, or the devotion
of the great labour necessary for thtir reduction to useful results, or
by elementary publications aiming at precision on all these points.
    Meteorology has been greatly slighted. By the term Meteorology
 we do not mean the mere raw observations of phenomena, but the
 systematic observations of different subjects of research, their com
 plete reduction and combination with simultaneous observations,
 and, as far as possible, the deduction of mathematical formula? which
 will represent the results of the observations. It must be confessed
 that there have been many meteorological journals kept by ardent
 observers, and that some of them have extended over long periods of
 time ; yet there has been a total want of combination of observations
 taken simultaneously at different places. The few results, therefore,
 which have been published from tile various journals, bear the stamp
 of local influence. Each observer has confined his attention to his own
 observations ; which, if conducted in the best possible way and with
 the best possible instruments, must exhibit the peculiarities of the
 place of observation, but to an unknown amount.
    Within the last few years an attempt has been made to remove
 these evils. The establishment of various observatories in the colonies,
 that at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, that at Makerstoun, near
 Edinburgh, by Sir Thomas Brisbane, and more recently the organi
 zation of many observers in England by Mr. Glaisher, the results
 being published quarterly by the Registrar-general, are important
 steps in the right direction.
    Such is the present state of meteorology, that facts are to be
 assembled as observed, and principles established as soon as possible.
 We could wish to see the present system greatly extended ; the im
 portant results which we then might fairly expect would be of the
 utmost value in various ways.
     The following abstract of the work by Dr. Thompson may perhaps
 assist our readers to judge of the additions made by it to our present
 knowledge of meteorological literature and science.
     It opens with an introductory sketch of meteorology, and treats
  of the ancient superstitions respecting meteorological phenomena,
  and the supposed power pf the ancients in controlling such.
     In the first chapter are explained the opinions of the ancients upon
 the atmosphere, and the advance of our knowledge regarding it to
 the present time. This leads to a discussion upon chemistry, and
  the connexion of chemical and atmospherical phenomena ; the figure
  of the atmosphere, its density ; the different temperatures at which
  water boils at different elevations ; effects of elevation upon respira
  tion ; variations in the reading of the barometer, with many anec
  dotes, and a curve showing the mean monthly reading of the baro
  meter at Greenwich, deduced from the observations taken there
  during the years 1841-1845, fill the second chapter.
    The third chapter opens with an interesting extract from Ossian,
 and treats upon the sun and the solar beams, upon temperature in

                   Notices respecting New Books.                    227
general, particularizing the hours whose temperature agrees with
that of the mean for different places.
    The fourth traces the direction of isothermal lines ; speaks of the
mean annual temperature at various places ; and gives a curve of the
mean monthly temperature at Greenwich, deduced from the obser
vations taken at the Royal Observatory in the years 1841, 1842,
1843 and 1844, but which curve differs from the numbers at the
foot of the diagram. The numbers are correct. In this chapter
the effects of heat and cold are treated, and many interesting anec
 dotes are mentioned.
    The fifth speaks of the colour of the atmosphere, of refraction,
twilight, polarization of light, &c.
    The sixth treats of evaporation and vaporization.
    The seventh treats of dew and radiation of heat, particularizing the
 experiments of Dr. Wells, but mentions no subsequent English ex
 periments ; of mists, fogs and clouds.
    The eighth is employed upon rain, in considerable detail. The
 ninth is devoted to the consideration of hail, snow, glaciers, &c. The
 tenth to the rainbow, and to all the phenomena connected with the
 cirrostratus cloud. The mirage is the principal subject of the eleventh,
 and lightning that of the twelfth. The thirteenth chapter relates to
 meteors in general. The fourteenth to the aurora borealis and to
 magnetism. The fifteenth treats of the direction and strength of
 the wind. The sixteenth is occupied by particulars respecting the
 simoom and the sirocco ; the seventeenth by whirlwinds, great storms
 and hurricanes ; and the eighteenth by popular prognostications of
  the weather.
     In each chapter a great number of instances of the class of pheno
 mena is collected. Such are the parts of this work ; and we cannot
 doubt that the public will receive it with favour. It is amusing ;
 there are many interesting anecdotes interspersed ; it is written in a
 pleasing style ; and great taste has been exhibited in the aptness and
  beauty of some of the poetic quotations.
     The chapter on instruments, which appears as an appendix, is the
  least interesting and satisfactory portion of Dr. Thompson's work.
     The account given of the barometer is merely popular ; and the
  sketches given of this instrument do not include that of a standard.
  A large space is devoted to the aneroid barometer ; which, beautiful
  as it is for domestic and ordinary purposes, is totally unfitted for
  meteorological or experimental inquiry. Dr. Thompson gives the
  impression that the aneroid barometer is as accurate in its indications
  as a perfect mercurial barometer ; in fact, says that the mean differ
  ence of the readings of the two, from 109 simultaneous comparisons,
  is only two-thousandths of an inch, this result being deduced from
  the observations published by Mr. Dent on the aneroid barometer.
  But Mr. Dent in his pamphlet only asserts that the comparisons
  were made with two of the most expensive and perfect mercurial
  barometers ; neither of which is described or again mentioned. The
  readings by these barometers do not seem to have been corrected for
   temperature ; so that the near agreement of the readings only indi
                                   Q2

228               Cambridge Philosophical Society.
 cates that the correction for temperature of thi9 particular aneroid
 was nearly of the same amount as that of the mercurial barometer,
 even supposing it to be free of index-error. In the second table of
 Mr. Dent, the readings of a maximum and minimum thermometer
 are given, neither of which were probably true at the time the ob
 servation was taken.
    The sympiesometer is fully described, an instrument that is not
 used in meteorological investigations ; whilst the dry and wet bulb
 thermometers are not described at all, which are in use in every ob
servatory.
   The rain-gauge figured in the book is one with a float and staff,
of the worst possible form; and if made as sketched in the book,
would give erroneous results, particularly when the wide staff was
high, and thereby increasing to a considerable extent the receiving
 surface of the gauge.
    No mention whatever is made about the necessity of having good
instruments, and such that have been compared with standards before
use. No instructions are given as to the making of observations, or of
the method of recording them ; and yet in any work bearing the title
of an Introduction tn Meteorology, these ought surely to be given,
and particularly when one chapter is devoted to instruments. The
work should more properly be called, a Treatise upon Meteorological
Phenomena; and even in this particular it is incomplete. Although
a multitude of facts are collected and detailed, and some of a recent
date, no mention whatever has been made of the fine series of
results derived from the Makerstoun observations by Sir Thomas
Brisbane, and published in the Transactions of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh ; neither of any of the meteorological papers of results
published in the Philosophical Transactions for several years past ;
and the references to the Greenwich volumes are very few, and none
since the volume for 1844.
   We shall conclude with one remark only. Dr. Thompson in his
concluding paragraph says, that the instruments of which he has
spoken are the chief instruments used by meteorologists. In our
most active meteorological observatories not half the instruments here
described are used at all ; and the instruments actually required are
few in number : these should be good ; and before use, should pass
through the hands of a gentleman accustomed to them. In fact the
general laws which govern atmospheric phenomena can be found
only by accurate deductions from the observations of such instru
ments.
            XXX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
               CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.
                  [Continued from vol. xxxiv. p. 458.]
April 23, f~\N the Variation of Gravity at the Surface of the
   1S49. " Earth. By G. G. Stokes, M.A., Fellow of Pem
broke College, Cambridge.
   In the theory of the figure of the earth on the hypothesis of ori

                  Cambridge Philosophical Society.                  229
ginal fluidity, a simple expression is obtained for the variation of
gravity along the surface, which contains the numerical relation
between the ellipticity and the ratio of polar to equatoreal gravity,
known as Clairaut's theorem. The demonstration, however, of this
expression does not require the hypothesis of original fluidity, if the
spheroidal form of the surface and its perpendicularity to the direction
of gravity be assumed as results of observation. On the hypothesis
merely that the earth consists of nearly spherical strata of equal
density, Laplace has established a connexion between the form of
the surface, regarded as a surface of equilibrium, and the variation
of gravity along it ; and in the particular case in which the surface
is an oblate spheroid of small ellipticity, having its axis of figure
coincident with the axis of rotation, the expression which results for
the variation of gravity is identical with that which is obtained on
the hypothesis of original fluidity. The object of the author in the
first part of this paper is to obtain the general connexion between
the form of the surface and the variation of gravity along it, by an
application of the doctrine of potentials, without making any hypo
thesis whatsoever respecting the distribution of matter in the interior
of the earth.
   The latter part of the paper was devoted to the consideration of
the irregularities produced in the variation of gravity by the irregular
distribution of land and sea at the surface of the earth. The author
has shown why gravity should appear less on continents than on
small islands situated at a distance from any continent, which is a
circumstance that has long since been observed. The result is ac
counted for by the elevation of the sea-level produced by the attrac
tion of a continent, in consequence of which a station on a continent
is further removed from the centre of the earth than it appears to be.
It is shown also thnt the numerical value of the earth's ellipticity,
which has been deduced from pendulum experiments, is somewhat
too great, in consequence of the undue proportion of oceanic stations
in low latitudes, among the group of stations at which the observa
tions were made which have been employed in the discussion.
   The author has given formulae whereby observed gravity may be
corrected for the irregularities of the earth's surface. These formulae
require a knowledge, or at least an approximate knowledge, of the
height of the land and the depth of the sea throughout the earth's
surface. The sign and magnitude of the difference between observed
gravity, and gravity calculated on the hypothesis of the earth's ori
ginal fluidity, appears on the whole to depend on the insular or con
tinental character of the station at which the observation has been
taken. This circumstance renders it probable, that if observed gra
vity were corrected for the irregular attraction due to the irregular
distribution of sea and land throughout the whole surface of the
earth, the result would agree far better with gravity calculated on
the hypothesis of original fluidity.
   May 7.— Additional Note to a Memoir on the Intrinsic Equa
tion of Curves. By Dr. Whewell.
   This note contained an extension of a theorem discovered by John

230                Cambridge Philosophical Society.
Bernouilli, and demonstrated by Euler, to this effect : that if from
 any rectangular curve a string be unwrapped, and from the curve so
 described again a string unwrapped, and so on perpetually and alter
 nately in opposite directions, the curves constantly tend to the form
 of the common cycloid. The extension is to this effect : that if the
 original curve be not rectangular, the curves perpetually tend to the
 form of an epicycloid or hypocycloid, according as the angle is greater
 or less than a right angle.
    May 21.—Discussion of a Differential Equation relating to the
 breaking of Railway Bridges. By G. G. Stokes, M.A., Fellow of
 Pembroke College.
    In August 1847 a Royal Commission was appointed "for the
purpose of inquiring into the conditions to be observed by engineers
 in the application of iron in structures exposed to violent concussions
 and vibration." Among other branches of inquiry, the members of
 the Commission have lately been making experiments on the motion
 of a carriage, variously loaded in different experiments, which passed
 with different velocities over a slight iron bridge ; the object of the
 experiments being to examine the effect of the velocity of a train in
 increasing or decreasing the tendency of a bridge over which the
 train is passing to break under its weight. The remarkable result
was obtained, that the deflection is in some cases much greater than
the central statical deflection, and that the greatest deflection takes
place after the body has passed the centre of the bridge. In in
vestigating the theory of the motion, reducing the problem to the
utmost degree of simplicity by regarding the moving carriage as a
heavy particle, and neglecting the inertia of the bridge, Professor
Willis, who is a member of the Commission, was led to a differential
equation of the form
                           ^=„            *y_,
                           dx*        (2cr-*«)»
where x, y are the horizontal and vertical co-ordinates of the moving
body, 2c is the length of the bridge, and a, b are certain constants.
Professor Willis requested the author's consideration of this equation,
with a view to obtain numerical results, and to determine, if possible,
the velocity which produces a maximum deflection.
   The author has expressed y in a series according to ascending
powers of x, which is convergent when x < 2c. The convergency,
however, becomes very slow when x approaches the limit 2c ; and
the series does not point out the law according to which f(x) or y
approaches its extreme value 0 as x approaches 2c. When the con
stant term in the second member of the preceding equation is omit
ted, the equation may be integrated in finite terms ; and consequently
the variables can be separated in the actual equation, so that /fa-)
can be expressed explicitly by means of definite integrals. In this
way the author has obtained f{2c—x)—f(x) in finite terms, so that
the numerical value of f(x) may readily be obtained from x=c to
x=1c, after it has been calculated from the series from *=0 to ar=c:
and between these limits the series is very convergent, being ulti

                            lloyal Society.                            231
mately a geometric series with a ratio —.      The author has also in
vestigated a series proceeding according to ascending powers of c—x,
which converges more rapidly than the former when x approaches c.
By the use of these two series, f(x) may be calculated by means of
series which are ultimately geometric series, with ratios ranging
from 0 to J .
   The unsymmetrical form of the trajectory, and the largeness of
the deflection produced by the moving body, come out from the in
vestigation. By means of the numerical values of f(x) the author
has drawn a figure representing the trajectory for four different ve
locities. The expression for the central deflection, however, becomes
infinite when x becomes equal to 2c, which shows that it is neces
sary to take into account the inertia of the bridge ; although, if the
bridge be really light, the solution obtained when the inertia of the
bridge is neglected may be sufficiently exact for the greater part of
the body's course.
                           ROYAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 154.]
   June 14, 1849.—The President announced, that in accordance
with the resolution of the Society, requesting him to communicate
the thanks of the Society to the Government of the United States
for the steps taken by them to ascertain the fate of the Expedition
under Sir John Franklin, he had addressed the following letter to
His Excellency the American minister :—
      My dear Sir,                       3 Connaught Place, June 8, 1849.
   I have the honour to inform you that at the annual meeting of
the Royal Society, held the 7th inst., a communication was read
from Admiral Sir Francis Beaufort, in which he apprised the So
ciety that the American Government had nobly undertaken to send
an expedition in search of Sir John Franklin. Upon which a vote
of thanks was moved by Sir Charles Lemon, seconded by Lord
 Northampton, and carried with the utmost enthusiasm, expressive
 of the gratitude of the Royal Society to the American Government,
and of their deep sense of the kind and brotherly feeling which had
prompted so liberal an act of humanity. Allow me to assure you,
 that it is peculiarly gratifying to me to have the honour of being
 the humble instrument in conveying to you the thanks of the Royal
 Society on this occasion, and permit me to express a hope that this
 most generous act of the United States may, if possible, draw closer
 the bonds of friendship between the two kindred nations.
    That the United States may continue to progress with the same ex
 traordinary rapidity in the arts of peace and civilization, and to hold

232                          Royal Society.
the same high place in the science and literature of the world, is I
am sure the anxious desire of the Royal Society.
                                   I have the honour to be,
                                          My dear Sir,
                             Your most obedient humble Servant,
                                                        Rosse, P.R.S.
   " On Carbonate of Lime as an ingredient of Sea-water." By
John Davy, M.D , F.R.S. Lond. & Ed., Inspector-General of Army
Hospitals, &c.
   The manner in which KmustOne cliffs rising above deep water are
worn by the action of the sea, as it were by a weak acid, such as we
know it contains, viz. the carbonic —the manner, further, in which
the sand on low shores where the waves break, becomes consolidated,
converted into sandstone, by the deposition of carbonate of lime
from sea-water owing to the escape of' carbonic acid gas,—are facts
clearly proving that carbonate of lime is as a constituent of sea- water
neither rare of occurrence, nor unimportant in the ceconomy of na
ture, inasmuch as the phtenomena alluded to,—the one destructive,
the other restorative,— have been observed in most parts of our
globe where geological inquiry has been instituted.
   Reflecting on the subject, it seemed to me desirable to ascertain
whether carbonate of lime as an ingredient of sea-water is chiefly
confined to the proximity of coasts, or not so limited enters into
the composition of the ocean in its widest expanse.
   On a voyage from Barbados in the West Indies to England in
 November last (184-8), I availed myself of the opportunity to make
some trials to endeavour to determine this, the results of which I
shall now briefly relate.
   First, I may mention that water from Carlisle Bay in Barbados,
tested for carbonate of lime, gave strong indications of its presence ;
thus a well-marked piecipitate was produced by ammonia, after the
addition of muriate of ammonia in excess, that is, more than was
sufficient to prevent the separation of the magnesia which enters so
largely into the composition of sea-water ; and a like effect was pro
duced either by boiling the water so as to expel the carbonic acid,
or by evaporation to dryness and resolution of the soluble salts.
   On the voyage across the Atlantic, the test by means of ammonia
and muriate of ammonia was employed, acting on about a pint of
water taken from the surface. The first trial was made on the 15th
of November, when in latitude 20° 30' N., and longitude 63° 20' W.,
more than a hundred miles from any land ; the result was negative.
Further trials were made on the 22nd of the same month in lat.
32° 53', long. 45° 10' ; on the 24th, in lat. 36° 23', long. 37° 21' ; on
the 25th, in lat. 37° 21', long. 33° 34'; on the 26th, in lat. 38° 28',
long. 30° 2' ; on the 27th, when off Funchal of the Western Islands, in
lat. 38° 32', long. 28° 40', about a mile and a half from the shore, the
water deep blue, as it always is out of soundings: in all these instances
likewise the results were negative ; the transparency of the water
was nowise impaired by the test applied. The last trial was made on

                             Royal Society.                         233
the 3rd of December, when in the Channel oh" Portland Head, about
fifteen miles ; now, slight traces of carbonate of lime were obtained,
a just perceptible turbidness being produced.
    The sea- water from Carlisle Bay, the shore of which and the ad
joining coast are calcareous, yielded about 1 per 10,000 of carbonate
of lime, after evaporation of the water to dryness, and the resolution
of the saline matter. A specimen of water taken up on the voyage
off the volcanic island of Fayal, about a mile from land, yielded a
residue which consisted chiefly of sulphate of lime, with a very little
carbonate of lime, — a mere trace ; acted on by an acid it gave off
only a very few minute air-bubbles. A specimen taken up off Port
land Head, about fifteen miles, yielded on evaporation and resolu
 tion of the saline matter only a very minute residue, about *4 only
 per 10,000; it consisted in part of carbonate and in part of sulphate
 of lime.
    What may be inferred from these results ? Do they not tend to
 prove that carbonate of lime, except in very minute proportion, does
 not belong to water of the ocean at any great distance from land ?
 And, further, do they not favour the inference, that when in nota
 ble proportion, it is in consequence of proximity to land, and of
 land, the shores of which are formed chiefly of calcareous rock ? In
 using the word proximity, I would not limit the distance implied to
 a few miles, but rather to fifty or a hundred, as I am acquainted
 with shores consisting of volcanic islands in the Caribbean sea de
 stitute of calcareous rock, on which, in certain situations, sandstone
 is now forming by the deposition from sea-water of carbonate of lime.
    Should these inferences be confirmed by more extensive inquiry,
 they will harmonize well with the facts first referred to, the solvent
 power, on one hand, of sea-water impregnated with carbonic acid
 on cliffs of calcareous rock in situations not favourable to the dis
 engagement of carbonic acid gas ; and the deposition, on the other
 hand, of carbonate of lime to perforin the part of a cement on sand,
 converting it into sandstone, in warm shallows, where the waves
 break under circumstances, such as these are, favourable to the dis
 engagement of this gas ; and, I hardly need add, that the same in
 ferences will accord well with what may be supposed to be the re
 quirements of organization, in the instances of all those living things
 inhabiting the sea, into the hard parts of which carbonate of lime
 enters as an element.
    Apart from theoeconomy of nature, the subject under considera
 tion is not without interest in another relation,—I allude to steam
 navigation. The boilers of sea-going steam-vessels are liable to
 suffer from an incrustation of solid matter firmly adhering and with
 difficulty detached, liable to be formed on their inside, owing to a
 deposition which takes place from the salt water used for the pro
 duction of steam. On one occasion that I examined a portion of
such an incrustation taken from the boiler of the "Conway," a ves
sel belonging to the West Indian Steam Packet Company, I found
 it to consist principally of sulphate of lime, and to contain a small

234                         Royal Society.
proportion only of carbonate of lime. This vessel had been em
ployed previously in transatlantic voyages, and also in intercolonial
ones, plying between Bermudas and the Island of St. Thomas, and
in the Caribbean sea and the Gulf of Mexico.
   The composition of this incrustation, like the preceding results,
would seem to denote, if any satisfactory inference may be drawn
from it, that carbonate of lime is in small proportion in deep water
distant from land, and that sulphate of lime is commonly more
abundant. The results of a few trials I have made, whilst rather
confirmatory of this conclusion, showed marked differences as to the
proportion of sulphate of lime in sea-water in different situations.
That from Carlisle Bay was found to contain 11*3 per 10,000. A
specimen taken up in lat. 29° 19' and long. 50° 45 , yielded about
2 per 10,000, with a trace of carbonate of lime. A specimen taken
up off Fayal yielded about 9 per 10,000, also with a trace of car
bonate of lime. One taken up off Portland Head, about fifteen miles
distant, yielded, as already remarked, only *4 per 10,000, part of
which was sulphate, part carbonate of lime.
   By certain management, I am informed, as by not allowing the
sea-water in the boilers to be concentrated beyond a certain degree,
the incrustation, in the instances of the transatlantic steamers, is in a
great measure prevented. Perhaps it might be prevented altogether,
were sea- water never used but with this precaution, and taken up at
a good distance from land, and in situations where it is known that
the proportion of sulphate of lime is small. If this suggestion be of
any worth, further, more extensive and exact inquiry will be re
quisite to determine the proportion of sulphate of lime in different
parts of the ocean, and more especially towards land. By the aid of
the transatlantic steam navigation companies means for such an in
quiry may easily be obtained ; and it can hardly be doubted that
the results will amply repay any cost or trouble incurred.
  Lesketh How, Ambleside,
       March 29, 1849.
   " On the Universal Law of Attraction, including that of Gra
vitation, as a particular case of approximation deducible from the
principle that equal and similar particles of matter move similarly
relatively to each other." By John Kinnersley Smythies, Esq. Com
municated by T. F. Ellis, Esq., F.R.S.
   After stating the general object of his investigations and explain
ing the notation he employs, the author enters upon some prelimi
nary geometrical inquiries. He gives the equation between the six
right lines drawn between four points in a plane ; the solidity of a
tetrahedron in terms of its edges: the equation between the cosines
of the six angles made by four right lines meeting in a point ; and
the equation between ten right lines drawn between five points, with
some formulae of verification. Giving some general rules for the
transformation and consolidation of series, he transforms the last
equation into one involving the solidities of tetrahedrons, and shows
how the sign of each tetrahedron in that equation is determined by

                             Royal Society.                         235
its position relatively to the least solid including them all ; and then
gives the equation between all the right lines drawn between n
points.
   Having shown that the result of differentiating the product of n
variables, m times successively may be derived from the wth power
of the sum of the n variables, developed by the polynomial theorem
by substituting for every power of each variable its differential of an
 order numerically the same as the power ; and applied the theorem
to find the differential of the with order of the equation between ten
 right lines drawn between five points ; the author gives the first four
 successive differentials of the same equation in another form.
    Proceeding with his investigation he deduces the necessary equa
 tion between the distances and central forces of five moving points,
 and derives from it the general system of equations which determine
 the motion of any number of spheres in terms of p (the function of
 the distance according to which the attractive force varies), their
 masses and mutual distances. After proving that any number of
 spheres may move so that the central force shall vary directly as the
 distance, he shows that only certain values of <p are possible for an
 infinite number of spheres, giving the criterion of possibility ; and
 thence that the only possible law of central force for an infinite
 number of spheres is that in which the force varies directly as the
 distance.
    The author then enters upon some general considerations on the
 physical impossibility of an universal law, rigorously exact and ex
 pressed by equations involving differentials of no higher order than
 the second, and on the amount of disturbance by extraneous agen
 cies. Having shown how all equations expressed by rectangular
 coordinates may be transformed into others involving only the mu
 tual distances of the spheres at »i equal intervals of time, he gives
 an equation of differences defining the motion of n points, such that
 the distances and their differentials of every order not exceeding m
 may have any assigned values.
    After deducing a general formula for transforming equations of
 differences not exceeding the mth order into equations between the
 distances at m equal intervals of time, the author applies it to the
 last equation, and shows that the equations so found arc possible for
 any number of moving points and for every value of m ; and that
 the most general law, by which the motion of n equal spheres can
 be determined, so that all move according to the same law at all
 times, may be found by taking a proper value of m. He then shows
 that these equations give a method of unlimited approximation to
 any unknown law; and suggests the mode of extending the solution
 of the problem to solids of any figure and mass. Finally, he gives
 the w*th differential of the distance between any pair of points mo
 ving according to this law, in terms of the differentials of lower
 orders including the distances.

                              [   236   ]
          XXXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   EXPERIMENTS ON THE NITROGENOUS COMPOUNDS OF THE
                 BENZOIC SERIES. BY G. CHANCEL.
THESE experiments relate principally to the action of the hy
      drosulphate of ammonia upon nitrobenzamide. This substance
was first obtained by Mr. Field by the action of heat upon the nitro-
benzoate of ammonia; but this process does not always succeed,
and 1 have found it most advantageous to prepare it from nitro-
benzoic aether and ammonia.
   The action of the hydrosulphate of ammonia upon nitrobenzamide
dissolved in alcohol is frequently very complex, whilst with an
aqueous solution it is very simple ; in the latter case there is a con
siderable deposit of sulphur and of crystals, which according to my
analyses contain C7 H8 Na O + aq. The water of crystallization is
expelled between 212° and 248°.
   The formation of this body is in conformity with the known reac
tions of the hydrosulphate of ammonia upon nitrogenized sub
stances; we have, in fact, C7 H« XNO + 3SH5=C H8 N* O + 20H4
 +SS* ; but if the formation of this substance comes within the
known reactions, the change of functions which has taken place is
hitherto without example in organic chemistry ; for it no longer be
longs to the benzoic series, but represents carbanilamide or anilamic
urea, that is to say a double carbonate of aniline and ammonia less
2 equivs. water (CH* Q\ C« H7 N, NH>) - 20Ha = C7 H8 N« O.
This opinion is founded upon the following facts:—When carbani
lamide is heated with potash-lime, ammonia is disengaged at a
slightly elevated temperature, which I determined in the state of the
platinochloride. When heated still more strongly, no more ammonia
is given off, but only pure aniline. The following equation will
explain this metamorphosis :—
           a H8 NO + 20KH=CO» K* + C6 H7 N+NH>.
But this equation evidently does not represent the final reaction,
and we must distinguish two phases, in
         The first,   C H8 NO + OKH=NH' + C7 H«KNO».
         The second, C7 H" KNO*+ OKH=C6 H7 NCO8 K4.
   The salt of potash which is produced in the first phase must be
the anlhranilate or an isomeric compound, in all cases the true car-
banilate.
   This experiment proves that carbanilamide contains the consti-
        * X=NO» C = 12 H = l 0=16 N-14, notation of M. Gerbardt.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           237
tuents of 1 equiv. ammonia and of 1 equiv. aniline. The action of
sulphuric acid is equally distinct, and supports my opinion ; it fur
nishes, in fact, sulphanilic acid and sulphate of ammonia, with disen
gagement of carbonic gas :—
     C H<> NO + 2SO H»=CO«+C6 H' NS03 + SO« H», NH'.
   By acting with cyanic acid upon aniline, M. Hofmann obtained
a substance to which he likewise assigns the composition of anilamic
urea. As this chemist has merely announced the production of this
substance without describing its properties, I am not able to assert
their identity.
   Carbanilamide possesses the following properties : — It is soluble
in water, alcohol and aether; its alcoholic or aethereal solution
quickly acquires a dark red colour, and appears to experience some
change, but its aqueous solution is not altered, and furnishes on
spontaneous evaporation very beautiful, transparent, flattened prisms
of considerable size. The crystals have no odour; they have a cool,
very slightly bitter taste, similar to nitre ; they contain 1 equiv.
water of crystallization, melt at 161°, and are decomposed at a
higher temperature, leaving a large amount of carbon.
   Carbanilamide, like urea, combines with acids and metallic salts,
furnishing crystalline compounds. I have analysed the following: —
           The nitrate                    C'H'N'O, NO' H
           The argentonitrate             C? H» N4 O, NO3 Ag
           The chloride                   C<H»N*0,C1H
I likewise obtained the hydrargyrochloride and the platinochloride.
   In concluding this extract, I may state that I have also analysed
the aethers of nitrobenzoic acid ; that from alcohol crystallizes
in right rhombic prisms of 122°; my analyses confirm those of
M. Kopp ; that from pyroligneous aether crystallizes in nearly the
same form (118° to 120°) ; the two aethers are consequently isomor-
phous.— Comptes Rendus, Feb. 26, 1849.
              ON THE COMPOSITION OF STEARIC ACID.
                 BY MM. LAURENT AND GERHARDT.
   According to the most recent analyses which have been made in
Germany by the process generally in use, and under the direction
of M. Liebig, the composition of stearic and margaric acids came
to the support of the theory of organic radicals, by assigning to
the.<e acids formulae similar to those of hyposulphuric and sulphuric
acids. In a word, these two acids, supposed in the anhydrous state,
presented two different stages of oxidation of the same radical,

238           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
R8 0s and ROs, R expressing the composition of a hypothetical
radical, margaryle, C34 H66*.
   On taking into consideration the great analogy of the physical
characters of these two acids and the perfect identity of their che
mical properties, that is to say of their metamorphoses under the
influence of reagents, we were led to doubt the accuracy of the for
mulae which established between them so great a difference. On
the other hand, the formula attributed to stearic acid was in contra
diction to the propositions we have advanced respecting the divi
sibility of the formulas of organic substances. Either these propo
sitions were false or the composition of stearic acid adopted by
the Giessen school was inaccurate. Experiment could alone decide
this. Now we have found, in the first place, that stearic and mar-
garic acids have the same atomic weight; on this point we agree
with all those chemists who have analysed the salts. We have made
seven analyses of stearic acid, derived from four different sources.
The differences between the analyses amount for the carbon to one
or two-thousandths, and scarcely to one-thousandth for the hydrogen.
They lead exactly to the formula of margaric acid, viz. CS4 H68 O*.
We have likewise observed, as was announced by M. Chevreul long
since, that pure stearic acid may be distilled for the greater part
without alteration, and that it behaves in this respect like all the
other volatile acids of the same homologous series, as formic, acetic,
butyric acids, &c. If, under certain circumstances, this distillation
is accompanied by the formation of other products, for instance
liquid hydrocarbons, they may be entirely avoided by distilling from
IS to 20 grms. of the pure acid, and interrupting the operation as
soon as the last portions acquire a faint brownish tint. Again, if
some German chemists have observed in the distilled acid a lower
melting-point, which led them to view the product as margaric acid ;
this decomposition, if it occurs, is effected, according to us, without
any decomposition, and can only be the result of some molecular
change.
    In fact, a greater difference does not exist between stearic and
margaric acid than between tartaric and metatartaric acid ; they are
two physical varieties of one and the same chemical species ; mar
garic acid should be called metastearic acid.
    This result is moreover confirmed by all the reactions known of
these bodies ; the identity of composition and of characters of the
substances described by M. Bussy under the names of margarone
and stearone ; the identity of the results obtained by M. Erdmann
in the analyses of the products of anhydrous phosphoric acid upon
stearic and margaric acids ; lastly, the identity of the atomic weights
of these two acids—all these facts now find their natural explanation
in this state of isomerism which we have pointed out.
    The chemical history of the .fatty substances is thus simplified.
   * Margaric acid, CMH« 0s +H30; stearic acid, 2(CMHM) 0s +2HS 0 (bibasic)
 = C681IUC07, with the oxygen indivisible by 2.

                        Meteorological Observations,                            239
Physiology will be interested in the result, for it does away with
that inexplicable and most singular difference which seemed to exist
between the composition of the fatty bodies of man and the pig and
that of other animal fats.— Comptes Rettdus, March 26, 1849.
       METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR JULY 1849.
    Chiswick. —July 1. Very fine. 2. Light clouds : Tery fine. 3. Cloudy : slight
showers.      4. Cloudy: clear at night.     5. Clear: very fine.    6,7. Very fine.
8. Very hot: clear at night. 9. very fine : cloudless. 10. Dusky haze : clear.
 11, 12. Very fine. 13. Cloudy. 14. Very fine. 15. Overcast. 16. Very fine.
17. Cloudy: showery.       18. Very fine: cloudy: heavy ahower 5 p.m. : showery.
19. Showery. 20. Fine: dense masses of low white clouds: showery. 21. Cloudy:
showery. 22. Very fine : overcast. 23. Rain : cloudy. 24. Cloudy : heavy
showers in forenoon : excessively heavy rain at night. 25. Fine : cloudy : showers
occasionally : heavy showers, with thunder in afternoon.         26. Fine : thunder
showers. 27. Overcast : very fine. 28. Very fine : cloudy. 29. Densely over-
cast, 30. Fine. 31. Very fine : sloudy.
       Mean temperature of the month                                  62°-29
       Mean temperature of July 1848                                  62 -09
       Mean temperature of July for the last twenty-three years ... 63 "23
       Average amount of rain in July                                   2*38 inches.
    Boston. —July 1 —6. Fine.      7. Fine: thermometer 81° from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
 8— 12. Fine. 13— 16. Cloudy. 17. Cloudy : rain a.m. 18. Cloudy : rain p.m.
 19. Rain : rain a.m. and r.M. 20. Fine : rain a.m. 21. Fine : rain p.m. 22.
 Fine. 23. Rain : rain a.m. and p.m., with thunder and lightning. 24, 25. Cloudy :
 rain a.m. 26—28. Fine. 29. Rain : rain a.m. and p.m. 30. Fine. 31. Cloudy.
    Apptegfoik Afansc, Dutnfries-shire.— July I. Fine rain: high wind p.m. .2.
 Rain during night: cleared and fine. 3. Heavy rain and strong wind. 4. Fine :
 slight shower. 5. Fine : occasional showers. 6. Complete day of rain. 7. Very
 heavy rain : high flood.   8. Fine and fair : pleasant air.    9, 10. Fine and fair.
 11. Very fine summer day. 12. Very warm. 13. Warm, but cooler from east
 wind.     14, 15. Warm.      16. Warm, but getting cloudy. 17. Heavy rain at
 night: clear day.     18. Rain.     19. Showers: occasionally fair and warm. 20.
 Showers : heavy p.m. 21 . Fine and fair. 22. Drizzly : showery. 23. Fine a.m.:
 showery p.m. 24. Showery. 25. Heavy showers : thunder. 26. Warm : slight
 shower : thunder.     27. Fair: cloudy: cleared p.m.      28. Fair a.m. : rain p.m.
 29. Heavy showers. 30. Heavy showers : thunder. 31. Heavy showers, less
 frequent : thunder.
            Mean temperature of the month                              ST'O
            Mean temperature of July 1848                              56 '5
            Mean temperature of July for twenty-five years             58 '1
             Rain in July for twenty years                               3*91 inches.
     Samlwick Manse, Orkney.—July 1. Rain: drizzle. 2. Showers. 3. Rain. 4.
  Bright: fine. 5. Clear: fine. 6. Cloudy : fine : cloudy.         7. Rain: cloudy:
  showers : bright. 8, 9. Clear : cloudy. 10. Damp : cloudy. II. Cloudy : fine.
  12— 14. Fine: fog. 15. Cloudy : clear. • 16. Bright: rain.          17,18. Bright:
  cloudy. 19. Clear: damp. 20. Drizzle: cloudy.             21. Drizzle: damp. 22.
  Fine: drops. 23,24. Cloudy : drizzle. 25. Rain: clear. 26. Bright: damp.
  27. Bright : showers. 28. Bright : rain. 29. Clear : showers : fine. 30. Clear :
  fine. 31. Showers.

Thompson
Veal
M
Mr.
by
HGarden
 the
 Society
 Cms
 London
 I,
 made
 of
 OMoat
    berstr.wicrnearcovu;
            raltoiulornagslical
         eik,
                               Clouston,
                               Rev.
                               C.  amfnrdiewsi-schkire;
                               Orkney.
                               Manse,
                                DW.
                                 Applegarth
                                 the
                                 by
                                 and
                                Dunbar,
                                 SBoston;
                                  uat
                                                           Rain.
                                                                      IJJ    a i*811°           3
                                                                                                •CO
                                                                                                  »
                                                                                                                                                         1-50                                                   o-oo                                        090                                                     l-oo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           'J-HJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           j-40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           g-frtl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3-7-2
                                                                                                                 04. .,                                                                                              10                                           116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  87                                       -18
                                                                                         B "5 M                                                                                                                                                                          •04 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16
                                                                                                                        -36
                                                                                                                        •01                                                                                          ¦07 •06 13  •22 •1412 15  •03 16 •40                      •46 •01             •22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -15
                                                                                           Si n                   sw. nne. nw. sw. s. S. W. wsw. wsw. ese. se. se. se. se.
                                                                                                                                     wbyn                                           s-ne.          e-ne. ene.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ese. nw. nw. w. se.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nne.                wnw,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            se.    ew, e. nnw,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wnw
                                                           Wind.       ill*£33 1Q                           sw.  aw. w, w.                    sw.  IW, w. sw. sw. s.                        e,                                     s. sw.                                s. nc.                            W.
                                                                                                                  wnw.                                                                                    ne. ne. s. w. wnw.
                                                                                                           IW.            sw.                 s. SSW. IW. w. W. SW. II.                     ne.     11.                                 IW. w. S.           ». sse. sw. sw. nw. ». >w,
                                                                        fi                       —.c U                                w.      sw. s. IW.        nw.    in-.   >. ne. e.            DC     rif. n. «v.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s».
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S1V.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IWi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               w.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a. sw. sw.          5.     w. •w. sw.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r,3-iJ
                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                               50                                                                        554                                  524 544             534                              524
                                                                      Orkney,
                                                                       Dumfries.
                                                                                   Sandwick.
                                                                                   |     E
                                                                                       shire.
                                                                                           ;               51 51 48                   53 57 57 53 52} 55} 56 51 51 55                                          57 52 54 52 52                              55           54 52 52 55                       53 49
                                                                                                i-
                                                                                                36
                                                                                                                 50J                                           544 56| 58 60        i 654                                              !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5524
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44                584 554                          574 58J 57453      i         56-09
                                                                                                           54            55 51 52 56 61                  6(1                               56 54 60            494 5655 59 55 53 59 58 58 54
                                                                                                                                      441.                                                                                                          501                1474 1484 514                      524 i   49      51-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         62-6
                                                        Thermometer.                                       47 49 53 50                       51 56 55 49 54 57 55 53 51 50                                                51 50                54           55 47                           52 52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L.
                                                                                                                 6(1.'.  594 634 614                     654 68J 71                               J 71
                                                                                                                                                                                                  70
                                                                                                                                                                                                  62-5                           57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1601
                                                                                                           60                                58 60}             64                  73 69 63                   68
                                                                                                                                                                                                               65-5 65 64 154 [58                         {58161  62 60 58-5 61 6(1'. 60 61 54
                                                                                                                               63-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |59 160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1  J614
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60 |62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2*
                                                                                                           64 63 64 63 66 68 66 62 59 64 64 62                                                                       63                                                        61 63 63 60 61 60
                                                                            Chi wick.                S     57 55 58 43 45 48 5-2 50 84                          1
                                                                                                                                                                49          147 52   ' 48 52 49 51 49 50 44 47 44 56 48 46 48 47 45 57 52 50 17                                                                          62-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75-16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fi-42
                                                                                                                                                                      46
                                                                                                                                                                      84i
                                                                                                           79 73 73 67 70                          86 88                     81 81 81 81 75 81 69 73 73 73 69 (.9 67 67 67 74 75 73 68 74 70
                                                                                                                                             7')
                                                                                                           29-61 29-60 2932 29-57 29-77 29-64 29-67 29-86 3016 30-22 30-37 30-40 30-36 30-27 30-18 2970 29-63 2957 29-56 29-65 29-77 2972 29-60 29-57 2949 2959 29-83 29-60 2956 2948 29-77
                                                                                                     p.m.
                                                                      Orkney, Sandwick.
                                                                                                           29-61 2958 2923 2948 29-65 29-77 29-64 29-60 3004 30-       15 30-31 30-40 30-36 30-31 30-20 3013 29-61 29-61 2958 29-57 29-72 2977 2960 29-59                       2949 2972 29-82 29-56 29-50 29-62         2976a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .9750
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29750
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •956
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2935
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29777
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         29-868
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         29-4'
                                                                                              M a.m.
                                                                           Dumfriefuthire.                 29-70 29-73 29-33 29-58 2980 2978 2974 30-02 30-20 30-27 3030 30-28 30-21 30-           14 3014 29-82 29-68 29-37 29-39 29-57 2980 29-70 2946 29-28 2930 2953 2983 29-61 2951 29-40 2980
                                                                                                ¦j    p.m.
                                                        Barometer.                                         29-91 29-75 29-30 29-45 29-70 29-81 2977 29-80 30-11 30-27 30-30 30-30 30-26 30-21 3015 30-09 29-65 29-52 2939 29-45 2970 29-80 2952 29-40 2926 29-38 2970 29-80 ;                      29-61 29-40 2957
                                                                                               0 a.m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "Li_
                                                                                                           29-63 29-40 2908 29- 10 29-50 29-40 2920 29-34 29-60 29-75 29-70 29-64 2971 2971 29-64 2964 29-25 29-20 2903 2903 29-35 99-65 2920 29-05 28-88 2907 2934 2953 29-24 29-                         10 2920
                                                                                           ;
                                                                                           2
                                                                                                           29921 29-964 29-667 29-697 29-772 30078 29995 30-038 30223 30-335 30-325 30-257 30-203 129
                                                                                                                                                                                                  30- 30125 29                                                                                            4 29771
                                                                                                                                                                                                               990 29-725 29622 29-571 29526 29-821 29-959 29-556 29438 29434 29-549 29-841 29963 29765 29-6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                  Mm.
                                                                                                           30160 29999 29745 29702 29973 30097 30065 30- 129 30-276 30-373 30-373 30-343 30-2
                                                                                                                                                                                           13 30-202 136 30- 18301 29-864 29-741 29603 29-677 29982 30-055 29768 29-519 29-478 29-626 29973 30-030 29-836 29-662 29-913
                                                                                                  Max.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Una
                                                         OJ3
                                                                     u                        1849. July.   I. 2. 3. 4.
                                                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                                       5.
                                                                                                                                             6. 7. 8. 9- 10.                  n.     12.
                                                                                                                                                                                            <r 14- l& 16. 17- 18.
                                                                                                                                                                                           i3-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •'9-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •21.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22. 23- 24- 25. 26. 527. 28. 29. 30. 31-

                               THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                            —<U+2666>—-
                       [THIRD SERIES.]
                      OCTOBER 1849.
XXXII. On the Views ofthe Astronomer Royal respecting the
   Modification of Sounds by Distance of Propagation. By
   the Rev. J. Challis, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., Plumian
   Professor of Astronomy and 'Experimental Philosophy in the
   University of Cambridge*.
IN the Number of the Philosophical Magazine for last June,
    the Astronomer Royal has stated it to be his belief that a
musical sound may degenerate into a hiss, abuzz, or a whisper,
and possibly into a roar, by mere distance of transmission.
So singular and novel a theory can hardly be expected to
pass current without being questioned. I consider myself
entitled to call it in question, because a short while before it
was promulgated I had proved in this Magazine, by what I
conceive to be strict mathematical reasoning, that musical
sounds do not by propagation become unmusical. The views
of the Astronomer Royal profess to be only conjectures, being
neither supported by mathematical reasoning, nor borne out
by any experiment, and on this account they cannot well be
brought under discussion. They are, however, based on a
piece of mathematical reasoning which the Astronomer Royal
has adopted from Mr. Stokes, and which admits of being
discussed. Now I am prepared to show that this piece of
reasoning is faulty in its logic, and that it consequently affords
no pretext for the conjectures of the Astronomer Royal.
   The rule of logic against which Mr. Stokes has offended
may be stated as follows : —When the equations applicable
to a proposed problem have been formed according to the
principles of the department of science to which the problem
belongs, and a solution of the equations has been obtained, it
is not allowable to accept the solution in part and reject it in
part : it is either wholly applicable or not at all. In the
                    * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 236. Oct. 1849.           R

242        Prof. Challis on the Modification of Sounds
instance of the hydrodynamical problem of the propagation
of sound in plane-waves, Mr. Stokes has violated the above
rule by accepting the analytical solution for certain values of
the co-ordinates and the time, and rejecting it for other values.
I proceed to make this assertion good.
   The following is the enunciation of the problem. Assuming
that a medium in which the pressure p and density p are
related to each other by the equation p=atp, is capable of
propagating waves in such a manner that the velocity and
density of the particles of the medium are functions of the
distance from a given plane, it is required to determine the
motion.
   Let v be the velocity of any particle at the distance z from
the given plane, and at the time t reckoned from a given
epoch. Then by a known process, which it is unnecessary
to go through, we have for the case of propagation in a single
direction, the general solution,
              w = a.Nap. log p=f(z— (a + v)t + c),
and giving to the arbitrary function a form corresponding to
a particular series of waves, we have the definite solution,
            v=a. Nap. logp = m sin —(z— (a + v)l + c).
                                     A ^
By these equations the velocity and density are given at all
distances from the given plane at any instant, and the solution
is in all respects complete. If, to ascertain the rate at which
a given velocity and density are propagated, we differentiate
the equations supposing v and p to be constant, it will be
                                                            •
found that the velocity v and corresponding density e« are
propagated with the velocity a + v. The effect of the differ
ence of rate of propagation of different parts of the wave pre
sents itself as a continuous modification of the form of the
wave. Mr. Stokes has exhibited this modification by a geo
metrical curve (see Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii. p. 359), and in so
doing has accepted the indications of analysis during an in
terval equal to -—, but has rejected all its subsequent indica
tions. To take a numerical instance, let a = 916 feet in a
second, m = 1 foot in a second, and A = 10 feet. Then it
would be admitted in this instance, that during an interval of
one second and six tenths, in which the wave travels over
 1459 feet, the analysis indicates truly, but not for any longer
period. This procedure Mr. Airy has signified his approval
of by saying, that " Mr. Stokes has shown that a distinct

                   by Distance of Propagation.               243
meaning can be given to the solution up to a certain point in
the progress of the wave." If we may believe these two ma
thematicians, the wave at this point suddenly emancipates
itself from the control of analysis, and the subsequent motion
can be pursued by no other means than conjecture. Accord
ingly each has favoured us with his conjectures. Mr. Airy's
are contained in the article which has given occasion to these
remarks, and Mr. Stokes's in the communication already re
ferred to (Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii. pp. 352-356).
    It is not my intention to enter into any consideration of
these conjectures, which, in my opinion, can only be regarded
as proofs that the authors of them have fallen into an erro
neous course of reasoning. In any legitimate application of
analytical calculation to a physical question, a spontaneous
failure of the analysis, leaving no resource but conjecture, can
never occur. Before such necessity has arisen, some fault in
logic must have been committed. I do not doubt that I point
out the fault committed in the case under discussion by saying,
that certain consequences deduced by analysis from the pre
 mises are received, while other consequences equally deduced
by analysis from the same premises are rejected. The ana
 lytical solution of the problem of plane-waves is, as I have
 already stated, that the velocity v at any point of the wave
 and the corresponding density are propagated with the velo
 city a + v. In consequence of the different rate of propagation
 of different parts of the wave, two different states of the me
 dium must occupy eventually the same position at the same
 time. For instance, a position of maximum velocity is a po
 sition of no velocity when the interval t has become — ; that
 is, taking the numerical example before adduced, after the
lapse of two seconds and a half, when the wave has travelled
 through 2290 feet. We are thus brought by the analysis to
an absurdity. It is true the absurdity is first consummated
 at the end of the interval -— . Mr. Stokes avails himself of
                             2tot
 this circumstance to limit his acceptance of the results of
 analysis to this interval, and avoids the consideration of the
 absurdity ; whereas right reasoning demands, if in any case
 an absurdity is strictly deduced from premises, that all results
from the same premises should be rejected. It is in vain to
 urge, as Mr. Airy does, that the absurdity indicates the trans
 ition of the waves from a musical to an unmusical condition.
 A hiss and a roar are matters of experience and possible ;
 they cannot therefore be symbolized by an impossibility. The
 only legitimate inference from the absurdity is, that the hypo
                                R2

241                Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.
thesis of the problem is at fault; that it is not allowable to
make the supposition ofplane-waves.
    Mr. Airy's views, as I have said, are not borne out by any
experiment. On the contrary, an experiment may be adduced
which contradicts them. The possibility of hearing distinctly
words spoken at a distance, depends on the faithfulness with
which the air transmits the impressions made on it by the organs
of voice. As the difference between the sound of one letter and
that of another corresponds to a difference in the form of the
curve representing the succession and magnitudes of the con
densations impressed, it is necessary that that form should
remain unchanged by distance of transmission in order that
words heard at different distances may be the same sounds.
The law of transmission expressed by the formula a + v, which
is the basis of Mr. Airy's speculations, is opposed to this
constancy of form. M. Biot, however, has recorded an ex
periment made at Paris, according to which, words pro
nounced at one end of a cylindrical tube 3120 feet in length,
were perfectly distinct at the other end.
   Cambridge Observatory,
      August 22, 1849.
 XXX III. An Investigation on the Chemical Nature of Wax.
              By Benjamin Collins Brodie, Esq.*
                   [Continued from vol. xxxiii. p. 391.]
                           Hl.t On Myricine.
I HAVE placed the investigation of the Chinese wax be
       tween that of the cerotic acid and of the residue of the
bees'-wax which remains after that substance has been sepa
rated from it. By the saponification of this Chinese wax we
procure, as I have shown, an acid identical with the cerotic
acid from bees'-wax, and also the alcohol of this acid, so that
the chemical history of these substances is closely connected.
 We have moreover in the Chinese wax to deal with a sub
stance found in nature in a state of great purity, the products
of the decomposition of which by alkalies and by heat can
readily be prepared and examined. The knowledge of the
relation of these products to one another throws great light
upon the nature of myricine, which is not a pure substance,
and the chemical relations of which are complex.
    I have stated that the first extracts of wax with alcohol give
with acetate of lead an abundant precipitate in a hot alcoholic
   * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1849, part i.; having been
received by the Royal Society May 11, and read November 23, 1848.
  t Part 1. was inserted in vol. xxxiii. p. 217, and Part II. at p. 378 of the
same volume of this Journal.—Ed.

                 Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.               245
solution. This affords us a ready test of the presence of the
cerotic acid. The wax may be long boiled with alcohol before
the whole of the cerotic acid is removed. If however this
process of boiling and decantation be continued, a time will
come when the acetate of lead will cease to give any precipi
tate whatever in the hot alcoholic extract. The residue after
this extraction I speak of as myricine. It is advisable to con
tinue for two or three times the operation of boiling and de
canting, even after the acetate gives no precipitate, the cero-
tate of lead not being entirely insoluble in the hot solution.
   The myricine thus prepared is a greenish substance of about
the consistency of wax, uncrystalline, still possessing a slight
smell of wax, and of a melting-point of 64° C. This substance
is hardly acted on by dilute potash. It is however saponified
by boiling with strong potash, and more readily by an alco
holic solution of the alkali. The saponification may also be
effected by melting it with hydrate of potash, as in the case of
the Chinese wax. The products are the same in whichever
way the operation be conducted.
   If the soap from the saponification of the myricine be treated
in the same manner as the similar soap from the Chinese wax*,
it also will be found to contain two substances, an acid and
another substance which is contained in the aether with which
the baryta salt is extracted. On attempting to purify these
substances respectively by crystallization out of alcohol, aether
or absolute alcohol, great variations in the melting-point both
of the acid and of the basic substance will be observed. And
careful observation shows that these are not, as in the case of
the Chinese wax, substances in a state of comparative chemical
purity, but are mixtures, both in the case of the acid and of
the other matter, of at least two bodies difficultly separable
from one another. It is the separation of these substances
which gives a peculiar difficulty to the investigation of the
nature of myricine.
   Although the acid and basic products of the saponification
may thus, as in the case of the Chinese wax, be separated by
precipitation of the soap by a baryta salt, in the case of the
bees'-wax these substances admit of a simpler method of sepa
ration, without which method, so difficult is it to wash per
fectly out the baryta salt, that I question whether the sub
stances could be obtained pure. The soap, in whatever way
the saponification mayhave been effected, and after the alcohol,
if any, used for the saponification has been distilled off, is to
be dissolved in a large quantity of water, and the boiling so
lution decomposed by an acid. The melted mass which re-
                   • Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii. p. 381.

246              Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.
suits from this operation, after having been repeatedly boiled
out with water, is to be dissolved in a large quantity of hot
alcohol. An abundant precipitate appears in the cold fluid
from which the solution is to be filtered, and the precipitate
repeatedly redissolved and recrystallized out of alcohol. 'I lie
precipitate will at length be found to consist, almost entirely,
of the basic portion of this waxy matter. The alcoholic solu
tion contains the acid.
   I shall proceed to give the simplest method by which the
pure substances may be obtained, and those experiments which
1 have made upon their constitution, which I think can leave
no doubt upon the mind of the chemist as to the true nature
of that matter of which by far the greater portion of the my
ricine and, indeed, of the wax itself consists.
   The first separation of the products of saponification may
be made, as I have stated, by combining the acid with baryta
and washing out the resulting salts with aether; the basic
portion of the products may be obtained as pure by this as by
the other method.
                            Melissine.
   If the substance contained in the aetherial solution, with
which the baryta salt is washed out, be crystallized out of
aether or alcohol, the melting-point will be considerably raised,
from below 70° C. to above 80°, by repeated crystallization.
The difficulty with which the melting-point was raised, made
it evident that the substances contained in the solution were
to be separated only by long crystallization and a careful at
tention to the variations of the melting-points. I made various
experiments to discover a satisfactory method of purification.
At length I found that if the aetherial solution be filtered while
yet warm, and when only a small portion of matter has cry
stallized out, a substance remains on the filter of a melting-
point of 85° C. of a satiny lustre, and of highly crystalline
appearance. It is with difficulty that even a small portion of
substance can be thus obtained, and it is necessary to use,
during the filtration, a hot water apparatus to prevent the pre
cipitation of the whole matter dissolved. I have never been
able to succeed in further raising the melting-point of this body,
and therefore regard it as pure. In this condition it crystallizes
on cooling from the melted state, and its crystallization is
marked by striae parallel to the line of cooling; it being in all
respects, but the melting-point, similar in appearance to cero-
tine as procured from Chinese wax.
   I give this method of preparing this substance as it was the
first I adopted, and as it can thus be procured in a high state

                     Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.                     247
of purity. I afterwards however discovered the use of rectified
coal naphtha as a solvent for these substances, and by far the
best and simplest method of procuring the body is by crystal
lization out of that solvent, of the precipitate from the alco
holic solution which I have before mentioned, as procured by
dissolving in alcohol the wax matter obtained by decomposing
by an acid the soap from the myricine               By alcohol the basic
portion of the saponified myricine is separated from the acids.
By naphtha the substance of 85° melting-point is separated
from another and probably an analogous body, of which I
shall speak hereafter.
   This substance gave to analysis the following numbers.
The result is the same in whatever way the substance is pre
pared.
                Substance.                    CO«.             HO.
             I. 0*2685 grm. gave . 0-8075                    0-341
           II. 0-2597 grm. gave . 0-7839                      0-3326
          III. 0-278 grm. gave . 0-84375                      0-35325
          IV. 0-2584 grm. gave . 0-7S12                       0-325
            V. 0-251 1* grm. gave . 0-7595                    0-3215
          VI. 0-26 17t grm. gave . 0-7870                    0-3295
 which give in 100 parts—
                   I.         II.      III.      IV.        V.        VI.
   Carbon . 82-02           82-40      8277     82-43      82-48     8201
   Hydrogen       14-11      14-25     14-11     13-97     14-22     13-99
   Oxygen . 387               3-35      312       3-60      3-30      400
                10000 100-00 10000 10000                  100-00    10000
 These analyses agree with the formula—
                               Atomic weight.     Calculated.
                   Cflo . . . 360                    82- 19
                  H^ . . .             62            14-15
                   02     . . .        16              3-66
                                      438           100-00
     This substance I propose to call Melissine.
                                 Melissic Acid.
     Melissine, heated with lime and potash, as the similar ex
  periment was made with cerotinej, is, like that body, con-
    • This substance was procured directly from wax, from which it may be
  obtained and purified in the same manner as from the purified myricine ;
  which is the simplest way of procuring the substance if the other products
  of saponification are not required.
    t This substance was procured from the Ceylon wax mentioned in a
  former paper.
     % Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii. p. 381.

248               Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.
verted into an acid. This acid has a similar appearance to
the wax acid already described. It has however a much
higher melting-point, namely, 88°-89° C. The preparation
of the substance need not be again described.
                                                           C03.        HO.
    I. 0-2655 grm. gave                                  0-776* 0*3104
  II. 0*2507 grm. gave (another preparation) 0'728                   0-2507
III. 0-2508 grm. gave                                    0*7333 0*3077
 IV. 0-2396 grm. gave (another preparation) 0*7026 0*2885
  V. 0-258 grm. gave                                                 0*3085
which give in 100 parts—
                   I.         II.           III.           IV.          V.
    Carbon .     79-7*      79*19         79*7*          79*97
    Hydrogen     1300       13*32         13*63          13*40         1328
    Oxygen .      7*26        7*49          6-63           6-63
                100-00     100*00       100*00          100-00
These analyses agree with the formula—
                       Atomic weight.           Calculated.
                 C^ •    • 360                     79*64
                 HgQ .   .     60                  13-27
                 O, .    .     32                    7-09
                             452                  10000
    I prepared the silver salt of this acid in precisely the same
manner as was prepared the silver salt of the cerotic acid.
    1. 0-6085 grm. gave                                   0*1175 silver.
   II. 0678 grm. gave                                     0-1315 silver.
  III. 0-58625 grm. gave (another preparation) 0-11575 silver.
which give in 100 parts —
                                    I.              II.           111.
         Silver                   19-30           19*39         1974
                                                 COj.             HO.
      I. 0-4619 grm. of the salt gave          1-0863           0-4464
     II. 0-484 grm. of the salt gave           1-13375          0*471
giving in 100 parts —
                                         I.                 II.
            Carbon                    64*13              63*90
            Hydrogen ....              10*73              1081
            Oxygen and silver .       25*14              25-29
                                    100-00              10000
These analyses lead to the formula Cm Hjg 04 Ag.

                 Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.                 249
                                       Calculated.
                    Ceo                    64-38
                   H-                       10-55
                    04                       5-77
                    Ag                      19-30
                                          100-00
The formula therefore of the hydrated acid is C^ H60 04.
This acid I call Melissic Acid.
                            Chlor-Melal.
   By the action of chlorine on melissine a perfectly analogous
result is obtained to that obtained by the action of chlorine on
cerotine. The substance undergoes also a similar change in
appearance, being converted into a resin.
   The substance was prepared and analysed with a view to
confirming the formula of the body.
                                      C02.            HO.
            I. 0-4 1 36 grm. gave 0-589              0-175
           II. 0-4263 grm. gave       0602           0-1835
which give in 100 parts—
            Carbon                    38-83          38-51
             Hydrogen ....               4-70          4'78
             Oxygen and chlorine      56-47          56*71
                                     100-00         100-00
   I. 0-6663 grm. gave 1-4821 grm. of chloride of silver equi
 valent to 0-3665 grm. of chlorine.
    II. 06075 grm. gave 1-341 grm. of chloride of silver equi
 valent to 0-3316 grm. of chlorine.
    III. 0-6475 grm. gave 1-4375 grm. of chloride of silver
 equivalent to 0*3555 grm. of chlorine.
    These determinations correspond in 100 parts to—
                                  I.           II.        III.
          Chlorine . . . 55-01                54-58      54-91
 These analyses lead to the formula
                            c J "45-5 rv
                        Cm ...         .    38-50
                        H^. . .        .     4-86
                        Cl14t. . •     •    54-90
                        O, . . .       •      1-74
                                           100-00
     As in the case of the cerotine, by the action of chlorine two

 250              Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine,
equivalents of hydrogen are removed without replacement by
chlorine, while the further action is an action of substitution,
the substance being the analogue of chloral.
   The products of the distillation of melissine are analogous
to those of the distillation of cerotine. The substance partly
distils over unaltered, and is partly, with the loss of water,
converted into solid hydrocarbon. Sulphuric acid also com
bines with it under the same conditions as with the other wax-
alcohol.
       Palmitic Acidfrom the Saponification of Myricine.
   Melissine is soluble with such great difficulty, in every sol
vent suitable for washing out the baryta salt from the wax
soap, that its separation from the acid cannot in this manner
be effected. It may however be separated by simple crystal
lization. The alcoholic solution (p. 246) from which the me
lissine has crystallized out, after having been considerably
concentrated and again filtered from any precipitate produced
on cooling, contains hardly a trace, if any, of that substance.
The acids are very soluble in alcohol, and it is only on great
concentration that they crystallize from that solvent. The
alcohol is to be distilled off1 to the point of crystallization, and
the first portions only of the fat acid selected for the prepara
tion of the pure substance. The acid is to be boiled with
potash, combined with baryta, and washed out with aether.
   On decomposing the baryta salt with hydrochloric acid, a
fat acid separates, having the appearance of margaric or pal
mitic acid, which latter body is in truth the principal acid of
the wax. It is however mixed with another acid of a lower
melting-point, for which reason it is desirable, as I have men
tioned, to use in its preparation only the first crystallization
of the acid. From this other body it is separable with the
greatest difficulty; but by long-continued crystallization from
aether, an acid may be obtained of the melting-point of 62° C,
beyond which point it cannot be raised. This acid gave to
analysis the following results:—
                                               COs.        HO.
           I. 02486 grm. gave .         .    0-6877      0-278
          II. 0-2605 grm. gave .        .    0-7145      0-290
        III. 0-2542 grm. gave .         .    0-6937      0-2847
giving per cent. —
                               I.           II.       III.
           Carbon . . 75-42               74-80      74-43
           Hydrogen          12-43        12-36      12-43
           Oxygen . . 12-15               12-84      12-14
                           10000       100-00       10000

                   Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.                      251
    The silver salt was made as in the other cases by precipi
tation from the ammoniacal solution of the acid.
    I. 0*6885 grm. ofthis salt gave .... 0*2005 silver.
  II. 0-66025 grm. of the same gave           . . . 0-1920 silver.
III. 0-623       grm. ofanother preparation gave 0-182 silver.
IV. 0-609        grm. of the same gave        . . . 0-17625 silver.
  V. 0-671       grm. of another preparation gave 0"197 silver.
VI. 0*744        grm. of the same gave        . . . 0*2185 silver.
giving in 100 parts—
      1.          II.        HI.          IV.         V.           VI.
    29-12       29-23      29-21        28*94       29-35        29'36
                                                         COa.       HO.
    I. 0-4458 grm. of the first preparation gave 0-869 0-S495
  II. 0*4463 grm. of the same preparation gave 0-870 0*3555
III. 0*5896 grm. of the second preparation gave 0*7545 0*3065
which correspond in 100 parts to—
                                       I.         II.          III.
        Carbon                      53*16       53*22        52*82
        Hydrogen ....                 8'70       8*85         8*75
        Silver and oxygen . . 38-14             37*93        38*43
                                   100*00      100*00       100*00
    The silver salt is by no means insoluble in the ammoniacal
solution, so that in the making of the salt by this method a
certain separation of the substance is effected. If any impu
rity were presented, it probably would be detected on analysing
the acid as again separated from the silver salt.
                                                          CO..       HO.
   I. 0*2523 grm. of the acid thus separated gave 0*6970 0*285
11.0*228 grm. of the same gave . . . . 0*6255 0*257
giving in 100 parts—
                Carbon .      .  .   75*88           74*82
                Hydrogen      .  .    12*56          12*52
                Oxygen .      .  .    12*06          12*66
                                    100*00         100*00
     These analyses, as well as those of the acid previous to
 combination with silver, agree with the formula of palmitic
 acid, C3j Ilu 04, with which substance the melting-point of
 the acid also identifies it. The calculated numbers in parts
 per cent, of the acid and silver salt are—
                      Cgj   . . 192             75*0
                      Hgj . .        32         12-0
                      04    . .      32         12*5
                                   256         1000

 252               Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.
                    ^34        .    192          52-8
                    H31    .   .     31            8-5
                    (V. .      .     32            9-0
                    Ag     .   .    108-1        29-7
                                    363-1       100-0
                      Distillation of Myricine.
    The discovery of the cerotic acid rendered it evident that in
order to obtain the products of distillation of myricine, and
 especially the acids in a state of purity, it was necessary first
 to remove that body and to distil only the residue of the wax.
 I give the results of this experiment made with myricine. The
first portions of the distillate consist almost entirely of acids,
the latter of hydrocarbons. During the distillation a smell of
butyric acid may be perceived. This however appeared to
 me to diminish when the boiling of the wax with alcohol had
been very long continued. It is possible to effect nearly a
complete separation of the acids and the hydrocarbons by di
stillation. It is however not advisable to proceed in this
manner, but it is best after boiling the distillate with water to
saponify the whole by potash. The soap may be removed
by a syphon from the hydrocarbons which float on the surface.
          Palmitic Acidfrom the Distillation of Myricine.
    The acid, having been purified in the usual manner by
washing out the baryta salt with tether, and the subsequent
methods of purification, presents an appearance similar to (he
acids obtained by saponification. By crystallization the melt
ing-point
   *V        may be raised to 62° C.              C02.         HO.
       I. 0-2592 grm. of this acid gave 0-7165                0-2931
     II. 0-250 grm. of this acid gave 0-6865                  0-27925
    III. 0-2775 grm. of this acid gave 075925                 0-311
    These analyses correspond in 100 parts to—
                                 I.         II.          III.
            Carbon . . 75-39              74-89         74-61
            Hydrogen . 12-58              12-40         12-45
            Oxygen . . 12-03              12-71         12-94
                             100-00      100-00        100-00
   The silver salt of this acid, prepared as before, gave the
following results :—
   I. 0-5006 grm. of the substance gave . . 0-1479 silver.
  II. 0-2295 grm. of another preparation gave 0-0685 silver.

                      Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.                      253
which correspond in 100 parts to—
                                        I.             II.
                 Silver . . . 29-54                  29-84.
                                                     CO,.           HO.
   0-3505 grm. of the same salt gave .              0-6873        0-2758
which gives in 100 parts, —
                         Carbon .... 53-4.7
                         Hydrogen . . .            8-74
                         Oxygen and silver        37-79
                                                10000
   These numbers prove the identity of the acid from the di
stillation of myricine with that obtained from the saponification
of that substance (p. 251).
   There are great difficulties in the way of obtaining even a
sufficient quantity of this acid for the determination of its for
mula. To obtain even a very small portion of it of which the
purity may be relied on, it is necessary to operate on a large
quantity of the impure acid : for the preparation of this pure
myricine is required, free from cerotic acid, which it is not
easy to get in any quantity.
    These difficulties have prevented me making any further
experiments with this acid, the identity of which however with
palmitic acid, as obtained by Fremyand Stenhouse from palm
oil, and by Sthamer from Japan wax, is made out. I subjoin,
for the sake of comparison, the silver determination of the
silver salt of the palmitic acid as obtained by these chemists.
                                  Fremy*.           Stenhousef- Sthamer J.
Silver, per cent. 2960 29-23 29-42                      29-28         29*51
    This acid appears also to be the same as the acid obtained
by Varrentrapp§ from the oxidation of oleic acid by means of
lime and potash, which also had the melting-point of 62° C.
The silver determinations of this acid gave as the per-centage
of silver,
                      29-27         29-45          29-13,
 numbers identical with my own.
                                   Melene.
    It is well known that one of the principal products of the
 dry distillation of wax is a solid hydrocarbon. Ettling, who
    • Liebig's Annalen, vol. xxxvi. p. 45. Silver determinations, V. VI. VH.
   t Ibid. p. 52. The mean of live determinations closely agreeing. This
 acid melted at 60° C.
    J Ibid. vol. xliii. p. 342. The mean of three determinations.
    § Ibid. vol. xxxv. p. 209.

254                Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.
first analysed this substance*, concluded from its melting-
point, analysis, and general appearance, that it was identical
with paraffine, a hydrocarbon then recently discovered by
Reichenbach in the products of the dry distillation of wood.
The wax hydrocarbon has therefore borne the name of pa
raffine.
   This substance was supposed, from the analyses of Ettling
and J. Gay-Lussac, to be isomeric with defiant gas.
    Recently, however, this has been contested by Lewy, who
analysed paraffine from various sources, and showed it, as he
conceived, to contain a larger amount of hydrogen than had
been previously supposed. In truth the average of his analyses
gave,—
                    Carbon .... 85*03
                    Hydrogen . . . 14-87
                                                 99-90
numbers inconsistent with the old idea. The question how
ever is, whether M. Lewy experimented with a pure chemical
substance, for which there is no guarantee.
    My own experiments confirm the analyses of Ettling, and
the constitution originally assigned to the substance, to which
theoretical considerations also lead. But I cannot see any
reason to believe the wax hydrocarbon to be identical with
the paraffine of Reichenbach. This name of paraffine has
been applied indiscriminately to the whole class of solid hy
drocarbons, which have, or have nearly the formula CmHa,
the identity of which has been taken for granted, in the abs
ence of any true knowledge as to the chemical nature of the
substances from the decomposition of which by heat they are
produced. The different melting-points however of these
substances point out to us at once a distinction between them.
The paraffine of M. Lewy melted at 46°*8. A specimen of
the paraffine of wood given to me by Professor Liebig, and
which that gentleman received from Reichenbach, its disco
verer, melted at 430,5 C. ; Ettling's paraffine at 57° to 58° C.
 I confess it is difficult for me to conceive what substance in a
state approaching to purity Lewy analysed from the wax
having the melting-point he has given, since nothing is easier
 than to raise the melting-point of the paraffine from the wax
to 56° C, although beyond this any change is effected with
difficulty.
    Cerine alone gives on distillation hardly a trace of this hy
drocarbon, while it forms a principal product of the distillation
of myricine. The palmitic acid is separated by saponification,
                    * Liebig's Annalen, vol. ii. p. 259.

                   Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.              255
and the general preparation of the substnnce is the same as in
the similar case of the cerotene from Chinese wax, to which
substance it is closely analogous. If the hydrocarbon from
the distillation of the pure myricine, the acids having been
boiled out with potash, be pressed out in a press between
blotting-paper, it will have a melting-point of about 56° C.
This can be raised by further crystallization out of aether to
60° C. The analysis of the substance in this condition shows
the presence of some body containing oxygen, in addition to
the hydrocarbon.
                                              co3.        HO.
    0-2606 grm. of this substance gave 0-8094           0-3402
giving in 100 parts,—
                     Carbon .... 84-74
                     Hydrogen . . . 14-51
                     Oxygen ....             0*75
                                           100-00
    Another analysis gave similar results. This led me to pre
 pare the substance in rather a different manner. The pa-
 raffine having been carefully pressed out in the manner de
 scribed, was rectified over potassium, which destroys the
 oxygen compound. The distillate is perfectly white : it con
 tains a little oil, which may again be pressed out. By crystal
 lization out of pure aether, the melting-point may now be
 raised to 62° C. This substance was analysed.
                                        C02.        HO.
            0-261 grm. gave . . 0-8165             0-3393
 giving in 100 parts,—
                      Carbon .   .  .,  .   85-Sl
                      Hydrogen       .   .  14-44
                                            99-75
    The formula Cm Hm demands-
                      cm    . . .     .  .  S5-71
                                     .   .  14-28
                                            99-99
    The difference between the hydrogen calculated and found
 is only 0*16 per cent., which is as near to theory as such ana
 lyses can be expected to come. Cerotine melts at 81° C.
 The hydrocarbon I have called cerotene melts at 57° to 58°.
 Melissine melts at 85°. The wax hydrocarbon at 62° C,
 showing a precisely analogous difference in their melting-
 points. Owing to the numerous operations which are neces

  256                Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.
  sary before this hydrocarbon can be procured in a pure state,
  I have been unable to make further experiments with the pure
 substance. The analyses, however, the analogy of this other
 substance and the mode of its formation, can leave no doubt
 but that it is the hydrocarbon of the wax alcohol Cgo H^, to
 which may be given the name of melene.
                        The Nature of Myricine.
     The analogy of the products of the decomposition of myri
 cine by alkalies and by heat, to those of the Chinese wax and
 of spermaceti under similar circumstances, would lead us to
 suspect that a similar relation exists between the substances to
 which these products are due. If, however, we take the
 numbers which have been obtained by analysis for this body,
 those for example of Ettling*, or those of Lewy f, and attempt
 from these to reckon out a formula which shall give a rational
 account of these decompositions, we find a considerable defi
ciency of carbon. I give one of Lewy's analyses, with which
other analyses of himself and other chemists are sufficiently
 accordantj.
                      Carbon . . . . 8028
                      Hydrogen . . . 13*34
                      Oxygen ....                    638
                                                   100-00
    The formula Cgj Hg^ 04, which would account in a simple
manner for the decompositions,—
                   ^39 "81 "3                 C32 ^3, 04
                   C60 H61 °                  Cflo^eo
                   0)2 H& 04                  ^92 "99 Ol
requires—
                                               Atomic weight
                                     81-65            555*
                   Hgj    .          13-60             92
                   o4 . .            14-75             32
                                    100-00            676
leaving a difference of one and a half per cent, of carbon, a
difference too great to be attributed to any accidental error.
    I have stated that the decompositions of the myricine are
far from being so simple as those of the Chinese wax, and that
in order to obtain either the acid or the wax alcohol, long
and repeated crystallizations are necessary. This at once led
   * Liebig's Annalen, vol. ii. p. 267.    t Annalei de Chimie, vol. xiii. p. 443.
                                           t Ibid.

                    Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.                     257
  me to the suspicion that the so-called myricine was no pure
  chemical substance, but a mixture of two or more bodies.
  Subsequent experiment confirmed this view.
     The residue of the wax, after the cerotic acid has been
  boiled out by alcohol, melts at 64° C. It is but very slightly
  soluble in alcohol. Pureaather, however, will dissolve it with
  out much difficulty. It crystallizes out of this reagent in
 light feathery crystals. The precipitate and the residue from
 the solution, evaporated to dryness, have different melting-
 points. I succeeded in this manner in raising the melting-
 point of the precipitate to 71°-5. This end mav be more
 readily obtained by adding a small quantity of naphtha to the
 aether.
    The following analyses were made of a substance of 72°,
 which after repeated crystallizations was precipitated on the
 filter out of the hot solution, the filter being kept hot by means
 of a hot water apparatus. I have not succeeded in raising the
 melting-point beyond 72°. The substance is now highly cry
 stalline in appearance, which the impure myricine is not, and
 of about the consistency of wax. I regard it in this state as
 pure.
                                                 C02.           HO.
    I*. 0-2592 grm. of substance gave 0*7735                  03135
    II. 0-2243 grm. of substance gave 0672                    0-269
which give in 100 parts,—
            Carbon ...              81-38            81-70
            Hydrogen . .            13-44            13-33
            Oxygen . . .             5-18             4-97
                                   100-00          100-00
    These numbers are very different from any which have been
before obtained for any substance from the myricine, and dif
ferent from those which I myself have obtained for substances
of a lower melting-point. The crystalline appearance marks
the purity of the substance, and notwithstanding the slight
difference in the hydrogen, I cannot but regard it as the body
Cw H^j 0*4, with the calculated formula of which, as given
above, it sufficiently agrees. I must add that the substance
is separable with extreme difficulty. The next precipitate
   • The thorough combustion of these waxes is difficult, and I have made
man-- experiments to ascertain the best method of analysis. Bichromate
of lead was the material generally employed. But when the combustion is
made very slowly, I believe it to be complete even with oxide of copper
alone. The greater number of such analyses in this investigation were
made by my chemical assistant, Mr. L. Hoffmann, to whose care and skill
I am much indebted.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 236. Oct. 1849.                  S

258               Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.
from the solution from which the above substance had been
separated, had a melting-point half a degree lower, and gave
to analysis rather less carbon, namely, C. 81°-0 per cent.
   The greater part of the difficultly saponifiable portion of
the wax appears to consist of the substance, the analysis of
which I have just given, and to which we may confine the
name myricine. We have, however, clearly some other body
present accompanying it, the products of the decomposition
of which by potash are to be found with both the acid and
the wax-alcohol procured by saponification of the impure sub
stance, which, as I have said, render extremely difficult the
preparation of these bodies in a pure state. I shall proceed
to give some experiments which throw some true light upon
the nature of this substance, although I cannot say that its
history is satisfactorily made out. The solution of aether or
naphtha (p. 247) from which the melissine of 85° has been
separated, still contains a large quantity of substance of a
similar appearance, but of a melting-point much lower than
that of the melissine itself. Notwithstanding however the
differences in the melting-point, analysis shows us but little
or rather no difference in the constitution of the different por
tions of this substance. In the case for example of a substance
melting at 78°-5 C,—
                                      CO,.          HO.
           0-2522 grm. gave . . 0-764              0-324
which gives in 100 parts, —
                   Carbon . . . . 82-59
                   Hydrogen . . . 14-27
                   Oxygen . . . .          3-14
                                        10000
   In the case again of a substance melting at 72°,—
                                      co2.          HO.
           0-249 grm. gave . . 0-75075             0-317
which gives in 100 parts,—
                   Carbon . . . . 82-22
                   Hydrogen . . . 14-14
                   Oxygen . . .            3-64
                                        1 oo-oo
   Other analyses gave similar results.
   These analyses do not differ seriously from one another,
and give precisely the numbers of the melissine itself (p. 247).

                  Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.                  259
The numbers however are consistent with various formula;
besides that of the melissine. At 72° the melting-point is
extremely constant. A portion of substance was obtained at
this melting-point by repeatedly filtering the aetherial solution
from the melissine which first crystallized out of the hot liquid.
A time arrived when there was no difference between the
melting-point of the portion which first crystallized out ofthe
hot solution and which was on the filter, and that which after
wards crystallized out of the fluid which had passed through.
The melting-point in both cases was 72°. By heating with
lime and potash, as in the case of melissine, this substance of
72° also affords an acid, which after the usual preparation,
gives very different numbers to those of the melissic acid.
This acid melts at 770-5.
                                        CO,.           HO.
            I. 0-256 grm. gave . 0-735               0-3015
           II. 0-267 grm. gave . 0-765               0-311
         III. 0-2551 grm. gave . 0-730               0-2995
giving in 100 parts,—
                              I            11          III
             Carbon .   .   78-28      78-14          78-05
             Hydrogen       13-09      12-94          13-05
            Oxygen .    .    8-6S         8-92         8-90
                           100-00     100-00        100-00
   Between the second and third analyses the substance was
twice crystallized out of aether. The substance dissolved by
the aether had the same melting-point of 78° as the substance
on the filter.
   The silver salt of this acid gave the following numbers:—
                                               C03.          HO.
      I. 0-5054 grm. of substance gave 1-127               0-4572
     II. 0-5182 grm. of substance gave 1-1505              0-467
giving in 100 parts,—
                                        I.               II.
             Carbon                   60-80            60-56
             Hydrogen ....            10-05            10-01
             Oxygen and silver     .  29-15            29-43
                                     10000            100-00
         1.0-617 grm. gave on ignition         0-1375 silver.
        II. 0-7315 grm. gave on ignition       0-1625 silver.
giving per cent.—
                                 I.              II.
                 Silver . . 22-28              22-21
                                S2

 260               Mr. B. C. Brodie ori Myricine.
    These analyses perfectly agree with the formulae for the
 acid, C^ H„g 64.
                                     Calculated.
                         0,9 . . . 78-4
                         H,0 . . . 130
                         o4 .    .  .     8-6
                                       100-0
                                     Calculated,
                         C49   • .  . 609
                         H48 .   .  .     9-9
                         o4 .    .  .     6-8
                         Ag .    .   . 22-4,
                                       100-0
    If we compare the numbers of this acid with those of the
 substance from the oxidation of which it was derived, we shall
 see that it is impossible to account for the changes in the same
 simple manner as in other cases of such transformation. It
 would not be difficult to reckon out a formula that without
great violence should account for it, but it is hardly worth
 while to do so, since notwithstanding the perfect agreement of
 the calculated and theoretical numbers, it is impossible to
assert with certainty that either it or the body from which it
is derived are pure chemical substances. There is too great
a difficulty in the perfect separation of the melissineto lead us
to hope that it can absolutely be removed by the method I
have given. I failed in attempting to procure in larger quan
tities this substance of 72°. The melting-point was very con
stant at 75°, but on oxidizing a considerable quantity of this
substance with lime and potash, acids were procured, which
by crystallization were separable in the same manner as the
substance from which they were derived, and the purification
and perfect separation of which presented the same difficulties.
I obtained in this way an acid having nearly the melting-point
of 85°, the melting-point of melissic acid, and also an acid
with a lower melting-point than 77°, but of which the melting-
point was not so absolutely constant as to induce me to inves
tigate it further. I give however these analyses, since they
unquestionably prove the existence of some other body in ad
dition to the melissine, in the products of the saponification of
wax, which by oxidation is capable of passing into an acid
belonging to the series CmHm04. Since it is only a pure
body or a mixture of acids of this series which could give rise
to the results I have given, and from the great difficulty of
separation, the acid in all probability contains a very large

                  Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.               261
number of equivalents of carbon, whether it have precisely the
formula I have above given or not.
   Mixed with the palmitic acid of 62°, is found another acid
of a much lower melting-point, and which presents similar
difficulties of separation from the palmitic acid to those of the
substance mixed with the melissine from the melissine itself.
This acid is very soluble in alcohol, unctuous to the touch,
and of a very low melting-point. I do not, however, mean to
assert that the other wax-alcohol exists in the wax in combi
nation with this unctuous acid, the presence of which is very
probably due to another source.
   This alcohol may possibly, as well as the melissine, be com
bined with palmitic acid, or it may be in some altogether dif
ferent form in the wax. Even after long boiling with alcohol,
the myricine has a slight wax smell, and it is possible that
this unctuous acid is the product of the action of potash upon
the oil which is one of the constituents of the wax, and from
which I have in fact procured an acid of this nature. This
oil, or rather grease, which was analysed by Lewy, is a very
curious substance. The other constituents of the wax are, in a
pure state, inodorous and crystalline, and to it the wax owes its
tenacity and peculiar smell. I have made some experiments
as to its nature, and procured from it also an acid and an un-
saponifiable substance; I will not, however, here enter upon the
matter, hoping at some future timetoresumeits investigation.
   I must not omit to mention, with reference to the bees'-
wax from Ceylon, of which I spoke in a former paper, and
which contained no cerotic acid, that it possesses all the general
characters of the other portion of the wax. Like the impure
mvricine, it contains more than one substance. The wax itself
has a melting-point of 65°-5. When digested with aether in
the cold, a portion is taken up by the aether, and a residue
left of the melting-point of 67°; and, when dissolved in aether,
if the setherial solution be filtered while warm from the first
portions of the precipitate which crystallizes out, a substance
 may be obtained, of the melting-point of 72°, crystalline in
 appearance, hardly at all acted on by a solution of potash,
 but readily saponified by melted potash ; resembling in short
 in all its properties the pure myricine. The products of the
 saponification of the wax itself closely resemble those of the
 impure myricine, and present similar difficulties of separation.
    An acid may be obtained from it having the character of
 palmitic acid, and I have also procured From this wax the
 substance melissine, having a melting-point of 84°. The ana
 lysis VI. p. 247, was made from a preparation from Ceylon
 wax.

 262               Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myi-icinf.
    I will sum up the results of this investigation by giving a
 list of the principal substances of which an account has been
 given in this and the preceding papers. This table will exhibit,
 at one view, their relations to one another, and to the natural
 substances from the decomposition of which they are derived.
 Cerotic acid [cerine] .           = CM HM 04.
 Chlor-cerotic acid .     .        = CM{»«04.
                                   — r H o — .T^M HjaOg.
 Cerotic aether
                                   -^58«58^4-^C4 Hs O.
 Chlor-cerotic aether              -cM{g«o4={c*<cu°3-
                                          1»wm       lC4HsO.
 Cerotine ....                     = C54 Hy; Oj.
 Sulphate of oxide of cerot;yle    = 803,0^^0 + HO.
 Chlor-cerotal      .   .          — C. i « o
 Cerotene [paraffine]              ~ C64 HM.
                                         ^1C1 in-
 Chlor-cerotene                    = ^C •ici„.
                                        n f "w
                                        c&4ici„.
 Chinese wax                       =C108H10e 04= {c^H^of
 Melissine                         — Ceo Hfij 02.
 Chlor-melal
 Melissicacid                      sC^H^C^.
 Melene [paraffine]                = ^60 "SO"
 Palmitic acid . .                 = C3S HM 04.
Myricine (pure)       .   . .  .   = COT Hj„  o.={ Cm Hti O.
    I might add to this list the acid C49 H49 04, the constitution
of which however, for the reasons I nave given, I cannot con
sider to be made out with sufficient certainty.
    We should naturally suspect some intimate chemical rela
tion between wax and fat from their similar appearance and
properties. This suspicion gave rise to the idea that wax was
convertible into fat, and' to the hypothesis that wax was to be

                 Mr. B. C. Brodie on Myricine.                263
regarded as the aldehyde of stearic acid, and was capable of
passing into that substance by a simple process of oxidation,
a view of its chemical nature entirely without foundation.
From the preceding inquiry, we arrive however at the know
ledge ofa no less remarkable relation between these substances.
   Margaric acid was recently the last of that singular series
of acids of the type CmH,„04, which commencing with formic
acid comprehended acetic acid, the volatile acids of butter and
the acid of spermaceti, and aethal was the last of the corre
sponding alcohols. In the wax acids and alcohols of which
an account has been given in this and the preceding papers,
we have bodies at the other extremity of the series standing
in a similar relation to margaric acid and to sethal, as that in
which acetic and butyric acid, and alcohol and potaloe oil
stand to them at the commencement. An intervening acid
of the series, the acid C^ H^ 04, has lately been discovered
by Volcker* in the oil of the Guilandina Moringa, and the
investigation of the numerous class of vegetable oils and waxes
will doubtless afford other bodies of the group.
   Notwithstanding the many different properties of these sub
stances, we find their chemical analogies constant, and the
mutual relation of the acid, the alcohol and the hydrocarbon,
is the same between bodies containing sixty as between those
containing only four equivalents of carbon. Through at least
half the series, from thirty to sixty equivalents, the same phy
sical type of fat prevails. As a fat is doubtless but a soft kind
of wax, so may not alcohol be but a very fluid form of fat ?
 Alcohol has not yet been solidified, but one cannot help sus
pecting that when solidified it will appear as a wax or fat.
   Direct experiment has shown us that in the body of the bee
sugar is converted into wax. A simple analysis of the two
substances showed that the carbon and hydrogen were in the
same ratio in both, and that the change could be effected by
a simple deoxidation of the sugar. Of the way in which this
change is effected we are ignorant. The true formula of these
wax substances however shows that they, belong to the very
type of bodies which are the ordinary products of fermenta
tion, and are connected with them by the strongest chemical
analogies. A new mode of fermentation produced butyric
acid out of sugar; might not another kind of fermentation
produce wax?
   Until we know the nature of the whole of the ingredients
of the wax, it is useless to speculate on the law of such a
change. Although the Wax itself is no pure chemical sub
stance, but a mixture of substances differing nearly three per
                  « Liebig's Annalen, vol. lxiv. p. 342.

261     The Rev. Brice Bronwin on lhe Theory ofthe Tidcs.
cent. from one another in their amount of` carbon, yet the
analysis of' the whole bees’~wax gives results showing in differ
ent specimens which I have examined, no difference of consti
tution which analysis can reach. This renders it probable
that the action is definite, and that the sugar in all cases loses
the same amount of oxygen, although the remaining elements
may in difIerent cases be differently grouped.
                XXXIV. On I/ze Theory qfthe Tides.
                    By the Rev. Barca BaoNw1N.
                         [Continued from p. l92.]
‘VE are now prepared to find (w) ; for we have
%r = sinQ0 $1-) +211 sin 8 cos 6 2% =E{2n cos 9A- (n- cv)iB}
      sin 0 sin i(¢ -5).
Or, by neglecting the very small term containing (v), and then
eliminating B,
Qi; =E(2 cos 0A -iB)n sin 9 sin i(' -5)-E cos HA- sin 6%
as                                      9      '              do
      71 sin 0 sin i(¢-€)=ED sin i(¢a - 6) suppose.
Integrating, observing that <p=nt+w-tl/, and 111+ €= a con
stant, we have
              -w=2       %Dcosi(¢-6)          ,
          or         1                                      '  ~
              -w= 5 D, cos 2(<p-€,)+ D, cos (qs-€,)
where we neglect the arbitrary, because we take account only
ol` the terms containing tp.
    \’Vhen i=2,
               cos 6A- sin 6 ggi     sin 0= - sin30%(§f}9).
But
                  A _ 1           l          2
                W -§“f         TWT'
                               COS Q      COS E
               _§i_(_i\__)_,, qing     ;          _‘__
               d0 sine _ T         2   C0553 *mag      ’
                                            2        2

    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.             265
                = - 4«r2 sin9- tan* - (3 + cos 0).
  When i=l,
     (cos 0A — sin 0-ir) sin0= sin0cos0A=a, sin 0 cos 9,
  Therefore
     D2= —4na2 sin2 - tan* - (3 + cos 6),      D, = nal sin 0 cos 0.
     These results have been obtained by substituting the values
  of A from (8.); and it may be observed that all the functions
  of (0) are discontinuous at the equator, and only hold from the
  pole to the equator. By suitably changing the arbitraries we
  may now write,
     --=D2cos2(?>-gs) + D1cos(^-Si)
         b
                   t     t                                     r (lo-)
     D2=a2sin2-tan2-(3 + cos0),          D,=a, sin0cos0.
      If we make
                      a =p = l + ecos(z— tt),
                      r r
   where (a) is the mean distance, (<r) the eccentricity, (z) the
   longitude, and (w) the long, of the apse of the planet ; and if
   we also make
              E,= ~ sin4 0,       E,= ^ sin 0 cos 0,
V
                2 tga3                  gtr
   we have from (1.), retaining only the same terms as heretofore,
           «V
            — = Ejp3 cos2 v cos 2p + E,p8 sin v cos v cos <p.
    For these terms, therefore,
   or by substitution,
         y = {T>z cos 2§j+ Ejp8 cos2 v) cos 2p + Ds sin 2S2 sin 2<p
               + (D, cos S, + E,p3 sin » cos t>) cos <p + D, sin S, sin p.
    Assume
                 i,= F2cos2(p-/32)+F1cos(p-01);              . . (11.)

266    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.
or
   y= F2 cos 2/32 cos 2<p + F9 sin 2/S2 sin 2p + F, cos /3, cos p
         + F, sin (3j sin p.
This value of (y) (the height of the tide), compared with the
preceding, gives
F2cos 2/32= Dscos 262 + Ej^cos2^, F2sin 2/3a .= D2sin2S2\ ,          .
F, cos/3, = D,cos6, + E,p3sini;cosp, F,6inj81 = D1sinff,J
From these equations we must determine Fj, F,, /3j, and /3,.
   In small seas it is very easy to see that the direct effect of
the force is very small compared with the horizontnl velocities,
and therefore that we ought to have D2 much larger than E2.
We shall proceed on this supposition. Therefore if/32=62-f A,
A is a very small quantity, and we shall have
 cos 2/32=cos 262 — 2A sin 262, sin 2/32= sin 2?2 + 2Acos 2S2
nearly by Taylor's theorem. Multiply the first of (12.) by
the first of these, and the second by the second of these,
member by member, and add the products ; and we find
                   F2=D2+E2p3cosa«cos2g2; . . . (13.)
neglecting the small term
                      — 2E2Ap3 cos4« sin 2S2,
which contains the product of the two small quantities E2and A.
   Dividing the second of (12.) by (13.), member by member,
there results
         sin 2/32= sin 2§2 — -^r p8cosa v sin 262 cos 2£2
                              L)2
very nearly. If we put for sin 2/32 in this its value before
given, we find
                  A = — j-jy- f cos" v sin 262,
and consequently
                  h=6a-^g-f»coa*vsm2gv               .   .   .  (14.)
   We cannot positively say that D, is large compared with
E, ; but if we add together the squares of the third and fourth
of (12.), we have
      F,9 = D,9 + 2D, E,p3 sin v cos v cos 6, + E,V sin9 v cos*i>.
   Suppose
                F, = D, + E,ps sin v cosd cos £,. .       .  .   (15.)
The square of the second member of this will differ from the

    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.            267
second member of the preceding only by the small quantity
E,2p6 sin2 v cos2 v sin2 Sr We cannot affirm that this is a very
near approximation; and without more knowledge of the
comparative values of D, and E„ we cannot express /3, as we
have done /9S. Dividing the third of (12.) by the fourth, we
have
                   cotS1=cotb,
                         1         ' + E,p3
                                         Ir    —~—
                                              sin 6, ;     . . . (16.)
whence it appears that /3j may in some cases vary very consi
derably.
     Let (o) be the angle which the orbit of the planet makes
with the equator, (z) the longitude measured on it from their
intersection. Then (o) is the obliquity and (z) the true lon
gitude for the sun, and tliey are nearly the same for the moon.
 Also (z) is the hypothenuse, (v) the perpendicular, and (o)
the angle at the base of a right-angled spherical triangle ; and
 (\J/) is the base for the sun, and nearly so for the moon. Hence
by spherical trigonometry,
                            tan\|/= cos o tan z,
 and therefore
               dty              dz      dfy          cos9J/
                     ~- cos 0     s- > -7- = c°s o -
              cosSJ/
 But
                            COS 2= cospcosxl/,
 consequently
                    dty     coso            ,     . . .
                    -j- = —5— = cos o[l + sin2 v),
                    dz     cos" v
 neglecting sin4 v and higher powers.           Also
                             sin v= sin o sin z;
 therefore
 -j- =coso(l+ sin2osin2z) = cos of 1+ -sin2w— -sin*ocos2zJ
         = 1 — - sin4 o cos 2z,
                35
  neglecting sin4 o, &c.
      But
                        vt + s=z— 2c sin (z — t);
  consequently
                        vdt = dz— ledz cos (z — it),
  neglecting e*, &c.
      It may be doubtful whether we should express the value of
  § in terms of the mean longitude or of the true ; I have chosen

268    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory ofthe Tides.
the latter.   By means of the above formulae we have
dS=cvdt — dty=dz< c— 1 + - sin'2 0 cos 2.? — 2«?cos(z— *) >.
As (6) cannot contain a term increasing with z or /, we must
have c=l ; then
             dS=dz< — sin2 o cos 2r— 2ecos (z— x) >,
and
             S=k+ — sin2osin2z— 2es\n(z—t).             .   .  (17.)
Change (A) into (k,) and (£,), and we have the values of (S,)
and (S|). Whence by Taylor's theorem,
sin 2§2=sin 2 £9 + - sin8o cos 2£2 sin 2z— 4e cos2A-8sin(r— *),
                      3S
cos2&9 = cos 2A9— — sin8 0 sin 2&2 sin 2z + 4e sin 2£2 sin (2—*)
nearly.
   Putting for p3 its value in (13.) and (14.), and 1 — sin8» for
cos8 v, and neglecting the very small terms containing e sin8r,
we have
F2 = D4 + E2 cos 2§2— E9 sin2 wcos 2S2 + 3<?E2 cos262 cos(z— *•),
           E                E                   3eE
/32=G9— ^ sin 2S9 + 2jS- sin9 v sin 262 — ^r^2sin2g2cos(2-ir).
Substituting for £9 its value from (17.) in these, and neglecting
some very small quantities, we find, making to abridge,
           K9=D2 + Egcos 2*4,         G9=£9— ^ sin 2kv
                             E
                H9= 1 — =^ cos 2£9,
F9= K9— Ej cos 2£9 sin8 v — — E9 sin8 o sin 2&9 sjn 2z
      + 3tfE2cos2£2cos (z— it) + 4cEg sin 2lr3 sin (xr— *¦)
            E,                    1
/39=G9+^fc sin 2£2sin8t>— - H9sin8osin2z— 2eH9sin (z— w)
      —-^ sin 2£9cos(z— *)                                    (18.)
   Since
  sin 0 sin 2* = 2 sin o sin z cos 8 =2 sin 0 cos 2=2 sin vcos^

   The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.          269
nearly, these may be replaced by
Fs= K,— E2 cos 2£2 sin9 o— Es sin o sin 2*2 sin v cos 4»
       + 3<?Ej cos 2A2 cos (z —*) + 4<?E2 sin 2£2 sin (a — w),
             E                    I
/32=G2+ -il- sin 2£2 sin8 p— - H9 sin o sin »cos ^
                             SeE
       — 2cH2sin (z— *) —^p sin 2hi cos (3—x).
Or, if we please, since
         sin2 v= sin2 o sin* z= ¦* sin9 0— — sin2 o cos 2«,
     F2= L2+ \ E2 sin9 0 cos 2(z + ki) + 3<?E2 cos (sr-2*9-*)
                 z
 nearly,
     = L2 + I Egsh^ocos 2 (^ + *2) + SeE2cos (v|/-2*2-x)
 nearly,
             E,                   1
 /32=GS+ 5^- sin 2*9 sin9 v— - H2 sin o sin 7; cos ^— 2e H2
            2L)2         *        ^
       sin (4>— x)
 nearly by neglecting the last term, which is very small, as also
 are some of those terms containing this quantity which have
 been retained. In the above
        L9= K9- I E2 sin2 0 cos 2jfr2=D9+ Ej cos o cos 2A4
 nearly.
    Making p= 1, and &, = £,, in the small terms, we may make
                     F,=D! + E, cos £, sin v cos v.
  But this will not be very near the truth unless D, be some
  thing larger than E,; and we cannot conveniently express 0,.
  But if D, be considerably larger than E„ we have
            sin j3, = sin£,(l — jr- cos A-, sin v cos v J
  nearly.   Also
                sin Sj = sin kl + - sin9 0 cos A, sin 2z
  nearly, neglecting the term containing e.         Hence we easily
  find

 270      The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.
                      E                                  1
 sin/3,= sin*,— =psin*, cos*, sin »cos w+-sin9ocosiriSin2z
  = sin *,— =J- sin *, cos*, sin wcost>+ - sinocos*, sinpcosj'
 nearly, and therefore
                  E                            l
       /3, = *, — j— R'n *i sin v cos v+ - sin o sin v cos 4/
 nearly.
    We might find in the value of                the terms D3cos3(p — Sa)
 and D4 cos 4(<p — €4); the coefficients D3 and D4 being, as
 before, functions of i without t or z; but these terms must be
 very small.
    From (1.) it is easy to see that there will also be terms of
 the form
 l + m sins 0 sin 2z+p sin2 o cos22 + g^sin (z—x)+se cos (z— t),
 the coefficients /, in, &c. being functions of fl; but as they are
very small, we shall not attempt to determine them. If, how
ever, we wish to make Sa> a complete variation relative to such
terms, we must make the coefficient of &w to vanish, or
                   • 9< d*v „ . .                .du
                  sin8^--- +2«sin9cosfl-t- =0,
                          tit                     ill
 which will give an equation of condition. The arbitrary of
integration will now be a constant independent of 9. And we
shall have
                     8a, = Jfl^-2«sin«cosfl^),
or
           8*=SSr*(^ -2« sin 8 cos 0 J) -2«rSr sin* 8 ^,
according as we make 8eo a complete variation relative to 8
only (which, indeed, it is already) or relative to both 8 and r.
The equation of continuity will become
                            . .du           .
                          S      (73 + COS'M=0»
or
                   d(t*s) , Jdu                  A
as the case may be.          I believe we must complete the variation
for both r and 8.
   Gunthwaite Hall, near Barnsley, Yorkshire,
               September 7. 1849.
                              [To be continued.]

                           [   271   ]
XXXV. On the Inorganic Constituents of Organic Bodies. By
   H. Rose, Professor ofChemistry in the University ofBerlin.
                     [Continued from p. 187.]
                         Appendix IX.
Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of the Flesh of the
                    Horse. By M. Weber.
THE flesh consisted of the muscles of the fore-leg of a lean
      horse, immediately after the animal was killed, and com
pletely freed from blood by the injection of water into the
brachial artery until it escaped from the veins in a colour
less state; it was then dried and carbonized.
   The residue of the aqueous extract was perfectly free from
carbonic acid, and consisted of—
      Chloride of sodium      3*431      fNaCl . .        3-43
      Potash ....            48-19          2KO+POs 83-27
      Soda                    5-18 )>or^ 2NaO + P05 11-10
      Phosphoric acid .      4P68           '
                                            KO,    S03 .  1-52
      Sulphuric acid . .      0-71.                      99-32
                             99-19
   The muriatic extract consisted of—
                Potash                          26-47
                Soda                             4-36
                Lime                             6-02
                Magnesia                        12*20
                Peroxide of iron .     .  .      3*96
                Phosphoric acid .      .  .     46-99
                                              100-00
   Assumiig that the phosphoric acid forms pyrophosphates
with the bases, we obtain the following calculated result:-—
           Bibasic phosphate of lime . . 13*64
           Bibasic phosphate of magnesia           33*27
           2FeO? + 3POs                             1-22
           Bibasic phosphate of potash         . 30*14
           Potash                                   9*28
           Soda                                     4*45
                                                  100*00
   If, however, we admit that both the alkalies and the earths,
 excluding the magnesia, form c-phosphates, we obtain the
 following result:—

272       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
           Tribasic phosphate of potash .     39*82 f,.,^,, „,,1
           Tribasic phosphate of soda . .        7*66
           Tribasic phosphate of lime . .      1 1*35
           Bibasic phosphate of magnesia      33*27
           Ferphosphate of iron ....             7*50
                                              99-60
   The amount of phosphoric acid required by calculation is
46-6 1 per cent. ; that found by analysis amounts to 46-99 per
cent.
   Residuary carbonized mass. —The ash of this consisted of—
                Potash                      36-64
                Soda                         4-71
                Lime                         188
                Magnesia                     4-36
                Peroxide of iron . . .       0'76
                Phosphoric acid . . • 51-65
                                          1 00*00
   The precipitate thrown down by ammonia from the muriatic
solution of this ash, after having been heated to redness,
consisted of 2CaO, POs+ 2MgO,POs + Fe^ 03. The phos
phoric acid required by this formula amounts to 9-87 per cent.;
analysis gave exactly this quantity. The remaining 41 -79
per cent, of phosphoric acid were neither wholly combined
with the alkalies as pyrophosphates, nor as metaphosphates.
The phosphoric acid is too large in quantity for the former
case, and too small for the latter.
   The relative amounts of ash in the flesh were as follows :—
      Extracted by water                         . 42-81
      Extracted by muriatic acid                     17*48
      Ash of the remaining carbonaceous mass 39-71
                                                   1 00-00
  The amount of the whole of the inorganic constituents of
the flesh was—
                                       Oxygen.
      Chloride of sodium .      1 -47
      Potash                   39-95
      Soda
     Lime ....
     Magnesia . .
     Peroxide of iron
     Phosphoric acid
     Sulphuric acid
                                       10000

                        of Organic Bodies.                     273
   The proportion of oxygen in the bases to that of the phos
 phoric acid was as 2 : 5, i. e. the salts were pyrophosphates ;
 and in this respect this ash has some analogy with that of
 wheat, which, however, contains far more alkaline chlorides.
   Thus water and muriatic acid principally extract alka
line phosphates from carbonized flesh, and alkaline chlorides
 and carbonates from carbonized blood. The muriatic extract
of the blood contains altogether so few constituents, that we
may suppose they are only those which had previously resisted
the solvent action of water, or were formed from the anoxidic
portion of the blood by the imperfect exclusion of the air
during its carbonization.
   If so, and we admit that the alkaline chlorides and car
bonates do not belong to those constituents of the blood, the
inorganic portions of which consist ofphosphates in an oxidized
and unoxidized state, these constituents of the blood would
contain the phosphates in a perfectly deoxidized state. Such
are probably the proteine substances of the blood, which would
then differ from those of the flesh, by the former being anoxi
dic and the latter meroxidic substances. Probably in future
we must only call those substances anoxidic, meroxidic, and
teleoxidic, the inorganic constituents of which consist princi
pally of phosphates in a deoxidized, partly oxidized, and per
fectly oxidized state. The blood will then be an anoxidic,
and the flesh a meroxidic substance.
                     Appendix X. and XI.
   Analysis of the Ashes of Human Faces and Urine. By
                          M. Fleitmann.
   Although a single analysis of the ash of the fasces, without
regard to the diet, can be of but little physiological importance,
inasmuch as it must depend greatly upon the nature of the
food consumed and upon the mode of life of the individual, yet
a comparative examination of the inorganic constituents of the
fseces and urine may afford us instructive conclusions regard
ing the quantities excreted in the same period of time. Such
a comparison had not previously, I believe, been made, and as
we shall see, has yielded a remarkable result. For this purpose
the faeces and urine of a young man, aged 20, were carefully
collected during four days. During this period his diet was
very moderate, consisting principally of meat, and as little ve
getable matter as possible. He drunk no spirituous liquids,
and little liquid of any kind during the period, but he took
 much corporeal exercise.
   Faces. — When dried at 212° F. they weighed only 104-10
grms. They were carbonized as usual.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 236. Oct. 1849.            T

274       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
   Aqueous extract.—On evaporation to dryness it left a residue
of T933 grm., consisting of—
                  Chloride of sodium .         315
                  Chloride of potassium        0-37
                  Potash ....                 27-81
                  Hydrate of potash           54-18
                  Phosphoric acid .            6'75
                  Sulphuric acid                1-57
                  Silica   ....                0-52
                  Carbonic acid . .            5'65
                                             100*00
   The large amount of hydrate of potash was produced by
the action of the carbon upon the alkaline carbonate. These
constituents correspond to the following salts: —
           Chloride of sodium . . .               315
            Chloride of potassium      . .        0-37
            Tribasic phosphate of potash         20-13
            Sulphate of potash      . . .         3-41
            Silicate of potash ....               1-05
            Carbonate of potash . . .            17-71
            Hydrate of potash       . . .        54-18
                                                100-00
    Muriatic extract.—This left 6-493 grms. of residue, con
 sisting of—
      Potash . . .            10-22        3CaO+POs 56-98
      Soda ....                1-06        3KO + PO.      15*38
      Lime       . . .        31-32        3NaO + POs      1-87
      Magnesia . .            13-98        3MgO + POs 18-30
      Phosphoric acid        41-69
                                     y°Yi  CaO, SOa .      0-31
       Sulphuric acid          0-18        CaO,Si03 .      0-36
      Silica     . . .         0-23        MgO       . .   5-48
       Peroxide of iron        1-32        Fe, 03 . .      1-32
                            100-00                       100-00
    The magnesia must have existed in the carbonized mass in
 the form of carbonate.
    Residuary carbonaceous mass.—This was considerable, and
consisted principally of sand, part of which existed as such in
the faeces, and even in the food ; part must have been swal
 lowed in the form of dust during the exercise taken by the
subject of the experiment in the fields near Berlin. The
residue weighed 1-996 grm., and consisted of—

                       of Organic Bodies.                    275
     Potash . . .             4-83-     r3KO + P05        7-25
     Soda ....                0-42       SNaO + POs 0-77
     Lime ....                9-66       3CaO + P05 12-78
     Magnesia . .            10'24       3MgO + P05 20-66
     Peroxide of iron         6-61 )>or< CaO, S03         6-45
     Phosphoric acid         19-61       MgO       .      0-62
     Sulphuric acid .         3-77       Fe2 Oa .         6-61
     Silica    . . .          6'25       SiOs. .          6-25
     Sand ....               38-61.     -Sand . .        38-61
                           10000                       100-00
   Hence the phosphates of the excrements are c-phosphates,
and the bases are all in the proportion of three atoms to one
of phosphoric acid. In the aqueous extract, the greater part
of the potash is either combiued with carbonic acid, or exists
in the form of potash; whilst in the excrements themselves,
the alkali was combined with an organic substance, which
occupied the place of an acid. Since the faeces principally
carry off those oxidized salts which are insoluble in water,
whilst the urine removes those which are soluble in water,
most of the inorganic constituents of the faeces are contained
in the muriatic extract of the carbonized mass. The large
quantity of phosphate of magnesia in this ash is remarkable.
   The excrements might be regarded as teleoxidic substances ;
at least the unoxidized inorganic matters existing in them are
so small, that they probably arise merely from the undigested
remains of the *food. The small quantity of soda present,
compared with that of the potash, is also remarkable ; espe
cially as the bile principally contains soda, and but little pot
ash. Hence the soda of the bile must be removed by the
urine, not the faeces. The following are the inorganic con
stituents of the faeces as obtained by the three operations:—
                                         rKCl    .   . .     0-07
   Chloride of potassium       0*07       NaCl . . .         0-58
   Chloride of sodium .        0-58       3KO + P05 .       14-70
   Potash                     12-44       3NaO+POs.          1-32
   Hydrate of potash          10-05       3CaO + P05.      37-95
   Soda                        0-75       3MgO + P05        15-36
   Lime      . . . .          21-36       KO, SOa . .        0-63
   Magnesia . . .             10-67 >or< KO, SiOa . .        0-20
   Peroxide of iron .          2-09       CaO, SOa .         1-43
   Phosphoric acid .          30-98       CaO, Si03 .        0-23
   Sulphuric acid              1-13       KO, COa . .        3-28
   Silica    . . . .            1-44      KO, HO . .        10-05
   Carbonic acid . .            1-05      Fe20<,,Si03?       3-28
   Sand                        7-39J      MgO . • .          3-53
                            10-000       ^Sand   . . .       739
                                                          100-00
                               T2

 276       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
    Examination ofthe Urine.—As the residue of the evaporated
urine was very difficult to dry at 212° F., it was carbonized
 at once.
    Aqueous extract. —This contained by far the greater part of
 the inorganic constituents of the urine. In the urine excreted
 during four days, it amounted to no less than 54"J48 grms.
 These consisted of—
    Chloride of sodium .      62-78'         NaCI . . 62-78
    Chloride of potassium      9*89          K CI . .       9-89
    Potash                    15-40          KO, 8Q3'.      5-87
    Magnesia ....              032 >.or of< 2KO + P05 16-12
    Phosphoric acid . .        8*92          SKO + POs 4-55
    Sulphuric acid     . .     2*69          2MgO + POs 042
                             100-00.
                                             3MgO + POs OS7
                                                          100-00
    Muriatic extract.—It amounted to 5-085 grms., and con
 sisted of—
    Soda ....             19-22"         f3NaO + P05 33-83
    Potash . . .           2-96           SKO + PO,      4-45
    Lime      . . .       17-66           3CaO + P65 29"99
    Magnesia . .          1365            3MgO + P05 21-98
    Phosphoric acid              >or o(^
                         41-51            CaO, SO, .     3-18
    Sulphuric acid         1-86           MgO, Si03 .    619
    Silica . . .           2-76           Fe9Os . .      0-38
    Peroxide of iron       0-S8                        100-00
                        10000
    Residuary carbonaceous mass.—This left a very small quan
tity of ash on incineration, only 0-352 grm., the principal
component of which was silica, weighing 0-156 gnu.; the
remainder consisted almost entirely of phosphate of magnesia.
It has been suggested above, that this small quantity of inor
ganic constituents existed in the urine in a perfectly oxidized
state, and had resisted the solvent action of the muriatic acid,
probably because the magnesia had formed with the silica a
compound insoluble in dilute muriatic acid.
   If this view be adopted, all the inorganic constituents exist
in the urine in a perfectly oxidized state ; hence it is a per
fectly teleoxidic substance.
   The following are therefore the inorganic constituents of
the carbonized mass of the evaporated urine : —

                             of Organic Bodies.                    277
    ¦¦>¦      Chloride of sodium       . . . ''.  .    .    5703 ' X
              Chloride of potassium .... 1 .                 8-99
              Tribasic phosphate of soda ....                2*90
            i Tribaspc phosphate of potash      . . .        453
           "Brb&sic phosphate of potash . . '. '.'           4-65
             'Tribasic phosphate of lime ....                2-57
              Tribasic phosphate of magnesia      . .        2-57
              Bibasic phosphate of magnesia . . .            0M
,        ,, Sulphate of potash                               5*33
,,„¦•>        Sulphate of lime                               027
              Magnesia* peroxide of iron, and silica         079
                                                          1 00-00
  ; ¦|          ¦ i i ¦ '. ¦
     These inorganic constituents must not lie compared with
those existing in the urine before carbonization. In the latter
the bases are partly combined with organic acids, which are
converted into carbonates during the process of carbonization,
the carbonic acid of which is expelled by the phosphoric acid
of the bibasic phosphates. Thus tribasic phosphates are
 formed, which cannot exist as such in the urine, because the
 latter exerts an acid reaction.
     During the four days in which the faeces and urine were
 collected, the inorganic constituents of the former amounted
 to 10*422 grms., and the latter to 59*585. This remarkable
 result would not have been expected a priori. The difference
 becomes still more striking when the amount of the sand is
 deducted from the inorganic constituents of the faeces, and
 which can only be regarded as an accidental mixture.
     The following comparison exhibits the inorganic compo
 nents of the faeces and urine excreted in a day, excluding the
 sand :—
                                     Urine.         Faeces.
           Chloride of sodium       89243 grms.   0-0167 grms.
           Chloride of potassium    0-7511 ...
           Soda                             ...   0-0185       ...
           Potash                   2-4828 ...    05455        ...
           Lime                     02245 ...     0-5566       ...
           Magnesia ....            0-2415 ...    02781        ...
           Peroxide of iron . .     00048 ...     00544        ...
           Phosphoric acid . .      1-7598 ...    08072        ...
           Sulphuric acid . .      0-3864 ...     0-0293       ...
           Silica                   0-0691 ...    00375        ...
                                   14-8438        2-3438
      Hence the amount of inorganic constituents in the urine is
 more than (J I times greater than that in the solid excrements.

278       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
   The following are the weights of the inorganic constituents
obtained in the different parts of the examination of the faces
and the urine :—
                                                Faeces.   Urine.
Extracted by water                              18 55     9087
Extracted by muriatic acid                      62-30      8-54-
In the ash of the residuary carbonized mass 19' 15         0-59
                                               10000     100-00
                        Appendix XII.
   Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of the Bile (of
                 Oxen). By M. Weidenbusch.
   Aqueous extract of the carbonized mass.—This, when    evapo
rated to dryness, consisted of—
   Chloride of sodium 28'77-i           rNa CI            28-77
   Potash ....             4-51          SNaO + PO&       14-51
   Soda                   35-79          3KO + POs         6-78
   Phosphoric acid .       855 >or of< NaO, S03            8-55
   Sulphuric acid . .      4-81          NaO, C02         28-27
   Carbonic acid . . 11-70               NaO, HO           934
   Silica                  0-26.        LSiOa . .          0-26
                          94-39                           96-48
   Muriatic extract.—This consisted of—
Potash                    3-70-         3KO + P05          5-56
Soda                     11-50          SNaO + P06        20-25
Lime                     2700           3CaO+P06          49-81
Magnesia ....             7-41          3MgO + P05        14-71
Peroxide of iron . .      4-21 >or of^ MgO . .             0-69
Manganoso-manga-\                       F203               4-20
                          211
   nic oxide . . J                      MnO, Mn,Oa         2-11
Phosphoric acid . . 41-63               SiO,     . .       2-41
Silica                    2-41-                          100-00
                        99-97
   Residuary carbonaceous mass.—The ash consisted of—
                Potash . .                  6-71
                Soda    . . .              40-49
                Lime    . .                 2-45
                Magnesia . .                401
                Peroxide of iron            080
                Phosphoric acid             3-89
                Sulphuric acid             41-63
                                           99-98

                        of Organic Bodies.                    279
   The sulphur may be considered as existing in the carbo
nized bile, after exhaustion by the solvents, as a constituent
of certain compound radicals, in the same manner as was
assumed to be the case with the phosphorus in the carbonized
product of other organic substances. But in this carbonized
mass the amount of sulphur is much larger than would be
found by calculation from that of the sulphuric acid obtained.
A very large portion of it is volatilized during the oxidation.
If the exhausted carbonized mass be mixed with nitrate of
baryta, and the mixture be heated to redness, so much sul
phate of baryta is obtained, that the quantity of sulphuric
acid existing in it amounts to 30 per cent, more than that
obtained by the mere oxidation of the carbonized mass.
   The following are the proportions of the inorganic compo
nents of the bile as obtained in the three operations : —
   Extracted by water                                       90*85
   Extracted by muriatic acid                                4-98
   In the ash of the residue of the carbonaceous mass. 4-22
                                                           10000
   The following are the whole of the inorganic constituents
of the bile of the ox: —
                                                  Oxygen.
      Chloride of potassium . . . 27"70
      Potash                               4-80     081
      Soda                               36-73      939
      Lime                                 1-43     040 >10-90
      Magnesia                             0"S3     0-20
      Peroxide of iron                     023      007
      Manganoso-manganic oxide             0'12     003.
      Phosphoric acid                     10*45     5*85 ~
      Sulphuric acid                       639      382
      Carbonic acid                      11-26      8-14 H7-99
      Silica                               036      0'18
                                        100-00
    The quantities of the acids are not correct, because, as we
 have stated, a far larger amount of sulphuric acid would have
 been obtained had the whole of the sulphur been converted
 into sulphuric acid.
                        Appendix XIII.
 Examination of the Inorganic Constituents of Cow's Milk. By
                            M. Weber.
    The cows from which the milk was procured were fed with
 the refuse of a brewery in addition to the ordinary stall-fodder.

 280      Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
 The milk was not skimmed, but evaporated at once and car
 bonized.
    Aqueous extract.—The washing required to be continued
 for an extraordinary length of time. The residue of the eva
 porated extract consisted of—
    Chloride of potassiun   41-42~        TKC1. . . 4142
    Chloride of sodium      13-85          Na CI . . 13-85
    Potash ....             2966 'or J3KO + P05 21-60
    Phosphoric acid .        725       °n KO, SOa .        036
    Sulphuric acid . .       0-17          KO,C02 . 22-83
    Carbonic acid . .        7-27-                       10006
                            99-62
    Muriatic extract.— No evolution of carbonic acid could be
perceived on the addition of the muriatic acid. The consti
tuents were—
                Potash    ....       .    629
                                     .  1219
                                     .  36-70
                Magnesia             .   3-26
                Peroxide of iron .   .   030
                Phosphoric acid .    .  41-26
                                       10000
   Hence the muriatic acid had only dissolved phosphates.
   Residuary carbonaceous mass.—It yielded—
                Potash                  33-13
               Soda                      901
               Lime                     1658
               Magnesia ....             3#40
               Peroxide of iron . .      1-10
               Phosphoric acid . .      36-60
               Silica                    0-18
                                       100-00
   Thus the nnoxidic portion of the milk, after oxidation, was
of the same composition as the teleoxidic.
   The following are the results of the examination of the
milk: —
   Extracted by water                                    34- 17
   Extracted by muriatic acid                            31-75
   Ash of the remaining carbonaceous mass      .   .  .  34-08
                                                        10000

                        of Organic Bodies.                   381
    The whole of the constituents were—
                                                  Oxygen.     , ,
       Chloride of potassium . . . 14' 18
       Chloride of sodium ....             4-74
       Potash                             2346
       Soda                                696
      Lime                                17-84     4-87 )>U-5l
       Magnesia                            2-20
      Peroxide of iron                     0*47
       Phosphoric acid                    28-04
      Sulphuric acid                       0-05     v „„    „ „
      Carbonic acid                        2*50     1-80 f
      Silica                               0-06
                                         10000
    Hence the phosphoric acid of the bases is to that of the
acids nearly as 3 : 5. The teleoxidic portion of the milk con
tains c-phosphates, and the anoxidic portion yields by oxida
tion c-phosphates also.
    Thus milk is a meroxidic substance. We might almost call
it a hemioxidic substance, if the large quantity of the alkaline
chlorides contained in the aqueous extract were excluded from
the teleoxidic portion, to which they evidently do not belong.
    The large amount of phosphoric acid in the teleoxidic por
tion, and the considerable quantity which the anoxidic portion
yields on oxidation, are remarkable. It is hence evident, as
 has frequently been remarked, how well the milk is adapted
for effecting the ossification of the bones in the mammalia.
    Whilst in the blood the bases predominate over the acids,
 in the flesh we find little else than pyrophosphates, and in the
 milk the bases for the most part form c-phosphates.
                   Appendix XIV. and XV.
  Examination of the Inorganic Constituents qfthe White and
              Yolk of Hen's Eggs. By M. Poleck.
    These experiments were among the firstmade by the method
 of carbonization, and were instituted before the process was
 perfected ; they do not therefore deserve too much confidence,
 although performed with great care. But as they appeared
 to me of some importance, I shall briefly describe them.
    The principal source of error consists in the fact, that in
 some of the analyses the alkali contained in the muriatic ex
 tract, not having been suspected to exist there, was over
 looked ; moreover, the exhausted carbonized mass being

 282       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
 burnt in an atmosphere of oxygen, would allow of the volatili
 zation of a considerable portion of the alkaline phosphates.
 The separation of the white from the yolk, can be easily
 effected, by well boiling the eggs in water until they become
 hard.
    The relative proportion of the white and yolk was not ex
 actly the same in all the eggs. The following results were
 obtained in regard to this point :—
         Four eggs yielded         60*60 per cent, white
                                  39-40      ... yolk
         Sixteen eggs yielded .   58-43            white
                                  41-57            yolk
         Fourteen eggs yielded    59-42            white
                                  40-58            yolk.
    White of egg.—It yielded in two instances—
                                        I.            II.
         Chloride of potassium        47-19         51-33
         Chloride of sodium           1066          17-13
         Soda                         24-22         17-71
         Sulphuric acid . .             1-61         1-67
         Carbonic acid . .            14-66         10-49
         Silica                        0-17
                                      98-51         98-53
or
         Chloride of potassium        4719          5133
         Chloride of sodium           1066          1713
         Carbonate of soda .          3923          2801
         Sulphate of soda              2-83          2-96
         Silica                        0-17
                                     100-08         99-43
   In both analyses a little more carbonic acid was found than
could be combined with the alkali. This is remarkable;
because in the aqueous extracts of the carbonized mass of
other organic substances, considerably less carbonic acid was
frequently found than was requisite for the saturation of the
alkali, a considerable portion of the carbonic acid being fre
quently reduced to carbonic oxide by the carbon.
   Muriatic extract.—As in the first experiment, the presence
of the alkalies was overlooked ; the result of the second only
is given :—

                         of Organic Bodies.                     283
                  Potash                       495
                  Soda                         9-13
                  Lime                        1053
                  Magnesia                    11*61
                  Carbonate of lime .     .   11" 14
                  Carbonate of magnesia   .   15'48
                  Peroxide of iron . .    .    2*75
                  Phosphoric acid . .      .  23*85
                  Silica                      1056
                                             10000
   Residuaiy carbonaceous mass.— It was not incinerated with
platinum, but in oxygen gas ; hence there was a loss. I have
already remarked that the proteine substances of vegetables
and animals alone appear to be meroxidic bodies ; all others
appear to be of a teleoxidic nature. The white of hen's eggs,
however, forms a remarkable exception to all the other pro
teine substances which have been examined, in consequence
of the very small quantity of anoxidic substance which it
contains. The amount of ash is very small. In both experi
ments the charred mass contained silica in the form of sand,
which, however, was deducted from the ash. The following
was the composition of the two ashes :—
                                       I.             II.
          Potash                     11-93           16-76
          Soda                       10-83            548
          Lime                       12-21            8-21
          Magnesia                   24-15            9-02
          Peroxide of iron . . .      T41             5-64
          Phosphoric acid . . . 30-73                S7'24
          Silica                      8-71           17-63
                                     99-94           99-98
    These results differ very considerably ; the cause must be
determined by future experiments.
    On arranging the constituents in the form of salts, we find
 in the first experiment ^-phosphoric acid and some very basic
 silicates ; in the second only ^-phosphoric acid and less basic
 silicates.
    The quantities obtained were—
                                                   I.        II.
    Extracted by water                           81-52      8219
    Extracted by muriatic acid .... 1433                    15-52
    In the ash of the remaining mass . .           4*15      229
                                                10000      100-00

  Q&l       Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
     The components of the subject of1 the J^iM' 'analysis, a*
  obtained in the three operations, were-1- ' ''" ¦ "" J'' • '
                   Chloride of pbtassidm }"¦ 28*6^ ¦••¦' "' ¦'
                '•'Chloride of sodium1 ;-"-J<i 'B*8i><v M
                   Potash .•'¦•: •:¦'¦! M '"J'l >B«W"-^
              '"> Soda. .". ¦¦; •'„¦¦•!. v J IMS "¦>>¦'
                  Lime     . . .        . ' .'" .' ' 0*25
                  Magnesia                           7'03
                   Peroxide of iron    . . .         2*09
                  Phosphoric acid      .' .'.¦ 15-28
                  Sulphuric acid •   ¦ . .^ .        0-84
                  Carbonic acid .      . ". - .      901
                   Silica                            7-0.5
                                                    99-71
     In accordance with these investigations, the, white of hen's
 eggs, although decidedly a proteine substance, must be enu
 merated amongst the almost teleoxidic substances. The large
 quantity of silica in the white of egg, both in the teleoxidic and
 the anoxidic portion, is remarkable. The white of birds' eggs
 is equally as requisite for the formation of the feathers, which,
 according to recent investigations, contain a large amount of
 silica, as the milk of the mammalia is for the production of
 the bones.
                             Yolk of Egg.
    Aqueous extract.—It exerted a strongly acid reaction upon
litmus paper, and contained a considerable quantity of the
earthy phosphates in solution, which were not on this occasion
separated, but added to the muriatic extract. The dry mass
fused into a transparent vitreous mass at a low red heat. It
consisted of—
                                            I.                II.
          Potash                           10-38            9*77
          Soda                              5-62            765
          Lime ....... 11-72                               11-80
          Magnesia                          1-45            204
         Peroxide of iron . . .             0*59            0-95
         Phosphoric acid (undetermined)                    68-74
                                                          100-95
    The phosphoric acid formed metaphosphates with the bases,
excepting with the peroxide of iron. In the extract itself, they
did not exist in this form, but in that of acid ^-phosphates,
for it strongly reddened litmus paper; they were, however,
contained in that state in the solution of the fused residue of

                        of Organic Bodies, ,,              285
the evaporated mass. In accordance with the second expe
riment, we obtain the following arrangement for the salts:—
            Monobasic phosphate of potash . 24*57
            Monobasic phosphate of soda . . 25*16
            Monobasic phosphate of lime . . 4173
            Monobasic phosphate of magnesia      908
            Perpbosphate of iron ....            1*79
                                               102-33
   The calculated amount of phosphoric acid is 70*18 per
cent. ; experiment gave 68*74 per cent.
   Muriatic extract.—The following is the composition of that
of the second experiment :—
                 Lime                      2232
          ,  . . Magnesia'                  2*98
                 Peroxide of iron , . .     3*71
                 Phosphoric acid . , .     70*97
                                           99*98
   These salts are also metaphosphates, the iron compound
probably being excepted. They correspond to—
          Monobasic phosphate of lime     . .   78*94
          Monobasic phosphate of magnesia .     1330
          2Fe403, 3POs                           8*66
                                               100*90
   The calculated amount of phosphoric acid would be 71*89
per cent. ; that found was 70*97 per cent.
   llesiduury carbonaceous mass. —This, like the white of egg,
was also burnt in oxygen gas. Hence the results obtained in
the two experiments differ; in the first much less ash was
found than in the second. The latter consisted of—
                 Potash                     7*96
                 Soda                       6*75
                 Lime . . . * . ' .     .  13-04
                 Magnesia                   2*04
                 Peroxide of iron . .   .   099
                 Phosphoric acid . .    .  64-13
                 Silica                     2-76
                                           97-67
   These are also mostly metaphosphates; only a very small
quantity of the bases can be combined with pyrophosphoric
acid. . ;

286      Prof. H. Rose on the Inorganic Constituents
   The following are the results of the experiments :—
                                           I.         II.
        Extracted by water from the~l „„.,.,,        4095
          carbonized yolk ... J
        Extracted by muriatic acid . 13-73            8-05
        Ash of the remaining mass . 22*54            51-00
                                       100-00       100-00
   These results differ very considerably, yet they show that
the yolk undoubtedly belongs to the meroxidic substances.
   The inorganic constituents of the entire mass of the carbo
nized yolk in the second experiment were—
               Potash                          5-94
               Soda                            4-82
               Lime                           1579
               Magnesia                        236
               Peroxide of iron .    .  .      1-85
               Silica                          0-92
               Phosphoric acid .     .  .     68-26
                                              99*94
   These are metaphosphates. The yolk of egg contains more
phosphoric acid than any other organic substance treated of
in this memoir.
   Inorganic Constituents of Yeast {from Berlin Pale Beer).
                By B. W. Bull of New York.
   The yeast was washed with distilled water; the washing
cannot however be perfectly effected, because the pores of the
filter become so readily stopped up.
   Aqueous extract.—This did not affect litmus paper; during
evaporation it deposited earthy phosphates, which were added
to the muriatic extract. It consisted of—
   Chloride of sodium     069"1         fNaCl '.; ¦-.- 0-69
   Potash ....           45-79            2KO+POs          4018
                                *or of*
   Soda                   0-29            KO + POs . 5755
   Phosphoric acid .     52- 22           2NaO + POs        0-52
                         98-99                             98-94
    Hence the aqueous extract consisted essentially of a- and b-
phosphate of potash.

                       of Organic Bodies.                  287
   Muriatic extract.—It was composed of-
               Potash . .                   33-48
               Soda     . . .                 039
               Lime     . . .                 9-69
               Magnesia . .                   4-79
               Peroxide of iron               0-52
               Sulphuric acid                 0-20
               Phosphoric acid              50-93
                                           100-00
   Part of the phosphoric acid is combined with the bases in
the form of b- and part in that of a-phosphates. It is not
easy to explain why these are not extracted from the carbo
nized mass with the other a-phosphates by water. The cal
culated salts are—
   Bibasic phosphate of potash .         50-391 P05    28-56
   Monobasic phosphate of potash         11-40JKO      33-23
   Monobasic phosphate of soda .          1-28
   Bibasic phosphate of lime . .         2204
   Bibasic phosphate of magnesia         13-09
   Perphosphate of iron                   1-46
   Sulphate of potash                     0-44
                                        100-10
   Residuary carbonized mass.—This consisted of—
                Potash                       28-71
                Soda                          0-60
                Lime                          2-35
                Magnesia                      6'36
                Peroxide of iron              1-16
                Phosphoric acid              60-82
                                           10000
or
                                                   POs .43-43
   Monobasic phosphate of potash      .   72-14
   Monobasic phosphate of soda . .          1-97
                                                 { KO   28-71
   Bibasic phosphate of magnesia      .   13*91
   Monobasic phosphate of magnesia         5*18
   Phosphate of lime (8CaO, SP Os)         4-60
   Perphosphate of iron                     2-20
                                         100-00
   The phosphate of lime is in this case assumed as having
the same composition as that precipitated from the muriatic
solution by ammonia.

  288 On the Development ofElectricityby Musclar Contraction.
     The entire results of the experiments W*re—~>'u> ¦">>
     'Extracted by water |. ¦ 1 ¦•.'-' ." ':;I'/."";¦' ':/.';; $tt# -"
     Extracted by muriatic acid ,'. :. '"'.'' '." '.' '."' S7"7p
     III the ash of the residuary carbonaceous mass 35*06
     The whole constituents were—                       - ^ ..i 10000
                   Chloride of sodium        .     0-19 ¦
                   Potash . . . .            .    SB'ie
                   Soda                            0-*2
                   Lime . :" , .¦                  4'47!    " ''
     ¦" '¦ '       Magnesia                        4*05
                   Peroxide of iron                0-61
                   Sulphuric acid .                008
                   Phosphoric acid                S4-7*
        „ Z                                       99-72
     These results agree very well with those obtained by Mit-
 scherlich.
     Yeast is therefore a meroxidic substance, and possesses most
 analogy with flesh in regard to its inorganic constituents.
                        . —      .              '         ;-      .', , 7TT-
 XXXVI. Notice respecting Du Bois Raymond's Discovery of
    the Development of Electricity by Muscular Contraction.
    By Prof. Buff of Giessen*.
r|^HE remarkable observation made by Du Bois Reymond,
  ¦*- that an electric current can be excited by muscular con
 traction, has been called in question by Messrs. Despretz and
 Becquerel, who did not succeed in obtaining favourable results
on repeating the experiment f. Under these circumstances it
may prove of interest to describe a few experiments which I
have made with a better result.
    The galvanometer employed was constructed by Kleiner of
 Berlin ; it had 3000 convolutions of a copper wire one-fifth of a
millimetre in thickness. The extremities of this wire were
connected, according to Du Bois ReymOnd's directions, with
strips of platina cut out of the same sheet of metal. Each
strip dipped permanently into a vessel containing a saturated
solution of common salt. Notwithstanding this precaution it
was found impossible to obtain an absolute and permanent
uniformity of the two strips. However, on immersing the
fingers in the salt water, in general only a faint current, which
   * From Liebig's Annalen der C/iimic for June 1849.
   t A notice of M. Du Bois Reymond's experiments appeared in the Phi«
losophical Magazine for July 1849, p. 543; Messrs. Becquerel and Des-
pretz's observations on the same subject will be found at pp. 53, 55 of the
present volume.— Ed. Phil. Mag.

                  M. Matteucci on the Voltaic Arc.             289
soon decreased, was developed ; but it was of such extent
that the needle seldom came to perfect rest. By bracing the
muscles of the hand and arm only doubtful effects were ob
tained, precisely as was found by the French experimenters.
As the needle oscillated somewhat rapidly, seven to eight
seconds to one oscillation, I endeavoured to render its astatic
system more perfect, and succeeded in reducing the time of
vibration to thirty seconds, i. e. in increasing the sensitiveness
of the needle nearly sixteen times.
    Nevertheless the influence of the muscular contraction was
scarcely rendered more perceptible. Sometimes it was more,
sometimes less obscured by accidental deflections of the
needle, which it becomes the less possible to control the more
the magnetic directive force has decreased. Very little was
therefore to be expected from continuing to perfect the astatic
system, at least with the multiplier in use, the wire of which
did not appear to be entirely free from iron. Du Bois Rey-
mond obtained a higher degree of sensitiveness by means ot a
larger number of convolutions, which is evidently preferable
in experiments of this nature.
    One method of observing the phaenomenon discovered by
Du Bois Reymond with less sensitive instruments, is by in
creasing the electromotive action excited by muscular exer
tion. Sixteen persons who took part in this experiment held
each other's moistened hands, and on all contracting simultane
ously the right, or simultaneously the left arm, they formed, as
it were, a circuit of increased electromotive power. The effect
on the needle was now perfectly evident, and opposite accord
ing as the right or left arm was contracted ; the direction of
the current was always from the hand to the shoulder. It is
essential that the muscular contraction should be increased,
or at least continued, until the needle begins to return, and
then suddenly discontinued. Although it was found impos
sible to produce a greater deflection than 10° to 12°, the cor
responding intensity of the current was sufficient to overcome
any accidental influences; nay, even to stop a movement in
the opposite direction and to reverse it.
   Giessen, July 13, 1849.
           XXXVII.         Observations on the Voltaic Arc.
                         By M. Matteucci *.
I HAVE studied the calorific and luminous phaenomena of
      the voltaic arc, and the transference of matter, with the
aid of the electro-magnetic machine which is now generally
           • From the Comptes Iiendui for September 3, 1849.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 236. Oct. 1849.             U

 290             M. Matteucci on the Voltaic Arc.
 employed in the application of electricity for medical purposes.
 With this instrument, which acts for several days with a few
 of Bunsen's or Grove's cells, there is between a point and a
 slip of platina a continual series of electric sparks correspond
 ing to the very close interruptions of the circuit. On obser
 ving the phaenomenon with the naked eye, the arc of light
 would be thought to be continuous; but by looking upon a disc
 the surface of which is painted with black and bright rays,
 rotating with a certain velocity, it is easy to be convinced of
 the discontinuity of this electric light.
    In all my experiments I employed two similar points of
 platina, or of another metal, instead of a point and the plate
 as extremities between which the spark should be emitted.
    I first examined the temperature of the two metallic points
 at the moment the electric arc was produced ; and for this
 purpose made very near to the extremities of the points a hole
 which was scarcely one millimetre in diameter, and into which
 was inserted the point of a thermo-electrical clasp of iron and
 copper in communication with the galvanometer. When the
 experiment is carefully performed, so as to have a continuous
 series of sparks accompanied by a constant sound, there is also
 a fixed deflection of the galvanometer. I have in this manner
 proved and measured the difference of temperature of the
 positive point compared with that of the negative point, the
 latter being always lower. The difference varies with the
 metals, as was to be expected; I found it greatest with iron
 and copper, iron and platina, and less with lead, bismuth and
 zinc.
    I then studied the luminous phaenomena of this electric arc,
 which in this case was of importance, as Dr. Neef of Frankfort
 had never observed any light except at the negative pole.
 According to that author, with a very weak current there is
 constantly and only at the negative pole an electric light,
 which he calls -priviary, from its being, in his opinion, inde
 pendent of the presence of the matter of the poles.
    I made a long investigation of the voltaic arc obtained with
 the electro-magnetic machine, observing it with the aid of
a microscope which magnified from 40 to 60 times. The
experiment, which is very beautiful and important, succeeds
best on employing iron or platina points and a very feeble
current. The following are the phaenomena which I constantly
observed :—
    1. The positive extremity is distinctly seen only in the state
of incandescence ; globules of red molten matter roll over ils
surface, which separate from it, leaving cavities, and are pro
jected on to the negativepoint, where they form mushroom-like

                 M. Matteucci on the Voltaic Arc.              291
 excrescences. By compelling the two iron points to remain in
 contact, it is very beautiful to observe the formation in the
 centre of a double cone of incandescent lava of a very brilliant
 light ; and which, resting by its bases upon the two metallic
 points, evidently flows from the positive to the negative pole.
    2. A diffuse light is perceived similar to a flame or lu
minous cloud, but transparent, enveloping the two points;
this light varies in colour with the nature of the metals, and
resembles every other electric light produced between differ
ent metallic points. Thus it is green with copper, of a dirty
yellow with zinc, and violet with platina and silver.
   S. This light or flame is constantly traversed by sparkling
points, similar to those which are produced by hammering
hot iron : these sparks are principally produced with the iron
points, and are always seen to glow outside of the electric
flame.
   4. Lastly, some very brilliant and mobile luminous par
ticles, and which seem always to congregate towards the ex
tremity of the point, appear constantly and only at the nega
tive pole. The observation of Dr. Neef is, as regards this,
perfectly accurate : it is requisite only to change the direction
of the current <o observe this light immediately spring from
one pole to the other. If there is a drop of oil between the
points, the light of the negative pole is concentrated at the
extremity only, just as with an exceedingly weak current. If
a somewhat powerful current be employed, the phaenomena
described are no longer seen distinctly, and the two poles then
appear to be equally luminous.
   I have likewise studied the transference of matter by the
spark between the two metallic extremities, and employed for
this purpose a plate and a point of similar or dissimilar metals,
making the plate sometimes positive and sometimes negative.
I examined only the plate with the microscope after the
experiment; in every case there was a transference of the
positive on to the negative metal, and vice versa. The circular
stain which is formed upon the plate is composed of the cen
tral part, where signs of fusion are apparent, and where the
metal transferred from the other pole is deposited ; around
this central portion there is a radiating circle of a more or less
dark colour, which varies with the nature of the metals.
When the plate is positive, the marks of fusion are greater,
and the stains of the metal transferred from the negative pole
are scarcely perceptible, whilst the border, of a dark colour, is
very large. The reverse occurs when the plate is negative.
When a drop of gum-water or of turpentine is interposed
between the point and the plate, it soon becomes charged with
                               U2

292             M. Matteucci on the Voltaic Arc.
a black powder consisting of finely divided metal, and the
mark formed on the plate has no border. ...\ ¦- , >
    My principal object in making these researches being the
examination of the production of light at the negative pole, in
order not to have recourse to the hypothesis entertained on
this subject of the light being produced by one pole and the
heat by the other, I made a large number of experiments with
the positive and negative points of two different metals. I
found that the fixed light at the negative pole is never pro
duced without the presence of a platina point at the positive
pole, and in this case the nature of the metal of the negative
point is indifferent; on the contrary, if the negative point is of
platina, and the positive pole is terminated by points of iron,
copper, zinc or silver, the fixed light no longer exists on the
negative point, or at all events the phenomenon becomes much
 confused. I was thus led to suppose that the phenomenon,
 being dependent on the nature of the metals, and produced
 principally with platina, was owing to the positive pole be
 coming more heated, and to the particles detached from this
 pole and transferred to the negative pole, becoming incandes
 cent from their very small size. It is evident that with metals
 which readily oxidize and burn in the air, thete phenomena
 are no longer produced in the same manner as with platina.
    There still remained to ascertain the cause of this unequal
 heating of the substance of the two poles. The voltaic arc
 which 1 studied is produced in a circuit which is sometimes
 formed by the contact of the two points, and at other times
 imperfectly established by the transference of matter with the
 spark. I passed an electric current produced by a constant
 battery through two cylindrical rods of iron or lead, which
 were in contact at their bases. Each of these rods had near
 its base a very small hole, into which was inserted a thermo-
 electrical clasp communicating with the galvanometer. I
 was thus able to measure the temperature developed by the
 passage of the current in the metallic .rod near the place of
 interruption, or, more exactly, near the ends of the two rods
 in contact. With this arrangement I was easily able to £o#i-
 vince myself that the temperature developed by the passage of
 the current was at its maximum near the place of interrup
 tion; and that in order to cause this temperature to vary, it
 sufficed to alter the reciprocal pressure of the two rods. In
 proportion as the pressure decreased, without any perceptible
 alteration in the electric current, the temperature of the rods
  constantly rose. Thus the thermo-electric current developed
 by the clasp, being from ten to fifteen degrees when the two
 rods were pressed hard one against the other, rose from sixty

                     Notices respecting New Books.                  293
to seventy degrees when this pressure was diminished. In like
manner the disengagement of heat varies considerably when
tfie'sUPfocte of the bases of the rods in contact is either oxidifeed,
polished, or covered with a very thin layer of graphite, oxide
of ii*on, &c The heat developed is always increased by die
oxidation or coating of the surface of the rods with graphite
powder. In this case the hottest extremity is always that
communicating with the positive pole; and the most favour
able case for obtaining the greatest difference of temperature
between the positive and negative pole, is that in which the
surface of the negative extremity being coated with oxide or
graphite powder, that of the positive extremity has remained
bright. Connecting this fact with that previously mentioned
concerning the unequal heating of the two poles, it becomes
evident, that since by the transference of matter from the po
sitive to the negative pole the surface of the two poles experi
ences n different alteration, and that the greatest change takes
place at the negative pole, the difference of temperature must
be due, at least in part, to the difference of alteration of the
surface, which is a consequence of the fact of the transference.
I hope to have thus shown, experimentally, the connexion
which exists between the phenomena of the voltaic arc; and
I am led to consider them as depending on the transference
of matter from the positive to the negative pole. On the other
hand, we know from the experiments of MM. Poiret and
Becquerel, that the transfer of matter from the positive to the
 negative pole is a phenomenon independent of the develop
ment of heat by the electric current.
             XXXVIII. Notices respecting New Books.
A Treatise on Land Surveying. By John Ainslie. A new and en
    larged Edition, embracing Railway, Military, Marine and Geodelical
    Surveying. By William Galbraith, M.A., F.R.A.S.
MR. AINSLIE'S book was in the main of a practical character,
        but it was the work of one who knew his business well. His
 directions are full and precise, and his examples numerous and in
 structive.
    Mr. Galbraith, the editor of the present edition (who is well known
 for his scientific acquirements and his skill in the use of instruments
 of the highest class), has not only thoroughly revised Mr. Ainslie's
 work, but he has added greatly to its value by the composition of an
 elaborate article on Trigonometrical Surveying and Leveling, which
 extends to upwards of 200 pages.
    The formula; are given in the most modern form, and their use

294                 Royal Astronomical Society.
exemplified in surveys of considerable extent and difficulty, in which
the editor has been engaged either professionally or as an amateur.
   An excellent account is given of the construction and use of the
chief instruments employed in astronomy and geodetic surveying, and
a collection of valuable geodetic tables concludes the work.
   We recommend this valuable work to all persons who take an in
terest in the subject on which it treats, as the only one in our lan
guage from which all necessary information may be obtained.
           XXXIX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                  ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.
                   [Continued from vol. xxxiv. p. 543.]
June 8, ff^HE Astronomer Royal resigned the Chair to. the Rev.
 1849. JL R. Sheepshanks, and then delivered to the Society
an oral statement, illustrated by models, " On Instruments adapted
to the Measure of small Meridional Zenith Distances."
   The Astronomer Royal remarked that there were three distinct
ranges of observation, for which three distinct classes of instruments
had been employed. The first and most comprehensive included
the observations for zenith distances throughout the whole extent of
the meridian, from the north horizon to the south horizon ; to which
observations the mural circle and similar instruments were adapted.
It was evident that constructions adapted to secure this extent of
observations in all their generality could scarcely be expected to
avail themselves of the advantages peculiar to observations confined
to one part of the heavens ; and accordingly, in nearly every in
stance in which observations on a more limited arc of the meridian
were sufficient, instruments of the other classes had been employed.
The second class of instruments might be included under the name
of zenith sector. With this instrument, by limiting the range o
observation to six or seven degrees on each side of the zenith, a
part of the arc of meridian was embraced which sufficed for most
geodetical purposes ; that part, both from the smaller proportion of
obscuration by clouds and from the smaller uncertainty attending
the calculation of refraction, was better in an astronomical point of
view than the rest ; the instrument also might, with great porta
bility, be made of large dimensions, with long telescope and long
plumb-line, two advantages which were highly valued in the last
and in the beginning of the present centuries. Generally, its use
had been confined to geodesy ; although it must not be forgotten
that one of the most celebrated specimens of it, namely, Bradley's
zenith sector, was constructed solely for astronomical observations
at a fixed observatory ; still, however, that instrument had in prac
tice been confined to the observation of a single star passing the
meridian within two minutes of the zenith, and it might thus be
considered as included in the third class. The third class included
those instruments specially adapted to the observation of stars pass-

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                    295
ing within still smaller distances of the zenith. It is evident that
these, besides possessing in the highest excellence the astronomical
advantages ascribed to the second class, might be expected to enjoy
extraordinary freedom from the distortions produced by the weight
of the instrument, and might also give great facility for measures
of zenith distance by the simple use of the micrometer or the spirit-
level. This was the class of instruments which the Astronomer
Royal proposed as the subject of the present statement.
   The Astronomer Royal announced that his discussion would be
confined to a critical description of three instruments : the Green
wich 25-feet zenith tube, now dismounted ; Struve's prime vertical
instrument, now in use ; and a construction of a reflex zenith tele
scope, proposed by himself, but not yet actually constructed. The
second of these instruments, it is true, may be used for zenith di
stances of several degrees, but its peculiar advantages are connected
with its use for very small zenith distances. These three instruments
would be found to embody, as essential parts of their construction,
the three different methods of referring to the zenith in use in
modern times ; namely, the plumb-line, the spirit-level, and the re
flexion from the surface of quicksilver.
   I. The Greenwich zenith tube was planned and constructed by
Troughton, several years before Mr. Pond's direction of the Royal
Observatory ceased ; although, from some delays in regard to the
small but essential parts, it was not brought into use till within two
years of that time. It consisted of a telescope 25 feet long, revol
ving in azimuth on a pin at the bottom and between guides near the
top, but absolutely confined to the vertical direction. Its range of
observation was therefore necessarily limited to that angle in which
the injurious effect of obliquity of the pencil upon the image of the
star is insensible ; and practically it was confined to the single star
y Draconis, at two minutes only from the zenith. The aperture of
the object-glass was 5 inches ; the diameter of the tube at the top
6 inches, which increased at each successive step downwards (the
tube being made in five separate lengths), till it was 10 inches in
diameter at the bottom. About 6 inches below the object-glass, on
the outside of the tube, was a reel of silver wire ; the wire passed
upwards over a wheel admitting of a certain degree of end-motion,
and then passed through a hole in the side of the tube, and rested
between the threads of a screw, within the tube and 4 inches from
its top, whose axis was horizontal (a convenient arrangement for
small movements of the point of suspension), and then descended
vertically. Within the great tube was a small vertical tube, nearly
an inch in diameter; the top of this tube was about 10 inches
 below the object-glass, and here the small tube was in contact with
 the side of the great tube ; the tube extended to the lower end, at
 which part it was separated about '2 inches from the side of the
 great tube. The plumb-line descended through this vertical tube,
 and passed through a hole in the bottom plate of the telescope, and
 there it carried the plumb-bob in a cup of water supported by
 hooks upon the lower plate. Just ahove the top of the small tube,

296                   Royal Astronomical Society.
or 9 inches below the top of the great tube, and consequently 5
inches below the point of free suspension of the wire, a micrometer-
microscope was fixed externally to the tube, on the same side on
which the wire tube is placed, for reading the position of the wire.
Very close to the bottom of the tube, but on the side opposite to
that on which the wire tube is placed, another micrometer-micro
scope was placed for reading the position of the lower part of the
wire ; the wire tube here was perforated to permit vision of the
wire. This microscope was almost completely buried in the great
tube (its micrometer and eyepiece alone projecting from it) ; it was
not, however, firmly screwed down ; it was thrust in by hand into
a hole (where it was held by friction only) in a sliding-plate within
the great tube, which sliding-plate was moved by external screws.
It is evident that, if these microscopes were firm, and if the wire
retained in all positions of the instrument its peculiarities of curva
ture, &c. in constant relation to the instrument, while its general
direction of dependence had respect to nothing but the direction of
gravity, the readings of the micrometer-microscope would give most
accurate information upon the position of the great tube with
respect to the vertical (the observation of the sides of the plumb-
wire being exceedingly delicate). Below the lower plate of the
great tube was the eyepiece of the telescope, a 4-glass diagonal eye
piece, its eye-end projecting horizontally below the eyepiece of the
lower micrometer- microscope, and nearly to the same distance.
With this was viewed the wire (carried by a micrometer, to which
was given for distinction the name of grand micrometer), by which
the bisection of the star was effected. The lower plate of the tele
scope was supported by four arched pieces of brass, attached to the
lower plate at its circumference, and united about 6 inches below
its centre ; and at the place of union was the pin which turned in
the foot-plate. The intervals between the brass arches left room
for the eyepiece, the micrometer, and the plumb-line cup. The
foot-plates had adjusting screws, which were, however, very rarely
used. The upper guides of the great tube were about 5 feet below
the top ; they were carried by an enormous iron tube, which inclosed
the great tube to within about 4 feet of the bottom, and was there
supported by large iron arches rising from four large iron pillars,
which at some distance surrounded the pier of the foot-plates, being
placed at the angles of a square, and leaving a clear space of 4| feet
between each pillar and that opposite to it
    When the present Astronomer Royal took charge of the Koyal
 Observatory, he found the grand micrometer of this instrument in
 the following state : —The wire-plate of the micrometer carried also
the long heavy eyepiece projecting sideways more than 6 inches ;
 the long micrometer-screw extended nearly from side to side of the
 lower plate of the tube, was supported at its extremities by projec
 tions from that lower plate, and was tapped through the case of the
 diagonal mirror, thus acting at a distance of about 1 inch from the
wire-plate. The supports of the ends of the screw, upon whose
 firmness the correctness of the action of the screw must entirely

                     liayal Astronomical Society.                  297
depend, were thin vertical arches attached to the bottom plate only
by small thumb-screws, and these arches sustained the force of the
micrometeivscrew sideways. Three arrangements more entirely
opposed to the jnst principles of construction of micrometers can
scarcely be conceived. The wire-plate ought not to be strained
sideways by a projecting weight, and ought not to carry any weight
which will increase the friction of its movement ; the action of the
screw ought to be in the plane of motion of the wire-plate ; and the
supporting point, or appui, of the screw ought to be perfectly firm.
    The following changes were therefore made without delay. The
long screw was laid aside, and in its place was used a micrometer-
screw or stalk attached to the end of the wire-plate in the usual
 way ; and the micrometer was made in every respect like an ordi
 nary micrometer, the micrometer-head carrying the concave-screw
which embraces the stalk and draws it towards the micrometer-
 head, the action of the screw being in the plane of the wire-plate
 and directed longitudinally across the middle of the wire, and the
(hawing action of the screw being resisted by springs at the oppo
 site end of the wire-plate. The motion of the micrometer was
 limited in this construction to about one-tenth of the whole breadth
 of the end-plate of the telescope ; but this was far more than was
 required to measure the zenith distance of y Draconis ; it was,
 however, made subservient to the measure of nearly the whole
 breadth in the following way : —On the fixed plate of the micro
 meter ten crosses of wires were fastened, as nearly as possible at
 equal distances, and on the moveable plate were fixed eleven wires
 at nearly the same distances. By means of the crosses on the fixed
 plate and the micrometer-movement, the interval from each wire on
 the moveable plate to the next wire was ascertained, in terms of the
 micrometer-screw, with great accuracy, and therefore the aggregate
 or distance of extreme wires was very well known. The intervals
 were also known in seeonds of arc, by observations of the transits
 of stars when the instrument was turned to a position distant 90°
 in azimuth from its usual position. Thus the value of the screw,
 and the elements for making an observation in any part of the whole
 range available, were completely obtained. With this construction
 of micrometer, the appui of the micrometer-head was almost close to
 the bottom plate, and was perfectly firm. The eyepiece was carried
 by another sliding- plate, moving in grooves unconnected with the
 micrometer ; and it was moved by a separate rack and pinion. It is
 presumed that in this form the grand micrometer was perfectly
 trustworthy.
    In the use of this instrument it is evidently necessary to observe
 the same star successively in reversed positions of the instrument, the
 micrometer-head being on the north side in one observation and on
 the south Eide in the other observation ; and the values of the
 grand-micrometer rending must be corrected in each observation by
 quantities depending on the two micrometer-readings of the plumb-
 line, in order to obtain for the two observations the angular distances
 of the star from definite (though imaginary) lines in space, equally

  298                  Royal Astronomical Society.
  inclined to the vertical, one on the north side, the other on the south
  side ; and if this double operation be effected at one transit of the
  star, the result for the star's zenith distance is obtained without any
  computation of the star's corrections, and without any reliance on
  the permanence of the state of the instrument for more than a few
  minutes i but if the observation with micrometer-head north is made
  at the transit of one day, and that with micrometer-head south at
  the transit of another day, it is necessary to compute the change in
  the star's place (which can be done with undoubted accuracy), and
  also to be assured that no change has taken place in the relative
  position of the various parts of the instrument. For the details of
  the calculations of every kind applicable to these cases, it is best to
  refer to the introductions to the volumes of Greenwich Observations
  from 1837.
     For a considerable time, the instrument, not being furnished with
 two wires on the micrometer-plate at a distance nearly equal to
 double the star's zenith distance, could not be used for the double
 observation at a single transit (as the short duration in the field of
 view did not leave time enough for the numerous turns of the mi
  crometer, with change of the observer's position, &c), and it was
 therefore reversed after the completion of each day's observation.
 The results of the observations were not satisfactory, and the Astro
 nomer Royal determined on so fitting up the instrument that it
 might be used for the double observation at a single transit.
     The arrangements obviously necessary were, to fix on the micro
 meter-plate two wires at distances nearly equal to double the star's
 zenith distance, and to determine their interval accurately ; and to
 provide stops for the reversion of the instrument, for the movement
 of the eyepiece, and for the movement of a part of the illuminating
 apparatus, which it was necessary to shift at each observation. But
 another change, the necessity for which seems to have been gene
 rally overlooked, then suggested itself. It is unsafe to consider any
 wire as absolutely straight : when it has once received a bend, even
 no more than the bend of passing round a reel, it retains a portion
 of that bend although stretched even to the breaking-point; and
some of those curved parts of the wire may be under the micro
scopes by which the position of the plumb-line is checked. Now
this is unimportant, provided that the bend is always turned in the
same direction relatively to the instrument ; for then its only effect
is to alter by a constant quantity the correction to the value of the
grand-micrometer reading, which constant disappears on taking the
difference of the two corrected grand-micrometer readings, upon
which, in fact, the determined zenith distance depends. But if the
position of the bend changes relatively to the instrument, the result
is affected with error. Now it is extremely probable that the posi
tion of the bend will change ; that is, that the plumb-line will turn
relatively to the instrument at every reversion, but more particularly
so at rapid reversion ; and some method must be adopted to prevent
this turning.
    For this purpose the Astronomer Royal adopted the following

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                    299
construction:—On the side opposite to the eyepiece, and attached
to the bottom plate of the telescope, a wooden box was carried out
horizontally, its bottom being nearly as low as the foot-plate, and
its top at the level of the bottom plate of the tube ; and upon the
end of this box was planted a wooden plumb-wire tube, connected
at its top with a frame attached to a higher part of the great tube
(upon which frame the wooden plumb-wire tube and the horizontal
box were, in fact, suspended). From the top of this wooden tube
was suspended (with screw-adjustment for moving it to or from the
principal plumb-line) a second plumb-line, 40 inches long, and di
stant from the principal plumb-line about 12 inches. The two
plumb-lines supported in the horizontal box the two ends of a bar
 12 inches long, and to this bar were attached one or two plumb-
bobs. A little consideration of the theory of parallel forces will
 show that, if the distance between the plumb-lines at the top and
 the bottom is the same (the criterion of which is, the distinctness of
 the principal plumb-line in the field of view of the lower microscope,
 whether the second plumb-line be used or not), the relative move
 ments of the principal plumb-line for varying inclinations of the
grand tube are the same as if the plumb-bob were immediately at
tached to it. At the same time, the turning of the wire is effectu
ally prevented.
    The instrument was used with this construction to the spring of
 1848, when it was finally dismounted. The results of observation
were more accordant than they were before introducing the last
modification, but they were not superior to those derived from the
mural circle. There can be no doubt that the remaining errors
were greater than could be attributed to mere imperfection of obser
vation, and that they must originate in some fault of the instrument.
 Generally speaking, the greatest errors coincided with the greatest
irregularities in the readings of the lower plumb-line microscope.
 It has already been pointed out that the fixation of that microscope
was not very firm, and the irregularities may have originated in this
weakness. Or the great tube may have twisted sensibly in the
reversion. Or the plumb-line may have been bound by spider-
 threads, from which it was to a certain degree set free by the move
ment of reversion (for it was found almost impossible to keep the
 wire-plate free from spider-threads, the uniform temperature and
 the constantly vertical position of the telescope being probably com
 fortable to those animals). Whatever the distinct cause might be,
 the Astronomer Royal considered that the instrument had failed,
 and that its failure was owing to the dependence on the plumb-line ;
 and he expressed his hope that he might never again be compelled
 to use an instrument relying for its verification upon a plumb-line.
    II. The applicability of a transit instrument in the prime vertical
 to the determination of latitude of place from assumed polar distance
 of the star, or vice vend (the polar distance of the star being greater
 than the co-latitude of the place), has long been known ; but it seems
 to have attracted more particular attention since it was used by
 Struve in the determination of the difference of latitudes at the ex

 300                  Royal Astronomical Society.
 fremities of his arc of meridian parallel to the Baltic ¦ Whateveribe
 the construction of the transit instrument used, the proper method
 of observation is the following :—The error of level of the axis being
 ascertained, the instrument is directed to the star, while it is y«t)
 north of the: eastern prime vertical, and the transit of the star is ob
 served over each of the wires preceding the middle of the field ; the
 position of the instrument being continually changed, so that the
 oblique transit is observed over the centre of each wire. When the
 star has passed the wire next before the middle, the instrument is
 reversed ; and the passage of the star, now on the south side of the
 eastern prime vertical, is observed over the same wires as before,
 but in the opposite order. The error of level of the axis is then
 ascertained. Then, when the star is approaching the western prime
 vertical from the south, the instrument being still in its second
 position, the error of level of the axis is again ascertained ; then the
 transit of the star is observed again over the same wires ; before it
 passes the middle of the field, the instrument is reversed to its first
position ; then the transit of the star, now on the north side of the
 west prime vertical, is observed again over the same wires. Finally,
the error of level of the axis is ascertained in this position.
    The reduction of the observations is made in the following form,
 each wire being treated separately. The projection of each wire on
 the sky is a small circle whose pole is in the north point N of the
horizon ; and if a be the angular distance of that wire from the line
 of collimation, 90°— a. will be the radius of the small circle when
 the star is seen on it north of the prime vertical, and 90°+ a when
the star is south of the prime vertical. Form the spherical triangle
NPS ; let A be the hour-angle from the meridian, or the supplement
of the angle at P ; / the latitude of place ; S the star's north polar
distance. Then when the star is north of the prime vertical,
            cos (90°— a)= cos /.cos J— sin /.sin J. cos A, ;
and when the star is south of the prime vertical,
            cos (90°+*) = cos /.cos 5 — sin /.sin J.cos A...
Adding these two equations, we obtain
                 cot /.cot $= cos A'+A.» . cos A'~Aa.
                                      2             2
A, is half the interval between the first transit east and the second
transit west, and A, is half the interval between the second transit
east and the first transit west, in both cases converted into arc.
Thus by the observations on each wire we determine with great
facility / from S, or $ from /, without any knowledge of the distance
of that wire from the line of collimation.
   The mean error of level of the instrument may be applied to /
before forming the logarithm of cot / (supposing that it is the object
of the observation to determine S). Or a correction may be applied
for it (which will be different for different stars) to the result ob
tained with a constant value of /. The latter is the course followed
by M. Struve in reducing the observations of which I shall shortly
speak.

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                     801
    The advantages peculiar to this observation are, that it is not
affected by ordinary refraction ; and that its scale, being one of
time, is exact to a degree which is unapproachable in other ways.
Bad, indeed, must the clock be of whose rate we are not certain
within 1* per diem ; therefore the uncertainty on our time-scale
cannot practically amount to j,^^ part of the whole, and that on
the results of the observation, as depends on this cause, cannot
amount to 4 0 \ 6 6 part of the whole. But the Astronomer Royal
stated, as the result of his own experience, that au accuracy of l 0\o
in the determination of a micrometer-scale is almost more than can
be hoped for. Other advantages which it possesses are common to
other reversible instruments. Thus if there be a constant optical
fault in the image of a star, produced by defects in the object-glass,
that fault will produce opposite effects in the first and second posi
tions of the instrument : if the pivots be mis-shapen, as if there be a
hump upon one, yet if the form of the two Y's is similar, that hump
will take the same bearing upon the east side of one Y in one ob
servation as upon the west side of the other Y in another observa
tion, and its effects will be annihilated in the result : if the pivots
are unequal, the effects of the inequality are similarly annihilated.
But to secure all these advantages, the two following instrumental
 points - must be secured in the construction : the instrument must
 admit of having the level applied to it while the telescope is in the
 position of observation ; and it must admit of being reversed with
 ease and rapidity. To the obtaining of these objects, the construc
 tion devised by M. Strove, and carried out by Messrs. Repsold, is
 particularly well adapted. This instrument is supported upon Y's
 carried by two stone pillars, about 6 feet high and 46 inches apart,
 from outside to outside ; the outside face of the pillars being vertical,
 and the inside faces inclined to the vertical. The axis of the instru
 ment has its bearings upon the two Y's ; but the telescope (7 feet
 long) attached to this axis is on the outside of one of the pillars ; a
 counterpoise at the other end of the axis being on the outside of the
 other pillar. Between the two pillars is the reversing apparatus,
 which also carries the ordinary counterpoises. It consists of a ver
 tical shaft, sliding through holes in cross-bars which are fixed to the
 piers, and prevented by a fillet upon it from turning until it is raised
 to a certain height ; this vertical shaft carries a T head about 33
 inches long, at the extremities of which are the lifting-forks, and
 also the fulcra of the ordinary counterpoises. The counterpoises
  act by means of levers to support a bar about 4 1 inches long, at the
  extremities of which are the friction-rollers, which at all times sup
  port the principal part of the weight of the instrument. The vertical
  shaft does, therefore, at all times support the fulcra pressures of the
  counterpoises ; and when the instrument is raised for reversion, by
  bringing up the vertical shaft so that the lifting-forks at the ends of
  the T head come in contact with the axis of the instrument, the
  only additional load which is put upon the vertical shaft is that pres
  sure which was left as residual weight upon the Y's on the stone
  pillars, a pressure which, in the practice of the German astronomers,

  302                  Royal Astronomical Society.
  is very small. Two massive lever-counterpoises are therefore pro
 vided below, which act upwards under the foot of the shaft : and if
  these are adjusted to support the shaft when the instrument is not
 on the lifting-forks, they will also practically nearly support it when
 the instrument is on the lifting-forks : so that a very trifling effort
 of the hand is then necessary to raise the shaft with the instrument.
 This small effort is given through a winch, acting by means of
 bevel-gearing upon a large circular nut, which works on a screw-
 thread cut upon the shaft, and bears vertically upon one of the cross
 bars : and thus by an exertion which appears almost fancifully small,
 the instrument is raised for reversion, is turned round (the telescope
 being placed horizontally), and is deposited in its new position. Of
 this reversing apparatus the Astronomer Royal spoke with great
 praise. Not only is the reversion effected with a rapidity and ease
 scarcely to be conceived, but also the counterpoises are acting in the
 same way, and the general strains upon the instrument are almost
 exactly the same as when it is in ordinary use. The Astronomer
 Royal has borrowed this principle (although he has applied it in a
 different form), in the apparatus which he has adopted for raising
 the proposed transit-circle for the Royal Observatory, in order to
 give opportunity for the adjustment of its collimators.
     The general form of the axis, being unencumbered by any tele
 scope crossing it, is evidently well adapted to the application of the
 level at all times ; a thing which is always important, but particu
 larly necessary for the German instruments, which are frequently
 counterpoised almost to the last ounce, so that there is not in them
the same security for the bearing of the pivots in their proper posi -
 tion as in our instruments, in which a far greater residual weight is
 left.
    The instrument, therefore, and its auxiliary apparatus, are most
admirably adapted to securing the two advantages, of easy reversion
and application of the level in the position of observation, which are
so desirable for this instrument. But these advantages, in the
opinion of the Astronomer Royal, are very dearly bought by an
entire abandonment of that mechanical firmness of connexion be
tween the telescope and the axis which is obviously necessary to
make the observations trustworthy. The kind of firmness which is
required is that which retains the telescope in a position at right
angles to its axis ; the same, in fact, as that required for a transit-
instrument. We laugh at the transit-instruments of the last cen
tury, in which, while great pains were taken to secure length of axis
between the bearings, the central connexion was left very weak ;
and we praise the modern transit-instruments, in which the central
connexion has been made successively larger and larger, and not
least so by the German artists ; aud of which a more admirable
specimen cannot be cited than the Edinburgh transit-instrument,
made by Messrs. Repsold, the constructors of Struve's prime-vertical
instrument. Yet in this prime-vertical instrument, that important
connexion is probably very far weaker than in any transit-instrument
that ever was made. The whole support of the 7-feet telescope,

                      Royal Astronomical Society.                       303
upon the firmness of which support the value of the observations
entirely depends, is a single perforated pivot, 4 inches in diameter,
on one side of the telescope. It is true that the telescope is sus
tained, as regards the strain of its own weight upon the small pivot,
by an internal concealed counterpoise (for no one who has mastered
all the external counterpoises of a German instrument is therefore
to suppose that he has possessed himself of all the applications of
that principle in the interior of the instrument), whose fulcrum is in
the perforated pivot, near the telescope, and whose weight is within
the hollow case at the other end of the axis, which appears to the
eye like a large counterpoise connected with the external axis. But
this counterpoise, while it delivers the pivot from the ordinary strains
to which it would be exposed from the weight of the telescope, does
in no degree diminish the effect of what, perhaps, are really more
formidable, the accidental strains produced by pressures on the ends
of the telescope, or other accidental forces, or irregularities of forces,
not taken into account in the construction of the instrument. For
instance, if the Y's were slightly irregular, so that the principal
bearing of the pivots on the northern Y was an inch nearer to the
face of the pier than that on the southern Y (a thing which it would
be nearly impossible to discover by examination), the difference in
the bend of the axis in the two positions of the instrument would
probably be so considerable that every result would be worthless.
    In the opinion of the Astronomer Royal, the asserted consistency
of results hitherto obtained with this instrument proves nothing.
Although discordance proves the existence of some fault, accordance
does not negative the existence of very great faults. The Astronomer
 Royal cited the expression of Bouguer, who, after much painful ex
perience in the construction of zenith sectors, in different forms, for
 the measure of the Peruvian arc, came at last to the conclusion that
 no agreement of results proved their truth, unless the logical cor
 rectness of construction of the instrument gave reason ti priori for
 believing that the results would be good.
    One defect to which this instrument is liable was pointed out by
 M. Struve himself to the Astronomer Royal. It cannot be assumed
 that the temperatures of the external faces of the two piers are the
 same ; and if they be not, the effects of their radiation upon the te
 lescope-tube must be different*.
    The Astronomer Royal then remarked, that though perhaps the
 form of the ordinary transit-instrument would not give in their full
extent the same facilities, yet the great importance of securing the
admirable firmness and excellent connexions of the transit-instrument
 made it desirable for us to attempt to unite with them, as far as
 possible, the peculiar conveniences of Struve's instrument. In
    * The prime vertical instrument of M. Struve, constructed by Repsold,
is fully figured in plates 32, 33 of M. Struve's magnificent work, De-
tcription de C Obtervatoire tie PotJkova, Saint Pe'tersbourg, 1845. Drawings
 of the Greenwich zenith tube, and models of Struve's prime vertical instru
 ment mid of the reflex zenith tube, may be seen at the apartments of the
Royal Astronomical Society.

 304                Royal Astronomical Society.
regard to the reversion, by a forked apparatus rising from the floor,
 there is no difficulty ; the only difficulty is in the application of the
 level while the instrument is in the position of observation. There
 appears to be no valid reason prohibiting the use of one of the
 following constructions. The level-frame might consist of two
bars extending from the pivot-forks towards the telescope, there in
 terrupted in their straight course, and united by a large oval Ving,
through which the telescope could play ; each bar must then carry
 a short spirit-level. Or it might consist of a parallelogrammic
frame, strengthened in the middle by a ring through which the
telescope could play, the two short sides being attached to the
pivot-forkg, and the two long sides carrying two long levels. But a
different form of instrument may be suggested, allowing of the ap
plication of the ordinary single level at all times, and apparently
embodying the conveniences of Struve's form, while it does not
abandon the strength of the usual form. The transit-instrument
may be made in the form of the letter T (the horizontal line of the
T representing the axis of rotation), the object-glass of the tele
scope scarcely rising above the thick part of the axis. As the weight
of the telescope is entirely on one side of the axis, it must be ba
lanced by counterpoises carried by a very large fork ; the stalk of
the fork being within the telescope-tube, the two arms of the fork
being in the axis of the transit, and resting within the pivots for a
fulcrum, but projecting out beyond the pivots ; and the two prongs
 of the fork projecting towards the object viewed by the telescope,
and being loaded with the counterpoises at their ends.
    If, however, we rely upon our transit taking the same bearing in
the Y's after reversion, a very much simpler principle may be used,
dispensing entirely with the level. It is only necessary, after having
made the observations on the north side of the east prime vertical
(as already described), to reverse the instrument and to observe on
the south side of the east prime vertical by reflexion in a trough of
quicksilver; then to reverse and observe on the south side of the
west prime vertical by reflexion ; then to reverse again, and to
observe, by direct vision, on the north side of the west prime vertical.
   The Astronomer Royal expressed himself confident that in some
of these ways the advantages of Struve's construction might be
secured, with the additional guarantee for the goodness of the results,
that they are obtained with an instrument of firm mechanical con
struction.
   The Astronomer Royal then explained that his attention had been
directed to these constructions by the necessity created by the pre
sent condition of astronomy for a few accurate observations, at what
ever trouble obtained, of stars near the zenith. Struve's instrument
is now employed on three stars only, and AI. Struve is satisfied if
of each of these stars he can obtain eight observations in a year. At
Greenwich there is special need of observations of one star, namely
y Draconis, a star that may with propriety be considered as the
birth-star of English Astronomy. Unfortunately no instrument on
the prime vertical principle is applicable to this star, because it passes

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                    305
north of the zenith of Greenwich. The Astronomer Royal therefore
has been compelled to endeavour to devise an instrument which shall
be firm in its connexions, and shall also be applicable to the obser
vations of stars on both sides of the zenith. The following is the
construction which he proposes for this purpose.
   III. The proposed reflex zenith telescope is founded upon these
considerations. If an object-glass be placed with its axis vertical ;
and if a pencil of light fall on it from a star near the zenith, and
pass from the object-glass with its axis still inclined to the vertical,
but with the rays of the pencil in a state of convergence ; and if a
trough of quicksilver be placed below it at a distance somewhat less
than half the focal length of the object-glass ; the pencil of light
will then be reflected from the quicksilver with its axis still inclined
in the same degree to the vertical, and with the rays still in the same
state of convergence, and will again pass through the object-glass,
and will form an image of the star at a very short distance above the
object-glass, and at a distance from the axis of the object-glass de
pending on nothing but the star's zenith distance and the focal
length of the object-glass. Although we cannot fix on the axis of
the object-glass, yet we know that if the object-glass is turned
through 180°, the image will now be formed at an equal distance
from the axis of the object-glass, but in an opposite direction rela
tively to the frame of the object-glass ; and therefore the distance
between the two positions of the image, as measured by a micrometer
 attached to the frame of the object-glass, will be double the distance
of either image from the axis of the object-glass, and will therefore
be a measure of the star's zenith distance. The peculiar advantage
of this construction is, that it requires no firmness of connexion ex
cept that of the micrometer with the frame of the object-glass. The
 mercury-trough may be totally unconnected with the rest of the
 instrument. The firmness of support of the object-glass is unim
 portant; for, however much the object-glass is pushed sideways
 (giving the same movement to the image of the star), the micrometer
 is equally pushed sideways, and the measure of the image is not
 disturbed. The peculiar disadvantage is, that the light must be
 reflected from quicksilver, and must pass again through the object-
 glass, and mus^ be transmitted through a four-glass eyepiece with
 a diagonal reflector, so that the whole loss of light will be consider
 able. But this disadvantage appears insignificant in comparison
 with the advantage.
    Theoretically, the place of the image will be affected by a local
 fault in that part of the object-glass through which the rays pass the
 second time. But, practically, the existence of such a fault is un
 likely ; and its effect, if any existed, would be proportional to the
 distance of the image from the object-glass, and therefore small : and
 moreover it could be ascertained and measured by previous experi
 ment on the object-glass. No injury, therefore, to the results, and
 no real inconvenience to the observations, would arise from such a
 fault.
    The only risk to which this construction appears to be exposed is
 Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 236. Oct. 1849.                   X

306                  Royal Astronomical Society.
the following. If the object-glass with the micrometer attached be
tilted, the place of the image of the star upon the micrometer will
be disturbed by a small quantity, unless the plane of the micrometer
be at one certain distance from the object-glass. It is therefore an
important matter to determine what that certain distance will be.
It is easily seen that if the plane of the micrometer pass through one
of the points called focal centres, this condition is satisfied. For a
ray from a vertical star passing through the focal centre (the object-
glass being inclined), will be refracted in a parallel vertical direction
to the quicksilver, and will then be reflected back from the quick
silver in the same line, and will by refraction be made to pass again
through the same focal centre ; and, supposing the distance of the
quicksilver to be properly adjusted, so that the image of the star is
formed on the micrometer, that image will be at the focal centre
whatever be the inclination of the object-glass. The place of the
focal centre may be determined by an apparatus, in which the object-
glass is planted in a frame that admits of being slid in a direction
perpendicular to its plane, the sliding- cell being upon aboard which
 turns in its own plane on a pin ; a beam of light is directed upon
 the lens through two narrow slits ; and a telescope is placed on the
 opposite side of the object-glass to receive the light ; when, by trial
 of sliding the frame, a position is so determined that, upon rotating
 the turning-board, through a large angle, the position of the beam
 of light as seen in the telescope does not change, it is then certain
that the focal centre is in the axis of rotation. If the micrometer
 can be conveniently fixed at this distance from the object-glass, the
accidental inclination of the object-glass will be unimportant ; if the
 micrometer is at any other distance, there will be a very small cor
rection to the measures, depending on the inclination of the object-
 glass ; and it will be proper that a small spirit-level be attached to
 the object-glass frame for the measure of the inclination. Perhaps
 in auy case this addition will be prudent.
   The adjustment to focal length will depend upon nothing but the
distance between the object-glass and the quicksilver ; and a power
of altering this distance must be retained. It is proposed to do this
by moving the tube, in which the object-glass turns, up or down
by a rack-and-pinion motion, the tube and its load being as nearly
as possible balanced by a lever-counterpoise. It is also proposed
that a smaller quicksilver-trough, communicating with the larger,
should carry a float, from which a light stalk should rise by the side
of the object-glass frame ; if this stalk be made of the same material
as the micrometer, a scale upon the stalk will indicate the value of
the micrometer-scale as corrected for thermal expansion, and as
affected by any change of focal length.
   Although such an instrument may be adapted to the observation
of any stars which pass within a field of view expressed by the
breadth of the object-glass, yet some conveniences of fixation are
gained by limiting it to the one star y Draconis. The following are
the details of mounting proposed by the Astronomer Royal. The
micrometer necessarily requires two metallic bars crossing the object

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                      307
 glass ; and upon reversing the object-glass, with micrometer attached,
the two bars will again occupy the same position in space. Conse
quently there will be no additional interruption of light if the support
of the prism-reflector of the eyepiece be two bars in the vertical
planes which pass through the micrometer- bars, carried by crooked
projections from the tube in which the object-glass turns (and there
fore not reversed with the object-glass). And as the prism-reflector
intercepts a small portion of the object-glass excentrically, a corre
sponding portion equally excentric on the opposite side must be in
tercepted by a small plate carried by the two bars, in order that the
diffraction-disturbance of the star's image may be symmetrical. One
lens of the eyepiece will be below the prism-reflector, and one close
to its vertical, or nearly vertical, face (unless it be thought preferable
to produce the effect of lenses, by grinding the faces of the prism-
reflector to spherical forms) : the remaining lenses of the eyepiece
(namely, the field-glass and the eye-glass) will be fixed in a tube,
entirely exterior to the object-glass and therefore causing no addi
tional loss of light, carried by a crooked projection from the tube in
which the object-glass turns. These crooked projections permit the
micrometer-heads and reversing-handle, &c. to pass, in the reversion
of the object-glass.
   Notwithstanding the great simplicity and compactness of the
essential parts of this instrument, the Astronomer Royal thinks it
desirable that it be so arranged that a double observation can be
made at each transit of the star. It is necessary for this purpose
that two wires be fixed in the micrometer plate, at an interval cor
responding nearly to the double zenith distance of the star. By
fixing temporarily in the immediate field of view of the eyepiece a
cross of wires, or by planting a microscope for the occasion above
the micrometer frame, the interval between these two wires may be
found very accurately in terms of the revolutions of the micrometer ;
and by fixing other wires on the micrometer plate at intervals as
nearly as possible equal to that interval, and by using a series of
microscopes fixed for the occasion, the micrometer-scale intervals
between all these wires may be very accurately found. And by
turning the object-glass and attached micrometer to a position 90°
distant from either of the positions of observation, and observing the
transits of zenithal stars over all the wires, the intervals in arc may
be found. The combination of these will give the best possible in
formation on the value of the micrometer- scale, and on the intervals
of the wires.
   A simple micrometer might be used for the observation ; it would,
however, have these disadvantages; that the micrometer must be read
between the two observations, and that the observer could not use
the same hand in the two actions upon the micrometer head. The
Astronomer Royal proposes a more complex micrometer, in which
the micrometer B, to which the bisection-wires are attached, is car
ried by and has its screw-appui in a micrometer A ; and the micro
meter A has its ecrew-appvi in the cell of the object-glass. There
is no difficulty in so arranging this that the movement of micrometer
                                  X2

S08          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
A shall not tend to disturb the relative place of micrometer B, and
that the movement of micrometer B shall not tend to disturb the
absolute place of micrometer A (A and B standing in exactly the
same relation as the tangent-screw of a mural circle, and the micro
meter in its telescope) : and then the observation may be conducted
in this manner. One wire being very nearly in the position for bi
secting the star, A will be read, and the bisection will be completed
by B. Without waiting to read the micrometer head, the object-
glass, &c. will be reversed, and the second bisection will be com
pleted by A. Then A and B will be read. It will be proper some
times to effect the reversion in the opposite order: and for this
purpose, using the same hand on the micrometer, B must be read
before beginning, and the first bisection must be completed by A,
and after reversion the second bisection must be completed by B.
In either case the complete double observation may be obtained
with great rapidity, but without the smallest hurry.
    The Astronomer Koyal expressed his belief that an instrument
 thus constructed might be expected usually to give results accurate
 to one-tenth of a second of arc.
    The Astronomer Royal then stated that, before attaching any
 name to this construction, he had requested the assistance of the
 Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, whose authority in a philo
 logical question of this kind is undisputed. Doctor Whewell has
 fixed on the name '* The Reflex Zenith Telescope ; " a name which
 appears to express with singular accuracy the peculiarities of its
 construction, and which the Astronomer Royal hoped would be
 universally adopted.                         '',' ."iuvn boii-ilono
           XL. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   ON CARBONATE OF LIME AS AN INGREDIENT OF SEA-WATER.
       To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,                                   September 6, 1849.
  1 N the current Number of the Philosophical Magazine appears an
  *¦ abstract of a paper by Dr. Davy On Carbonate of Lime as an
 Ingredient of Sea-water, from which, according to the author's in-
 ferences, it appears that "carbonate of lime, except in very minute
 proportion, does not belong to water of the ocean at any great di
 stance from land." But with all deference I would submit that this
  may be true as regards the surface only ; and that the bottom of the
 sea, even at its greatest distance from land, may be equivalent to
  " proximity to coasts," the point urged by Dr. Davy.
     That there are grounds for such a supposition, and for believing
  that no inconsiderable quantity of carbonate of lime does exist at the
  bottom of the ocean far from land, is apparent in Darwin On Coral
  Reefs, where instances are given of living corals and corallines being
  taken up from great depths ; and taking the presumption that the
  base of some of the remote coral islets of the Pacific, whose peqxn

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           309
dicular wall descends to immense depths, is the same as the summit,
we hare further evidence that carbonate of lime does exist, or has
existed, in such situations—far from coasts.
   Again, Sir James G. Ross, in his Voyage to the Southern Seas
(vol. i. pp. 202, 203, 207, 208), relates that on one occasion the
dredge was put over in 270 fathoms and brought up living coral ; a
day or two afterwards corallines were obtained in 300 fathoms ; and
speaking of the maintenance of organic life under pressure, he ob
serves, " hitherto we have not been able to determine this point
beyond a thousand fathoms, but from that depth several shell-fish
haTe been brought up with the mud." Sir James appears to believe
that their existence at greater depths is not impossible ; for he pur
sues, "as we know they can bear the pressure of one thousand
fathoms, why may they not of two?"
    I leave it to your judgement whether the foregoing remarks are
worthy of publication, and remain,
                              Your obedient Servant,
                     - ¦.                            Walter Whitb.
GOLD IN CERTAIN MINES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE RHONE.
    MM. Allain and Bartenbach state that the copper mines of Chessy
and of Saint Bel (Rhone) have been the objects of interesting ex
periments; the result of which is, not only that the copper and zinc
which the pyrites contains may be easily extracted, but that it con
tains also at least 1-10,000 of gold. According to analyses, the
numerical results of which are not stated by the authors, the pyrites
contains sulphur, iron, zinc (about 8 per cent.), copper (about 5 per
cent.), silica, arsenic, and gold, 1-10,000 at least. This discovery
of gold has naturally led to the performance of a series of opera
tions, in order to find an ceconomical method of extracting this metal.
 Although the experiments are not entirely finished, the authors
 consider that the separation of this small quantity of gold is easy
 and ceconomical, and that the copper, zinc, and sulphuric acid ob
 tained, will partly cover the expenses of extraction ; the method is
 briefly as follows :—The sulphur and arsenic being expelled by roast
 ing, and the oxides of zinc and copper formed dissolved by sulphuric
 acid, the residue, which is composed of silica, sesquioxide of iron '
 and gold, is to be washed, and then treated with a cold aqueous
 solution of chlorine ; after some hours' action a solution of chloride
 of gold is obtained, from which the metal is reduced by the usual
 processes ; the chlorine in this case does not act upon the sesqui
 oxide of iron L'Institut, Aoiit 8, 1849.
         ON THE ANALYSIS OF PLANTS BY INCINERATION.
                            BY M. CA1LLAT.
    The author, who is professor at the Agricultural Institute of
 Grignon, is of opinion that incineration, generally hitherto employed

310            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
for obtaining the inorganic matters of plants, yields incorrect results;
that the sulphates contained in the plant so treated are in great mea
sure decomposed, and that the sulphuric acid or sulphur escapes in
large proportion among the gaseous products of combustion.
    It occurred to M. Caillat to treat the residues of plants, such as
 lucern, trefoil and sainfoin, with dilute nitric acid, and he succeeded
 in separating almost the whole of the mineral substances which they
 contained ; so that the pulpy residue of 10 grammes of the substance
 employed, after washing and drying, burnt readily, leaving only 18,
 20, or 22 milligrammes of ashes. This small residue consisted of
 silica and a little peroxide of iron, substances both insoluble in the
 acid employed. This method of treating plants always yielded the
 author a larger proportion of mineral substances than he obtained
 from the same quantity of the same plants by incineration ; and in
 certain vegetables he found a much greater quantity of sulphuric
 acid than has hitherto been stated.
    M. Caillat states, that he found by experiment that the loss of
 sulphuric acid occasioned by incineration is derived from the decom
 position of a part of the sulphate of lime. Thus on intimately mixing
 with starch and water a known quantity of pure and calcined sul
 phate of lime, and incinerating the mass, the collected ashes did not
 contain as much sulphuric acid as the sulphate of lime employed.
    The author has also stated another direct experiment, which shows
 that the sulphate of lime converted into sulphuret of calcium by the
 influence of the organic matter, at a high temperature, is partly con
 verted into carbonate of lime by the action of the oxygen of the air.
 The oxygen gas, burning at once the sulphur of the sulphuret and
 a portion of carbon interposed, forms sulphurous acid, which is
 evolved, carbonic acid, part of which remains combined with the
lime, facilitating thereby the displacement of the sulphur.—L'ln-
stitiU, Aout 8, 1849.
       BLUE ARSENIATE OF COPPER.            BY M. REBOULLEAU.
    The author had proposed to employ the above-named compound
both as an oil and as a water colour ; but he has since found that,
owing to the action of the oil on the oxide of copper, the colour
becomes bluish-^reen ; in fact, that the arseniate acts with oil like
 verditer and other blue preparations of copper.
    If equal parts of common arseniate of copper and neutral arseniate
 of potash be mixed and heated, the compound melts, and yields on
cooling a fused, perfectly transparent mass of a bluish-green colour,
a vitreous fracture and very fusible. The resulting compound is a
double arseniate of potash and copper obtained in the dry way by
M. Berthier's process. Whilst the double arseniate is in perfect
fusion, if one-fifth of its quantity of powdered nitrate of potash be
projected into it, brisk effervescence ensues, and a large quantity of
nitric oxide is disengaged. The crucible then removed from the
fire contains a magnificent blue substance, formed of sub-arseniate

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            311
of potash and arseniate of copper, in the state of a double salt.
When this compound reduced to powder is treated with water, the
double salt is decomposed ; the water carries off the arseniate and
nitrate of potash, and leaves a precipitate of arseniate of copper of
an admirable blue colour L'Institut, Aout 1, 1849.
                ON METHYLAMINE AND ETHYLAMINE.
    M. Adolphe Wurtz has described the preparation and properties
of the above compounds, belonging to a class of substances to which
he has given the name of compound ammonias (ammoniaques com-
potees).
    Methylamine.—The process by which this base was obtained
does not differ from that employed by chemists in preparing am
monia. Perfectly dry hydrochlorate of methylamine is mixed with
twice its weight of quicklime, and the mixture is introduced into a
long tube closed at one end, so as to occupy half of it. The other half
is filled with fragments of potash, to which a tube is adapted for
conveying the gas to an'air-jar filled with mercury. The tube is to
be slightly heated, beginning at the closed end ; metbylammoniacal
gas, displaced by the lime, is abundantly liberated, and received in
the air-jar filled with mercury.
    Methylamine thus prepared is a non-permanent gas. At about
32° F. it condenses into a very moveable liquid. Its odour is strongly
 ammoniacal. Its density was found to be 1 "13 ; it is therefore rather
 more dense than atmospheric air. The experimental result is rather
 higher than the theoretical, which is T075. This is undoubtedly
 owing to the temperature at which the experiment was made, the
 gas being too near its point of liquefaction.
    Methylammonia gas is the most soluble of all gases hitherto
 known. At the temperature of about 53° F. one volume of water
 dissolves 1040 volumes ; a higher temperature diminishes this solu
 bility, as might be expected. At 77° F. water dissolves only 959
 times its volume.
    Like ammonia, it is instantaneously absorbed by charcoal, and also
 resembles it in immediately rendering reddened litmus paper blue ;
 when exposed to the vapour of hydrochloric acid, it forms a very
 thick white smoke. Like ammonia, if absorbs an equal volume of
 hydrochloric acid gas, and half its volume of carbonic acid gas. It
 is distinguished from ammoniacal gas by the circumstance that, when
 exposed to flame, it takes fire arid bums with a yellowish flame.
    The composition of methylammonia gas is represented by C2H5 N
 = 4 vols.
    An elegant and rapid analysis of this gas is effected by heating it
 with potassium in a bent tube : cyanide of potassium is formed and
 hydrogen is evolved, C> H» N + K=C2 NK + H*.
    The solution of methylamine has the strong odour of the gas itself.
 Its taste is caustic and burning. Iodine reacts upon the solution of
  methylamine, and is converted into a powder of a garnet- red colour ;

312           Intelligence
                     -o      and Miscellaneous Articles.
and the liquor, which hardly becomes coloured, contains hydriodate
of methylamine IH, O H5 N. The red insoluble compound formed
as described is analogous to iodide of nitrogen.
    The salts of magnesia, alumina, manganese, iron, bismuth, chro
mium, uranium, tin, lead and mercury, are precipitated by methyla
mine as they are by ammonia.
    The salts of zinc are at first precipitated, and of a white colour;
 but the precipitate redissolves in a large excess of the reagent; the
salts of copper are precipitated of a bluish-white colour; excess re-
 dissolves the precipitate, forming a solution of a deep blue colour;
the salts of cadmium, nickel and cobalt, are precipitated by the so
 lution of methylamine, but excess does not redissolve the precipitates.
    Nitrate of silver is completely precipitated by methylamine ; the
 oxide of silver dissolves readily in an excess of the reagent. When
 this solution is suffered to evaporate spontaneously, a black substance
 is precipitated which is analogous to fulminating silver. This sub
stance does not explode either by a blow, or by the action of heat;
chloride of silver itself dissolves in solution of methylamine.
    Chloride of gold is precipitated of a brownish-yellow ; an excess
readily dissolves the precipitate, forming an orange-coloured solu
tion. A concentrated solution of chloride of platina gives with me
thylamine a crystalline deposit in orange-coloured scales, consisting
 of a double hydrochlorate of methylamine and platina.
    Ethylamine.—This base was obtained by decomposing hydro-
chlorate of ethylamine by lime, in the same manner as methylamine.
 Excepting that as ethylamine condenses readily, and is liquid at
common temperatures, the delivery-tube is surrounded with ice, or
still better by a freezing mixture ; the ethylamine distilled at a mo
derate heat condenses in the receiver.
    In a pure state, it is a light, very moveable, and perfectly limpid
liquid. It boils at about 64° F. When poured on the hand it vo
latilizes, instantly producing very considerable cold. It gives out
an extremely penetrating ammoniacal odour; its causticity may be
compared to that of potash. Ethylamine renders litmus paper which
has been reddened strongly blue; when exposed to hydrochloric
acid it yields dense white vapours. Every drop of acid added to it
produces a whistling at the moment of its mixing with the base.
Barytes and potash remain in contact with it at common temperatures
without alteration. When exposed to flame, ethylamine takes fire
and burns with a bluish flame. It mixes with water in all propor
tions, giving out much heat, and yielding a solution the basic pro
perties of which are exactly similar to those of methylamine ; hydrate
of copper is, however, most readily soluble in ethylamine.
    Chloride of platina is not precipitated by ethylamine. When a
solution of ethylamine is mixed with oxalic aether, the mixture soon
becomes turbid ; alcohol is formed ; very slender crystals separate
of a compound which is to oxamide what ethylamine is to ammonia ;
it is ethyloxamidc, the composition of which is represented by
C'H*N80*. The composition of anhydrous ethylamine is repre
sented by the formula C* H7 N.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              313
    One hundred parts give—
                                Experiment.               Theory.
              Carbon                 54*4       .          54'3
              Hydrogen               15'9        ..        15*5
              Nitrogen               30-9     31-3         31-2
                                       Comptes Rendus, Aout 13, 184-9.
              ON VALERAMINE OR VALERIC AMMONIA.
    M. A. Worts states that cyanate of amylene, which he obtained by
distilling sulphamylate of potash with cyanate of potash, is easily
decomposed by solution of potash. The reaction, favoured by the
action of heat, gives rise to carbonate of potash and a volatile base,
valeramine, which distils when the solution of potash is boiled. It
is found in the receiver in solution in water which is volatilized and
condensed with it.
    On saturating this solution of valeramine with hydrochloric acid, a
perfectly neutral hydrochlorate is obtained, which by evaporation is
obtained in the form of white scales, greasy to the touch, very so
luble in water and soluble in alcohol; it does not deliquesce in the
air. By analysis it yielded—
                                  Experiment. Calculation.
                  Carbon               48"2             48-5
                  Hydrogen             11-4,            11-3
                  Chlorine             28'3             28'7
                  Nitrogen                              11-5
    This analysis agrees perfectly with the formula HC1, C10 H" N.
    The accuracy of this formula was verified by analysing the double
salt which is precipitated when concentrated solutions of chloride
of platina and hydrochlorate of valeramine are mixed. As it is con
siderably soluble in water, it is advantageous to add a little alcohol
 to the mixture. After having collected and pressed the precipitate,
 it is to be redissolved in boiling water ; on cooling, it precipitates
 in fine scales of a golden-yellow colour, the composition of which is
 represented by the formula HC1, C'°H13 N, PtCl2, as deduced from
 the following results of the analyses : —
                                    Experiment.     Calculation.
                  Platina              32-6             32-9
                  Chlorine             36-0             36-5
                  Carbon               20-4             20-5
                  Hydrogen
                  Nitrogen               4-8              4-8
    When hydrochlorate of valeramine is distilled with lime, the vola
 tile valeramine passes over into the receiver. When pure, this base
 is liquid ; its taste is both burning and bitter, and its odour strongly
 ainmoniacal. It is soluble in water, and the solution precipitates the

 314            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 salts of copper, an excess redissolving the precipitate, yielding an
 azure blue solution ; this effect is, however, produced with greater
 difficulty than with ethylamine, methylamine or ammonia. Valera-
 mine also precipitates nitrate of silver ; the precipitate is of a fawn-
 colour, and adheres like a resinous mass to the bottom of the vessel.
  An excess of the reagent whitens and completely dissolves it. Chlo
 ride of silver is dissolved by valeramine, but with more difficulty
 than by ammonia Comptes Rendus, Aout 13, 1849.
       ON CHLOROFORM.         BY MM. SOUBEIRAN AND MIALHE.
    Two liquids are sold in commerce under the name of chloroform ;
 and though of very different origin, they are considered as identical,
 and are accordingly substituted for each other. Nevertheless there
 are notable differences in their properties : one, derived from the
 reaction of hypochlorite of lime upon alcohol, possesses all the pro
 perties which one of the authors of this memoir has assigned to
 chloroform ; it is that which may be called normal chloroform ; the
 other, obtained by the action of hypochlorite of lime on pyroxylic
 spirit, is so different from the first, that the authors have submitted
 them to a minute examination in order to discover the cause of the
 difference.
    The chloroform from pyroxylic spirit, which the authors provi
 sionally call methylic chloroform, although possessing the same phy
sical appearances as normal chloroform, has quite a different odour :
this odour is not sweet and agreeable, but empyreumatic and nau
seous. Its density is less than that of common chloroform ; the
latter being 1-496, the former 1-413 *. Its boiling-point appears also
to be not so high ; lastly, the inhaling of methylic chloroform is
so far from being easy and agreeable, that it occasions general un
easiness, followed by heaviness of the head, continued nausea, and
sometimes vomiting.
    Such differences in the properties of these two liquids induced the
authors to think that they did not possess the same composition, or
that the properties of one of them was masked by some foreign
substance.
    On the first hypothesis, it might be thought that chloroform,
which does not belong to the same chemical type as alcohol, and
which is formed by the powerful reaction of chloride of lime, may
be a different body according as it is formed from alcohol, which
belongs to the ethyle series, or from pyroxylic spirit, which belongs
to that of methyle. It may happen, also, that the difference de-
   * The authors remark in passing, that the density of chloroform, stated
by M. Liebig to be V480, is too light; they constantly obtained it of 1-406
at 54° F. The difference is unquestionably derived from the presence of
some foreign body, which it was not known how to separate from the chlo
roform, as the authors will presently show.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             315
pends on the greater or less condensation of the methyle, which may
be supposed to exist in both chloroforms.
   In this uncertainty the authors undertook analyses, the results of
which will be hereafter stated. The second hypothesis supposes the
identity of the chloroforms formed from alcohol or from pyroxylic
spirit. The difference in this case would be derived from the pre
sence of a foreign body. This opinion is the best founded. In fact,
the authors found, by endeavouring more perfectly to rectify methylic
chloroform on chloride of calcium, that the salt which remained in
the retort contained a quantity of a peculiar oil, easily separable by
washing with water : by repeated rectifications, 30 grammes of this
oil were obtained from 500 grammes of some commercial chloroforms.
   This new substance was liquid, and of an oily consistence. At
first yellowish, it became colourless by simpl» rectification. It had
a verypeculiar and strong empyreumatic odour, which was recognized
as the cause of the peculiar odour of methylic chloroform ; it was
lighter than water ; submitted to distillation in a retort containing
a thermometer, it began to distil at 1 85° F. ; but this temperature
was so far from remaining fixed, that it rose to 244° F. At this
moment the operation was interrupted, because the thermometer, on
account of the small quantity of the remaining oil, did not dip into it.
   This increase of temperature during the distillation evidently de
notes a mixture of various compounds. This heterogeneous oil
burnt readily with an intense sooty flame. The presence of chlorine
among the products of combustion showed that this body was a
constituent part of its elements.
   The chloroform, several times rectified for the production of this
oil, did not retain the slightest pyrogenous odour which characterizes
it. Some chemical reaction was then searched for, which, while it
would not react upon the chloroform, was capable of separating or
destroying the oil that it contains. After some trials, concentrated
sulphuric acid appeared to answer the purpose : it occasioned the
impure chloroform to assume a brownish-red colour, the intensity of
which was greater in proportion to the quantity of oil in the mix
ture. When colour ceased to be produced in the chloroform, it no
longer retained the empyreumatic odour.
   The authors state that, without the fear of incurring any sensible
error, they were able to analyse the chloroform thus purified, and to
examine and compare its properties with those of normal chloroform.
The analyses, densities, in the liquid state and that of vapour, were
all found to be similar ; and satisfactory proof was obtained that
only one chloroform exists ; and that which is prepared from py
roxylic spirit does not differ from that obtained from alcohol, when
all the oil above described has been separated. It must, however,
be admitted, that the complete separation of this oil was not effected ;
there still remained a very minute portion of it, so small as not to
affect the density or the results of analyses ; but it was distinguish
able by its odour, which remained after the evaporation of a consi
derable quantity of chloroform. It was peculiarly sensible in the

 316             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 operation of determining the density of its vapour ; the matras after
 the operation retained the peculiar odour of this chlorinated methylic
 oil. It is almost impossible to get rid of the last traces of it: it
 resists the action of concentrated sulphuric acid, even when the
 chloroform is long exposed to it.                               - s Ai
    There do not, then, exist two chloroforms ; the cause of the ap
 parent difference is the presence of the peculiar oil produced by the
 reaction of chloride of lime on pyroxylic spirit.
    This fact being established, search was instituted to determine
 whether, during the preparation of chloroform from alcohol, an
 analogous substance was formed. Experiment confirmed suspicion ;
 the rough chloroform was washed first with water and afterwards
 with carbonate of soda ; it was long kept in contact with chloride
 of calcium to combine with the water ; lastly, it was filtered and
 distilled in a water-bath from a glass retort. There remained in the
 retort a liquid aromatic substance, but of an odour very different
 from that of chloroform ; the proportion was very small, for not
 more than 40 grammes were obtained from 20 kilogrammes of chlo
 roform.
    This oil differs essentially from that obtained from chloroform
prepared from pyroxylic spirit. It is more dense than water, has a
 peculiar acrid and penetrating odour, not at all resembling that of
 the other oil ; but like it, it was found to be a mixture of different
 compounds; for the thermometer, which on heating was 134° F.
 at the commencement of ebullition, became as high as 242° F. ; and
 the temperature would undoubtedly have been increased if the ex
 periment could have been tried with a larger quantity. All these
 compounds are chlorinated, as proved by examining the results of
 their combustion.
    It results from the preceding statements, that as chloroform ob
tained from pyroxylic spirit cannot be entirely deprived of its pyro-
genous odour, it ought not to be employed for inhaling. The pre
sence of chlorinated oil, in the small quantity even in which it exists
in chloroform obtained with alcohol, has a strongly-marked influence
in its employment : it is to it that must be attributed the uneasiness,
nausea and vomiting, occasioned by inhaling chloroform.
    It follows that it is absolutely necessary to rectify chloroform by
distillation in order to separate the foreign body which it contains,
and moreover the distillation should be stopped sufficiently soon.
    In concluding, the authors remark that chloroform, like hydro
cyanic acid, when poured on filtering paper, partly evaporates so
rapidly as to occasion sufficient cold to solidify the remainder in
white silky tufts, which remain for a few seconds.
    The authors conclude from the facts above stated, that—
    1st. Chloroform prepared from pyroxylic spirit is identical with
chloroform properly so called.
    2nd. The purification of methylic chloroform is too difficult to
admit of its advantageous substitution for normal chloroform.
   3rd. During the preparation of chloroform there is always pro-

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                317
duced a certain quantity of pyrogenous, essential chlorinated oil,
the action of which on the animal oeconomy is extremely hurtful.
   4th. It is indispensable to free chloroform from this chlorinated
essential oil, by not continuing the rectification too long.—Journ.
de Pharm. et de Ch., Juillet 1849.
             ON THE PREPARATION OF NITROGEN GAS.
                        BY M. B. CORENWINDER.
    The preparation of nitrogen is attended with several inconveni
ences : there is no one of all the processes employed by which it can
be obtained rapidly and pure, without much precaution and the use
of complicated apparatus. This circumstance induced the author to
publish the method by which he obtains in a few minutes a large
quantity of this gas, and in a state of absolnte purity, as shown by
 experiments related below.
    This process is derived from the decomposition of nitrite of am
monia, which, as is well known, is resolved by heat into nitrogen
 and water ; but as this salt is difficult to prepare, it is replaced by a
mixture of alkaline nitrite of potash and hydrochlorate of ammonia,
 a mixture which contains the elements of nitrite of ammonia and
 chloride of potassium.
    In order to obtain the nitrite of potash in a proper state, it is
 requisite to employ a solution of caustic potash, of density 1'38, and
 to pass' into it nitric oxide obtained from the decomposition of one
 part of starch by ten parts of nitric acid, until a distinctly acid pro
 duct is obtained, and afterwards to add to it caustic potash, so as
 to render it decidedly alkaline.
    The nitrite thus prepared may be kept without undergoing alte
 ration, so that a quantity of it may be prepared ; and when nitrogen
 is required, it is sufficient to mix concentrated solutions of one vo
 lume with three volumes of hydrochlorate of ammonia, and to heat
 the mixture in a retort by a charcoal fire ; the disengagement soon
 commences, and continues with perfect regularity.
    As it is necessary, in order to have the gas pure, that the nitrite
 should be alkaline, it will be expected that a small quantity of am
 monia will be evolved ; but this disengagement is unattended with
 any inconvenience ; if the nitrogen gas be required completely de
 prived of this alkali, it is sufficient to pass it through water acidu
 lated with sulphuric acid contained in a bottle.
     The following experiments left no doubt as to the purity of the
  nitrogen gas thus obtained : —
     let. After having deprived it of ammonia in the manner above
 stated, it was passed into a bottle containing a mixture of zinc,
  sulphuric acid and water, and consequently in the presence of nas
  cent hydrogen.
     The experiment was continued for a considerable time ; and when

 318           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 it waB terminated, there was not the slightest indication of the pre
 sence of ammonia in the solution. The result was equally negative
 with sulphuret of iron and dilute sulphuric acid.
     2nd. A certain weight of copper recently reduced by hydrogen
 was placed in an organic analysis glass tube, and subjected for about
 half an hour to the action of a red heat and a current of washed
 nitrogen, which had been afterwards dried by pumice-stone and
 sulphuric acid, taking the precaution of not heating the tube till
 after all the atmospheric air had been driven out by the disengage
 ment of the gas. The experiment was repeated several times, and
 no alteration was observable in the exterior appearance of the copper,
 nor had it increased in weight.—Ann. de Ch. et de Ph., Juillet 1849.
 ON THE QUANTITY OF AMMONIA CONTAINED IN ATMOSPHERIC
                     AIR. BY M. R. FRESENIUS.
    In the following table the author has arranged the results of his
 own experiments and those of MM. Grager and Kemp ; 1,000,000
 parts of air contain —
                                             Oxide of Carbonate of
                               Ammonia. ammonium, ammonia.
       Grager                      0333        0-508        0938
       Kemp                        3-880       5-610       10370
       Fresenius/day
       *resenms \ night . .. 0169  °'098       °*153
                                               0-257        °'283
                                                            0-474
       Fresenius' mean            0133         0205         0-379
    The proportional quantities of ammonia found by these chemists
are—
                 Fresenius                       1 day
                 Fresenius                       1'7 night
                 Grager          ,              3'4
                 Kemp                          375
    M. Fresenius observes that he is far from setting a high value
upon his experiments, though he took great care in all his operations ;
he i.s, however, of opinion that he may draw the following conclu
sions from them : —
    1st. The determinations hitherto arrived at respecting the quan
tity of ammonia contained in the air have given too large results ;
for the differences between the analyses are so great, that it is im
possible to attribute them to a change in the composition of the
air, unless the change has been accidentally produced and purely
local.
    2nd. To determine with exactitude the quantity of ammonia con
tained in the atmosphere, much larger quantities than have hitherto
been acted upon must be submitted to experiment. It would be

                         Meteorological Observations.                            S19
proper to operate upon at least 12,000 to 15,000 litres in order to
collect at least 10 milligrammes of platina.
    3rd. The author states that, until researches have been made on
a large scale, his experiments may serve as approximative.
    If it be true that night air is richer in ammonia than the air of the
day, this fact may be explained by the phenomena presented by the
nutrition of plants, by the circumstance that the ammonia which
accumulates in the air during the day and during the night is dis
solved and precipitated by the dew at sun-rise.—Ibid. Juin 1849.
       METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR AUG. 1849.
    Chiswick. — August 1. Very fine : clear. 2. Very fine : slight rain. 3. Slight
rain : overcast : cold at night. 4. Clear and fine. 5. Fine : cloudy. 6. Cloud
less: very fine.     7. Fine : overcast : rain. 8. Clear: very fine : lightning. 9.
 Foggy : very fine : heavy showers.       10. Hazy: very fine : clear.      II. Clear:
cloudy: rain. 12. Overcast : clear : rain. 13. Showery. 14. Cloudy and fine.
 IS. Very fine. 16. Showery : very clear at night. 17— 19. Fine. 20. Cloudy.
21 —23. Very fine. 24. Very fine : nary. 25. Uniformly overcast : very fine.
26, 27. Very fine.      28. Very fine : slight rain at night.    29. Overcast.     30.
 Dry haze : rain at night. 31. Hazy : cloudy and fine.
         Mean temperature of the month                                62°'91
         Mean temperature of Aug. 1848                                58 '74
         Mean temperature of Aug. for the last twenty-three years 62 '18
         Average amount of rain in August                                 2-41 inches.
    Boston, — Aug. 1. Fine. 2. Fine : rain p.m. 3. Cloudy. 4. Fine. 5—7.
 Cloudy. 8. Cloudy : rain early a.m.: thermometer 79° 3 i'.m.           9. Fine : rain
p.m. 10, 11. Cloudy : rain p.m. 12. Fine. 13. Cloudy : rain r.M. 14. Cloudy.
 15. Fine. 16. Cloudy. 17. Fine.           18. Cloudy : rain a. m. 19. Fine. 20—
23. Cloudy. 24— 26. Fine. 27— 29. Cloudy. SO. Cloudy: rain p.m. 31. Fine.
    Applegarth Manse, Dumfries-shire. — Aug. 1. Fair. 2, 3. Fair : a few drops p.m.
 4. Fair and warm. 5, 6. Fair : warm : cloudy p.m. 7. Frequent showers. 8.
 Fair and fine : beautiful day.     9. Very warm : thunder : showers. 10. Heavy
 shower : very warm. 11. Very heavy rain : thunder. 12. Rain: river flooded.
 13. Heavy rain.      14. Showers a.m. : cloudy p.m.      15. One shower: dull and
 cloudy. 16. Heavy showers : hail. 17. Wet a.m. : fine : thunder p.m. 18. Fre
quent showers.       19. Fair : calm : cloudy.    20. Fair and fine.    21. Fair, but
 dull and cloudy.       22. Light drizzling showers. 23. Showers frequent, not
 heavy, 24. Fair, but cloudy. 25. Shower during night : cleared. 26. Showers
 a.m. : fine. 27. Fair and bracing: harvest day. 28. Fair, but dull : rain p.m.
 29. Fair and fine all day.      30. Rain throughout.       31. Fair and fine: dull:
 cleared.
       Mean   temperature of the month                                 56°'7
       Mean   temperature of Aug. 1848                                53 '7
       Mean   temperature of Aug. for the last twenty-five years ... 57 '1
       Mean   rain in Aug. for twenty years                               3°60 inches.
     Sandwick Manse, Orkney.— Aug. 1. Drizzle. 2—4. Drizzle : showers. 5. Fog:
  cloudy.    6. Fog.     7. Cloudy.    8. Rain : fog.    9. Hazy : fog.     10. Hazy :
 cloudy. 11. Cloudy : rain. 12. Clear : clear, aurora. 13. Bright : clear. 14.
  Drizzle : rain.   15. Clear.    16. Bright : cloudy. 17. Showers. 18. Bright:
  cloudy a.m. 19. Damp: cloudy. 20. Drizzle: damp. 21. Rain : fine. 22.
  Rain : clear. 23. Clear. 24. Clear : cloudy. 25. liain. 26. Bright: showers.
 27. Bright : cloudy. 28. Cloudy : showers. 29. Drizzle : damp. 30. Bright :
  damp. 31. Clear : fine.

 Garden
 of
Mr.
Veall,
Thompson
London;
by
Cthe
 HOMSociety
    made
    obieat    ocsvurawlotilucornakgsl,ical
        rsteirnear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   075 15 -21 -43 -41                                             3-3.-J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3-57
                                                                                                              -04                                             0-52
                                                                                                                                                              12 -05                      -32                                                                  -24 -06                                                      -12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0-80
                                           Applegarth
                                               ies-shire;
                                            mfr;
                                           uat
                                          Rev.
                                          Dunbar,
                                          \V.
                                          Manse,
                                          DBoston
                                           Orkney.
                                           by
                                           the
                                           Clouston,
                                           C.
                                           SanduAck
                                           and
                                                                                           shire.
                                                                                                   n                 ¦09 •02 •01 •03                                                                           •38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1-50.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¦16 ¦10 ¦02 •33
                                                             Rain.     Dumfries.
                                                                                                                                                               17                                                                                                                                                                    0-70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1-60
                                                                                   Boston.                                  •03                                               ¦03 ¦28 ¦03                •09                        •0.5                                                                                    ¦02
                                                                                 Sst     ¦ \ MU                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¦01
                                                                                                 Mrs                                                                 calm
                                                                                                               nw. nw.       n. nw. nw.          t. I, sc.                     e.                               w. nw. nw.           nw. wsw. wsw.       si'. SW. SW.                           nw. se. wsw.        1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ISC.
                                                                                                                                   ne.nw                                                                                      nw.ne
                                                             Wind.                          *>
                                                                                            'Z
                                                                                               ii a                   w. e.                w.
                                                                                                                                                                        e.-s. sse.
                                                                                                                                                                                     se. sw. sw. sw.            6W. SW.              sc. w.       SW.    sw. sw. sw.         SW. SW.      wsw. nw. ft, nw. sw.
                                                                                                                                                                      calm calm                                                          calm calm calm calm               calm calm
                                                                                    d0             0 pa        nw. nw. n. nnw. se. wnw. se. se.                                       s. s. ssw.                                                                      n.                  sW. SW.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        w.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              w.     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W.     nw.
                                                                                                                                    ne. se.                                                                                                                                 Mi
                                                                                                         u     w. sw. ne.                         w. w. sw. sw. sw. s. s. sw. sw. sw.                                   SW.                              sw.    SW.   sw.           sw. sw. nw. sw. nw.
                                                                                                                                          52i                                                                                                                                                                                        51-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     52-95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    54-61
                                                                                                                                                                        554         53i 56                                               551                   521          534
                                                                        Orkney, Sn dwick.                      49 49 49 50                       51. 52 55                     53                 55 54 52 53 47 49                               55 56              53            56 53 52] 53]56 55 55
                                                                                                     s§
                                                                                                     I        50] 50 49 49 54
                                                                                                                                                 54
                                                                                                                                                 J
                                                                                                                                                        52 54 58 56] 54. 60 58 57 56 54 48 51 50]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        59 59 54] 55 56 55 52 56 55] 65 55
                                                          Thermometer.  Dumfries-                                                                                                                                                                                    463-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     591J
                                                                                        ihire.
                                                                                                     a  9     49 46] 50 44^                      53]64
                                                                                                                                                61-5:69 50]68
                                                                                                                                                        64      59 !69
                                                                                                                                                             68]!             64
                                                                                                                                                                               56 68]
                                                                                                                                                                                    66-5
                                                                                                                                                                                     57]67  55 64
                                                                                                                                                                                           [67    59]
                                                                                                                                                                                                  56]61  53] 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                        60     59]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                51 62 56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49]60 43]60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            61      46.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60           53]66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 635
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                61      65 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        55]    55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69-5         37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            58          64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         56] 50]48]56 55 53
                                                                                                                                          60-5
                                                                                                                                          J
                                                                                                                                          51
                                                                                                                                          64
                                                                                                     M     2  64 60 59 66],                                                                                                               59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          142
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  153                 5968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    51-80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    74-03
                                                                                                                                                                     j70
                                                                                                                                                                       57
                                                                                                                                                                      68
                                                                                       s P ts     $•*
                                                                                               r. Koo                                                                                                                                                                                                  68-5 [68-568-5
                                                                                            fi                60 60 59 53                                                                                                                                                   66 66 64 158                                   68
                                                                             Chi wick.               =S       45 55 39 41 42 44 60 54 56 59 57 56 52 52 53 42 42 40 50 59 58 57 54 53 53 56 51 58 65 60 53
                                                                                                   Mn 35
                                                                                                              74 71 67                    72 80 83 85 81 80 81 73                                              72 64 73 69 72 72 78 70 77 77 79 66 73 72 76 75
                                                                                                                                   7"                                                             7<) 7"                                                       7"
                                                                                                              3008 30-08 30-08 2996 29-95 30-07 29-97 29-84 2975 29-82 2970 2942 2914 2929 29-50 29-56 29-92 3002 2999 3006 3002 29-88 3006 30-00 2975 29-56 2978 2971 29-81 29-74 29-89
                                                                                                   94 p.m.
                                                                       Orkney, S*ndwick.
                                                                                                              29-95 30-08 3006 3001 29-93 3001 3007 29-86 2978 29-74 29-82 29-53 29-24 29-14 2941 29-58 29-83 2990 2999 2994 3003 29-99 29-98 30-13 2982 2966 29-63 29-78 2974 29-73 2980
                                                                                                    94 a.m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9-9931
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Me«n.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2945
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29807
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2Q-807
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29-934
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <J9-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                                                                     j
                                                                                                                                                               297512960
                                                                            Dumfries hire.                    30-02 29-95 29-97 2988 2989 3000 29-82                           2970 3955 2930 29-20;:    29-47 29-55 29-54 39-86 29-95 30-10 3015 30-10 3»-00 30-08 30-02 39-94 29-85. 29-80 2971 29-81 2968 2978
                                                                                                     9 m.p.
                                                          Barometer.
                                                                                                              2990 3001 2998 29-95 29-87 2996 29-94 29-78 2968 2964 !               2964!  29-45 29-19 2934 2955 29-48 2968 2990 30-03 30-13 30-15 3000 3008 10             30- 29-93 2983 2978 29-79 2979 29-76 2973
                                                                                                     V     a.
                                                                                                          in.
                                                                                                              29-53 29-63 29-50 29-52 29-46 29-55 2957 2947 29-16 29-16 2930 29-14 2900 29-              12 2939 29-20 2938 29-53 2973 2981 2980 2963 29-62 2967 29-57 29-44 29-45 2945 29-45 29'45 29-30
                                                                                                              30-053 30-091 29-965 29-900 29-863 30-041 29-960 29-838 29-681 29-737 29-861 29-679 29-570 29674 29-865 29-763 29-872 29993 30-145 30-325 30-230 30126 30-125 30-115 30097 29-985 29-959 29927 29-883 29-822 29-844
                                                                            Chi wick.                  Mm.
                                                                                                      Max.
                                                                                                              30-117 30-139 29-987 29979 29-939 30048 30-062 29-889           29873 29-906 29764 29-624 29-763 29910 29-793 29945 30046 30272 30-337 30-332 30-183 30-132 132
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30- 19030- 30-100 29983 29-975 29-896 29-858, 29-864
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                       2y-752
                                                                                                   1849. Aug.  I. '2. 3.                   5. 6. 7. 8.
                                                                                                                                                                        <)¦ 10. (£11. 12. 13. 14- 15- 16. 17-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19. 30. 21. 22. 2.3. 24.                       26. 27- 28. 29- 30. 31.
                                                                                                                                   O4.                                                                                              §18.                                           2J5.

                               THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                            —<U+2666>—
                       [THIRD SERIES.]
                    NOVEMBER 1849.
               XLI. On the Notation of Crystals.
                By Edward J. Chapman, Esq.*
IT may be fairly assumed that an efficient system of crystal-
     lographic notation should comprise the following essential
points,—simplicity, brevity, and capability of being verbally
expressed. It should be sufficiently simple as to be retained
and applied with the slightest possible effort of the memory,
and sufficiently brief as to admit of being placed upon the
usual drawings of crystals. The symbols, moreover, of which
it is composed, should be so constituted as to be readily con
vertible into ordinary language.
    There can be but one opinion as to the necessity of the first
of these conditions, even if the utility of the two latter be
questioned. It is, however, very desirable, especially for those
who are studying the science, that the second condition should
also be fulfilled ; for, by the arbitrary and irregular lettering
of crystals, much trouble anc! chance of misconception is ob
viously occasioned to the student—sometimes one, and some
times another letter, being employed to designate the same
kind of plane ; and that, frequently, within the compass of a
few pages. The importance, furthermore, of the third con
dition is so great, that the little attention which seems hitherto
to have been paid to it is much to be wondered at. In ad
dressing a class, amongst numerous other instances, it is ab
solutely essential that the notation should be a verbal one.
    Of all the systems at present in use, that of L6vy and Du-
frenoy can alone be said to embody the above desiderata ;. but
 its merit in this respect is, on the other hand, marred by the
following objections, which form a serious drawback to its
adoption. In the first place, totally different planes in the
same crystallographic group are frequently denoted by a
                    * Communicated by the Author.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. '237. Nov. 1849.          Y

322      Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.
common symbol. In the Monometric or regular system, for
instance, the sign a1 expresses both the planes of the octahe
dron and the cube; and the " primary form," often an arbi
trary one, must be stated before we can determine to which
solid the symbol is intended to apply. The sign bl, again, in
the same system, may denote either the planes of the rhombic
dodecahedron, or those of a particular leucitoid, or even of
the cube. The only method of avoiding this imperfection is
by the arbitrary assumption of one primary form for the entire
group ; but this, which is literally done by the German school,
is so manifest a contortion of nature to convenience, that the
 French mineralogists have wisely rejected its employment.
Another disadvantage in the system of Levy and Dufrenoy, is
the non-recognition of the important bearings which the dif
ferent crystal lographic axes have on the study of the science;
at least, these axes play no part in their notation.
     In this particular the German systems possess an undoubted
superiority ; but the employment of arbitrary and often hypo
thetical primary or fundamental forms renders them objection
able. Their practical application, moreover, is by no means
free from difficulty and inconvenience; for even the abbre
viated system of Naumann is not sufficiently brief to allow of
the symbols being placed upon the ordinary figures of cry
stals ; neither can it be communicated verbally with any ease.
That it possesses great uniformity no one can deny; but
 it may be questioned whether this very uniformity do not
occasion an unnecessary effort to the memory, in the recogni
tion of the designated planes. Dana, who adopts Naumann's
system, has been forced, in the lettering of his crystals, to
make use of another method ; but this, although ingenious, is
not exact enough for the purposes of notation—for which,
 indeed, it was never intended by its author,—nor can it be
 verbally employed. I need not extend these observations by
 referring to the works, however meritorious, of Professor
 Miller, Mr. Griffin, and various other authors; because in
no one case are the three essential points, indicated above,
 fulfilled; owing either to the length, or to the peculiar con
 struction of the notations*. For these reasons I have at
 tempted to frame a system which shall serve both for the let*
    * These remarks will, I am sure, be received in the spirit in which they
tire made ; for, in the words of one to whose researches crystallography
first owed its rank as a science, " la critique, Iorsqu'elle est juste et rno-
deree,loin d'alte'rer I'estinie que se doivent reciproquement ceux qui courent
la menie carriere, ne fait que les exciter a de nouveaux efforts, line telle
critique ne dcplatt jamais qu'a des esprits superficiels, ou gates par les
eloges outrts de leurs contemporains.'' — Romf de I' Me, Crtitalhgraphie,
fyc, vol. i. p. xxiii (second edition), 1783.

        Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.                323
tering and for the notation of crystals, in comprising strictly
the separate conditions of accuracy, simplicity, brevity, and
capability of being verbally expressed. The proposed method
is based entirely upon the position and relations of planes to
their crystallographic axes, and has no dependence upon the
external configuration of any fundamental form. The various
planes are also denoted by a few individual letters, so chosen
as to assist the memory ; and not by the position of certain
signs placed before, above, or around, a single letter, as in
the system of Naumann. The advantages which accrue from
this arrangement will, I think, be seen as we proceed.
    All crystallographic planes may be included under the
terms of prismatic and pyramidal ; the latter comprising
closed forms*, and, with the exception of the basal planes
of the oblique systems, all inclined summit-planes.
    Prismatic planes I designate by consonants; pyramidal
planes by vowelsf. Prismatic planes may be either monaxial
(cutting one axis), or diaxial, and in one system triaxial.
Pyramidal planes may be either diaxial, triaxial, or tetraxial
—the latter, of course, only in the hexagonal system.
    Monaxial prismatic planes may be of three principal kinds,
according to the system of crystallization. In the monometric
or regular system they are of one kind, and are lettered P.
In the dimetric or pyramidal system, they ar.e of two kinds;
so that the letter P (from iriva^, table, as in Naumann's
Basische Pinakoid) is retained to designate the basal planes,
or those which cut the vertical axis ; and the letter M (from
fiovos) is employed for the vertical planes. Finally, in the
other systems we have P for the basal, M for the front and
back vertical, and L for the lateral or side vertical planes,
which cut but one axis.
    Diaxial prismatic planes are of one kind in the dimetric,
hexagonal, trimetric (rhombic), and monoclinic (oblique rhom
bic) systems; and, as such, are lettered D (from SU, two). In
the triclinic system they are of two kinds, D and B (bis, two),
the respective positions of which will be shown further on.
Triaxial prismatic planes can be only met with in the hexa
gonal system : they are lettered T.
    The following symbols are consequently sufficient to denote
all kinds of prismatic planes: — P; M; L; D; B; and T;
   * The cube omitted.
   t This idea is derived from Hatty's method of designating planes on pri
mary edges by consonants, and those on angles by vowels ; but it must be
borne in mind that many inclined summit-planes are by this method denoted
by coniimantt, for the two systems are fundamentally quite distinct.
                                   Y2

 324     Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.
 although of D and B various series may occur, as Dy, Dj,
 D, D2, D3, &c. To this, however, we shall revert as we
 proceed.
    Diaxial pyramidal planes are of one kind in the monome-
 tric, dimetric, and hexagonal systems, and are lettered A. In
 the trimetric or rhombic system they are of two kinds, denoted
 respectively by A and E ; the former being situated in front
 when the crystals are in position, and the latter at the sides,
 or upon the acute angles of the rhombic prisms. A is there
 fore associated in position with the prismatic planes M, and
 E with L. In the monoclinic system the diaxial pyramidal
 planes are of three kinds—A, E, and I. The planes E, in
 sets of four, are situated at the sides ; A is thefront plane at
 the top of the crystal, and the back plane below ; I is opposed
 to A. Finally, the triclinic system possesses four distinct sets
 of diaxial pyramidal planes: —A, A A, E, EE. These are,
however, common to but few minerals ; and they are very
rarely, if ever, all present at the same time.
    Triaxial pyramidal planes are of one kind in the mono-
 metric, dimetric, hexagonal, and trimetric systems, and are
 designated by the symbol O. In the monoclinic system they
are of two kinds, O and U ; the former being situated in the
principal position, that is to say, in front and above. The
planes U are therefore the upper planes behind, and the lower
planes in front. Lastly, in the triclinic system, these planes
 may be of four kinds : — O, OO, U and W—but they rarely
 occur together in the same crystal.
    The tetraxial planes of the hexagonal system are of one
kind, and are lettered Y.
    Pyramidal planes are consequently denoted by
          A; E; I; AA; EE; O, U, OO, W; and Y;
of all of which various series may occur, but more especially
of A, E, I, O, U, and Y ; as, }0, iO, ^O, £0, 0, 20, SO, &c.
    The relations and notation of these different planes are
exhibited more distinctly in the following table ; by which it
will be perceived, that by the enunciation of a single letter,
the position of the designated plane is immediately called up
before us : because, by this letter, we know at once whether
the plane be a prismatic or a pyramidal one ; and furthermore,
the number of axes which it cuts, and consequently its po
sition.

          Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.                 325
                Prismatic Planes.               Pyramidal Planes.
 MonaxialV ; M; L.
 Diaxial D, Di.Dm; B, B^, Bm. A,iA,mA;E,JiE,i»E; I, il.wlj AA.EE.
 Triaxial T                          O, \p, i»0; U, 'U, »»U; 00; W.
 Tetraxwl                            Y, iY. »Y.
    It is, however, necessary, for the complete elucidation of the
proposed method, to examine separately the notation appertain
ing to each crystallographic group. In the following scheme
numbers greater than unity are represented by m or n, and
those less than unity by jj. Placed before a letter, these refer
to the vertical axis ; and when placed after a letter, to one of
the other axes, as will be explained in the observations at
tached to each system.
                          Monometric System.
Monaxialform : —
    The cube, P.
Diaxialforms :—
   The rhombic dodecahedron, A.
   Tetratrishexahedrons, -A.
Triaxialforms : —
   The regular octahedron, O.
   Leucitoidsoricositetrahedrons,-0,
                                                     Copper : Siberia.
   Trisoctahedrons, ;«0.
    Hexakis-octahedrons, mOn.                               Fig. 2.
    Regular tetrahedron, — .                                 'ixoXz/r
                                  23
    Other hemihedral forms, designated
       after a similar manner, =-.                       —?r--
                                                    Galena: Clausthal.
    Observations.— In the less simple forms of this system, that
   * Fur several of these examples I am indebted to the beautifully executed
plates of Dufrenoy's Atlas, Traite de Mineralogie, 1846. I have, however,
added the axes to each figure, so as to render the positions of the different
planes more readily apparent.

 326      Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.
 face has been chosen for the basis of the notation which cuts
 the horizontal axes, for the time being, at equal distances ; so
 that, with the exception of the hexakis-octahedrons, in which
 a single face of this kind does not occur, these horizontal axes
 may always be considered unity. The symbol of the leuci-
 toids becomes thus.-O. and that of the trisoctahedrons mO.
    The hexakis-octahedrons form the intermediate planes i of
 the French crystallographers ; and as in the combinations in
 which they occur these planes are usually subordinate to the
others, their necessarily small size in drawings often prevents
 the complete symbol, which is exactly similar to that of Nau-
 mann, from being employed in their lettering; for which
 reason any conventional sign may be used for that purpose,
 and the exact notation placed beneath the figure : as, " or
 # = 204, &c.
                                                       Fig. 3.
                  Dimetri'c System.
 Monaxial Planes :—
    Basal planes, P.
    Vertical planes, M.
Diaxial Prismatic Planes :—
    Vertical planes alternating in position with
       those of the ordinary square prisms, D.
    Ditetragonal prisms, Dm.
Diaxial Pyramidal Planes :—
    Ordinary square-based octahedrons, A,
       i-A, mA.
 Triaxial Planes :—
    Octahedral planes alternating in position
      with the above, O, ^O, mO.
    Dioctahedrons, mOti.
                                              Zircon : Frederiksvarn.
    Observations.—In this system, and in those which follow, a
fundamental form must be chosen for each mineral as in the
usual notations, but with this difference : that whereas the
German crystallographers choose invariably pyramidal forms
for this purpose, often quite opposed to the crystallization of

         Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.         327
the mineral, if not altogether hypothetical, I would select that
form most in keeping with the prevailing character of the
crystallization ; and therefore, sometimes an octahedron with
Weiss and his disciples, and sometimes a prism with Levy
and Dufrenoy. It would, however, be still better, as the pro
posed notation, unlike those of the above crystallographers,
has no dependence upon the actual external shape of the fun
damental form, to name merely the relative lengths of the
axes, thus: protaxialform =-756 X(idocrase); or -55-t X950,
&c, the value before the symbol to be considered the relative
length of the vertical axis, and that after the symbol to refer
to one of the lateral axes, the other axis being unity. The
protaxial forms of the different systems would be then as fol
lows: —monometric system, X; dimetricand hexagonal systems,
xX ; other systems, xXx. In the inclined systems the incli
nations of the axes should of course also be given.
                       Hexagonal System.
Monaxial Planes:—
   The basal planes, P.
Biaxial Prismatic Planes :—
   Vertical planes ofordinary hexagonal
      prisms, D.
 Triaxial Prismatic Planes : —
   Vertical planes alternating in position
      with the above, T.
 Triaxial Pyramidal Planes:—
   Ordinary hexagonal pyramids, O,          Apatite : Zillerthal.
      iO,
      in
           mO.
 Telraxial Planes :—
   Hexagonal pyramids alternating in position with the above,
       Y,±Y,mY.
   Dihexagonal pyramids, xYm, n = xY + 2, —2.
 Hemihedral Forms: —
    _,     ...         O ^O mO
   Knombohedrons, —, — — ; or conventionally, R.
                     xYmn
   Scalenohedrons, —-— ; or arxS; or, in general, simply
 XS. In the conventional symbol of these forms, the sign r=s
 *he inscribed rhombohedron; and as this is very generally
 the same as the fundamental rhombohedron, the notation
 becomes merely xS, and is then, I think, more significative

328     Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.
than Naumann's symbol of R*. Scalenohedrons, however,
are not possessed by more than five or six minerals, and are
only abundant in one,—calcareous spar.
    Observations. — Rhombohedrons being the more common
fundamental forms of this group, Naumann adopts two kindred
systems for the notation of the derived forms ; one starting
with the hexagonal pyramid xP, and the other with the rhom-
bohedron .zR, each producing a similar series:—OP, on P,
 oo Poo,—OR, oo R, oo Rao, &c. It is however evident, that
in the proposed notation only one series can
result, whatever be the fundamental form ;
for R and S are the only arbitrary symbols;
and their employment, in rendering the no
tation more simple, does not in any way
affect the other signs. The triaxial pris
matic planes T should be strictly T2, 2 ; but
the figures are quite unnecessary, for these
plnnes being tangents to one of the horizon
tal axes, it is obvious—the axes crossing
each other at 60°—that the other two must
be cut at twice the distance. The values also
of m and n in the dihexagonal pyramids can          Calc-spar :
only equal +2,-2, as otherwise the form Y          Cumberland.
would result.
               Trimelric System.
Monaxial Planes: —
    Basal planes, P.
    Back and front vertical planes, M.
   Side vertical planes, L.
Diaxial Prismatic Planes :—
   Vertical planes of ordinary rhombic
      prisms, D, D^, Dm.
                                               Epistilbite : Faroe.
Diaxial Pyramidal Planes : —                     Fig. 8.
   Inclined planes cutting the shorter
      horizontal, or frontal axis, A, ^A,
      mA.
   Inclined planes cutting the longer
      horizontal, or right and left axis,
      E, — E, otE.
Triaxial Planes :—
   Ordinary rhombic octahedrons, O,
      iO, mO.
   Intermediate planes, xOx.               Scorodite: Brazil.

       Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.         329
   Observations.— In this system, in accordance with the ge
neral custom, the longer horizontal axis is considered unity.
The planes h% h3, &c. of the rhombic prisms of L6vy and Du-
fr£noy correspond therefore to the planes D^ of the present
notation, because they abut more immediately upon the shorter
axis. The planes gq, g3, &c, on the other hand, are equiva
lent to Dm. A value following a letter, invariably refers to
the relative length of the shorter horizontal axis compared to
that of the longer one as unity. Naumann's symbols are, for
D^, ocPn; and for Dm, ocPn.
   The monaxial planes M and L form the vertical faces of
rectangular prisms ; whilst the biaxial pyramidal planes, xA
and xK, produce rectangular octahedrons.
                      Monoclinic System.
Monaxial Planes:—                                 Fig. 9.
   Basal planes, P.
   Back and front prismatic planes, M.
   Right and left prismatic planes, L.
Diaxial Prismatic Planes :—
   Ordinary oblique rhombic prisms,
           TO* Dm.
      D,* DK
Diaxial Pyramidal Planes :—
   Upper inclined planes in front, or
     lower behind, A, -A, mA.
   Upper inclined planes behind, or lower in front, I, ^1, ml.
   Inclined planes at the sides, E, ^E, mE.
 Triaxial Pyramidal Planes :—
   Upper frontal planes of oblique rhombic octahedrons, or
      lower back planes of the same, O, ^O, mO.
   Upper back planes of oblique rhombic octahedrons, or lower
     planes in front of the same, U, ^U, mU.
   Intermediate planes, xOx ; x\Jx.            »
   Observations.—In this system the orthodiagonal or horizontal
axis is made unity ; for if the clinodiagonal be selected as such,
according to perhaps the more usual custom, the positions of
the planes D^ and Dm will be the reverse of what they are in
the preceding system. By making, however, in each system
that axis unity which passes from left to right, the crystals
being in position, those planes which abut the more imme
diately upon the frontal axis will invariably have the symbol

   330       Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.
                                                            Fig. 10.
                   Triclinic System.
   Monaxial Planes : —
       P— M — L, as in the preceding
         system.
   Diaxial Prismatic Planes : —
       B-B^; D-D.r.
    Diaxial Pyramidal Planes : —
       A ; A A ; E ; EE ; with their va
         lues K m, as above.
    Triaxial Pyramidal Planes : —
       O; OO; U; W; with their va
          lues -, m.
       In conclusion, we will tabulate the proposed nolation, for
    the sake of reference, with those of Weiss and Rose, Nau-
    mann, Levy and Dufr£noy, and Mr. Griffin. It should be
    observed, however, that the latter author adopts throughout
    each crystallographic group one uniform system of three rec
    tangular axes, differing only in regard to their relativelengths*.
    In the following tables the forms are arranged in accordance
    with the number of axes which they cut, monaxial forms
    being placed first.
                                 Monometric System.
E.I.C    Weiis and      Nau-  Levy and Dufrenoy.
            llo«e.     mann.   P.' F. the cube.              Griffin.
   P    a : oca : oca  ooO»            P                P, M, T.
   A    a: a: oca      ooO             *'               MT . PM, PT.
 iA     a : ma : oca   ccOn            A«        M-T,M+T.P-M,P+M,P-T,P+T
  O     a: a: a          o             «'               PMT.
 i-O    a: a:^-a       mOm             a-               3P-MT.
»»0     a: a: ma       ?»0             a*               3P+MT.
             i     1
mOn                    mOn      K=b'b"b")               6P-MT.
      • System of Crystallography, with its Applications to Mineralogy. 1841.

        Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals,                                  331
                                Dimetric System.
                                           LeVy and Dufrenoy.
  E.I.C.    Wciu and Row.      Naumaiin. P. F. a square prism.            Griffin.
     P      oca : j- a : c        OP               P                P
    M        ooa : a : x c       ooP»              M                M; T
     D         n : a : ooc        OcP              A'               MT
    Dm         a -. na : ccc     ooPn              V                M-T, M+T
     A         a : oca : c        Poo              6'
  1A           a : ooa : -ic     nPx
                                                                 1>P.rM, PxT
                                                   >:
   in \        a : ooa : mc     raPx               b-            J
     O         a: a: c             P               a'
                                                                 "]
   L.o         a:a: -c             „P              a"              VPrMT
  mO           n : a -. an        mP               a"             J
  inOn         il ; na : >n f     mP»         t=b'bih-)              PrMyTz . P.rMzT>
                               Hexagonal System.
                                         Nau-    L«*vy and DufWnoy.
 E.I.C.        Weiss and Rose.          inann.   t\K. hexagonal prism.         Griffin.
   P          oca : aca : oca : c        OP               p             P
    D            a: a: ooa : <xr          OOP             M             M, M2Tj|
   T           2a : a : 2a : at'         oo P2            A'            T, M|JT2
    O            a: a: oca : c             p              V          1
  ho      >      a: a: oca : »ic          «P
                                                          b"          \ Pj:M,PxM2TH
  mO                                                       bi        i
    Y          2a:a:2a:c                  P2
                                                          "'         1  PrT,P.rMj4T2
          >    2a : a . 2a : wr          nP2
   »Y                                                     ffm        J
xYx.x          ainf.pa: mc             xPm,n           p-p-h-           3pz my t*
          r |(a : a : ooa : mc)                                  i"S
   xR                                     xR
          L 4(a ': a' : ooa : mc)    }                                  Rx
         1 {(a : na: pa : mc)
  xrxS                                    *R*
         J J (a' : na' : pa : mc)    }                                  Sx

 332        Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.
                                   Trimetric System.
                                                     LeV* and Dufrenoy.
      E.I.C.     Weiss and Row.       Nan in an n.    P.P. a rectangular         Griffin.
                                                           priim*.
         P        i» : odA : c            OP                     P            P
        M            a : ooA : ooc      QoPoO                  M               M
                                           w
        L         x« : A : ooc          oo Poo                  T             T
        D            a : A : ooc          OOP
                                                               *' 1
       Dm
       A
               I a : mi : one J
                     a : ooA : c
                                        ooPn
                                        ooPn
                                         Poo
                                                              s}
                                                              V       -j
                                                                              MxT
       ^A                                                                     R*M
               I     a : ooA : me
       mA
        E         oca : 4 : c
                                        mPao
                                         Poo
                                                   { 5 I      d<
       IE                                          r          *          ,    RrT
               I oca :b:mc             mP»
       mE                                          1          *¦      J
       O            a :b : c              P                  a'
                                                   r         a-         I     PrMyTz
              I     a : A : mc           wP
      mO                                           {         > J
                                                         i, «•*. *r.
     xOx         ma:nb:c               mPn
                                 Monoclinic System.
                                                   Levy and Dufre*noy.
     E.I.C.     Weill and Rose.     Naumann, P.F. an oblique rhom              Giiffln.
                                                         bic prism.
        P        oco : ooA : c          OP                    p            JP*M
       M            <r : ocA : xc      ooPoo                   A'          M
       L         ooa : * : xr        [ooPoo]                  g'           T
       D           o : 6 : ooc           00 P                  M     "]
      Di           «r : mA : ooc     + ooPn                   A"      L MxT
      Dm           ma : A : aoc     [±ooPn]                   g-     J
       A           a : ocA : e        -Poo                    o*     "|
                                                                           iPxM, Zn.
              I    a : xA : mc       — mPoo
     mA
                                                  1L          o-     J
  * If a right rhombic prism be chosen as the primary form, M in the
proposed notation will equal A'j L.g1; D, M; Di. A"; Drn.g"; A, a';
   e' ; and O, A'.

       Mr. E. J. Chapman on the Notation of Crystals.                             333
                   Monoclinic System (continued).
                                           Levy and Dufrenoy.
            Weiss and Rom.       Naumann. P. F. an oblique rhom         Griffin.
                                                 bic prism.
     I          a' : y.h : c       + Pao
    ¦                                                             iPxM, Z»
           }'¦¦     : <x.b : mc   +»»Pao
    »i
     E        xi! : b : c         + LP«]
    \P                                                             jP*T,ZeorZw
              oca : b :mc        +[mPao]
    viE
     O          a : b: c             -P
    iO                                                             >P.r%Tz,Zne
                                                                        my
                a: b : mc            — mP                            or Znw
                                                                         Zm
    mO
     U           a' :b: c             +P
                                                                   \?x %My'Tz, Zse
    ^            af :b: mc          +mP                               or Zsw
                                                                          Zsv
    xOx          ma:nb:c           —mPn
    xVx          maf : nb : c      +mPn
                                Triclinic System.
                                          Levy and Dufrenoy.
  E.I.C.    Weiss and Rose.      Naumann.   P.F. pr. oW. non             Griffln.
                                               symltrique.
    P        oca : ooi : c          OP               p            JP.r%Tz
    M          a : oc6 : ooc       ooPce            M             M
    L        aoa : & : ace         oc Poo           T             T
     B         a : 6' : ooc         oo'P            «"            JMjtT, nw.
    D          a : b : ace           ooP'           h<            jMxT, ne.
    A          a : aco : c         'P'oo            d<
   AA          a' : a 4 : c        ,P,00            c'»
     E       oca :b':c              'P'oo           b<
                                                                  iPxMyTz, the in
   EE        oca : 5 : c            ,P,oo           f               dividual      plane
                                                                    being determined
    O          a:b':c                 'P            e>              by the zone.
   00          a:b:c                  P'             o>
    u          a':b:c                  P.           a<
    vv         a':b':c                'P            i>       ->
                                                                i
     In Dufrenoy's primary form, the plane c' is sometimes made an upper
back plane, and at other times an upper front one. When the latter is the

                                [   334    ]
XLII. On a peculiar Fibre of Cotton which is incapable of
    being Dyed. By Walter Crum, Esq., F.R.S., Vice-Pre
    sident of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow*.
 IN the month of May last, Mr. Thomson of Primrose re
       ceived from Mr. Daniel Koechlin of Mulhausen some
specimens of a purple ground printed calico, each of them
containing a portion of cotton which was white, although sub
jected to the same treatment by which the rest of the cloth,
and even the threads which crossed the white one, was uni
formly dyed. The white part of the thread was usually thicker
than the rest, and little more than a quarter of an inch long.
 The whole fabric had been thoroughly bleached before print
 ing, so that it contained no grease or other impurity that could
resist the colouring matter.
     White specks like these are not unknown or undreaded
among the printers of calicoes in this country. M. Koechlin
mentions that the cotton of which they are formed is known
by the name of colon mort, and here also it is called dead
cotton. M. Koechlin has been the first, I believe, to suggest
 that it may consist of unripe cotton, and that its fibre may be
 solid, wanting the hollow of the more perfect fibre. He adds,
 that if such should prove to be the case, its behaviour with co
 louring matters may affect materially the question of the me
 chanical or chemical nature of the union of cotton with its dye.
 Mr. Thomson did nie the honour to transmit me the speci
 mens for examination.
     The ordinary cotton fibre, it will be remembered, is de
scribed by Mr. Thomson in the memoir where its form was
 first made known t, as a tube, originally cylindrical, but which
collapses in drying. It has then the appearance of two small
 tubes joined together, so that a transverse section of the fila
 ment resembles in some degree a figure of 8. Until full ma
 turity the cylinder is distended with water, in which bubbles
 of air are often distinguishable.
     On placing a few of the fibres of the colon mort under
the microscope, I found them to consist of very thin and re
markably transparent blades, some of which are marked or
spotted, while others are so clear as to be almost invisible
except at the edges. These fibres are readily distinguished
from those of ordinary cotton by their perfect flatness, without
the vestige of a cavity, even at the sides, and by their uniform
    * From the Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, 1848-
 49, and read before that Society April 25, 1849.
   t Annals of Philosophy for June 1834. Lately reprinted in the Classical
 Museum, No. 20 j and in Liebig's Annalen for January 1849.

          Mr. W. Crum on a peculiar Fibre of Cotton.           335
as well as great transparency. They are often broader, too,
than the usual fibre, and they show numerous folds, both lon
gitudinal and transverse; but they are never twisted into the
corkscrew form of the ordinary fibre.
    It occurred to me that cotton of this description might be
detected among the wool as it is imported. I searched ac
cordingly for any portions that had a different appearance
from the rest; and having collected and examined them, I
found one sort whose filaments had exactly the appearance
under the microscope of the colon mort in the pattern of M.
 Kccchlin. It occurs in the form of a small matted tuft of a
shining silky lustre, and usually contains in its centre the
fragment of a seed, or perhaps an abortive seed. It consists
of short fibres having little tenacity. Specimens of it are
found in abundance among the motes or hard portions, called
droppings, rejected by the picking machine in the preparation
 for spinning. Small tufts of it, however, do occasionally pass
 the sifting process of the picking machine; and then, their
 fibres being too short to be teazed out in the carding engine,
 or drawn into threads in the subsequent operations of cotton
 spinning, remain as minute lumps or knots upon the threads
 of better wool.
    Although the microscopic appearance of the fibre in ques
 tion is that of a flat single blade, the cellular character of the
 tissue scarcely admits of such a formation. We must rather
 suppose that, like the healthy unripe cotton fibre, it was ori
 ginally an elongated cell or tube filled with liquid ; that the
 seed around which it began to grow had died soon after its
  formation, while the fibres which clothed it were yet soft and
  pliable ; and that the flattening, and perhaps growing together
  of the sides of the tube, was occasioned by the pressure from
  the increasing crop of cotton attached to the numerous other
  seeds confined in the same pod.
     To explain the bearing of this peculiar structure upon the
  question whether cotton wool and colouring matters form
  together a true chemical compound, or are held together by
  a merely mechanical power, I must quote a passage from a
  memoir on this subject which I read to the Philosophical
  Society six years ago, and refer to the memoir itself for addi
  tional illustrations.
     "In many of the operations of dyeing and calico-printing,
  the mineral basis of the colour is applied to the cotton in a
  state of solution in a volatile acid. This solution is allowed
  to dry upon the cloth, and in a short time the salt is decom
  posed, just as it would be, in similar circumstances, without
  the intervention of cotton. During the decomposition of the

 336       Mr. W. Crum on a peculiar Fibre of Cotton.
 salt its acid escapes, and the metallic oxide adheres to the
 fibre so firmly as to resist the action of water applied to it with
 some violence. In this way does acetate of alumina act; and,
 nearly in the same manner, acetate of iron. The action here
 can only be mechanical on the part of the cotton ; and the
 adherence, as I shall endeavour to show, confined to the in
 terior of the tubes of which wools consist, or of the invisible
 passages which lead to it. The metallic oxide permeates these
 tubes in a state of solution ; and it is only when its salt is
 there decomposed, and the oxide precipitated and reduced to
 an insoluble powder, that it is prevented from returning
 through the fine filter in which it is then enclosed.
    " When the piece of cotton, which, in this view, consists of
 bags lined inside with a metallic oxide, is subsequently dyed
 with madder or logwood, and becomes thereby red or black,
 the action is purely one of chemical attraction between the
mineral in the cloth and the organic matter in the dye-vessel,
which, together, form the red or black compound that results ;
and there is no peculiarity of a chemical nature, from the
mineral constituent being previouslyconnected with the cotton."
    To produce the purple dye of M. Kcechlin's pattern, the
cloth has first to be impregnated with iron. For this purpose
it is made to imbibe a weak solution of proto-acetate of iron,
and afterwards dried. By exposure to the air for some days
 the salt is decomposed. Its acetic acid evaporates, and the
oxide of iron, then become peroxide, remains in the fibre.
The cloth is afterwards subjected to severe washings in hot
and cold water, but its iron is not removed ; and the question
is, How is it retained in connexion with the cotton ? Mecha
nically, as I maintain, and probably in the interior of its hollow
fibre, which it entered in a state of solution, and within which
it was precipitated. Others, as I have already stated, are of
opinion, after Bergman, that the combination is a chemical
one ; and so fully is that view carried out by my friend Pro
fessor Runge of Oranienburg, in his ingenious and excellent
work on the Chemistry of Dyeing*, that he assumes coloured
cottons to be combinations of what he calls cottonic acid with
the various bases, in definite, and even in multiple proportions.
Thus a very pale shade of buff from oxide of iron is called
percottonate of iron ; another is called bicottonate of iron; and
still deeper shades, cottonate and basic cotlonate of iron.
    But the new fibre, by the same treatment, is incapable of
retaining the iron mordant, and yet both fibres have the same
chemical composition and the same ultimate structure. The
only difference is, that one is shaped into tubes or bags capable
              * FarbencAemic. 2 vols. Berlin, 1832 and 1845.

          Mr. W. Crum on a peculiar Fibre of Cotton.             337
of holding all matters which are insoluble in water, that is, all
bodies which can be caught upon a filter, while the other is
possessed of no such enclosure.
   I take this opportunity, in reply to a review of my first
memoir on this subject, by M. Persoz, in his remarkable work
Traits de FImpression des Tissus, of explaining that I attribute
to an attraction of surface those cases of dyeing where pure
cotton, by mere immersion, is enabled to decompose the solid
matters in solution, and to withdraw them from the solvent.
Such is the case with the solution of deoxidized indigo in
lime, with the plumbite of lime, with the various salts of tin,
and many other solutions. Cotton, as I have stated, acts in
these cases like charcoal and other porous bodies, and I have
seen no reason to confine the attraction in question to the
internal surface of the cotton fibre.
   But I have not ranked the aluminous mordant among the
class of bodies so attracted ; because cotton, when immersed
in a solution of acetate of alumina, has not the power of sepa
rating its base. That solution must be applied to cotton and
dried in it; and then the alumina only adheres, or loses the
power of being washed away, in proportion as the acetic acid
is removed by evaporation. I could see here no chemical
decomposition effected by the cotton wool, for the same salt
may be decomposed by evaporation in a glass vessel. In this
case I have represented the alumina as being held in the inte
rior of the fibre, just as sand may be held in a bag whose in
terstices are too narrow to allow its particles to pass.
   M. Persoz has remarked, however, that by evaporating a
solution of acetate of alumina in a glass vessel we do not so
thoroughly decompose it as by drying the same substance
upon calico. This I also have observed ; and although I have
been accustomed to ascribe the difference to the more exten
sive division and exposure of the salt upon cotton, I have no
proof, and shall not deny, that the presence of cotton at a
particular stage of the evaporation may accelerate the decom
position of the salt, and that its fibres may thus attract a portion
of alumina over their whole surface. If this modification of
the view I had given be correct, the action of the colon mort
proves at least that colouring matter adhering outside is not
so permanent as that which is held within the fibre of the
mature cotton.
   Neither view gives any countenance to the chemical theory.
 Porous bodies are well known to attract, and even to decom
pose, without chemically combining with the substances they
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 237. Nov. 1849.              Z

338    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.
precipitate. Accordingly, none of the oxides are changed
either in colour or in chemical character by their union with
cotton. The hydrated oxide of copper, for example, precipi
tated upon calico, becomes carbonate, or arsenite, when ex
posed to carbonic or arsenious acid. The protoxide of iron
changes speedily in the air into the red sesquioxide, and that
again may be converted into prussian blue, or into a black or
purple lake—every new compound, if it only be insoluble,
adhering firmly to the wool.
                XL1II. On the Theory ofthe Tides.
                   By the Rev. Brice Bronwin.
                        [Concluded from p. 270.]
IF we now take account of a second planet, marking the
     quantities relative to it with an accent, we have
     y = Fa cos 2(p-/Sg) + F9 cos 2(p'-/3'2) + F, cos (f-ft)
            + F1cos(?'-,3'l).
But F, cos (9-/3,) + F', cos {$'— 0',) is very small in our seas,
and perhaps generally so ; therefore, neglecting it,
               y = F2 cos S(? - &) + F2 cos 8(?' - /3'2).
We cannot affirm that j3'2 is exactly equal to /32, though we
may suppose their difference to be very small. Make
or
                        ,J, + /3s=d/+/3'9+A;
then
           ,3/ = F9cos2(p'-/3'9-A)+F9cos 2(^-/3',).
j| = - (sj/n-a ^)F9sin2(P*-/3'9-A)-2P'«F9sin2(f'-/3'i)
       + 2Lco.*(fH*,-A)+ ^cos2(?'-/3'2).
 If we suppose the first planet to be the sun and the second
 the moon, —^ is very small compared with —j^, and may be
 neglected.     Moreover the variable part of F9 contains only
                                   tip
 very small quantities, and in ——2 they will be multiplied by
 the small quantity v'; we shall therefore neglect dF'    —r-2. Then
 dij
 -=0g.veS

   The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.            339
      ¦I \2p'n - 2 —J Fs cos 2A + 2p,«F8 J- sin 2(f' -/3'2)
            - (2^-2 ^=- ) F9 sin 2A cos2(p'-/3'g) = 0,
and
              tan 2(<p'—PJ= tan 2(n* + tsr—1|/-/3'2)
                         ( 2p'n — 2 -3- J F2 sin 2A
                  2p'nF'9+ (2//«-2 ^-) F4cos 2A*
which gives the time of high water.
   If we take account of the two small terms F, cos(p— /3,),
F', cos (p' — /3',), we may substitute in their differentials the
value of if' given by the preceding formula, and thus correct
it; but the correction would be too complicated for practical
purposes. Dividing the numerator and denominator by
                                2y«-2^-,
it becomes
                         «/ 1 m ^          F, sin 2A
                           vr -/3'a)
                    tan 2(<p'           „¦ „ J J.9cos2A
                                1-2/ = P2i+    „ —^ ,
 where
                               dA     ,    rfA      + ™ft
 very nearly, since j/ra = «—«/.
    We have found
                    dty =dz( I— a sin* o cos 2« J ;
 therefore, making      d and 0 the same, since ttheir difference is
                   ing o'
 small,
                   d^=dJ[\ — — sin9ocos 2z*),
 and
       d{i>-^) = dz-d^-^ sin9 o(<fc cos 2^-rfxr' cos 2^).
                                  2
 Also
                      y<ft = ttef 1 — 2e cos (2: — t) } ;
 whence
    dz      .                            dJ      .,       . , . , s.
    ^ =v(l +2* cos (s-tt)), -^ «i/(l + 2^ cos(^-»')).
                                      Z2

 8*0       The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of ike Tides.
 Consequently
       ,.        = y —V — 2yV cos («'— i/) — -sinso(vcos2r— y'cosgz'),
                  ,¦,,,..(•,:         . i,       :                            . . //
 neglecting the terms containing the very small quantities ve
 and - 8in86 HL i --¦¦' ' • <"' ' - •
       2
   .4gajn, by (17.,i,„ ., .„,...,.,... ...,.,,„.„ .                        , . ;
 rffo-Sy
     g„— ¦ = -sin2o(  1 . . / cos 2s   _ dz-j- — cos2r      —n )— a2e-j-cas[z—
                                                         nJdz'\       dz     . *),
      dl\ - \s \ ¦• 2 )         \          rfi
                             • .•. -—--iii ii,- ¦ .. —      «//       dt            '
         v  ,¦>   dz'  ¦  -\              i  v
         + 2e* -jr cos (z1— t*) = - sin* o(v cos 23—1/008 2.?')
         + 2»Vcos(«) — VJi'
 neglecting the same small quantities as before.                    And
                                   dt                  dt
very nearly ; therefore
                 </A _ rf(fr-^)             </(j3a-ffg) _v->'            £
 . .; ,n-.ii ?tffc,~j. ;»<#                        ndt,,,.~ n            n
verv nearly. Hence we have
It would be better to divide the numerator and denominator
                                                                      F'
of the value of tan 2(4p'—fi$ by F^ and reduce -p2- S to its
simplest form.                        ¦' ¦¦»" '¦»»'! 'o "• ¦'-•• ¦ "
   If we wish to make 8o> a complete variation relative to rand
w, the equation of condition is, leaving out the terms contain
ing (s) as before, these being insensible,
   «/• L sin8* $°
   4-{r*                 dfi 4 So*,in 9 cos 9^1-       dtj =¦ -2«r sin2*-^-.
                                                                           d-erdt
Make
                -T- = A sin %— 6),             sin 9 -r- — B cos t(p — S),
A and B being functions of r and 0 without t. By substitution
and dividing the result by n sin 6 sin i(<p — 6), we have
                      ^ { - iprsB + 2r* cos 9A } tafiirB,

      The Rev. Brice Bronwin on. the Theory of the Tides.                                      341
 or                                                                       /::>¦¦),, .^i<>->
        jpr-fc —2r cosfl-T- + 2i{p+l)B— 4cos0 A=0.
                                                                                          'A.
  We shall neglect », then p=l, and the last becomes
                /r^        2>cos0 ^4-4/B— 4cosflAss;0.                               .     (I>SU)
      To make 8» a complete variation relative to r and J,' we
 must have                                                                            3 _ i \,
      d f »#«'"
     drV               i s • / ' 4"*^. = -2r''r*Vn*Tt)'
              dT-*nrsm*™>Ttj                                 o df-\idA
            , - -'  1.1.'-  L • •'   i . • . "fI ! - - i    —    .    t->--        ^    *
 Substituting for tj, &c, and dividing by « cos it$ — 6), we
 find
              ^<[V2A-2r2 cos OBJ = -«/• ^ (sin JB,j
 or                                '                      '
     ;>r -3        2r cos 9 ^— + lipA. — 4 cos flB + 2 --j- (sin <B) = 0.
                                             - ¦               ' .'"'      *-"
     Making ^>= 1, and putting for -jr- (sin 0B) its value from (e),
  ¦            ¦                                        1 1 - -. -. .11        1 11 <n ¦ '..¦•
 there results
 ir~ -2r cos fl ^ + (*t— | sm2 fl) A -4 cos 0B = O. (20.)
     Make
By the substitution of these values in (19.) and (2Q.)y. we find
        («i+4)VD-(2»H-4)cos9C=0,                                         ' 1'          '' •[
       (2w + 4)cosfl»'D-(ii(pi+4)-4sin2fl)C = 0.J
                   D                                                                         ¦
     Eliminate p- between these, and there results
          «*(»» + 4)2 - (2m + 4)2 cos2 6 - [m + 4)4 sin2 9 = 0.
    •Thus (19.) and (20,) are rendered identical. Let the roots
of the last equation be m, anil mv and we have
               A=xC1r°'' + C4rws B=D,rffl> + Ds^'»-
When f = 2, we find
                                                             4

342      The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.
When i=l,
                                               4cos*S
                  OT,=0,     «.= -*- 1_4cosSj-
   The first value of m.2 is infinite negative at the pole, and the
second is so likewise when cos 6 = -, or in the latitude of 30°.
If, therefore, r be less than unity, rras is infinite at both places;
and if r be greater than unity, it is nothing. This is inad
missible, since we can give to r any numerical value we please.
We must therefore have C2=0, D2=0, or the constant arbi-
traries by which the values of these quantities are multiplied
must be nothing. Thus we have
and therefore
                C, or C = A>•- "«,      D, or D = Br~ "i.
These values, substituted in the first of (21.), give
                   (m + 4)t'B — {2m + 4) cos 8A = 0.
If by means of this we eliminate B from the equations
   4(sindA)-*B=0, j4(sinSB)-(z^-2sin2fl)A=0,
    it J                         civ
given in the first paper, we find
            . . dA        m          „.
           Sin 0 —nr          -COSflA = 0,
                 dS     m+4                  '
             ^±±.^-(sinflcos«A)-(t9-2sin28)A=0.
              m + 4, da y                ' v          '
    Let j'=2, «=— 3; and both these reduce to
                         sin 00-jj- + 3cosflA = 0,
which, integrated, gives
                             A    An      — S"«"
                                     *    sins 9
This will be found upon trial to be a particular integral of (7.).
                                                             dA
     Let i = l, »»=0; and both the above reduce to -tj =0,
which gives A = A.=a„ which is also a particular integral of
 (7.) in this case. These results serve to confirm the legiti
macy of the process j and since each of the above equations
 leads to the same result, the confirmation is in a manner
doubled.

   The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Tides.            343
   The other particular integral of (7.). when t'=2, found by
means of the above, is
                        b9
                        ¦ ?. cos 9 ,_ , • o/l\
                          sinJ8 9. ¦ (2+ sin2 9);
so that the complete integral is
This is the form in which I first found it. But each of these
particular integrals is infinite at the pole. Make
                           b3= — gflg + Cgi
then
         * -a (l-cosi _ ™*.\ + C-^(<2+ sin* 9).
         A*~ A sin3 9             2 sin i/     sin3 9^
    The second of these particular integrals is infinite at the
 pole ; we must therefore make c2=0. Then
          (I- cos 9 __ cos 9 \ _ a2 / 1_               — cos
 A*~a*\ gin8 9          2 sin 9/ 2sin9( ^
                                                     2
     f    *
           2s,n(W-
                 \cos 2
                                           2)/2s  —
              .  9
        = «,_^(l+2cos*-),
             cos3-
  which is also a particular integral of (7.), and the value before
  given to A4.                                       .       . .     .
     From (19.) and (20.) we may find equations containing A
  only, or B only. By elimination and differentiation, and then
  eliminating again, we shall easily find
  ^_W9)r*^+(9i3-4-16coS*9)r^ + (16,*-16)A = 0
  ^-4eos«V§ + (9?-*-16co.«l)r^ + (16i»-18)B=0.
  The integrals of these are obtained by assuming A = Cr"j
   B=Dr'", and each of them gives the same values of m, and
   these will be found the same as those before obtained.
       Suppose, for the sake of illustration, that there is only one

34*    The Rev. Brice Bronwin on the Theory of the Ticks.
planet to raise the water; we see from what has been done in
these papers that the passage of the planet over the meridian
and the time of high water will not necessarily coincide, and
that the retardation or acceleration of the tide is a necessary
consequence of the matliematical theory itself. Moreover, we
see that the retardation or acceleration is not a constant quan
tity ; but the variable part of it is, small, aud may be insensible.
   The four arbitraries a2, a,, kv &„ which have been intro
duced by integration, depend upon the depth of the sea, and
the form of the shores ; or, in other words, they depend upon
the closed surface of the water, and must be determined for
each particular place by observation. Hence the theory and
observation will not be at variance, as heretofore, with regard
to the height of the tide at any particular place, or in any.
particular latitude, when these arbitraries are properly deter
mined.
   The variation bto has been made a complete variation rela
tive to the quantities i, cr, and r ; but the terms depending on
v have been neglected ; not necessarily, but for the sake of
simplicity. It is possible, however, small as this quantity is,
that it might make a sensible alteration in the form at least of
the coefficients as functions of 9 ; but this is a matter of no
practical importance.
   Heretofore the direct action of the planet has alone been
considered in this theory ; whereas the simple consideration
that the water will turn round an island or headland, and
quite change or even reverse its course, and this perhaps in a
very short time, and with little or no variation in the velocity,
in despite of the action of the planet, shows how very small a
part of the cause its direct action is. The height of the tide,
therefore, in particular places has been made to depend on a
cause which produces directly scarcely any part of it ; and the
horizontal displacements and velocities, which ought chiefly
to be considered, have been entirely neglected. This has no
doubt been owing to the extreme difficulty of taking account
of them.
   The difficulty experienced in putting the coefficient of
cos(ip— /3,) under a suitable form, owing to our not being able
to estimate with sufficient precision the relative magnitudes
of the quantities which it contains, renders it very difficult to
say what alteration this theory will make in the height of the
tide as it depends on the declinations of the planets, and it is
possible that the coefficient may vary greatly in different
places.
   It will be seen that in the coefficients of both cos 2(^—0,)
and cos (« — /3,) this theory makes a considerable alteration as

     On the Compounds of the Halogois with Phosphorus.      3*5
to the manner in which the variable quantities enter them.
And if we were to take account of the powers and products
of the displacements of the second order, a further change
would be produced, and one which might be very sensible. I
may perhaps give the subject a brief consideration at some
future opportunity, if not prevented.
   Gunthwaite Hall, near Barnsley, Yorkshire,
               October 5, 1849.
XLIV. On the Compounds of the Halogens with Phosphorus.
                 By J. H. Gladstone, Ph.D.*
 r^URING the course of my recent examination of the com-
*-* pounds of phosphorus and nitrogen, I had occasion to
prepare considerable quantities of pentachloride ofphosphorus;
and some observations which I incidentally made upon that
substance, induced me to undertake a fuller investigation into
such combinations of phosphorus with the halogens.
    It is well known that if chlorine gas be passed over phos
 phorus, they combine energetically, forming in the first in
 stance a limpid liquid, which is a combination of three atoms
 of chlorine with one of phosphorus. If the proper amounts
of bromine and phosphorus be brought into contact, a similar
terbromide is the result. If one part of phosphorus and
twelve parts of iodine be mixed, a red, easily fusible solid re
 sults, which appears to be an analogous compound. And
 again, if a larger quantity of chlorine, or bromine, or iodine,
 be employed, crystalline bodies are produced, which are com
binations of five atoms of the halogen with one of phosphorus.
 The same penta- compounds result when an additional quan
 tity of the halogen is added to the substance containing three
 itotns. I have not succeeded in bringing about similar com
 binations between cyanogen and phosphorus: in fact, this
 element may be distilled unchanged in an atmosphere of
 cyanogen gas.
    These compounds form a very distinctly-marked class of
 bodies. They are neither acid nor basic; and they are re
 solved by water into the hydracids of the halogens, that is,
 hydrochloric, hydrobromic, or hydriodic acid, and phospho
 rous, or phosphoric acid,—according to the number of atoms of
 the element replaced by oxygen. In these respects they differ
 from the combinations of sulphur with phosphorus, which
 have acid properties, are not readily decomposed by water,
 and are in fact strictly analogous to the oxygen compounds.
                  • • Communicated by the Author.

 346          Dr. Gladstone on the Compounds ofthe
   It is also well known, that if the combination between phos
phorus and the halogen be made by means of a metallic salt
that yields up its electro-negative element readily, or in
other words, if phosphorus be distilled with the chloride, bro
mide, or iodide of mercury, it is the ter-compound that results.
In this manner also Davy produced a ter-fluoride. Canedella*
states that if cyanide of mercury and phosphorus be heated
together, combination ensues, frequently with explosive vio
lence, and a sublimate is formed resolvable by water into
phosphorous and hydrocyanic acids. On repeating his ex
periment I did obtain a sort of explosion, and a minute quan
tity of a substance which answered somewhat to the description
given. A subsequent attempt, however, was quite unsuc
cessful. The uncertainty attending the preparation, together
with the high probability that poisonous exhalations would
arise from such cyanides when exposed to the air, rendered
me disinclined to pursue the investigation further.
   In order to prepare one of these ter-compounds by means
of a metallic salt, it is not necessary that the salt should be
capable of decomposition by heat alone. I have prepared ter-
chloride of phosphorus by making use of the chlorides of
iron and copper ; and doubtless other metallic chlorides might
be substituted. Chloride of lead, however, I found not to be
decomposed by phosphorus.
   The comparative weakness with which the two additional
atoms of the pentachloride of phosphorus are held in combina
tion, is evident from the ease with which compounds are ob
tained, where these two atoms of chlorine are substituted by
sulphur and oxygen, as already made known by Sefullas and
Wurtz; but the readiness with which the penta- compounds
are reduced to the ter-compounds has never, I think, been
pointed out. If the chloride, bromide, or iodide of phos
phorus, containing five atoms of the halogen, be heated in con
tact with fresh phosphorus, chemical action is instituted, and
the whole is reduced to the compound containing three atoms.
With the bromide the application of extraneous heat is quite
unnecessary: with the iodide, the reduction will proceed even
to the formation of a compound containing a much smaller
amount of iodine, but of a totally different character to the
bodies now under consideration. Upon this may be founded
a good method for obtaining the terchloride and terbromide,
as their freedom from admixture with the higher combination
can then be depended upon : sufficient phosphorus must be
employed to reduce the whole, and the liquid may be distilled
of perfect purity. Similarly, it has been heretofore observed,
                   * Annal. dvr Pharm., xviii. "0.

                    Halogens loith Phosphorus.               8*7
that the pentachloride of phosphorus is reduced to the ter-
chloride by the action of phosphuretted hydrogen; and this
again is completely decomposed, if the current of gas be con
tinued. If the yellow crystals of pentabromide be subjected
to the same treatment, a liquid compound is instantly pro
duced, whilst acid fumes are evolved ; and the long-continued
action of the phosphuretted hydrogen gas causes the entire
disappearance of the liquid, yellow phosphorus being left in
its place. The reaction is evidently the same as in the case
of the chloride, and may be expressed by the two formulas,—
                 3 PBr5+ PH3=*PBi\)+ 3HBr,
and
                 PBr3 + PH3=2P + sHBr.
    Although phosphuretted hydrogen is thus capable of re
ducing these combinations of phosphorus with the halogens,
pure hydrogen gas has not the slightest effect upon the penta
chloride of phosphorus even at the subliming point of that
 substance ; nor does it produce any alteration in the penta
 bromide,—at least not at the ordinary temperature. Heat
 alone, however, will effect the reduction of thus latter com
 pound, provided a stream of dry air be passed over it: the
 experiment is conveniently made in a water-bath at 100 C,
 when bromine passes off, and the liquid terbromide re
 mains. The peculiar reddening of the pentabromide during
 sublimation, first observed by Balard, is in all probability
 owing to this cause. When the penta-compound fuses, it is
 partially decomposed into terbromide of phosphorus and free
 bromine, which colours the liquid red ; the two rise in vapour
 together, thus producing a red gas; and when they reach a
 sufficiently cool portion of the vessel, recombine to form the
 lemon-yellow crystals of the penta-compound. It is not in
 tended by this explanation to deny that pentabromide of phos
 phorus may be capable of volatilization without being decom
 posed. In a similar manner, the higher compound of iodine
 and phosphorus may be reduced by the aid of heat alone.
 The pentachloride, on the contrary, resists the decomposing
 action of heat.
    The relative force of affinity between phosphorus and the
 three halogens to which my attention has been more espe
 cially directed, is in the order, — Chlorine, Bromine, Iodine.
  Thus, teriodide of phosphorus is decomposed by both chlorine
 and bromine; the terbromide by chlorine, but not by iodine;
  whilst the terchloride is not decomposed by either of the other
 elements. The same is indicated by the fact that terbromide
  of phosphorus distilled with chloride of mercury yields ter

 348           Dr. Gladstone on the Compounds of the
 chloride of phosphorus, and bromide of mercury, which re
 mains in the retort. None of these three ter-compounds is
 directly acted upon by oxygen gas; the terchloride of phos
 phorus is unaffected by sulphur at any temperature ; the ter-
 bromide also appears to enter into no definite combination ;
yet, if the oxygen or sulphur be united with hydrogen, double
 decomposition ensues. Water, as is well known, resolves
 these ter-compounds into the hydracids and phosphorous acid:
 hydrosulphuric acid, as observed by Serullas, resolves ter
 chloride of phosphorus into hydrochloric acid and tersulphide
 of phosphorus : a similar reaction takes place with the ter-
bromide, which may be expressed by the formula—
      i i" .•¦     PBr3 + 3HS    ¦ PS3 + 3HBr.
                             . ¦ =
    When we consider the action of these non-metallic elements,
and their hydracids, upon the penta-compounds, we are again
reminded of the comparative feebleness with which the two
additional atoms are combined. Pentachloride of phosphorus,
it is true, is unaffected by bromine, and the action of iodine
upon it did not appear to me well-defined; but pentabromide
of phosphorus, carefully prepared so as to avoid excess of
bromine, when brought into contact with iodine at the ordi
nary temperature, quickly ran down into a red liquid, and
terbromide was found in the vessel. Very little iodine is re
quired to eflect this reaction ; and since the compound IBr5
is known to be readily formed, the decomposition in all pro
bability may be thus expressed :—
                    SPBrs+2l = 5PBra + 2lBr5.
The action of sulphur upon these penta-compounds is remark
able. If it be mixed with the pentachloride of phosphorus,
and the whole fused together, combination ensues ; but this
is not a case of reduction ; and the new products—a liquid
and a crystalline body—require a more lengthy consideration
than can be given them in this paper. Again, if pentabro
mide of phosphorus be mixed with sulphur, no action takes
place in the cold 5 but upon gently raising the temperature,
combination is instituted; the odour of bromide of sulphur is
perceptible ; and a liquid is produced, which appears to con
sist, partially at least, of a compound that will be presently
described.
   We have now to consider the manner in which these penta-
compounds of the halogens with phosphorus frequently part
with the two additional atoms when treated with hydrogen
compounds. Hydriodic acid reduces the pentachloride of
phosphorus to the terchloride, a fact first remarked by Se

                       Halogens with Phosphorus.                        S49
rullas* ; yet I did not find the same occur with the pentabro-
mide ; nor was the pentachloride itself affected by a stream
of hydrobromic acidf, even when heated. The proto-com-
pounds of oxygen and sulphur with hydrogen act somewhat
differently : the hydrogen enters into combination with the
two atoms of the halogen that are more easily removable, and
leaves the oxygen or sulphur in combination with the phos
phorus compound. These substances in the chlorine series
are the oxychloride of phosphorus described by WurtzJ,
having the composition PCI,, 02, and the sulphochloride of
phosphorus discovered by Serullasij, bearing the formula
PCI3SS. In order to produce this oxygen compound, the
action of the water must be moderated, or a secondary trans
formation into phosphoric and hydrochloric acids will take
place. This may be effected either by throwing the white
crystals of pentachloride of phosphorus into water, when they
are instantly converted into the liquid oxychloride, and imme
diately afterwards drawing off the supernatant fluid; or, with
greater ease, by exposing the solid chloride to the moisture
of the atmosphere until the conversion is complete, hydro
chloric acid being constantly evolved. A compound strictly
analogous to this, may be obtained from the pentabromide of
phosphorus by either of the two processes. The latter ia of
course preferable.
    Qxybromide of Phosphorus. — When pentabromide of phos
phorus is entirely decomposed by a moist atmosphere, there
remains in the vessel a reddish liquid of a sticky consistency.
This must be gently heated to expel hydrobromic acid, of
which it contains a large quantity ; and then, upon distillation
at about 180° C, a heavy vapour passes over, condensing into
a colourless liquid of high specific gravity. It does not mix
with water, but is slowly resolved by it into phosphoric acid
and hydrobromic acid. It is soluble in oil of turpentine and
in aether, and is also dissolved by strong sulphuric acid, from
which it may be precipitated by water, unchanged, but soon
suffering, of course, a secondary decomposition. Nitric acid
destroys it violently with evolution of bromine. Bromine
added to it reproduces momentarily the yellow crystals of
   * Ann. de Chun, et de Phyt., xxxviii. 322.
  t Hydriodic or hydrobromic acid in a gaseous condition may be conve
niently prepared by the action of iodine or bromine on hyposulphite of soda
moistened with a little water. The reaction will be evident from the equa
tion—
              NaO,S,Oj+HO+Br=NaO,SO,+S+HBr.
In the case of iodine it is necessary to apply heat.
   | Amu de Ch. et de Phyt., 3rd ser. xs. 472.          § Ibid. xlii. 23.

350          Dr. Gladstone on the Compounds of the
pentabromicle; but the final result is a liquid, which, upon
the application of heat, evolves bromine, and apparently leaves
the original substance behind unaltered. Chlorine displaces
the bromine in this compound, red vapours being immediately
evolved when it is treated with that gas.
   The analysis of this substance was effected by decomposing
it in water, and precipitating the hydrobromic and phos
phoric acids, thus produced, in the usual manner. The re
sults, as given below, fully confirmed the expectation that this
new liquid was the oxybromide of phosphorus, having the
composition P Br8 02.
   06245 grm. of substance yielded 1*227 grm. of bromide of
silver, and 0*1514 grm. of phosphoric acid.
   O^Sll grm. of another preparation yielded 1*605 grm. of
bromide of silver.
   Or, calculated to 100 parts,—
                                                 Dy calculation
                            By experiment.        from P Br, Oj.
      Phosphorus . . 10*77               ...         11*29
      Bromine . . . 82*50              83*11        83*06
      Oxygen                             ...          5*65
   The production of this oxybromide of phosphorus will be
expressed by the equation—
                PBr5 + 2HO=PBr302+2HBr.
   I have not succeeded in accurately determining the boiling-
point of the liquid under consideration. It appears to vary
between 170° C., and perhaps 30 degrees higher. Kopp finds
that the substitution of three atoms of chlorine by three atoms
of bromine in a compound, causes an elevation in its boiling-
point of 96° C. Thus, the terchloride of phosphorus boils at
78° C; theterbromide at 175°C. (Pierre), or 174° C.accord-
ing to my own observations. Now, as oxychloride of phos
phorus boils at 110° C, this would give as the boiling-point
of oxybromide of phosphorus 206° C. ; but experiment cer
tainly does not indicate it as so high.
   I may here remark that, in the decomposition of this oxy
bromide by water, there is usually formed a small quantity of
a brown resinous-looking matter, not acted upon by water,
nor soluble either in potash or nitric acid. It has a very
characteristic odour. I have never obtained it in sufficient
quantity for thorough examination. This readily accounts
for the slight loss in the first analysis recorded above.
   Sulpho- bromine Compound.—On passing a stream of hydro-
sulphuric acid over pentabromide of phosphorus, combination
instantly ensued ; the yellow crystals gave place to a colour

                     Halogens with Phosphorus.                    351
less or slightly red liquid, whilst hydrobromic acid was evolved:
no free bromine or bromide of sulphur was observed. When
the action was complete, the new product was first heated in
a water-bath to drive off excess of hydrosulphuric acid, and
then distilled at about 200° C. A colourless dense liquid
passed over; but analysis showed that it was not the sulpho-
bromide expected. The estimations, Nos. 1 and 2, recorded
below, were made from it. Fearing that a decomposition
might have taken place in the distillation of this substance, I
submitted some carefully prepared pentabromide of phos
phorus to the action of dry hydrosulphuric acid, andexamined
 the resulting liquid itself. It was colourless, or slightly red,
 of high specific gravity, and fumed in moist air, giving forth
 a disgusting and deleterious odour. It was slowly decomposed
 by water, sulphur being deposited, and hydrobromic and
 phosphorous acids being dissolved : there was also in solution
 a sulphide of phosphorus, which gave a brown precipitate with
 a silver salt, but no hydrosulphuric acid. If alkali were added
 to the water, decomposition took place much more rapidly.
 It was soluble in aether, insoluble in cold sulphuric acid ; but
 upon raising the temperature to about the boiling-point of the
 substance, decomposition ensued, the sulphuric acid became
 red, hydrobromic acid was evolved, and afterwards bromide
 of sulphur. Strong nitric acid attacked it violently ; the phos
 phorus and sulphur being oxidized, the bromine dissipated.
  When treated with bromine, it gave momentarily the yellow
 crystals of pentabromide of phosphorus ; then gas was evolved,
 and it again became liquid. It boiled at about 200° C. with
 out alteration. The quantitative estimation of its elements
 gave analysis No. 3, proving its identity with the liquid first
  analysed.
    As the hydrosulphuric acid employed in these experiments
 was made from sulphide of iron, and was dried by passing
  through sulphuric acid, I suspected that free hydrogen might
  possibly have interfered with the reaction, although it does
  not affect pentabromide of phosphorus itself when alone. The
  experiment was therefore repeated with hydrosulphuric acid
  prepared from sulphide of antimony, and dried by means of
  chloride of calcium. When the resulting colourless liquid was
  thoroughly saturated with the gas, it was found to be similar
  to that previously obtained. It afforded analysis No. 4.
     The analyses numbered 1, 3, and 4 were performed by
  oxidizing the liquid by means of nitric acid. The second ana
  lysis was obtained by allowing the liquid to remain under
  water until entirely decomposed, precipitating the bromine by
  nitrate of silver, heating the precipitate with nitric acid in order

 352          Dr. Gladstone on the Compounds of the
 to destroy the brown salt produced at the same time, estima
 ting the sulphuric acid thus formed in the usual manner, and
 adding the amount of sulphur it contained to that left undis
 solved in the aqueous solution.
    I. 0*200 grm. of the liquid yielded 0*075 grm. of sulphate
 of baryta, and 00702 grm. of phosphoric acid.
    II. 0373 grm. yielded 0*07255 grin, of bromide of silver,
 0*0125 grm. of sulphur, and 0*045 grm. of sulphate of baryta.
    III. 0*4445 grm. yielded 0*173 grm. of sulphate of baryta,
 and 0*136 grm. of phosphoric acid.
    IV. 0*2965 grm. yielded 0*124 grm. of sulphate of baryta,
 and 0*0848 grm. of phosphoric acid.
   Or, reckoned to 100 parts,—
                            I.       II.        HI.       IV.
       Phosphorus . . 15*6          ...        13*6      12*8
       Bromine                     81*6
       Sulphur ...         5*2       5*0        5*4       5*7
   This does not accord well with any simple formula. If we
 suppose it to be a chemical combination of three atoms of ter-
bromide with one atom of tersulphide of phosphorus, i. e. a
sulpho-phosphite of the bromide of phosphorus, we obtain
numbers which are similar.
                                   Calculated from 3PBr3 + PS3*
                 Phosphorus                   14*5
                 Bromine                      80*1
                 Sulphur                       5*4
                                             1000
   It is possibly, however, a mixture of two distinct substances
having nearly the same boiling-point.
   It does not appear that similar compounds belonging to the
iodine series exist. Pentiodide of phosphorus is rapidly de
composed by the moisture of the atmosphere, but it did not
furnish an oxyiodide. Hydrosulphuric acid has no action
on the pentiodide of phosphorus, either at the ordinary tem
perature, or when fused by the heat of a water-bath.
   It is remarkable to observe the increased stability which
these two atoms of oxygen, or sulphur, give to the compound
of phosphorus with three atoms of the halogen. Whereas
hydrosulphuric acid is capable of completely decomposing
both the terchloride and terbromide of phosphorus, it is in
capable of removing the three atoms of chlorine from the sul-
phochloride of phosphorus, and also the remaining bromine
from the compound of bromine, sulphur, and phospnorus just
described. Again, whilst metals immersed in terchloride of
phosphorus, or terbromide, are attacked by them, they remain

                   Halogens with Phosphorus.                   353
unaltered in oxychloride, or oxybromide of phosphorus, or the
sulpho-bromine compound. Even potassium, which instantly
inflames with violence when brought into contact with ter-
chloride of phosphorus, will remain quite unaffected in the
oxychloride, and combination is not determined even by boil
ing the liquid. It is true, the less easily oxidized metals, such
as silver or platinum, are not attacked by terchloride of phos
phorus at any temperature ; but even platinum is acted upon
by the pentachloride with the assistance of heat, the com
pound being entirely decomposed. And lastly, whereas the
penta-compounds of the halogens with phosphorus may be
reduced by means of additional phosphorus, no such reduction
of the oxychloride takes place. This substance is also un
affected by iodine, bromine, or chlorine.
   There appears no reason why a compound of phosphorus
might not be formed, in which two of the halogens should be
associated ; but all my attempts to procure such a body have
proved unavailing. Many of the experiments given above
were undertaken with that view. It occurred to me also, that
since chlorine decomposes both the pentabromide and iodide
of phosphorus, hydrochloric acid might possibly effect a par
tial double decomposition ; but I found it had no action upon
either. If chloride of mercury and pentiodide of phosphorus
be heated together, double decomposition does ensue ; but it
extends to the three atoms more intimately connected with
the phosphorus, and the two additional atoms of iodine are
set free : thus—
               PI6 + 3HgCl=PCl3 + 3HgI + 2l.
   Since a halogen, bromine for instance, combines directly
with the ter-compound of the same halogen with phosphorus,
it appeared not improbable that it might combine readily with
another ter-compound. But, when bromine is poured upon
the terchloride of phosphorus, it merely sinks to the bottom,
and the two liquids cannot be made to mix. If, however, a
little iodine be added, a junction is instantly effected, attended
with great evolution of heat : when the temperature falls, «
red Crystalline mass separates, resembling pentabromide of
phosphorus when prepared with excess of bromine. In order
to prove whether it was really this substance, or some new
compound, it was necessary to separate it, if possible, from
the accompanying liquid. This could not be effected by di
stillation, and the action of solvents was destructive : purely
mechanical means therefore had to be resorted to. A com
pound of bromine and iodine was prepared, and terchloride of
phosphorus was allowed to fall into it, drop by drop, as long
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 237. Nov. 1849.         2 A

354         Dr. Gladstone on the Compounds of the
as the crystals appeared to increase in quantity ; the superna
tant liquid was then poured off, and the crystals were allowed
to drain, without free exposure to the atmosphere, and were
afterwards transferred to a porous tile also protected from
moist air. When they appeared as dry as they were likely to
become, they were analysed through decomposition by water,
and precipitation of the hydracids by nitrate of silver.
   O^l grm. of the red crystals yielded 0*910 grm. of bro
mide of silver, and 0*1 13 grm. of chloride of silver.
   This indicates 88'6 per cent, of bromine, and 6'4 per cent,
of chlorine. Evidently, therefore, the crystalline body was no
combination of both halogens with phosphorus, but merely
pentabromide of phosphorus contaminated with a little of some
chlorinated compound. The pentabromide requires 92-45
per cent, of bromine, and 7-55 per cent, of phosphorus. The
reaction that takes place is in all probability very simple,—
                   PCl3 + IBrs=PBr6+ICl3.
   If iodine be added to the terchloride of phosphorus, a red
solution is immediately obtained. If this be subjected to a
temperature a little below 100° C, a red liquid distils over.
Quantitative analysis showed that this was merely a solution
of iodine in the terchloride; that element having passed over,
in considerable quantity, with the vapour of the compound, at
a temperature far below its own subliming point. In the same
manner, if iodine be added to the terbromide of phosphorus,
a red liquid is obtained, but without chemical combination.
   Nor does it appear that direct combination will take place
between phosphorus and the compounds of the halogens
themselves. When the liquid chloride of iodine is added to
phosphorus, violent combination ensues ; iodine is liberated ;
and, even if a double compound be at all formed (which I
doubt), it is destroyed by heat, and resolved into chloride of
phosphorus and iodine. Again, if phosphorus be brought
into contact with the orange-yellow crystals of terchloride of
iodine, a blue colour is instantly developed, as though from
the liberation of iodine, and a result is obtained similar to
that in the former experiment.
   Before quitting the compounds of bromine and phosphorus,
I must mention a crystalline body, which I frequently ob
tained during my investigation of them, but which, from not
understanding the conditions of its formation, I have never
procured in any considerable quantity ; and, in the attempt
to purify it, I have almost uniformly destroyed the little I did
possess. In distilling terbromide, or oxybromide of phos
phorus, there remained in the retort, on several occasions, a

                    Halogens "with Phosphorus.               355
small amount of these crystals; and they were observed to
form on the yellow pentabromide of phosphorus, when imper
fectly secured from the action of the atmosphere, but before
complete conversion into oxybromide. They are perfectly
transparentandcolourless.with sharply-defined edges; theyare
decomposed by water : by the moderated heat of a spirit-lamp
they fuse, and immediately sublime. But this fusion is apt to
produce an alteration in them : instead of re-crystallizing on
cooling, a permanent liquid is sometimes found, having the
characters of oxybromide of phosphorus. The only analysis
I obtained was made with a very small quantity.
   (V1125 grm. yielded 0*2255 grm. of bromide of silver, and
0-048 of phosphate of magnesia.
   Or, reckoned to 100 parts,—
                 Phosphorus                  12*0
                 Bromine                     84*2
                 Oxygen, or loss ...           3*8
                                            1000
   Is this crystalline body isomeric with liquid oxybromide of
phosphorus? or is it some compound containing less oxygen?
May it not also possibly account for the variations in the boil
ing-point of the oxybromide?
   We are unacquainted, I believe, with any method by which
the iodides ofphosphorus can be purified from excess of iodine.
Thus they have never been analysed. It is on this account,
also, that my researches have not been carried so far with the
iodine as with the bromine compounds ; nor can I feel perfect
confidence in all the results at which I have arrived in refer
ence to them.
   Thus have we seen the manner in which the halogens
combine with phosphorus, forming ter- and penta- com
pounds; and also some methods by which the compounds
containing five atoms of the halogen may be reduced to those
containing three. The comparative feebleness of the combi
nation of the two additional atoms has been rendered still more
evident by the action of certain elementary bodies, and of
the compounds of these elements with hydrogen. Among the
products of these reactions are an oxybromide of phosphorus,
and a sulphur compound of less simple formula. It has also
been remarked how the substitution of oxygen, or sulphur,
for two of the elements of halogen in a penta-compound, in
creases the force with which the remaining three are combined.
And lastly, the great indisposition of any two halogens to enter
together into a phosphorus compound has likewise been ob
served.
                            2 A2

                                [ 356 ]
                       XLV. On Shooting Stars.
              By Sir J. W. Lubbock, Bart., F.R.S.*
SOME time since, in a paper in the Philosophical Magazine,
      I ventured to suggest that the disappearance of shooting
stars might be occasioned by their passing into the earth's
shadow, or in other words, by being eclipsed. Lately, in
looking over the Astronomische Nachrichten, I found in
No. 614, in a paper entitled " Ueber eine Langenbestimmung
aus den August-Sternschuppen," 1847, by M. Weyer, three
observations of shooting stars, which might, supposing their
distance from the earth's surface as given in that paper suffi
ciently accurate, serve to test in those instances the truth of
my hypothesis. Accordingly I requested Mr. Farley to cal
culate the distance of the bodies, and the following tables ex
hibit the results obtained, and the data, as furnished by the
tables in the Ast. Nach. They do not appear to be favour
able to the hypothesis above referred to. The notation is as
follows, conformably to that of my preceding paper :—
   R = earth's semidiameter = 3958 miles.
   a = azimuth of shooting star — azimuth of sun ; reckoned
from the south meridian westward.
   £ m apparent zenith distance of shooting star.
   p = distance of shooting star from the spectator.
   9 = depression of sun's centre, so that 90° + 8 = sun's ze
nith distance.
                                                         Distance from the earth's
             Mean time Place of Mean time     Place of          surface in
     1847.      at      disap      at Pa-       dis
             Hamburg. pearance. pcnburg.    appearance.
                                                        German miles. English miles.
             h   m   •           h    m   s
   Aug. 10.. 10 54 2 Herculis 10 43 53 a Pegasi . . .        12            55
             10 58 43 Lyrie ... 10 48 34 a Androm.           18            83
             11 40 25 Lyra; ... 11 30 16 /3 Arietis...       10            46        |
    In order to estimate the effect which an error in the as
sumed place of disappearance would have upon g, it has been
calculated upon three different hypotheses: —
    1. Supposing the shooting star to have disappeared at Pa-
penburg, having the same R.A. and Dec. as the star indi
 cated in the Ast. Nach.
   2. Supposing the place so assumed to be in error S° or
 12m in II. A., and the Dec. to be correct.
   3. Supposing the place assumed to be in error 3° in Dec.
and the 11. A. to be correct.
                       * Communicated by the Author.

              Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather.                    357
    The last column contains the value of § as obtained from
 the distance from the earth's surface given in the Ast. Nach.
 For the purpose of comparison, it will be seen that much
greater errors than those I have assumed in the place of the
shooting star's disappearance would be required to conciliate
the two results.
    We found for the instant of disappearance and for Papen-
burg,—
         Assumed place of
          disappearance.                              ©'•
                              i-   Azimuth.    I.   Azimuth.
                                                               u.   in English
                                                                      miles.
         R.A.      Dec.
         h   m              o    /
  l.... 22 57 + 14 23 52 9 300 44           19    9 159 16   141 28 555     84
  2.... 23 9 + 14 23 53 43 297 40           19    9 159 16   138 24 591    84
  3.... 22 57 + 17 23 49 38 298 36          19    9 159 16   139 20 500     84
  1....  0 1 +28 15 49 32 275 44 19 21              160 12   115 32 422 124
  2....  0 13 +28 15 51 20 273 52 1 19 21           160 12   113 40 436 124
  3....  0 1 +31 15 47 22 272 57 19 21              160 12   112 45 393 124
  1....  1 46 +20 4 65 9 269 16 20 55 171                 8   98 8 633 170
  2....  1 58 +20 4 66 57 266 53 20 55 171                8   95 45 649 170
  3....  1 46 +23 4 62 21 267 6 20 55 171                 8   95 58 579 170
    It seems very desirable to procure other observations of
this kind made by two or more persons, having their time
sufficiently accurate to be able to identify the meteor, and by
each noting as accurately as possible the place of disappear
ance, so that they may be enabled through the parallax of the
body to determine its distance from the earth. I do not see
in what manner isolated observations by one person can in
the present state of the subject tend to elucidate this interest
ing question. The paper in the Ast. Nach., to which I have
referred, affords ample evidence that such combined efforts
would in all probability be attended with success. The de
termination of the distance of the body by means of its paral
lax is of course independent of any hypothesis as to its na
ture, and may therefore serve as a guide in any reasoning
upon that point.
XLVI. Remarks on the Weather during the Qiiartcr ending
   September 30, 1849. By James Glaisher, Esq., F.R.S.,
   F.R.A.S., and of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich*.
 A MORE than ordinary interest is attached to the meteor-
"**• ology of the present year, and in particular to that part
of the year just passed, owing to the presence of cholera as an
                       • Communicated by the Author.

358        Mr. J. Giaisher's Remarks on the Weather
epidemic complaint. This disease has been fatal during the
last quarter to a great number of persons. The number of
deaths in London and in its vicinity, according to the weekly
Reports of the Registrar-General, exceeded the average num
ber of deaths in July by 2515, in August by 4464, and in
September by 4322, out of a population of 2,206,076 ; a mor
tality unprecedented!}' great.
   I have no means of judging of the amount of illness, but it
must have been great.
   If epidemics be due to atmospheric causes acting upon local
circumstances, it is to the successful cultivation of medical
meteorology that we can hope to contend with them with
success.
   Those causes of sickness which depend upon temperature,
humidity, pressure or movement of the air, admit of measure
ment; and it must be considered as a most valuable circum
stance, that nearly forty educated gentlemen— known and
trustworthy observers, with good instruments—were daily
engaged, long before the epidemic came, in collecting this in
formation. Without this organization our knowledge of the
meteorological particulars of the period would have been as
deficient as it is of the year 1832, when the cholera was before
prevalent.
   The results thus collected may now be compared with those
of former years, as far as the previous years will furnish the
materials of comparison, with those for instance when epi
demics prevailed, as in 1832, and with those of non-epidemic
years, as in 1842, a year which was unusually free from epi
demic diseases. Those gentlemen who may wish to investigate
the connexion which may have existed between the sickness
and mortality of the seasons, with their meteorological parti
culars, will find the monthly values of the subjects of meteor
ological research in the Quarterly Reports of the Registrar-
General, with the names of the gentlemen who have furnished
the observations; and most of those gentlemen would be
happy to furnish detailed copies from their registers for short
periods to any gentleman who would use them in connexion
with sickness or mortality.
   The quarterly meteorological returns for the past quarter,
furnished to the Registrar-General and myself, have been
received from thirty-eight different places, whose returns have
been found on examination to be good. These have all been
examined and reduced by myself.
   At Greenwich the mean daily temperatures of the air from
July 1 to July 17 were above their average values; the mean
excess was 3C,2. From July 18 to August 5 they were below

         during the Quarter ending September 30, 1849.                 359
their average values ; the mean deficiency was 20,2. From
August 6 to August 12 the temperature was high ; its mean
daily excess was 6°'0. From August 13 to August 19 the
mean deficiency was 1°*9. From August 20 to September 15
the temperature was high; its mean excess was 4°; and this
period was distinguished by a thick and stagnant atmosphere,
and the air was for the most part very close and oppressive.
The temperature was 30,3 below its average from September 1 1
to September 21 ; and it was 5°'5 in excess from September 22
to the end of the quarter. The summer has been warm and
dry, without great heat. Thunder-storms have been very
frequent during the quarter. The air has been for the most
part unusually dry. The amount of rain has been less than
usual in latitudes south of 53°, and north of this parallel it
has been greater. The magnets have been seldom disturbed
during the quarter ; and the amount of electricity, though less
than usual, seems to have been so in consequence of the less
amount of humidity of the air.
   The weather has been much finer in the southern than in
the northern parts of the country.
   The mean temperature of the three months ending August,
constituting the three summer months, was 61o,0; and that
of the average of seventy summers is 60o,0.
   The several subjects of research in the past quarter are as
follows :—
    The mean temperature ofthe air* for the month of July was
62°-l, which is 4*-3, l°-9, l°-2, 0°-7, 2°*3 and 0o,6 above those of
the years 1841, 1842, 1843, 1844, 1845 and 1848 respectively;
and is 2°-4 and 30,3 below those of the years 1846 and 1847
respectively. The temperature of this month exceeded its
average from seventy years by 0o,7.
   For the month of August was 62°- 9, which is 2°-4, 0o,8,
50,2, 50,6, 0°-8 and 4°-4 above those of the years 1841, 1843,
1844, 1845, 1847 and 1848 respectively; and is 2°-5 and 0°*3
below those of the years 1842 and 1846 respectively. The
temperature of this month exceeded its average from seventy
years by 20,1.
   For the month of September was 58°-8, which is 0o,7, 2°-4,
1°*9, 5°*2, 40,5 and 3°0 above those of the same month in the
years 1841, 1842, 1844, 1845, 1847 and 1848 respectively;
and is 0°-7 and 10,3 below that in 1843 and 1846. The
temperature of this month exceeded that of the same month
on an average of seventy years by 20,1.
   * For the monthly, quarterly and yearly mean temperature of the air
from 1786 to 1843, see my paper in the Philosophical Transactions, part ii.
 1849 ; and for the mean monthly values of several meteorological elements,
tee my paper on Meteorology in the Illustrated London Almanac for 1850.

360          Mr. J. Glaislier's Remarks on the Weather
    The mean temperature of evaporation at Greenwich—
    For the month of July was 56°*2; for August was 57?*S;
and for September was 540,6. These values are 1°*3 /«*,
0°*4 less anil 0°*1 greater, respectively, than the averages of the
same months in the preceding eight years. The mean value
for the quarter was 56°*0. which is 0°*5 below the average of
the corresponding quarters of the eight preceding years.
     The mean temperature of the dew-point at Greenwich—
    For the months of July, August and September, were 5 1 °* 1 ,
 53^*0 and 51°0 respectively. These values are 3°6, 2°*4 and
 1°*6 below the average of the same months in the preceding
eight years. The mean value for the quarter was 51°*7, being
of less value than in the same quarter of each of the eight pre
ceding years, and less than their average by 2°*5. This implies
 that less water has been mixed with the air during this period
than in any of the corresponding quarters for eight years.
     The mean elastic-force ofvapour at Greenwich for the quarter
 balanced a column of mercury 0*400 inch in height. Its
average value for the corresponding quarter of the eight pre
 ceding years was 0*433 inch. The difference implies great
dryness of the air.
     The mean weight of vapour in a cubic foot of air for the
quarter was 4*5 grains. The average from the eight preceding
years was 4*9 grains.
     The mean additional weight of water required to saturate a
cubic foot of air was 1*6 grain. This value, from the eight
preceding years, was 1*1 grain.
     The mean degree of humidity in July was 0*71 1, in August
was 0*772, and in September was 0*772. The averages for
the eight preceding years were 0*798, 0*837, and 0*858 re
spectively.
     The mean reading of the barometer at Greenwich in July was
29*789 inches, in August was 29*841, and in September was
29*767. These values are respectively 0011 less, 0*060
greater, and 0048 less than the averages of the same months
for the preceding eight years.
    The reading of the barometer was 30*03 inches at the begin
ning of July. It decreased to 29*56 on the evening of the
4th, when it began to increase, and passed the point 30 inches
during the afternoon hours of the 8th, and was 30*25 on the
1 1 tli at 9 a.m. This was the highest reading in the month.
The reading decreased below 30 inches on the 15th, and to
29*40 by the morning of the 20th ; it then increased to 29*94
by noon on the 23rd; it then decreased to 29*31 on the 25th,
and this was the lowest reading in the month ; it then increased
to 2980 by the evening of the 28th ; then decreased to 29*52
at 3 p.m. on the 30th ; and after this increased to 29*80 at

       during the Quarter ending September 30, 1849.          361
the end of the month. The range of readings during the
month was 0*94 inch.
   In August the reading increased to 30*02 inches on the
morning of the 2nd at 9 a.m.; decreased to 29*78 on the 5th
at 10 a.m. ; increased to 29*95 on the 7th at 9 a.m. ; decreased
to 29*56 by the 9th at 9 p.m. ; increased to 29*95 on the 7th at
9 a.m.; decreased to 29*56 by the 9th at 9 p.m.; increased to
29*79 on the 1 1 th at 9 a.m. ; decreased to 29*46 by the 1 3th at
3 p.m.; increased to 29*74 by 3 p.m. on the 15th; decreased
to 29*54 on the 16th at 3 p.m.; it then increased and passed
the point 30 inches about midnight on the 18th, and was 30*22
on the 21st; at which reading it continued almost all the day,
and then decreased, slowly passing below 30 inches after noon
on the 25th, to 29*69 on the 30th at 9 P.M., and then in
creased to 29*74 by the 31st. The range of readings in the
month was 0*66 inch.
   The reading decreased on September 1st to 29*50 inches at
9 p.m. ; then increased slowly till the 7th at midnight, when
it was 30*05 ; the decrease on the 8th was slow ; it was rapid
on the 9th and 10th; and the reading on the lllh was 29
inches nearly all the day ; on the 1 2th at noon the reading
was 28*88, being the lowest in the quarter ; after this time the
reading increased, and passed the point 30 inches before noon
on the 14th; and continued to increase till the 19th at noon,
when it was 30*36, being the highest in the quarter; after
this time it decreased, and passed below 30 inches before noon
on the 22nd, and continued to decrease till the 27th at 3 p.m.,
when it was 29*61 ; it then decreased slightly to 29*73 of the
morning of the 28th ; and then decreased to 29*08 by the end
of the month. The range in the month was 1*48 inch, being
greater than usual.
   The average weight of a cubic foot of air, under the average
temperature, humidity and pressure, was 524*6 grains. The
average for the preceding eight years was 525*8 grains.
   The rain fallen at Greenwich in July was 2*9 inches, in
August was 0*45, and in September was 3*3. The amount
for the quarter was 6*6. The average for this quarter in the
preceding eight years was 7*2.
   TheJail ofrain in August was less than has fallen in August
since the year 1819. The average fall of rain at Greenwich,
from thirty-three years' observations, in July is 2*5, in August
2*4, and in September 2*4 inches. The fall was less than its
average at places south of latitude 53°, exclusive of Cornwall
and Devonshire; it was about its average fall between 53°
and 54° of latitude ; and north of 54° the fall was greater
than usual.

  362        Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather
     The excess of rain in the quarter in the counties of Cornwall
  and Devonshire is owing to two remarkable falls which oc
  curred in Cornwall on September 22 and on September 26.
  The observer at Helston mentions the falls on the nights of
  those days as very remarkable. The observer at Falmouth
  says, "a greater quantity of rain fell on the nights of the 22nd
  and 26th of September than I have measured in the same
  time for twelve years, viz. 1*925 and 1-964 inches respectively."
  The observer at Truro says, " the quantity of rain for Septem
  ber is most extraordinary, amounting to 9*25 'inches, particu
 larly the amount which fell on the 22nd, viz. 4*24 inches.
  On the 26th a large quantity also fell, viz. 3*00 inches. The
 total for the month exceeded that registered in any previous
 month during the period of our observations (eleven years),
 except in one instance, which, in the same month of Septem
 ber, slightly exceeds the present amount. The largest fall in
 any one day previously noted was 2*10 inches (in December
  1848); so that the quantity on the 22nd of September is
 double that on any former occasion, and is rendered more re
 markable by being followed in four days by another far ex
 ceeding all except itself." These remarkable falls seem to
 have been confined almost entirely to the county of Cornwall.
     The directions of the wind at Greenwich were S.W. and
 N.W. till July 8; was N.E. from the 10th to the 16th; and
 it was mostly S.W. from the 17th to the end of the month.
 From August 2 to 6 was N.W. and N.E. ; it was S.W. from
the 8lh to the 17th; and was chiefly N.W. till the end of
August. It was mostly N. from September 1 to the 8th ;
S.W. from the 10th to the 16th; and N. and N.E. after this
time. From the observations of the direction of the wind
which have been taken daily at most of the principal railway
stations, and published in the " Daily News" on the following
day during the whole of the past quarter, it appears that the
general direction was the same all over the country when the
air has been in quick motion ; but that at other times its
direction has been variable, and very frequently in a calm
state at places whose elevation is inconsiderable.
    The daily horizontal movement of the air in July was 1 20
miles; from August 1 to 11th was 50 miles; from August 12
to 16th was 170 miles; and from August 17 to the end of the
quarter was about 55 miles, except on September 1 1 and 12th,
when it amounted to 190 miles daily. The average daily
horizontal movement of the air during the quarter is about
120 miles. Therefore during the months of August and
September the movement of the air was about one-half the
usual amount.

        during the Quarter ending September 80, 1849.       363
   This remark applies to the place at which Osier's anemo
meter is placed at Greenwich, viz. at an elevation of upwards
of 200 feet above the level of the sea, and near the northern
extremity of the table-land forming Blackheath. At places at
a less elevation, the movement of the air was very much less
than the above ; on many days, when a strong breeze was
blowing on the top of the observatory and over Blackheath,
there was not the slightest motion in the air near the banks of
the Thames; and this remarkable calm continued for some
days together, particularly from August 19 to the 24th, on the
29th, from September 1 to the 10th, and after September 15.
On September 11 and 12 the whole mass of air at all places
was in motion, and the first time for nearly three weeks, the
hills at Hampstead and Highgate were seen distinctly from
Greenwich.
    From the published observations of the strength of the wind
daily at all parts of the country, it would seem that the air
has been for days together in a stagnant state at all places
whose elevation above the sea is small.
    The readings of the thermometer on grass in July were
below 40° on lour nights; the lowest was 32-8; between 40°
and 50° on twenty nights, and above 50° on seven nights. In
 August the readings were below 40° on five nights ; the low
est reading was 34 "5 ; between 40° and 50° on ten nights, and
 between 50° and 60° on twelve nights. In September the
 readings were below 40° on six nights; between 30° and 40°
 on twelve nights, and about 50° on ten nights.
    At Cardington the lowest reading on grass in July was
 31 -8, in August was 32°, and in September was 27°. The
 mean of all the lowest readings was 45c,5 in July, 47°'6 in
 August, and was 440-l in September, as observed by Samuel
 Charles Whitbread, Esq.
    There were three exhibitions of the aurora borealis. The
 first was seen on August 18 at Whitehaven ; the second wns
 seen at Latimer on September 3 at 8 p.m., when a rose-
 coloured auroral arch was seen extending from south-west to
 north-east across the zenith; and on Sept. 16 an aurora was
 seen at Stonyhurst.
     Thunder-storms occurred on July 18 at Nottingham and
 Leicester; on July 19 at Camberwell, Saffron Walden, Uck-
 field and Greenwich ; on July 20 at Nottingham, Camberwell,
 Saffron Walden, Leicester, Uckfield and Greenwich ; on
 July 23 at Hartwell Rectory, Stone and Leicester ; on July
 24 at Camberwell ; on July 25 at Hartwell Rectory, Stone
 and Camberwell; on July 26 at Camberwell, Leicester and
 Greenwich ; on July 29 at Nottingham and Leicester ; on

  36*        Mr. J. Glaishcr's Remarks on the Weather
  August 1, 2 and 3, at Nottingham; on August 4 and 6 at
  Helston; on August 7 at Helston and Leicester; on August
  8 at Hartwell Rectory, Stone, and severe at Uckfield ; on
  August 9 at Nottingham, Cardington, Liverpool and Lei
  cester : that at Nottingham is described as being violent. On
  August 10 at Liverpool and Leicester; on August 11 at Car
  dington, Hartwell Rectory, Stone and Uckfield ; on August
  12 at Nottingham, Saffron Walden and Leicester; on Au
 gust 13 at Saffron Walden; on August 17 at Leicester and
  Uckfield; on August 30 at Nottingham; on September 1
 at Stone, Uckfield very severe, and Leicester ; on Sep
 tember 2 at Hartwell Rectory, Uckfield and Saffron Wal
 den : at this place the storm was very violent. On Septem
 ber 3 at Stone, Uckfield and Leicester ; and at Uckfield on
 September 4 and 1 0.
    Lightning was seen but thunder was not heard on July 19
 and 20 at Saffron Walden ; on July 20 and 23 at Hartwell
 Rectory and Stone ; on August 4 and 6 at Helston ; on Au
 gust 7 at Helston, Uckfield and Greenwich ; on August 8 at
 Hartwell Rectory and Stone ; on August 9 at Cardington,
 Liverpool and Stonyhurst; on August 10 at Liverpool; on
 August 11 at Cardington, Hartwell Rectory, Stone, South
 ampton and Greenwich; on August 12 at Uckfield, South
 ampton and Saffron Walden ; on August 1 3 at Saffron Wal
 den ; on August 17 at Cardington; on August 18 at Car
dington and Greenwich; on August 19 at Cardington; on
August 20 at Greenwich ; and on August 24 at Uckfield.
    Thunder was heard but lightning was not seen on July 18
at Cardington and Holkham; on July 19 at Helston, Car
dington, Hartwell and Stone; on July 20 at Hartwell Rec
tory and Stone; on July 22 at Helston; on July 23 at Hel
ston, Cardington and Holkham ; on July 25 very heavy
thunder was heard at Latimer; on July 26 at Cardington,
Hartwell, Stone, Southampton and Nottingham ; on July 27
at Latimer; on July 31 at Cardington and Newcastle; on
August 8 at Holkham, Norwich and Newcastle ; on August 9
at Holkham, Latimer, Newcastle and Stonyhurst ; on August
10 at Newcastle; on August 11 at Latimer and Newcastle;
on August 12 at Holkham; on August 13 at Cardington,
Hartwell and Stone; on September 1 at Holkham, Hartwell
Rectory, Latimer and Southampton ; on September 2 at
Helston and Latimer; on September 8 at Holkham and
Hartwell ; on September 5 at Holkham and Wakefield; on
September 6 at Wakefield ; on September 10 at Wakefield
and Liverpool ; on September 20 at Helston ; on September
28 at Newcastle ; and on September 30 at Nottingham.

       during the Quarter ending September 30, 1 8<t9.       365
   Hail fell on August 8 at Uckfield : the observer mentions
that the hailstones were as large as beans. Hail also fell on
August 12 at Saffron Walden.
   Solar halos were seen at the following places : —On July 1
at Maidenstone Hill, Stone and Nottingham ; on July 2 at
Stone; on July 3, 19 and 21 at Maidenstone Hill; on July
25 and August 1 at Stone ; on August 9 at Hartwell and
Stone ; on September 1 at Maidenstone Hill ; on September
22 at Stone ; and on September 26 and 28 at Maidenstone
Hill.
   Lunar halos were seen at Cardington on July 5, and at
Maidenstone Hill on September 2 and 28.
   I have been favoured with the following agricultural reports.
   At Guernsey, by Dr. Hoskins, F.R.S.
   The weather during July was uniformly fine ; the quantity
of rain rather above the average, distributed in equable showers
from the 18th to the end of the month. There was less
thunder and lightning than usual.
   The crops without exception luxuriant. The mean tem
perature of August was high, which, added to rain much be
low the usual average, enabled the farmers to secure the har
vest speedily and profitably. The earlier half of September
was warm and dry, the latter wet and windy. Potatoes small,
but good and abundant ; wall-fruit scanty, but figs in large
quantities, and thoroughly ripened. Cider apples scanty.
   About the beginning of August cholera appeared in ill-
drained districts as nn epidemic ; it spread erratically in
almost every part of the town and suburbs, and afterwards
appeared in isolated country houses, in which no morbific
cause could be traced. It declined towards the end of Sep
tember.
    Small-pox was also very general during this and the previous
quarter, as well in the country-places as in town. Vaccination
had been much neglected, owing to indifference and prejudice
 on the part of the lower orders.
    At Uckfield, by C. L. Prince, Esq., Surgeon.
    The weather during the months of July, August and Sep
 tember, has been very fine, warm, dry, and remarkably
 healthy, the mortality having been lower during this quarter
 than in the corresponding quarter for several years past. The
 temperature has been upon the whole very equable, and with
 out that excessive heat which usually characterizes a warm and
 dry summer in the southern counties. The crops of hay and
 of every species of grain has been abundant, very good in
 quality, and secured in excellent condition. The hop plant
 has been much diseased, and the crop far below the average.

 36G        Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather
 The failure of tliis crop is a great loss to the poor in this di
 strict; as from their earnings in hop-picking they are gene
 rally enabled to buy a certain amount of clothing, as well as
 sundry other necessaries for the winter. The potatoe haulm
 has been diseased in some situations, but I do not find that
 the tuber has been in any way injured. The crop of apples
 is good, and above the average ; but that of the pear, plum,
 and wall-fruit generally, is almost entirely deficient, the blos
 som and trees having been much injured by the heavy snow
which fell in April.
    At Stonyhurst,bythe Rev. Alfred Weld, F.R.A.S.
    Potatoes were first got up about June 30; it was then found
 that about 1 lb. out of 20 lbs. was diseased : still there were
no signs of decay in the leaves, which looked strong and
healthy. About August 20 the tops of the potatoes seemed
struck by a general blight, which spread with such rapidity
that in two or three days from that period the fields were
quite black. The roots suffered at the same time in a greater
or less degree ; frequently the proportion of decayed to sound
potatoes was as two to one. Potatoes planted on damp soil
always suffered most, while others planted in sheltered spots
escaped with comparative immunity. It was found that in
one case, where clay and black bog soil existed in the same
field, potatoes planted on the former suffered severely, while
those on the latter remained untouched. The smell of the
decaying tops was offensive, and so strong as to be perceptible
at a considerable distance. After July 1 5 the weather became
very unfavourable for hay, and a great deal remained out until
August. The crop was far below the average. A distemper
broke out amongst horses about the middle of July, and was
followed by another which attacked the cattle ; both were in
some instances fatal. Reaping of wheat began August 25th ;
of oats, August 31st. The crops were far above the average,
and generally well-housed. The average length of oat-straw
grown on a field of six acres, which had not been ploughed
before for more than twenty years, was six feet, whilst in some
places it was above seven feet. The grain was with few ex
ceptions all housed by the end of September.
    For the West Riding of Yorkshire, by Charles Charnock,
Esq., of Leeds.
    The past quarter has consisted of one wet and of two dry
months. The growth of turnips and potatoes were retarded
during the dry months, and progressed rapidly during that
which was wet. The harvest was very protracted on the
early soils, but secured in very good condition. On late soils
corn is still exposed to the weather. On the 2nd of October

        during the Quarter ending September SO, 1849.         367
I saw com, both reaped and unreaped, covered with snow in
some districts.
   The potatoe crop is not heavy, but on the whole nearly free
from the disease which has been so fatal for several years.
Much alarm was caused by the tops of many fields being dis
coloured by the frost about the middle of September ; but on
examination, the tubers are found to be not much afTected.
   Wheat is a bulky crop, but does not yield well. Barley
and oats are much below an average bulk.
   Live stock is generally healthy, except cattle imported from
Ireland, which are mostly affected with diseases of the lungs.
   The heavy rains which fell on the 28th and 29th of Sep
tember will no doubt be of much use in many ways. The
river Aire, which passes through Leeds, was much swollen,
and its waters gave evident proof of some of the causes of
cholera. At Castleford, whose distance from Leeds is ten
miles, their stench was greater than can be imagined ; whilst
their deleterious contents were such that all the fish were
almost destroyed or taken in a stupefied state, and large quan
tities floated upon the surface of the water.
   At Finsbury Farm, near Romsey, by J. Clark, Esq.
   The harvest was well saved, and generally an average crop.
The season has been, and is still, all that could be desired.
 Grass and turnips are growing beautifully, and agricultural
operations are proceeding satisfactorily. Some wheat has
been sown on heavy lands in fine order. The early tares,
rye, and clover, are doing well.
   To the Report of the Registrar-General are appended the
monthly values at every station, from which the average values
for the quarter have been determined, and which are con
tained in the following table :—
   The mean of the numbers in the first column is 29*576
inches, and this value may be considered as the pressure of dry
air for England during the quarter ending September 30, 1849.
   The mean of the numbers in the second column, for Guern
sey and those places situated in the counties of Cornwall and
Devonshire, is 59°*5 ; for those places situated south of latitude
of 52°, including Chichester and Hartwell, is 60°*1 ; for those
places situated between the latitudes of 52° and 53°, including
Saffron Walden and Leicester, is 58°-4 ; for those places
situated between the latitudes of 53° and 54°, including Derby
and York, is 570,1 ; at Liverpool and Whitehaven is 57°"7;
and at Durham and Newcastle is 550,8.
   The average daily range of temperature in Cornwall and
Devonshire was 12c,9; south of latitude 52° was 19°-3; be
tween the latitudes of 52° and 53° was 190,3; between the

         -me oqq yo paul :np                            Q 6 in         we vaOl r\ 66                                     0                              :Q GDB?)               us Q0 Q..
         :umqa nwmom eq;         Joao
                                   U
                                 ,as                    -11 :xi -_ in to
                                                                       pi . .ae»-N      6 uneb M938
                                                                                                mmm S-S     can -nh      N                           Sh..    | Q on ., 1 38 nz 1:15          vs_.
         3° “1°'4'!° I0 "I PH
              "F 3° W°°J °!‘I“°     '|\|\           UQW         ow     1    into    11         Q21          VCD                               !\     alma         m   Ns:      528 Htl       9: G
            2 yo zqipn :nom        &N in 7|
                                          I-s       inn elm
                                                    act         -on N  -0 N    NN us
                                                                           ~o nt.-Q    N -,el  nan NN       me                                G      claim no
                                                                                                                                              un navel:           el ‘sn
                                                                                                                                                                      nn B28           ii e  :laas -
                   'aiaqdu
              -OIXBI ;o trmnioa                        .m “999 Q 9' ?’?T‘ gsm                                                                 Q 99? 9 9? .99 Sn S 9 l`
         monies u ug .rxmm _ro   ..D'FT
                                      no               'n »o\r:»c~n va to' -cuz-fa -on                                                        ~n -non no nee -one -on A: in
         znnormz spun uuayq
                                      not
                                      ao|_          |\ -o
                                                    tn  cl on  ua e. fxTN  -n to
                                                                               cn @"           ou Q      n no                    .. Q         in 1   -|l\l\       ':1 an
                                                                                                                                                                      1... CNew              EES
                  'hmmm              5“?°           r\  5 '9        9° E*  rx      nn mei \\
                                                                                   'nh                      can                                         | |\ |` o 99        ra no
                                                                                                                                                                               ‘PF §§  _ . F92
              _yo euiep mmm           co            0a         eo      o ¢ r\  o o. o 95       eo so        £`£`                 .' r\        ca 9   o Q cb 9     : as case            ¢=3°
            ~.n1_;o zoo; orqna
6      vs atamms oz ponnhaa EF?                                     ol 999 !"P 1-is                         -1 * F' canst €‘ 99' vamp “P 99°
 1          .modes _ro Qqiiam         -o            T'
                                                    ... ?‘ ol  T' -4.---1          ...... 0| E’      ... -1 »~                                       e.-._ ... Qs. O¢ oe os'
m             I‘“°!3!Pl“* “WN
T
                    “NF
d`       soo; arqna e ur .mod gee     ‘Fifi         '9  l\
                                                    11 '9E‘f‘9§`11111 111          59 9 1            T’ ?'1 lx
                                                                                                            .P
                                                                                                            11                                'P
                                                                                                                                              1 995'
                                                                                                                                                                  -It mac
                                                                                                                                                     111 1 c-11 99?         111 11     .. 11 .1
                                                                                                                                                                                       l`°n|l
w        -as jo Jqipst neon
 Ll
  u                    ~paza:||       '?"P on P9 |_\ 9 9 -db who       ~ .scvcwmc      *D o nun . '9 FPS' 1"£“P N 99 'x 10 es
an                 qos Qunouw     E'uno   - ...... m r\ R nratowo                                           uv »C¢ l\® -evo |\ ae -'ini zum:
 E
 o              'nay ag qarqn no     .NH                               oem .-no
 §-|
  Q              livrp _io nqumg
                                          D -tn     QW _-1
                                              1:~a 3*        .M l\  N M0751          .1911N 03¢      |\© S323 Q69      Nmen S5 34|                      9:1 us        :ua C
                                                                                                                                                                  1 ~n1     1 -S 22322
 m
(D                   'PKIOIJ                  95° §‘                                 .ct-v €" 1:29 a 9' e 9 -F' ‘F r\~o. --rl
  UD         _to qrmouns num
                                          '9
                                          in on         on '-~ve-r'nv '© '©l\ oc-rs                         07 in lx 'o nous l\Q                                               'F
                                                                                                                                                                               -o i.         5.
                                                                                                                                                                                             ¢.
.E
'U                                    5.9.5 ‘f'a 5 '.§                                3_ go?   13. as *i
                                                                                                                                          66            YQ               Q                564
  c                      ‘UDF]           -U   Fl            °°:d:.
                                                           IE                       .,.:.'           sez Q . “Bti                                     _ca 6 :I E F :ss i is
  m                                   >~l e Sd_ E F56 _-Q _s                 -     s,e         ‘ez           -    3   es        _ Q                  E1      25      il  a si ef i 'Zi 2
         Wind. -nairp ruauaf)       .='5=`et                5 ...s a a§. s sis                                                                       I..
  I-I                                 i> i i s > E . itH .                                                  'E h 3 .
  w
 1-|                                                                                  > si      . ,Z an a>'                                              ... > ?:. $5
                                                                                                                                                        ¥?                == é
                                                                                                                                                                               #EE :ii    its
  5'-I
  m                  -qiiuans                                                                               gen 9'                                    .qn 99' .nn
                 pazuunee mow
                                       -‘P
                                       ' T9                  ..°___.. "9'°'9§`9‘
                                              -o 9* '?‘ ..'r'1g..                    ' - N-oo "'¢ at9 ...                                             '¢»-1 o-1                              ? B
<3
  0            qurod-map sq;         9?            52'6 un "‘ ~ 9 F 9 '?' in P 'P t\ TI* fx en T 99 !` P r\ 999 9 -» 'P ue
'E     _to aimaxadtua; urmlq       onto
                                     ini?               ia _'mm
                                                        -n     nn a-im -one -n to  fa nn-r 1ta -75 noe V    me ' ncN jen
                                                                                                         ci mn'                               in ee     oo S not
                                                                                                                                                     an -an                 on e
                                                                                                                                                                      no 1 on       I: ra no Q
                                                                                                                                                                                       n :Q  as -x
                                                                                                                                                                                                e
        I -iaulnb eq; ur
  51                                  me 9 9 99 9°999'i' PE* 9 9 92” a 99                                                                     -1 ? Y 9 9 ? 9 9 9 9 99 !' 9
42     rmniuadtuai yo :Bunn          'CGI as
                                    UNUG            N1 r\m~nn1...
                                                 ca can
                                              so on         esvv-A11 mn            en 1 #va N in me  11 l\  191no ff'°1 'S -o                           11:  cn -n1 S 'S an to ea
                                                                                                                                                                               no ¢ 11 1s    oe cn
                                                                                                                                                                                          as e. 1
J~                                                          l\ 9 ? U 7 9 9 -. 9° n 9 T 9 ‘PF                                                  9
-D     ~aiuu lppuom usaw              99      99    PE”                                                                                              '59     ‘P   9   9  9  99         E”
                                                                                                                                                                         vo vnera -e 11 ge99    F
  m                                   el F9 \an
                                    o_o          M11NU! -m vi1 cn   va va1 e1 nsva e
                                                                                   as 1' as1 n1 os   1 N1 N    man
                                                                                                            -rms:                             ¢
                                                                                                                                              1n        mv |\
                                                                                                                                                     noun         on fn
                                                                                                                                                                      va mek           va sv:
P*
F*|             'oxnxuadmot           Q Q ‘P 'rl 97' 9 ‘P 9° 9 - F 9 9* 7' 9 'PP9                                                             nm_ 99” Q ra - Q!!! PF '
  m     _io aiuru imap uuayq        os-.1 so  . ¢ °§l\ va. ei       - -_
                                                                ... C  NN  E: no ,-Q o      ~o..
                                                                                       N .-.ew 1 .ca sono
                                                                                               N            eu-_                              i~von.....-~:4 .U2 ...  Qi Q ca-...
                                                                                                                                                                            --en -...  1o 1 ... el-e
.2
  BD                                  Ge9        acc           9 P9
                                                            9 as           ‘f‘9‘ °     9 99?e                    40'0                         9o     999          9   9? cn9 o=        9  me
                                                                                                                                                                               9 15° G Q [\  an e
                umaumoruioqi                  oi: 'bb       1 ee m     N anQ1 o    - .1 D1          were 99 mm
                                                                                                            can :IN                           9: 1 cn        in tote S22
.2     eq; _io Suipuau zsrzmoq      on-rs S 11      vm .-.          ra m                    1 ‘Sm-.                                                     rs as               va ea ds   9$ 1 FSC’
 O
 F-1
 O          'xotamomiaqi eq;          nb 0 9 9 °2° 9 9 9° 9 -4 T' 9 ees 0 'P gc 84'0                                                          831 9     Z' 9 9 99           gn 9       9  io |\¢
                                                                           1 ca    |\‘SEQ m                 thnE
                                                                                                     'rt E5 m                                        -eva
 3v        30 Surpuau IISIIZIH      om:
                                     um K\    m is  his an
                                                 el -no     t~ @1 ee   Tl Q
                                                                    an an      ‘F m                                                                  WQQ o        tn -ata   -a
                                                                                                                                                                      an l\ an cw
                                                                                                                                                                               as cz;  es Q66
                                                                                                                                                                                          |\r\r~ ra
t3                                                                                |D¢|l|1            sa  'F 5. l\|¢                                  |\1»t:           1
&                  “IE” ‘HU
        _ru axmuaduxa-i :mam
                                      9!‘ 'F E” as “over '?‘
                                    o-at
                                     vom S*-‘S S2 sn°‘S‘%E$5 vc                    Nec to
                                                                               e ‘CQEQ         Y’... : cn   camm. FY’
                                                                                                     'C in can           one
                                                                                                                         (2                          -crore nib
                                                                                                                                          In 5§'0 'I¢1l\
                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                  no no :emo
                                                                                                                                                                            999 o
                                                                                                                                                                            r~|\~n        99”
                                                                                                                                                                                       9 ences
                                                                                                                                                                                       as on-t
              'nas sq; yo (9,401      on            no          uaovmg iam         on - SR”                         29;6il 530 29'5i\92956329-Gao Q               en  QQ ESS’ AQQN
           eq; ot peanpu .nu          <=1-
                                     '9'!’
                                                    va ~cz©ea:
                                                    99 "F'Pl\‘P‘F                  ‘f"f‘1 999               33                                                    1 Gmno ééfi          nc. :
                                                                                                                                                                                       ~a»51n...
       Mp _io axnenxd mmm         “NeaG\G|~.                 .ct       men
                                                    23 “gang 32' News ss                       mea                                            29'                 29  Exist'
                                                                                                                                                                      mu $23   ` 3223
                                                                     ::€ 5                                            Obxsfeeorvradto.ry,                                    IAS
                       the
                       of
                        places.
                        Names                                                                                                              Jhéakf
                                                                                    U                                                                                 5 Z
                                                                            si gt: 1:
                                                                     iiQo §f..ff §=5                                                                                  as .Q
                                                                                         'zzzb
                                                                            Es                              2b'
                                                                           “m J IDIS Q E                                                     gton,ne
                                                                                                                                                                      ti iii :'::S      ::::
                                                            gE§g,s          E                               its                                                          O .            _ .__
                                                                                   §?e§=i
                                                    »:3a iég ihfsgé ee,                                          s                                      rn..
                                                                                                                                                   h._ :lo ¢  .
                                                                                                                                                             er .     :-'B
                                                                                                                                                                    2313                1:7UCn9
                                                                                                                                                                                        .F
                                      5; ~                                                                            si
L                                                                                                                     ig ~                                                 5           ysga 3
§`                                    tis sséeiieé §2§s§= iiiiiiissiasit                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                   55535 z
                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
Z                                    (DE .E §§55$m§ 3 6$o§F§

            Mr. J. Glaisher's Remarks on the Weather.         369
 latitudes of 53° and 54° was 17°'6 ; at Liverpool and White
 haven was 10°*3; and at Durham and Newcastle was 13°- 3.
     The greatest mean daily ranges of the temperature of the air
  took place at Hartwell, Cardington, Highfield House, Notts,
 and Latimer Rectory ; and the least occurred at Torquay,
  Guernsey, Liverpool, and Truro.
     The highest thermometer readings during the quarter were
 91° at Wakefield; 87° at Chiswell Street, London; 86°-2 at
  St. John's Wood ; 86° at Leicester. The lowest thermometer
 readings were 29° at Beckington, 33° at Wakefield and at Lei-
 cester,and 3S0,8 at Highfield House, Notts. The extreme range
 of temperature of the air during the quarter in England was
 therefore about 56°, considering the two extremes as 86°and 30°.
     Rain has fallen on the greatest number of days at Stony-
 hurst, Highfield House, Notts, Wakefield and Stone. The
 average number at these places was 51. It fell on the least
 number of days at Southampton, Oxford, Beckington and
 Greenwich, and the average number at these places was 29°.
 The stations at which the largest falls have taken place are
 Stonyhurst, Newcastle, Whitehaven and Helston.             The
 smallest falls occurred at Beckington, Wakefield, Holkham
 and Norwich. The average fall in the counties of Corn
 wall and Devonshire was 9*8 inches ; south of latitude 52°
 was 6*9 inches ; between the latitudes of 52° and 53° was 6-9
 inches; between 53° and 54° was 9-3 inches; at Liverpool
 and Whitehaven was 1 1*5 inches; and at Durham and New
 castle was 10*3 inches.
     The numbers in the columns 15 to 19 show the mean values
 of the hygrometrical results ; from which we find that—
    The mean weight of vapour in a cubic foot of air at all
places (excepting Cornwall and Devonshire) in the quarter
ending June 30, 1849, was 4*5 grains.
    The mean additional weight required to saturate a cubic
foot of air in the quarter ending June 30, 1849, was 1*1 grain.
    The mean degree of humidity (complete saturation = 1 )
in the quarter ending June 30, 1849, was 0-802.
    The mean amount of vapour mixed with the air would have
produced water, if all had been precipitated at one time on the
surface of the earth, to the depth of 5'5 inches.
    The mean weight of a cubic foot of air under the mean
pressure, temperature and humidity, was 526 grains at the
average height of 155 feet.
    And these values for Cornwall and Devonshire were 4-8
grains; 1*2 grain; 0-808; 6*0 inches; and 528 grains, at the
average height of 123 feet.
    The following table exhibits the meteorological particulars
of the first three quarters of the years 1847, 1848 and 1849.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 237. Nov. 1849.       2 B

                                             •«3fl aqj JO pA!)[ 31(1         J eo w co                           00 IS
                                                                             «J9) IN tM                          into                   t»o
                                    3Aoq« suoijirj* jo jqSpq iream                                                                      ——
                                                      •ire jo                                                                           <3
 o                                    ?ooj aiqna « jo jqSta.w. utajy
 CO
                                                  •3J0qdsniuj«
    u                                     JO umnio J (ii-iijj.ia i: lit           © *>«                    cc co e*3
     (U                                                                                                    «coeo                        ec A
                                                                            _g co so co
.a                                   ia)«M JO lunoiUT! ajoq u ireajfl
     a
     cj                                                                           0-763 0-863 0-878        0-867 0-896 0-863
  -*->                                  ¦Ajipramq jo aoiSap uuajit
                                                                                                                                        * (0
                                                                                                                                        coco
     D-
     oj                                                                                                                                 66
CO
                                            ¦inoduA jo jooj aiqua               ¦ ao ws »*5
     c                                « jo ;qSt».« rauoijtpp* uvajg          1)6 6 6                       666                           66
     C3
           41
             .                                      ¦modnA jo                                              ^* 00 t^»                     C-.-J
          -O                          )ooj aiqna v jo iqatdAV troaj\j         fee* coto                    CXC4S4                        CHOI
  o
  CO J
                                                                               .OON                        K5 l-H *-(               9*39
     0)    .-*                                ¦paiaafloa )unonra twam;
                                                                                                            — r^ ih
     c a                                                                                 r-i
1-5
     a    J
        ~ (m0
                                    J       no s-icp jo jaqtmra uvajf
                                                                                  -- O) *•»                0«tj
                                                                                                           CO >oco
                                                                                                                                    •ACO^
                                                                                                                                    CO ¦* CO
 i—t                                                                                                       OtOM
 m
     o
            en
            0)
                                          'pnop jo junoure nva jg                  CO <¦» 6
                                                                                                       1a  6«-»t>
                                                                                                                                    99P *>
                                                                                                                                    iboo)
    vt
               Cand
               of
                Dthe
               For
                 oevurontswhiaelrs.
                                                  •aopwjip puaaag                   n.e. s.w. s.w.     a
                                                                                                        i    n.e. s.w. s.w.
gpu                                                                                                                             o*
                                                                                                                                CO         00 «
     tc <U+25A1>                             O                                                                 S                       •a
    p CJ
13                                                                                oo to eo              1         t>»co         o
                                                                                                                                 9  CO Ci CO            1
    c to                                   •qjSuaj^s potjranpse treajf
                                                                                  »^l ¦"¦! ri
    <y
    «>-.  T3
                                                                                                       ui                       <M
                                                                                                                                id
                                                                                                                                •m
                                                                                                                                 O
                                                                                                                                    «i f^< «i
     <u                                             ¦ftnod-AAap                                        "S                to      ¦             CO
     Sh                                 a J) JO ,>Jni1!J3<htK)J umh
                                                                                0
                                                                                                ¦^f     s                CO
                                                                                                                                               6CO
     OS 33
          ¦*                                                                                           1
a
     3
     u
          00
                                                   ¦0jniBi.">tIniaj
                                         jo aJJavi ,vjj,-mji:ii1i ut;j i^t
                                                                                31°-6 35-5 281
                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                           -* at eo
                                                                                                           ¦iio
                                                                                                           K} 1*5 •*"
                                                                                                                                lCJ
                                                                                                                                    Ci CO C3
                                                                                                                                    ©      ¦« o*
                                                                                                                                    •J --T —
                                                                                                       0*
           a                                                                                           CN                        a
           a
C
     c 00                                          '3Jn^J3(Utl3J               O
                                                                                                00     »0
                                                                                                        CU                       s               -        I
          -H
     !-rt —<
          00
                                         jo aBuu a[tiiuoui ucajq                                n
                                                                                                ex     t5                cM
                                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                1             iS 1
                                                                                                                                        : o op
     3                                            -.uiuvJO'-Imai               0
          l>                                                                             6 6                      6eo
                                            jo a£utu Ajuqi uvani                                                  7-* f—t
          <*
   :_                                                                                                  "S                           — t— ©¦ '
     09   ^H
                                                                                  250 24-4 29-7         o
c          V>
           u
                                                 -Jdjamomiaqi
                                      aqj jo tSuipuai jsa-aoi uvaju
                                                                                                       D9  oc iq 6
                                                                                                                                    CM -^ --*
   3u (3s
          >H                                     •la^araonijaqj                   tCOlQO                   62-6 66-5 60-9            c li r.
                                                                                                                                    •^i c« ob
    0 a                              ;>qi jo BSurpeaj isoqihq mwjtf               ws « io                                           CO CO MO
     0 —
    M                                                                             to — «                   36-9 39-3 41-5            ©* ©> GO
  O                                  ¦jre aqj jo amjisiadtaa^ msanj                                                                  t^oa ©>                1
  CJ                                                                              -^f ¦* -V                                          CO CO ^8?              |
  u
s
c—                                   • jhoUda jo ojjoj jijsBp uvajf
                                                                                                                      is                 i: !i
  o                                                                          _g                 6                                               :6>
  s
  o
  r/5
                                                                                  29-706 29-512 29-837     29-706 29-512 29-837      29-706 29-512 29-837
                                    •was aqj jo p&a\ aqi oj paanpai
 —ri                                    ire Ajp jo ajnssaad nsayj
                                                                            in.
 C
 S
 o                                                   •S £ B                      1847. 1848. 1849.         1847. 1848. 1849.         oCoo'si
u                                                                           31.
                                                                           March
                                                                                                                                      OO 3D 3C

         *T3 OS
         ©CO
         ^- ^              CO CO
                                               9191
                                                                          91 CO
                                                                         M —
                                                                             91         aa
                                                                                        r"IN
                                                                                                           91©
                                                                                                           >o OS
                                                                                                           ^^ —
     *» <<* *¦*
     xwx              w *-r —
                      ¦*1< -* "-T                                        © -*
                                                                         CO CO
                                                                                        —  (•
                                                                                        e? ro
                                                                                                           ¦— t^»
                                                                                                           coco
                     «9 O »^           if; i/3 »--3                      i« in          lO >o              *n u>
     © 91 "1"        ©91 CO            W© 91                        w wco           W5 U5 eo       ©cc —
    CO CO co          CO CO CO         91 COCO                      ^•^^            "»»¦»          -fl" -I* ¦*?
    Ti — •"          00 00 w
                     co wx
                                       ¦f W©
                                       *r '0 9J
                                                                                    '-. / ~
                                                                                    *^^ ts
                                                                                                   i-O * 91
    X ceo            oo ao oo         X OS 00                       X W **.         NNS            CO X w
    66 6             © © ©            ©© ©                          © ©©            oo o           ©© ©
    ©co ¦•?«         wco ¦**           K3 »1 -**                    © 91 OS         teeisi         X — OS
    6 66             ©© ©             ©©©                           © m ©           O — i—         © — ©
     -' N f.         ¦- K /.           f WW                         00 00 lO        t>. C5 XI      X © ©
    91 9» 94         91 91 91         91 91 91                      ^" CO CO        CO CO CO       CO ^ eo
    «5©51
                -*
                ^     ~    r   -i     x w-r                         WW —            eo oo i^       •0 CO "^
    »0 91 i-O        -* 91 ©          91 OS CO                       WOO 00         ¦*>-«<o        CO «-t»
                -a
                 a                                                                  —
    ^OJW         3   oaia                                           w© *-*          o eo g
                                                                                                   ¦»(¦•» ¦*¦
                                                                                                   l-O CO f
    "* l« ^     0    Tf iO ^          91 CO 91                      co**-*
                - :i
    ei w ©
                CO
                           CO 00               ¦>f t-               91 -<* "«#   «5 (>.iO so       o t»©«
                                                                                                   ¦-'-.¦-
    (OSI>.      "—o        to ©                eo m                 t8f "S          kfl US 50
                                                                                 3
                 fl            is                                                5                  f=
                                      variable                                                     &n.s.w.
0    ¦ *! E*
                 3
                                                s.w. s.w.   a         * 3 fl    a    ^   «  c  o "          8.W.  n.e.
                                                             O                   C
                 a
                               en
                                                                                 a
                                                            ft
0   nou                           0   WOS OS                        © w©            eo '0 —    o
                                                             1
                 1   A ^- 91                                                     e             91
                                                                                                   6 ¦— eh
                                                                                u
            »o
                —B            ©
                                   =1
                                                     m
                                                             i               '^ "S         ¦>*  en               «
                              ©                      to                                        T3                eh
1           CO   1
                 1
                              CO                     CO                      3             3    3                f
                *3>                O                                             3
.5  w*s"*<           W91 *f5      pd  ©91 CO                        -*W5 ©       u  ¦* te —        ^- C7» CO
 V              w
    "* in •**        CO CO SO
                                  t
                                   o
                                      ¦¦* »o CO             •3
                                                                    — 91 CO
                                                                    ¦*J< "^"^
                                                                                    Crt ^- ws
                                                                                    lO «5 ^f   -a  0)0 —
                                                                                                   U1UJ1Q
 I                                fc                         3
                                                             3
                                                                                0
                                                                                91              £3
                                                                                                6
 1*              ¦            __                             o               X             —                     oo
                ts            ©                      eo
                                                            U                o»            en
                                                                                                Ec               00
s           CO                91                     eo
                                                           M                     3
a
        W"-H     a                             f lO          o           TJ« 00 «       (N CB              — eo
        © ~               w©                   en —        b             x -^    o      6 o>               O t»
                                                                                                           IN —
                                                                                        Ol r-
                 H
                 O                                                               3
                 a   OS CI CO                                       91 ^ 91      e  ^ cys co       CJKSt".
    © x co                            ~ <e ©
                                                                    ¦— 91 91        rr oo eo       co cm in
                 ¦   91 ^h 91                                       coco CO         oicn e»
    NWX              to © 00          nxco                          00 OS 91        j«*            en meo
    — 91 OS          O O f            — w ©                         9i -^ ih                       oo — >-
    « *C i-1                          © *n in                       w w*>.          00 OO 00
                     ¦^t W91          © — U)                        eo^- ©          t^Ol ^         — t^en
    *cc c
                                      © x 6
                                      coco-f
                                                                    p—   ¦-t
                                                                    ir? m "5
                                                                             91
                                                                                    -¦»«
                                                                                    irsmfl
                                                                                                   — co en
                                                                                                   ws in -**
    P. CO CO         CO-*-*
            91                '"                   • f
                                                  :co                        s             k                     in
                                                                                                                 00
            91                91                  ¦ !N                       eo
            6                ¦©                   :es                        ©             ©                     o
                     «i^K             •^ -i i^                       eo  -*  --     eo -* —        eo «t —
    ©   91  *-»
    ©   —   CO                        ©—CO                           ©   m   'f     Of-*           Off
    *<» «   oo       w»n 00           NO»                           ©    »0  "2     co « tn
    os  c.   r.      © CS OS          OS OS OS                       OS  ©   OS     a s» a         oso
    91  91  91       9191 91          91 91 91                       91  91  91     Ol (M«         Ol (N Ol
                                                               nN«'a                t-^oo' C»      i-Cooci
    ———              s§a
                                      WOO OS
                                                          ,    June 184 184 184
                                                                                     X X 00         X X rx
                                                        2B2

              •eat aqj jo pA3i oqt      4    -aid
     dAOqe tuoi]B)fl jo iqStaq tnttjf   $    :weo                        not
                                                                         IN —
                      uns jo                                             © t»
       )OOj aiqiu v jo jqJJra * ucom                          CO rs
                                        » • in                10 w;      >Q U3
                  •ojsqdsiomiT!
           JO UUIT1IOJ p-.ll U.IA « III                              •if •* -if
      j9}t;a\ jo junouiu 3(011 « nwpff
                                           to o ^
         jfiqjitunq jo 33i£sp tnujg
                                           CI X Q         3SS
                                                          KQCN
                                                          666
            'jiiodvA jo jooj aiqna                        ClClO      n~* *~
       « jo jqSisM pjuowppi: uvaft      6,6 ~ 6           66^        ©—©
                    ¦mutlv.\ jo           •00 !«.•*                  <-.«--w
       looj Diqnj « jo jq^ia.H UBaj^     =,eb core        CO CO fO   CC ™ C1?
                                          .^»O0 WS                   psoj as
              'p3133[log itmonro uuam   .Sob *^» «5                  « 0 s
                     •n»J It qaiqu
             no s,<ep jo jsqumu ncnjt                                ^ TO CO
           •pnop jo ^tmotuu uvajg          CC "5 00       epos©      OS©       •
                                                                     io»       :
                                                           5t it £    i      -J
                                                           ri « c     0 . ci
                 •UOtJDMlp pU3Udf>
                                            i «e (t   I               < ? -i
                                                                       .« ,
                                                      JS   it * &j
                                                           w fl   to  « «
                                           00 — IN        op -^
             q»Su3J5« pai«ons3 in»j\       ei « —
                                                      &
                    ¦}niod-A3p
         nqj jo JJTiiiiJ j dui.tj m&fg                           IN
w                                                     !*)
•J                 -ajniuodwa?             00 «* -«    a  *t} CO U5
p                                                     w   £.as-—
<        jo sSau A'[j3UBtib trajf          ifj »!5 U5     ¦^ w ¦*»•
   §               •3Jni«jaduio3                                 T*
          jo oSimj Ajqmom avojg                                  M
                                                      4-*
                   ¦3Jtni!J3dai3j                             IN —
                                               as »'-         *><N
             jo d^inu ijrep ue?jf                             ^—
                  •jsjsmouuoqi             oxa            teaix
       aqj jo sSutpvu jwj*ot avajg
                                          °5C C~ 10       dS »> 6
                                           OS »S<N        &S COPS
                  •j^auiorajsqi                           — us eo    r. - c
                                                                     CO t*-^t
      oqj jo sSaipeaj jsaqSiq treajg
                                           «*co ©         A C4 OO    OS ^.^f
       'ira orp jo Djnifjsdm^ trojg
                                           IQIQU3
                                                          on 6
                                                          OU3IO      "^ 10 -V
       'jmOdBA JO 3010J D1)9B[9 OWJ^                             1
                                                                 6
                                                          3 ¦*«• ^   eo ¦* ~*
       ¦km 3q)jopA9{ aqj 01 poonpa*                                  OTf **
                                                          ?r »?7 »c  to tti *e*
          jre Zip jo unnud uta j^
                                        RNXS              NXO
                                        boo 00 00             00 CO  00 00 CO

         •M ©          m to ©          »^.eo ©          ¦** © to           1^ 1^. X
         Cl *
         ^             CM X —           ¦O to ©
                                       rtNN             © CO 10
                                                       <n~~
                                                                          tO tO to
                                                                                             -r 0 ©
                                                                                                 Ol CM
                                       © 35 X          O.X X                                X
                       CM CM CM        CO CM Ot         CM CM CM          CO 01 01          CM "M CM
     J*. '" i"         tO tO tO        to 10 >o        to to 10           to »o to          »o to to
     «OSJ              »— «>» IO       — ~f ^          © CO ^             X CO ^            © CM CO
     « X ,-                LPS lO      tD 4.- IO       to to to           to to >o          to to tO
                                                       Nf33               CO© t
     S53S
     OOXX              X X W
                                       CO © t"»
                                       X X *>•
                                                       X T CO             O* © to
                                                                          X t>*X
                                                                                            X © ~«
                                                                                            X t^.x
     © © ©             © © ©           © © ©           © © ©              © © ©             © ©©
     © © oi            © ^t to         © -H CO         -N -* ©            -t ^ fr*
                                                                                            ¦** CM ©
     ©o ^              ———             ^«^             ~.«©               « « ©             © — 0
     © © X              /: © > 0       tr — —          to to CO           ^ CO ^f           ©CO ^
                       -^ ^ ^          ^j" "¦» -*r     "<f ^ ^            TJ> --f ^         -*   T* Tf
     CO © GO           as *- ©         co © ©          «5ce«         e'   (M © tO           ¦^ ¦^ CO
                                       TJ- cr. ©       Tf —* Oi      TT   © © ~             P5NO
                           •¦¦
                       co ©«o
                                                            —                 ¦— »™                 ^
                                       © -*• O                       T3
                                                       KJiflN
     CM tO CO          CO to CO        co -tco                        ed
                                                                          •*t to ¦*
                                                                          tO CM «>*         x to ©
                                                                                            CM CO CO
                                                                     0
     *- tO ©        u  tD1"0           CO CO CM        CO fr-* ©     -!»
                                                                     CO
                                                                          © l>.C0           © X i>»
     © lO *0           10 to 10        © 10 to         to © ©        tO   to © ©            to to ©
                                                                     »*H
                    a                                                 0
      ^
      H    -    w
                    0
                    >                                                      Ef
a                       M *l            P= cs s=        £ * w         5                      KCO A«0 *M
 s
 o
                                   &    « (Q «     0 '                      ,  —   to
                    M              0
                                   ¦a              10                      &
                                                                      4>   0)
Q                  *3                               G
                                                    3
     "* tO X           CM l>»CM        © CM to         © CM CM            —1 l>» to   0 *   b*C0 CM
 «3
     P-4^^.         E  CM ©^           © CM *H
                                                   kO
                                                       ^^^            B
                                                                          r-^-^
                                                                                      id
                                                                                            ^F-^*
                   O                                                   i;
 a                                  O               O
 E             CO      ©X CM        ¦a         Ob   CO           (N               **                 -+
 g             iO
                       -*CM CM     T3
                                               _-
                                               10
                                                   13            CM
                                                                 to  •a           ©   'S             ^H
                       10"S>0
o                   0)
                    P
                                                                       cS             *M
 o   lO tO tO       V  ^ © f           X © ^           X © ©              © © CO            b»©^
                                                                       a
                    cu tO tO T
                                    V
                                       lO to -**
                                                    «  © © ©         w    •** CM CM
                                                                          CO CO CO          ¦fl. ^t CO
     ™ CO CO
                   Q *
                                   5               £                 "8
                                                                                       O
 a
 3
               X
                   »o          l-»  0)
                                               CM
                                                    V          : i^»
                                                                      s           —                  !>¦
                                                               •©                                    CM
                               en              ©
                                                    &                             1-*
               CM
                   T3
                    a          CO  £           <*                                                    CO
£—                 •a              pa              pa                X
                                                                      a>
                    a)                                 CO — ©             CM CM CO          X CO CO
     © cm ©            W»0 CO          X © CO
 o
EK4
                   •*~                 X X ©
                                       ^— ^— ^H
                                                       **» b* t-»
                                                       -¦ — '             — © ©
                                                                          ¦-¦ m* ^-i        ^ "* CO
                                                                                            ¦ '¦ ''*
                   --                                                 3
                    a  p-< ¦* X        © X X           CO © to        8   COX CM            ¦*©«
      ©©0*
     CO CM CO
                    0
                   V3  CO ^» X         co "<* ¦>>      ¦* ^ »o            —. — —            ^- Tf( ©
                       CO CO CO        CO CO CO        CO CO CO       8
                                                                      BO
                                                                                            CO CO CO
                                                                      4)
      CO tO CO         CO CO tO        NU5CC           © © ^              CM -* ©           ^- © CO
                                       10 © cb         -•J" -rt" CO       SO tJ. (c         © ©©
      t^t'*^*          XXX             XXX             XXX
                                                                     SB
      CO p-U5          iOMh            l>»X ^          tN. o» ^1          © »>»>>•          © l>.X
                                       X © X           X to ©             «>.© »>*          ¦^i 10 to
      tO to to         K5ifl«          10 to to        to to to           to to »o
                                                ©                *??             :<m                 X
                                               ©
             • ¦¦*     -* -f *                  CO
                                                                 ©
                                                                 ^               •CO
               ©       ©©©                      ©                O               :©                  ©
                                                                                             co^- ©
                                        CO *f *¦-»
                                        X (-1 CO        x ^ to
                                                        CO «* l>-
                                                        to to to
                                                                          X ~* ©
                                                                           »o to »o
      lO tO tO          to to to        10 *o to
      © da cs                           © © ©           © ci ©             © © ©
      CM CM CM          CM CM CM                        CM CM M            CM CM CM          CM CM CM
                                        <C / -f
                                        "•*¦**  rv      NCCO)              KCCOJ             W X ©"
    .5 — —              t?3                             XXX                XXX            I x xX
    |w,2                                                w* ^H »—

                              [   374    ]
XLVII. Researches on the Theory ofthe principal Phamomena
   ofPhotography in the Daguerreotype Process. By A. Clad-
   det*.
 A LTHOUGH the Daguerreotype process has during the
** last ten years been investigated by a great number of
philosophers, and brought to a considerable degree of perfec
tion by a still greater number of practitioners, it may appear
surprising that the principal phenomena upon which this new
art is founded, are still enveloped in a mysterious darkness.
   My constant endeavour has been to explain them, and at
the two last meetings of the British Association I have had
the honour of communicating the results of some of my re
searches.
   The phrenomena which have not yet been satisfactorily
explained, and of which I shall have to treat in the present
paper, are those referring to the following points :—
   1. What is the action of light on the sensitive coating?
   2. How does the mercurial vapour produce the Daguer
reotype image?
   3. Which are the particular rays of light that impart to the
chemical surface the affinity for mercury ?
   4f. What is the cause of the difference in achromatic lenses
between the visual and photogenic foci? why do they con
stantly vary ?
   5. What are the means of measuring the photogenic rays,
and of finding the true focus at which they produce the image ?
   At the last meeting of the British Association, which took
place at Swansea, I announced that the decomposition of the
chemical surface of the Daguerreotype plate by the action of
certain rays of light produced on that surface a white precipi
tate, insoluble in the hyposulphite of soda, which, when ex
amined by the microscope, had the appearance of crystals re
flecting light, and which, when seen by the naked eye, were
the cause of a positive Daguerreotype image.
   This fact had not been observed before. The opinion of
Daguerre himself and other writers was, that the action of
light on the iodide of silver had only the effect of darkening
the surface, and consequently of producing a negative image.
But it escaped them, that, under the darkened iodide of silver,
another action could take place after a continued exposure to
light, and that the hyposulphite of soda washing could dis
close a positive image. I have proved this unexpected fact in
obtaining, by the action of light only, and without mercury,
  * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the British
Association at Birmingham, Sept. 14, 1849.

         On the ¦principal Phenomena ofPhotography.           875
images having the same'appearance as those developed under
the action of mercurial vapour. This direct and immediate
effect of light is certainly remarkable ; but the Daguerreotype
process is not founded on that principle on account of the
slowness of its action ; and it is fortunate that, long before
light can produce the white precipitate I have alluded to, it
operates another effect, which is the wonderful property of
attracting the vapour of mercury. This vapour is condensed
in the form of a white powder, having also, when examined by
the microscope, the appearance of reflecting crystals. The
Daguerreotype image is due to this property, which is the
most beautiful feature of Daguerre's discovery.
   M. Moser has given an ingenious theory of the action of
mercury. Knowing that the yellow ray had the property of
continuing the effect commenced by light on the iodide of
silver, he has supposed that mercury, when in a state of va
pour, evolves a latent yellow light, and to the action of that
yellow light of mercurial vapour he ascribes the continuation
of the decomposition of the iodide of silver. But as the ana
lysis of the surface discloses the presence of mercury, that
metal must have been amalgamated with the silver set free
after the action of light. We must therefore look for another
explanation of the phsenomenon.
   It is more probable that light exercises a twofold action on
the iodide of silver, whether it is combined or not with chlorine
or bromine. By one, the iodide is decomposed, and the silver
set free is precipitated on the surface in the form of a white
powder or small crystals ; by the other, which begins long be
fore the former, the parts affected by light have been endowed
with an affinity for mercurial vapour.
   By means of my photographometer, to the principle of
which I shall presently refer, I have been able to ascertain
that the pure light of the sun performs in about two or three
seconds the decomposition of the bromo-iodide of silver, which
is manifested by the white precipitate; while the same inten
sity of light determines the affinity for mercurial vapour in the
 wonderfully short space of about y^^dth part of a second. So
that the affinity for mercury is imparted by an intensity of
light 3000 times less than that which produces the decom
position manifested by the white precipitate.
   For this reason it is difficult to suppose that the two actions
are the same. We must admit that they are different. Long
before it can effect the decomposition of the surface, light
imparts to the sensitive coating the affinity for mercurial
vapour ; and this appears to be the principle of the formation
of the image in the Daguerreotype process.

 376      Mr. A. Claudet on the principal Phenomena of
    In a paper I communicated to the Royal Society on the 17th
 of June 1847 (see Transactions), and an abstract of which I
 read before the Association at Oxford, I stated that the red,
 orange and yellow rays were destroying the action of white
 light, and that the surface was recovering its former sensitive
 ness or unaffected state after having been submitted to the
 action of these rays. I inferred from that curious fact that
 light could not have decomposed the surface ; for if it had, it
 would be difficult to understand how the red, orange, or yel
 low rays could combine again, one with another, elements so
 volatile as bromine and iodine, alter they had been once se
 parated from the silver.
    But I had not yet been able to ascertain that, when light has
 decomposed the bromo-iodide of silver, the red, orange or
 yellow rays cannot restore the surface to its former state. The
 action of light, which can be destroyed by the red, orange or
 yellow rays, does not determine thedecomposiiion, which would
 require an intensity 3000 times greater. It is the kind of action
 produced by an intensity 3000 times less, giving the affi
 nity for mercury, which is completely destroyed by the red,
 orange or yellow rays. It seems, therefore, that I was right
 in saying that there was no decomposition of the compound
 during the short action which is sufficient to give the affinity
 for mercury, and in ascribing the formation of the image only
 to that affinity. White light, or the chemical rays which
 accompany it, communicate to the surface the affinity for mer
 cury, and the red, orange, or yellow rays withdraw it I
 must notice here a singular anomaly; viz. that when the
sensitive surface is prepared only with iodine without bromine,
 the red, orange or yellow rays, instead of destroying the action
of white light continue the effect of decomposition as well as
that of affinity for mercury. Still there is a double compound
of iodine which is far more sensitive than the simple com
pound, and on which the red, orange, or yellow rays exercise
their destructive action as in the case of the bromo-iodide. -
   The phasnomenon of the continuing action o^. the red,
orange or yellow rays, on the simple compound of iodide of
silver, was discovered by M. Ed. Becquerel ; and soon after
M. Gaudin found, that not only those rays continue the action
by which mercury is deposited, but that they develope without
mercury an image having the same appearance as that pro
duced by mercurial vapour.
   M. Gaudin, not having observed the fact of the white pre
cipitate, which is the result of the decomposition by the action
of light, could not explain the cause of the image brought out
under the influence of the yellow ray.

         Photography in the Daguerreotype Process.          377
   I have observed that the iodide of silver without bromine is
about 100 times more sensitive than the bromo-iodide to the
action of light, which produces the decomposition of the com
pound forming the white precipitate of silver, while it is 100
times less sensitive for the effect which gives the affinity for
mercury. This seems another reason for supposing that the two
actions are different. It may be that, in the case of the iodide
of silver alone, the decomposition being more rapid, and the
affinity for mercury slower than when bromine is added to
the compound, the red, orange, and yellow rays having to
act upon an incipient decomposition, have the power, by their
own photogenic influence, of continuing the decomposition
when it has begun. This may explain the development of
the image under red, orange, or yellow glasses, according to
M. Gaudin's discovery. But in the case of the bromo-iodide
of silver, the red, orange, or yellow rays have to exert their
action on the affinity for mercury, begun a long time before
the decomposition of the compound ; and they nave the pro
perty of destroying that affinity.
   So that it would appear that all the rays of light have the
property of decomposing the iodide of silver in a longer or
shorter time, as they have that of producing the affinity for
mercury on the bromo-iodide of silver; with the difference,
that on the former compound the separate actions of the
several rays continue each other, and that on the second com
pound these separate actions destroy each other. We can
understand that, in the first case, all the rays are capable of
operating the same decomposition ; and that in the second,
the affinity for mercury when imparted by one ray is destroyed
by another. This would explain the various phenomena of
the formation of the two different deposits I have described,
and also explain the anomaly of the continuation of the action
of light by the red, orange, or yellow rays, according to M.
Ed. Becquerel's discoveries on the iodide of silver ; and of the
destruction of that action by the same rays, according to my
own observations on the bromo-iodide of silver.
   The red, orange and yellow rays, when acting on an un
affected surface, are considerably less capable than the most
refrangible rays of imparting the affinity for mercurial vapour
on both the iodide and bromo-iodide of silver; and they de
stroy that affinity when it has been produced on the bromo-
iodide of silver by the photogenic rays. It follows from this
fact, that when the red, orange, or yellow rays are more abun
dant in the light than the most refrangible rays, the photo
genic effect is retarded in proportion to the excess of these
antagonistic rays. This happens when there exists in the

378      Mr. A. Claudet on the principal Phamomena of
atmosphere some vapours which absorb the most refrangible
rays. In these circumstances the light appears rather yellow ;
but it is very difficult to judge by the eye of the exact colour
of the light, and of the proportion of photogenic rays existing
in the atmosphere at any given moment.
   The vapours of the atmosphere which render the light yel
low, act as any other medium intercepting the blue rays, and
those which have the same degree of refrangibility. I prove,
by a very simple experiment, the comparative photogenic
action of rays which have passed through such media, and of
those which have met with no similar obstacle ; also that media
which intercept the photogenic rays can let pass freely the
illuminating rays.
   If I cover an engraving one-half with light yellow glass, and
place it before my camera obscura in order to represent the
whole on a Daguerreotype plate, I find that during the time
which has been necessary to obtain the image of the half not
covered, not the slightest effect has been produced on the half
covered with the yellow glass.
  ¦^Jow if I cover one half with deep blue glass and the other
with the same light yellow glass, the engraving will be seen
very distinctly through the yellow glass, and not at all through
the blue. In representing the whole, as before, on the Da
guerreotype plate, the half which was clearly seen by the eye
has produced no effect; and the other, which could not be
seen, is as fully represented, and in nearly as short a time, as
when no blue glass had been interposed.
   Thus we might construct a room lighted only through an
inclosure of light yellow glass, in which light would be very
dazzling to the eye, and in this room no photographic opera
tion could be performed ; or a room inclosed by deep blue
glass, which would appear very dark, and in which the pho
tographic operation would be nearly as rapid as it would be
in open air.
   Thus we may conceive certain states of the atmosphere
under which there will be an abundance of illuminating rays,
and very few photogenic rays ; and some others, under which
the reverse will take place.
   Considering how difficult it is to judge by the eye alone
of the photogenic state of light, we can understand why the
photographer is constantly deceived in the effect he tries to
produce, having no means to ascertain beforehand, with any
degree of certainty, the intensity of light. For these reasons
I turned my attention to contrive an apparatus by which
I could test at the same time the sensitiveness of the Daguer
reotype plate and the intensity of light.

           Photography in the Daguerreotype Process.          379
    I succeeded in constructing an instrument which I have
called a photographometer, the description of which appeared
in the Philosophical Magazine for the month of November
1848.
    As I have since improved it considerably, and made with it
a great number of experiments, I shall briefly refer to this
instrument, and describe the useful alterations I have made.
    In the instrument described in the Philosophical Magazine
for November 1848, the light struck the Daguerreotype surface
during the passage on an inclined plane of a metallic plate
having seven apertures in a horizontal line,' following the geo
metrical progression 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64; so that the Da
guerreotype plate being covered with another metallic plate
having four series of seven holes, the effect of light through
every one of the seven holes was represented in proportion to
the opening of the moveable plate. Every one of the four
series of holes indicated the same number of white spots, and
the number of spots was the measure of the light at the mo
ment. I had four series of holes in order to try several pre
parations on the same plate, or to test the light on the same
plate at four different times.
   The improvement I have made consists in my being able to
 shut every one of the holes by means. of sliding blades; so
 that I can continue, by repeated falls, the geometrical progres
sion from 1 to 512 on one plate; and when a second plate is
 added to the double apparatus, from 1 to 8192. This enables
 me to compare and follow the different effects of light in a
 considerable range of intensities. This is done in the follow
 ing manner:—After having given one fall with all the slides
 open, I shut one and give another fall, then shut the second
 slide and give two falls, and so on, always doubling the num
 ber of falls for every new slide shut.
     It is by this means that I have been able to discover at
 what degree of intensity of light the effect called solarization
 is produced ;—on well-prepared plates ot bromo-iodide it does
 not begin under an intensity 512 times greater than that which
 determines the first effect of mercury ;—and also at what degree
 the decomposition producing the white precipitate without
 mercury manifests itself, both on iodide and on bromo-iodide
 of silver. On the first, it is 100 times quicker than on the
 bromo-iodide; and on the last, it is produced by an intensity
 3000 times greater than that which clevelopes the first affinity
 lor mercury.
     The slides enable me to try the effect of different insulated
 rays on plates affected by white light. This is done by shut
 ting one-half of each hole in pushing the sliding blades just

380     Mr. A. Claudet on the principal Phcenomena of
enough for that purpose. In that state I submit the surface
acted on by a great number of intensities of light to the sub
sequent radiation through red, orange, or yellow glasses, or
any other coloured transparent media, in order to examine
the action of these radiations on one-half of the effects pro
duced by each intensity of light. By these means I have
found, that before light has decomposed the surface and pro
duced the white precipitate, the red, orange, and yellow rays
destroy the affinity for mercury, and continue it when the de
composition has begun.
   In the course of my experiments I noticed a curious
fact, which proved very puzzling to me, until I succeded
in assigning a cause to it. I shall mention it here, because
it may lead to some further discoveries. I observed that
sometimes the spaces under the round holes, which bad not
been affected by light during the operation of the photogra-
phometer in a sufficient degree to determine the deposit of
mercury, were, as was to be expected, quite black ; while
the spaces surrounding them were in an unaccountable man
ner slightly affected by mercury. At first I could not explain
the phenomenon, except by supposing that the whole plate
had been previously by accident slightly affected by light, and
that the exposure through the holes to another sort of light
had destroyed the former effect. I was naturally led to that
explanation, having before observed that one kind of light
destroys the effect of another; as, for example, that the effect
of the light from the north is destroyed by the light from the
south, when certain vapours existing in the latter portion ofthe
atmosphere impart a yellow tint to the light of the sun. But
after repeated experiments, taking great care to protect the
plate from the least exposure to light, and recollecting some
experiments of M. Moser, I found that the affinity for mer
cury had been imparted to the surface of the Daguerreotype
plate by the contact of the metallic plate having the round
holes, while the space under the hole had received no similar
action. But it must be observed that this phenomenon does
not take place every time; some days it is frequent, and in
some others it does not manifest itself at all. Considering
that the plate furnished with round holes is of copper, and
that the Daguerreotype plate is of silver plated on copper, it
is probable that the deposit of mercury is due to an electric
or galvanic action determined by the contact of the two metals ;
and perhaps the circumstance that the action does not take
Elace every time, will lead to the supposition that it is developed
  y some peculiar electric state of the ambient atmosphere; and
by a degree of dampness in the air, which would increase the

          Photography in the Daguerreotype Process.           881
electric current. May we not hope that the conditions
being known in which the action is produced, and by avail
ing ourselves of that property, it will be possible to increase
on the Daguerreotype plate the action of light? for it is not
improbable that the affinity for mercury imparted to the plate
is also due to some electrical influence of light. How could we
otherwise explain that affinity for mercury given by some rays
and withdrawn by some others, long before light has acted as
a chemical agent?
    Photography is certainly one of the most important disco
veries of our age. In relation to physics and chemistry, it has
already been the means of elucidating many points which had
not been investigated, or which were imperfectly known before.
We may certainly expect that its study will prove of consider
able use to the progress of these sciences. But it is in reference
to optics that it opens a large field for research and discovery.
 Had Newton been acquainted with the properties with which
light is endowed in the phaenomena of photography, there is
no doubt he would have left a more complete theory of light,
and of the various rays which compose it.
    Since the discovery of photography, opticians have turned
 their attention to the constructing of new combinations of
 lenses, in order to increase the illuminating power without
 augmenting the aberration of sphericity. It is due to justice
 to state here, that the optician who first produced the best
 lenses for photography is M, Voigtlander of Vienna, and they
 still are the most perfect that a photographer can use, parti
 cularly for portraits. In this country an optician of great
 merit, Mr. A. Ross, has constructed lenses on similar prin
 ciples; and at all events has succeeded in producing some
 which work as quick, and give an image as perfect in every
 respect. In Paris M. Lerebours is renowned for lenses with
 larger focus, which are better adapted for taking views than
 any I have tried.
     From the beginning of photography it was well known that
 the effective rays being the most refrangible, had a shorter
 focus than those producing white light; and for this reason
 Daguerre himself recommended the use of achromatic lenses,
 in which all the rays were supposed to coincide nearly at the
 same focus. All cameras obscuras were furnished with achro
 matic lenses, and constructed so that the plate could be placed
 exactly at the same distance as the ground glass on which the
 image had appeared the best defined. But with these cameras
 obscuras it was very difficult to obtain a photographic image
 so perfect as that seen on the ground glass; and it was only
 now and then, and as if by accident, that good pictures could
  be produced.

 S82     Mr. A. Claudet on the principal Phenomena of
    I soon observed that anomaly, and imagined that it was
 due to some errors in the respective position of the two
 frames ; one holding the ground glass, and the other containing
 the plate, which, by warping or some other causes, might
 have been shifted to different distances from the object-
 glass.
    Not being able to assign another reason for the error, I
 constructed a camera obscura in which the ground glass and
 the plate were exactly placed in the same frame. In doing
 so I hoped to avoid the least error or deviation. But to my
 surprise, the more I was correct in my adjustment, the less
 I could obtain a well-defined Daguerreotype picture. This
 proved 10 me that I had to seek for another cause of the diffi
 culty ; and before going any further, I decided to try if the
 usual focus did or did not really coincide with the photogenic
focus. For the experiment, I placed at a distance from the
camera obscura several screens on different planes : these
screens being covered with black lines, I could see them very
distinctly on the ground glass. I tried the focus on one of
the screens. To my surprise and delight, I found that inva
 riably the one which had come out well-defined on the ground
glass was confused on the Daguerreotype plate, and vice versa.
 This was sufficient to prove to me the cause of the difficulty
 I had been labouring under, viz. that the visual focus had not
coincided with the photogenic focus. But the most surprising
 feature of that discovery was, that the photogenic focus was
 longer than the visual focus. On first consideration it should
 have been shorter, as the rays operating in photography are
 the most refrangible. Although I could not at first under
stand the cause of this anomaly, it was sufficient for me to
know that, in order to have a well-defined Daguerreotype
picture, I had only to set the focus on the ground glass for
an object nearer the camera at the distance indicated by the
experiment with the various screens. Continuing my experi
ment, I found some lenses in which the photogenic focus was
 shorter, and some others in which the two coincided.
   I communicated a paper on the subject to the Royal Society
and to the Academie des Sciences in May 1844, and from
that time photographers have been able to find the true pho
togenic focus of their camera ; and opticians, who at first
denied the fact, have at last studied and considered the ques
tion, trying to construct lenses in which the two foci should
agree.
   M. Lerebours of Paris was the first who, on my suggestion,
examined the subject; and he communicated a paper to the
Academie des Sciences, in which he explained the cause of
the difference. He stated that, by altering the proportion

          Photography in the Daguerreotype Process.          383
between the angles inscribed in the curves either of the crown-
or flint-glass, he could render at will the photogenic focus
longer or shorter than the visual focus, and by the same
means could bring them to the same point. There is no ques
tion that M. Lerebours was right as far as the result referred
to the chromatic correction ; buc if, according to the density
ofthe two glasses.certain curvatures are required to correct the
spherical aberrations, these curvatures cannot be altered with
impunity only for the purpose of changing the directions of
the most refrangible rays. For this reason 1 have always
preferred lenses in which the spherical aberration is the most
perfectly corrected, without caring whether the photogenic
rays coincided or not with the visual rays, having the means of
ascertaining how I could obtain on my Daguerreotype plate
the best-defined image. In fact, from my own observation
 that the red, orange, and yellow rays are antagonistic to the
 photogenic rays, and that the last rays have a greater power
 when the former are proportionately less abundant, I am of
 opinion that when the photogenic rays are only condensed on
 the plate, and the others are dispersed on the space more or
 less distant from the photogenic point, the action is more
 rapid. Rapidity being the principal object in photography,
 I prefer lenses in which the two foci are separated, although
 the operation is a little more difficult, and requires consider
 able care.
    The question of the photogenic focus is involved in another
 kind of mystery, which requires some attention. I have found
  that with the same lenses there exists a constant variation in
  the distance between the two foci. They are never in the
  same relation to each other : they are sometimes more or less
  separate; in some lights they are very distant, and in some
  others they are very near and even coincide. For this reason
  I constantly try their position before I operate. I have not
  been able to discover the cause of that singular phenomenon,
  but I can state positively that it exists. At first I thought
  that variations in the density ofthe atmosphere might produce
  the alteration in the distance between the two foci ; or that
  when the yellow rays were more or less abundant, the visual
  rays were refracted on different points on the axis of the foci,
  according to the mean refrangibility of the rays composing
  white light at the moment. But a new experiment has proved
  to me that these could not be the real causes of the variation.
  I generally employ two object-glasses ; one of shorter focus
  for small pictures, and the other of longer focus for larger
  images. In both the photogenic focus is longer than the visual
  focus; but when they are much separated in one they are less
  so in the other : sometimes when they coincide in one, they are

 S84.     Mr. A. Claudet on the principal Phenomena of
 very far apart in the other, nmd sometimes they both coincide.
 This I have tried every day during the last twelve months, and
 I have always found the same variations. The density of the
 atmosphere, or the colour of light, seems to have nothing to
 do with the phenomenon, otherwise the same cause would
 produce the same effect in both lenses. I must observe that
 my daily experiments on my two object-glasses are made at
 the same moment and at the same distance for each, otherwise
 any alteration in the focal distance would disperse, more or
 less, the photogenic rays, which is the case, as I have ascer
 tained. The lengthening or shortening the focus, according
 to the distance of the object to be represented, has for effect
 to modify the achromatism of the lenses. An optician, accord
 ing to M. Lerebours's calculation, can at will, in the com-
 bination of the two glasses composing an achromatic lens,
 adapt such curvatures or angles in both that the visual focus
 shall coincide with the photogenic focus ; but he can obtain
 this result only for one length of focus. The moment the
 distance is altered, the two foci separate, because the visual
 and photogenic rays must be refracted at different angles in
 coming out of the lens, in OTder to meet at the focus given for
 one distance of the object. If the distance is altered, the focus
 becomes longer or shorter; and as the angle at which differ
 ent rays are refracted remains nearly the same, they cannot
 meet at the new focus, and they form two images. 'If the
visual and photogenic rays were refracted parallel to each
other, in coming out of the lens they would always coincide
for every focus ; but this is not the case.
    It seems, therefore, impossible that lenses can be con
structed in which the two foci will agree for all the various
distances, until we have discovered two kinds of glasses, in
which the densities will be in the same ratioas their dispersive
power. There is no question so important in photography as
that which refers to finding the true photogenic focus of every
lens for various distances. I have described the plan I have
adopted for that purpose ; by means of that very simple instru
ment, every photographer can always obtain well-defined
pictures with any object-glasses. But there is another method
of ascertaining the difference between the two foci, which has
been lately contrived by Mr. G. Knight of Foster Lane,
London. That gentleman has been kind enough to commu
nicate to me the very ingenious and simple apparatus, by
which he can at once find the exact difference existing be
tween the visual and photogenic focus, and place the Daguer
reotype plate at the point where the photogenic focus exists.
I am very glad he has entrusted me with the charge of bringing
his invention before the British Association. For the scientific

         Photography in the Daguerreotype Process.            385
investigation of the question Mr. Knight's apparatus will
be most valuable to the optician, as it will afford him the
means of studying the phenomenon with mathematical accu
racy.
   Mr. Knight's apparatus consists in a frame having two
grooves; one vertical, in which he places the ground glass,
and the other forming an angle with the first destined to
receive the plate; the planes of the grooves intersect each
other in the middle. After having set the focus upon the
ground glass, this last is removed, and the plate is placed
in the inclined groove. Now if a newspaper or any large
printed sheet is put before the camera, the image will be
represented on the inclined plate ; and it is obvious in its
inclination the various points of the plate will meet a dif
ferent focus ; the centre of the plate will coincide with the
visual focus by its inclination. It will in one direction meet
the photogenic focus at a point more or less distant from the
centre, if the photogenic focus is shorter than the visual focus,
and in the other direction if it is longer. The frame is fur
nished with a scale of division, having the zero in the centre.
When the image is represented on the Daguerreotype, by
applying against it another moveable scale of division similar
to the other, the operator can find what is the division above
or under zero at which the image seems best defined ; and
after having removed from the camera the experiment frame,
and set the focus as usual on the ground glass, he has only to
move the tube of the object-glass by means of the rack and
pinion, and to push it in or out, a space corresponding with
the division of the scale indicating the deviation of the true
photogenic focus : the tube of the object-glass is for that pur
pose marked with the same scale of division.
   In order to enable the members of the Association to judge
of the merit of Mr. Knight's invention, I have had his appa
ratus applied to a small camera with which I made my expe
riment. By exhibiting at the same time Mr. Knight's method
and my own, a comparison of the two may be made, and
they will be both better understood.
   Before concluding, I shall call the attention of all persons
conversant with optics to the singular fact I have observed
respecting the constant variation of the two foci. I have not
been able yet to find its cause, and I leave its investigation to
more competent persons. I hope at the next meeting of the
Association we shall know more on the subject.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 237. Nov. 1849.        2 C

                                [ 386 ]
           XLVIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                  ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.
                          [Continued from p. 308.]
May 11, f\N the Determination of the most probable Orbit of a
  1849. V^ Binary Star from the assemblage of a great number
of observed Angles of Position. By Sir J. F. W. Herschel, Bart.
With some Remarks by the President on a Solution of the same
Problem by M. Yvon Villarceau.
   In this paper Sir John Herschel refers generally, for the prin
ciple of his method, to a paper published by him in the fifth volume
of the Memoirs of this Society, the paper (we may remark) in
which was given an exposition of the principles by which the orbit
of a double star was for the first time actually determined. He
now states his conviction- that the method there expounded is, on
the whole, the best that can be employed ; and the object of the
present paper is, retaining the original principle (namely, of using
only the measured angles of position, and rejecting entirely the
measures of distance), and retaining the first step of the original
method (namely, of smoothing down the irregularities of the angles
as measured, by laying them down graphically, the angles for
abscissae and the corresponding times for ordinates, and then draw
ing a curve by hand through the points so found, and using that
curve as the representation of the real relation between the angles
and the times, and measuring from it the times corresponding to
angles which differ by 5°, or by 10°, or any other convenient dif
ference); retaining the original method thus far, to complete the
investigation by a process entirely algebraical and arithmetical.
   Supposing the times corresponding to equal intervals of angle
to be taken from the curve above mentioned, the next thing required
is -j for every 5° or every 10°, &c. This is to be found by the
   do
following formula, which requires for application only the finite dif
ferences of / for the equidistant values of 9,
                 rffl    Afll 1       2^3           J
   The next step is, to infer from this the true apparent distance of
the stars, as it ought to be measured by a perfect micrometer or
measuring instrument. Now every determination of an orbit of
double stars proceeds on the assumption of an attraction between
the two components, and this requires the supposition of descrip
tion of areas proportional to the time, both in the orbit really
described and in the projection of the orbit which we see. Hence
we must have rp*. —  dt = constant = 100 (the unit of the radius vector
being for the present arbitrary), and therefore p = * / 100.-jOr=
* / — 100 -j, according as — is positive (that is, 0 increasing in the

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                   387
direction nfsp) or negative. Sir John adopts for the unit of angles
one degree, and -for the unit of time one year.
   A series of radii vectores being thus found, corresponding to
certain values of fl, the next step is to form from these in numbers
the corresponding values of the rectangular co-ordinates a?=p.cosfl
y=p.sind. And, assuming that the force of attraction between
the two stars follows the law of (he inverse square of the distance,
and therefore that the curve really described is a curve of the
second order, and consequently that the apparent curve is a curve
of the second order, we must make these numerical values of x, y,
(as *, y,, xtyv x}y,, &c.) satisfy the equation o=l+ax+fiy +
yt^+Sxy+sy-, an equation containing 5 unknown constants. As
the number of equations will generally exceed 5, it will be proper
to combine them by the method of least squares ; and the only
question is, what is the function of jc and y which shall be supposed
a priori liable to equal error in all ? Sir John Herschel tacitly as-
sumes that the function B=l +ouc+fty-^yxi+Sxy+ey2 is the quan
tity which with equal weight throughout is to be made as small as
possible, or that 2 (B*) is to be minimum. The equations given by
this consideration are easily formed, and then a, /3, y, S, t can be
determined.
   From these numbers the numerical values of the more convenient
elements of the apparent ellipse may be found, and from them the
elements of the real ellipse may be found. The formula? for all
these transformations are given at length by Sir John Herschel, and
they are less complicated than might at first have been feared.
   Thus far the elements necessary to produce geometrical coinci
dence of the concluded orbit with the observed orbit are alone de
termined. The next operation is to determine those elements which
relate to the motion in the concluded orbit. For this purpose,
angles being taken from the curve based on the graphical projection,
and these angles (which relate to the apparent orbit) being con
verted into angles in the true orbit by the formula: lately found, and
thus exhibiting true anomalies on the true ellipse, the excentric
anomalies are found at once by the formula u— esina, and the mean
anomalies are found. Then every one of these angles gives an
equation
 n        of the form              , . /,,
                              to,=A.r1—
from the assemblage of which the constants k and / can be found
by the method of least squares; and then we have all that is re
quired to form the mean anomaly for any other time t, and conse
quently (as the elements of the ellipse are known) to form the ex-
centric and true anomalies.
   The conversion of a place thus computed in the real orbit into
one in the apparent orbit, and the comparison of the distance com
puted on the arbitrary scale with the distance measured with the
micrometer, and the inference as to the true value of the units of
the arbitrary scale, are steps which require no particular explana
tion.
   Sir John Herschel holds out the hope of following up this expo
                                 2 C2

  388                  Royal Astronomical Society.
  eitibn with the details of the application of his method to the star y
  Virginia.
      As an Appendix to Sir John Herschel's paper, it is proper to add
  that papers have been received by, Sir John Herschel from M. Yvon
  Villarceau (namely, a note on the double star £ Herculis, dated 1849,
  February 1, a note on the double star ij Corona?, dated 1849, March
  30, and a letter dated 1849, April 1, containing an exposition of
  M. Yvon Villarceau's methods), which have been communicated
  more or less completely to the Academie des Sciences of France,
  and which therefore cannot be received in the ordinary way as a
  communication to this Society. It is, however, the wish, both of
  Sir John Herschel and of M. Yvon Villarceau, and it appears in
  every way desirable that their results should be made known to
, this Society, both as containing instructive expositions of a very
  elegant general method and very curious applications of it, and also
  as bearing upon any questions which may arise as to the similarity
  or priority of the methods of Sir John Herschel and M. Yvon
  Villarceau.
      Assuming the law of gravitation, and consequently the law of
  elliptic movement, as applying generally to the relative motion of
  two stars in a binary system, M. Yvon Villarceau remarks that the
  projection of this curve upon the spherical sky (or rather upon a
  plane perpendicular to the visual ray) will be a curve of the second
  order, whose equation will be,
                      F=ay3+ bxy + ar« + rfy + ex +f=o,
  the origin of co-ordinates being one star regarded as a fixed centre
  of attraction of the other. The object of the next process must be,
  to adopt this general equatibn to the particular observations from
   which the orbit is to be deduced: and here it is to be observed
  that M. Villarceau does not confine himself either to the measured
  angles of position or to the measured distances, but uses both, for
  the formation of the numerical values of x and y corresponding to
  every observation. Having these numerical values of rectangular
  co-ordinates, and paying no respect (for the present) to the inter
  vals of time between the observations, the following is the method
   used to accommodate geometrically the curve of the second order
   to the observed co-ordinates :—
      The principle assumed is, that the constants a, b, c, &c. shall
   be so determined that if the resulting curve be drawn, and if from
   every observed place a normal (usually a very short line) be drawn
   to the curve, then the sum of the squares of these normals, each
   multiplied by its proper weight, shall be a minimum. This prin
   ciple, it is almost unnecessary to remark, is imperfect, inasmuch as
   it does not in any way take cognisance of the laws of movement, as
   connected with time; but it will frequently be doubtful, in a pro
   blem of such difficulty, whether it is not best to neglect a condition,
   even of the most essential kind, for the sake of making the solution
   more simple.
      Putting J« D« for (^Y+ (j-)'' and P for &* weiSht of

                                Royal Astronomical Society.                                            339
 each determination, M. VjUfWoeaw arrives thus at |aewfollpwiog
 equations :—
r, '.i; yirtr '.' ;¦¦"
 and he shows how, supposing an ellipse roughly drawn by hand,
 the value of D may be found graphically ; and it will then be pos
 sible to solve the equations,
     The projected ellipse being thus determined, the real ellipse, will
  be found from the consideration that the origin of co-ordinates is
  the projection of the focus of the real ellipse, while the centre of
  the observed ellipse is the projection of the centre of the real ellipse.
 The formation of the cprresponding equatipns is a not difficult pro
  blem of analytical geometry. This transformation, however,, is, pot
  required till all the other operations are completed.                                            ., ,.N\
      The points determined, by observation are not generally found
  exactly upon the projected ellipse. In order to have points, upon
  the ellipse which shall be the subjects of further investigation,
  M. Villarceau transfers the observed points to the ellipse by draw
  ing normals to the ellipse, and taking, instead of the point actually
  determined by observation, the foot of its normal. If x* andy' be
  the co-ordinates determined from observation, x and y those of the
  foot of the normal, then                               .^V
ImusOTm -nil ...t Tj.-f-ri               - ^                 i. >i -..<¦¦!. .,. ¦
                                                                                  1 - q i. -A^L>
                                                                                      i1';(pi. ;;,! mi)
 il'llll;!,.'-,- :    tl
                                     \TX) + [&)                                        I: ".¦ ',< ¦ /'I J .' .
 -TOJni    tih   (>-)  ( Jiij'.i'ni .m|; :¦.] >  J-. ...  ,
                                                dF
                                     \dx)            \dy)
   with sufficient exactness.
      The next point is, to introduce the consideration of time'; and
   this is to be done by making the areas described by the radius
   vector in the projected ellipse proportional to the time. The areas
   can be expressed in terms of the corrected co-ordinates and the
   constants without much difficulty, the whole of these admitting of
   further correction if necessary. M. Villarceau remarks that if there
   are four observed places, the solution of the four equations F (x, y)
    = 0 will give four of the quantities a, b, c, d, e, in terms of the
   fifth ; that these four observations will give three areas between
   which there are two equations of proportion ; and that thus, besides

390                 Royal Astronomical Society.
the determination of the fifth coefficient, we shall have an equation
of condition which must be satisfied, or whose failure will prove
that our operations or assumptions are in some part erroneous.
When there are more than four equations, all can be used in methods
analogous to those which are well understood in other investiga
tions, for correcting the result.
   We must, however, express our opinion that this part of the
operation appears the most obscure, as well as the most delicate
and difficult, of the whole.
   M. Villarceau remarks that the final determination of elements
will in all cases require observations separated by a considerable in
terval from the rest.
   M. Villarceau has lately communicated to the Academie another
method.
   The following are the principal results in the two cases which
M. Yvon Villarceau has specially examined :—
   In the instance of £ Herculis, the stars are so unequal that there
can be no possibility of confusion between the two. It was seen
double in 1 782, but there is reason to think that it was seen as
only one star between 1795 and 1802, and also between 1828 and
 1832. M. Struve, expressing himself very doubtful, seemed to
suppose that the periodic time might be about 14 years. (See the
Mensuree Micrometricce.) A valuable series of observations, how
ever, having been made at Pulkowa, extending to 1847, the whole
of which have been communicated to M. Yvon Villarceau, he has
deduced from them an orbit in which the excentricity = sin 27°
 nearly, and the periodic time is 36^ years. The measure of 1 782
 and those from 1826 to 1847 appear to be represented with all
 desirable exactness. [In comparing the computed and observed
 angles of position, we are glad to see that M. Villarceau has con
 verted their effects into expressions measured by seconds of arc]
 The remarks, too, made by M. Struve about the time of the union
 of the two stars observed by him correspond exactly to the positions
 given by M. Villarceau's elements. Those of Sir W. Herschel do
 not correspond. M. Villarceau suggests that, at a time when the
 small star really was hidden, Sir W. Herschel may have been mis
 led by a false image of the large star ; and that, when the image
 of the star was deformed, lie may have estimated the deformation
 in the wrong direction. He desires, however, specially to submit
 these conjectures to the judgement of Sir John Herschel ; and we
 trust that Sir John Herschel will not decline to undertake the
 honourable task to which he is invited.
    M. Villarceau concludes with pointing out that this star presents
 a remarkable illustration of the amount of uncertainty which may
rest upon the determination of double-star elements, when based
 upon a limited series of observations. If we had only to satisfy
the observations extending from 1828 to 1847 (or through more
 than one-half of a revolution), we might have represented them by
 systems of elements in which the excentricity varies from 0"44
 to TC3, that is, the orbit might have been an ellipse, a parabola, or
 a hyperbola.

                    Royal Astronomical Society.                     391
   In the instance of ij Corona? there is a difficulty of a totally dif
ferent kind. The two stars are so very nearly equal in magnitude
and similar in colour, that, when observations are interrupted for a
long time, it is impossible to say whether that which is adopted as
the zero-star before and after the interruption is the same ; and it
is therefore necessary in some cases to make double computations,
on the two suppositions that the first star, or the second star, is
that to which the measures are referred in other observations.
   From the observations to which they had access, M. Struve, Sir
John Herschel, and M. Madler, concluded that the periodic time of
this star was 43 or 44 years. M. Villarceau, however, has had
access to the observations made at Pulkowa from 1826 up to 1847,
and has treated them in the following manner :—
   Of fifteen observations, four were rejected, on account of
manifest errors in the distance only. From the remaining eleven,
relations were obtained between the elements, which leave them
dependent upon an indeterminate quantity which is arbitrary be
tween very wide limits. The observations of Sir John Herschel
in 1823, and of M. Struve from 1826 to 1847, may be represented
with sufficient accuracy by ellipses in which the periodic time
ranges from 38 to 1 90 years. To fix this indeterminate quantity,
we may take Sir W. Herschel's observation of 1781 or that of 1802
(with a slight alteration sanctioned by Sir John Herschel). If we
fix the indeterminate quantity by the observation of 1802, M. Vil
larceau finds that the observation of 1781 is also satisfied, provided
that the position of the stars be reversed ; that is, provided that it
be assumed that the other star has been used as the zero, which is
perfectly admissible. Thus is obtained an orbit with a periodic
time of 66 years.
   But if we reverse the position of the stars in 1802, which is
admissible, it is found that the observation of 1781 is satisfied
without reversion. The periodic time thus obtained is 43 years.
   It is remarkable that in these totally different solutions the
excentricity is sensibly the same, namely, 0"47.
   In both cases the remaining errors are so small, in comparison
with the probable errors, as to leave the two solutions equally
entitled to our reception. For the final judgement between them,
M. Villarceau refers to some remarks of Sir W. Herschel, unac
companied by measures. Although there is some doubt in the
interpretation of these, M. Villarceau thinks that upon the whole
the solution which gives a period of 66 years is the more probable.
He remarks, however, that in four years at the furthest the doubt
will be settled. In 1853-677 the angle of position given by the
66-year solution will be 303° 44', while that given by the 43-year
solution will be 356° 30', leaving a difference upon which there can
be no doubt. The distances will be respectively 0"'51 and 0'/-77,
but between these it might be difficult to pronounce.

  392             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                   CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.
ii              "                                       -
                   i i      [Continued from p. 231.]
      May 21, 1849.—On Hegel's Criticism of Newton's Principia.
   By Dr. Whewell.
      Parts of Hegel's Encyclopedia are here examined with the purpose
  of testing the value of his philosophy, not of defending Newton.
   Hegel says that the glory due to Kepler has been unjustly transferred
  to Newton : confounding thus the discovery of the laws with the
   discovery of the force from which the laws proceed, in which latter
  discovery Kepler had no share. Hegel pretends to derive the New
  tonian " formula " from the Keplerian law, thus ; —by Kepler's law,
                                                      A'
  A being the distance, and T the periodic time, — is constant : but
  Newton (Hegel says) calls —universal gravitation, whence universal
  gravitation is inversely as A* :—a most absurd misrepresentation of
  the course of Newton's reasoning. In the same manner Hegel criti
  cises, and utterly misrepresents Newton's explanation, for the ellip
  tical orbit, of the body's approaching to and receding from the centre ;
  and of the reason why the body moves in an ellipse. Hegel also
  offers his own explanation of Kepler's laws from his own d priori
  assumptions. He says that the motion of the heavenly bodies is not
  a being pulled this way or that, as is imagined by the Newtonians ;
  they go along, as the ancients said, like blessed gods.
           XLIX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                     BAIN, THE CAUSE OF LIGHTNING.
         To tlie Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
           Gentlemen,                              Leeds, October 17, 1849.
  AS the whole science of meteorology depends upon the number
          of phaenomena observed, I am led to trouble you with the fol
 lowing short notice of a phsenomenon which particularly engaged
 my attention during its occurrence ; if you deem the communication
 worthy to be inserted in your Journal, you will oblige
                                       Your humble Servant,
                                                             T, H. Dixon.
     I observed a paper upon this subject in the Philosophical Magazine
 for September last, and it reminded me that I had observed a similar
 pharnomenon, of which I made some notes at the time of its occur
rence,                                                             rud 1o
     On the evening of June 4, 1849, a very severe thunder-storm
 visited Leeds and the neighbourhood ; my attention was particularly
directed to this storm from a peculiar circumstance connected •with

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            393
it ; the storm begun about 9 p.m., and continued until 12, but the
rain did not begin till 11. The whole of the shower which followed
was characterized by the wave-like intensity of the falling rain ;
first the shower began very, violently, and gradually got less intense
until succeeded by another sudden increase, and during the whole
storm this increase and decrease could be distinctly marked. I also
noticed a similar circumstance at Itedcar in July, and can most cer
tainly bear witness that in many instances the increase of rain pre
ceded the flash of lightning, and this occurred many times in suc
cession. If from observation we find the rain during thunder-storms
has this peculiar characteristic, we may safely consider that rain has
something to do with the production of electricity, but as yet our
observations are so limited, that it would be unsafe to attempt to
form any theory ; but we may hope the phenomenon will be observed
by others, and also that they will make their conclusions known, and
ultimately we may be led to a new meteorological fact.
        ON A COMPOUND OF SULPHUROUS ACID AND WATER.
                ,:         BY M. DIPPING.
    If sulphurous acid gas, previously washed to get rid of sulphuric
acid, be passed into a bottle containing distilled water, kept cold by
ice, a crystallized substance is formed when a large quantity of sul
phurous acid has been absorbed.
    At a temperature a little above that of melting ice, these crystals
re-dissolve in the surrounding water ; but if the bright liquor be ex
posed to a temperature somewhat below the point of congelation,
the crystals are again formed in masses consisting of cubes heaped
upon each other.                                 .¦ / \ \ ;
    These crystals may be separated from the liquor at — 3° C, and
may be dried in paper preserved in a perfectly dry phial. Between
— 1° and — 2°-6, they begin to moisten, liquefy and eventually disen
gage sulphurous acid. If an attempt be made to dry by the aid of
sulphuric acid under a receiver, at a temperature of —5°, they de
compose ; their water is gradually attracted by the sulphuric acid,
and sulphurous acid is disengaged.
    In order to determine the proportion of water and sulphurous acid
in these cubic crystals, they were separated from the liquor by a
funnel at the temperature -- 3° to —4° C. ; and after they had been
well drained, they were submitted to slight pressure in filtering
paper and dried as much as possible. The dried substance was
weighed in a closed tube at a temperature below 0° C, excess of
strong solution of chlorine was added to it, and the solution was di
gested for some time. By means of chloride of barium the quantity
of sulphuric acid was determined in the form of sulphate of barytes.
    I. 2*157 grms. pressed in filtering paper gave 1-888 of sulphate
of barytes.
    II. 1-424 grm. of the same crystals yielded 1*330 of sulphate of
barytes.
    III. 1-625 grm. of these crystals, dried and kept for about 10

394            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
days in a corked phial at a temperature of from— 3° to— 4°, yielded
1'477 of sulphate of barytes.
   One hundred parts of these crystals were then formed of—
                                    I.         II.          III.
        Sulphurous Acid ....      7602        79T6         76-82
        Water                    23"98        2084         23-18
taking as the basis of the calculation the quantity of anhydrous sul
phurous acid, corresponding to the sulphate of barytes.
   For one equivalent of anhydrous sulphurous acid (H=l) 82-15,
we have—
                                    I.          II.          III.
        Water                     10-14        8-46         9-73
These numbers correspond to 1 equivalent of water=9,01, so nearly,
that no doubt can be entertained of the compound in question being
formed of equal equivalents of sulphurous acid and water.
   It appears also that there exists another compound of sulphurous
acid and water. If the liquor which separates from the hydrate in
question, be exposed to a temperature— 6° to— 7° C, it becomes a
crystalline mass which appears to have a lamellar structure. When
the temperature approaches 0°, these crystals re-dissolve, and at
— 2° C. the whole becomes liquid, a phenomenon which is not ex
hibited by the preceding compound. The author lias not yet ascer
tained the composition of the last described crystals L'Institut,
Octobre 10, 1849.
     ON THE METHODS OF ASCERTAINING THE QUANTITY OF
BROMINE IN SOLUTION IN MOTHER-WATERS. UY M. FEHLING.
   Three methods are adopted for determining the quantity of bromine
contained in mother-waters or mineral waters.
   1st. The first consists in precipitating by nitrate of silver the
chlorine and bromine contained in these liquids, and in treating the
mixture of chloride and bromide of silver by chlorine gas, which
displaces the bromine.
   As the atomic weight of bromine is higher than that of chlorine,
the quantity of bromine is readily calculated by multiplying the dif
ference of weight obtained by the coefficient 1"7947, which is merely
the equivalent of bromine divided by the difference of the equivalents
of bromine and chlorine. This method is not precise except when
the liquids contain a notable quantity of bromine.
   2nd. The second process proposed by M . Heine, consists in dis
placing the bromine by aether, and appreciating the quantity accord
ing to the intensity of the tint of the ethereal solution.
   In operating in this manner on 60 grammes of liquid containing
from 0002 to 0-020 of bromine, and avoiding the influence of the
sun's rays, the quantity of bromine set free by the chlorine may be
estimated to within about one or two thousandths.

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               895
   3rd. Lastly, the third process, which is that proposed by M.Fehling,
is based on the following fact : when a mixture of an alkaline chlo
ride and bromide is perfectly precipitated by nitrate of silver, the
first portions of the precipitate contain all the bromine which the
solution contained.
    This process, therefore, admits of concentrating the bromine, and
employing such a quantity of nitrate of silver as is insufficient to
precipitate the whole of the chlorine ; and as the object is merely that
of obtaining a compound of bromide and chloride very rich in bro
mide, the first process becomes readily applicable without any risk
of serious error.
    The silver precipitate ought to be well washed, and in order to
decompose it by chlorine, it is to be fused, a quantity being intro
duced into a tube with a bulb, which is to be heated by a spirit-lamp.
—Journ. de Pharm. et de Chim., Septembre, 1849.
           DETECTION OF SMALL QUANTITIES OF IODINE.
                           BY M. L. THOREL.
    Tlie method employed by the author for this purpose is the fol
lowing, and is merely a modified method of using starch. Put into
a small vial fifty or sixty grammes of the suspected liquor, or if it be
a solid body, diffuse it in a small quantity of water ; add six drops of
pure nitric acid, and the same quantity of hydrochloric acid ; a small
piece of paper is then to be covered with a rather liquid prepara
tion of starch and placed at the mouth of the vial, which is to be
heated. If the liquor contains iodine, either in the state of iodide or
iodate, the paper will assume a violet blue of greater or less inten
sity. The nitric acid sets the iodine free by decomposing the iodides,
if any exist ; the effect of the hydrochloric acid is, that it is substi
tuted for the iodine, by decomposing the iodate, if it should be pre
 sent.
    If the paper should not become coloured at the moment of ebul
 lition, the same quantity of the two acids should be added, shaking
 the vial strongly. In an instant, tin: spots should appear, and the
 stratum of iodine will gradually increase. It must not be immedi
ately concluded that no iodine is present if no colour appears, for it
is separated with difficulty from certain bodies, as happens with mo
 lasses. In such cases a second operation must be performed, adding
 to the liquor ten to twenty centigrammes of tartrate of potash dis
 solved in a small proportion of water. Heat is to be applied an in
 stant before the addition of the acids, which on this occasion may
 be used in the proportion of eight to ten drops of nitric acid, and
 four drops of hydrochloric acid. After this trial an opinion may be
 arrived at with great certainty.
    By operating in this manner, the presence of iodine may be de«
 tected in a mixture which contains only three to four milligrammes.
 With a mixture of twenty milligrammes of iodine and 200 grammes
 of salt, very intense spots may be obtained. —Journ. de Chem. Med.,
 Septembre 1849.

396                   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  i.   L  .  *    - .1  *.  *•  . i > • i .. ¦». '.* .#-''! c , I --; *¦•' * . ¦ .•. • '*¦¦ ¦   •' * *'¦
      CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE CHEMISTRY OF THE METALS OF
              '¦"'¦ " '• PLATtWA, v! BY M. C. tXAOS.'
            > 'ii « i , < ¦ :< i , ; ; ; ¦ . . :i. ¦)...,( ¦>: . ¦ ., .* - / 1                ¦. .»
     On examining the residuum of the treatment of platina by its sol
vent, the author had an opportunity of observjngseveral reactions oc
curring between the metals of platina and their combinations which
had not been remarked, but which appeared to him worthy of atten
tion. The following is a sketch of these reactions.
     1. Chloride of Iridium and Nitrate of Silver. —It is well known
that the chlorine of the. solutions of the various platina metals is not
precipitated as pure chloride of silver by the nitrate. In employing
chloride of iridium, a compound is also obtained, which, according
to the author, is an argento-sesquichloride of iridium, insoluble in
water or in acids, and difficultly soluble in ammonia, but from whicii
it may always be obtained in the form of rhomboids, as brilliant as
diamonds. M. Claus analysed this salt, and found it to correspond
to the formula 3Ag CI, + lr2 CI3.
     2.. Action of Sulphuric Acid and Sulphite of Potash on the Chlo
ride and double compounds of some oft/te PkUirut Metals.— Sulphu
rous acid reduces the higher chlorides of the platina metals to a
lower degree; the chloride of platina into protochloride, and the
chloride of iridium to sesquichloride, &c. As to the double salts of
these ohlorides, sulphite of potash gives -with them a series of com
pounds of peculiar composition which contain sulphurous acid, com
municating to them properties which are quite peculiar.
     a. Compounds of Iridium.—When for the preparation of potassio-
sesquichloride of iridium, eight parts of water are poured upon po-
tassio-chloride of iridium in fine powder, and sulphurous acid is
passed through the liquor till an olive-coloured solution is formed,
the chloride is converted into sesquichloride, accompanied with the
formation of sulphurous and hydrochloric acids. This salt, the com
position of which is represented by SK Cl + Irs Cl3-(-6Aq, effloresces
readily in warm dry air; it is opake, and its crystals become covered
with a bright green powder. It is insoluble in alcohol, soluble in
water, forming an olive-green solution, but by transmitted light it is
slightly purple. It has the bitter taste of chloride of iridium ; but
it is more permanent, and the solution may be evaporated nearly to
dryness without decomposition. The alkalies decompose it with
difficulty. Aqua regia converts it readily into chloride, and nitrate
of silver immediately precipitates, without any blue reaction, the
 double salt 3 Ag CI + Ir* CI3.
     The solution of potassio-chloride of iridium, reduced by sulphurous
acid, and from which the greater part of the sesquichloride may he
precipitated by carbonate of potash, preserves its olive-green colour
at common temperatures ; but if it be heated, it passes after some
time to a red colour, and eventually to a bright yellow.
     It forms also several compounds of peculiar composition, which
contain sulphurous acid, and which, when mixed together, may be
separated, some in the crystalline form and others in that of powder,
by evaporations which are of difficult execution. The author sue

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              397
ceeded in isolating three :— 1, a rose-coloured crystalline salt ; 2, an
amber-coloured substance, having the consistence of Venice tur
pentine ; 3, a white pulverulent compound. All these compounds
contain potash, sulphuric acid, chlorine, and protoxide of iridium
in variable proportions. They are nearly insipid, and very slightly
soluble in water, disengage sulphurous acid when heated, and arc
difficultly decomposed by calcination.
   Hydrochloric acid dissolves them readily, disengaging part of their
sulphurous acid, and converting them into other salts containing an
equivalent of chlorine. The aqueous solution gives a white floccu-
lent precipitate with chloride of barium, and the alkalies decompose
them with difficulty. They are but slowly oxidized by means of
aqua regia; and before conversion into chloride of iridium, they
assume a deep cherry-red colour.
   The author has analysed the rose-coloured salt, and finds the
composition to be represented by—
              (2KO,SO* + 2KCl) + (2rrO{'2S^}.
   The amber-coloured substance resembling turpentine M. (Jlaus
has also analysed, and gives as its rational formula—
                    4KO,SO*+2IrO-t- {p. \.
   The white salt of iridium, obtained only in small quantity, has
been described and analysed by the author; its formula is —
                    3KO, SO-+IrOa, SO'+5Aq.
   On treating this salt with hydrochloric acid, a yellow solution is
obtained, which by evaporation yields yellow prisms, considered by
 M. Claus as a double salt, or sulphite of protoxide of iridium and
chloride of potassium, 3KCl-)-IrO\ SO-.
   b. Compounds of Ostnium.—The potassio-chloride of osmium
undergoes no modification by sulphurous acid at common tempera
tures ; but when heated, sulphite of potash occasions a partial de
composition, producing a pulverulent precipitate which is a double
sulphite of potash and osmium, represented by the formula 3KO,
 SO- + Os02, SO-+5Aq. On treating this salt with hydrochloric
acid, the double salt, UK Cl + Os 0J, SO-, or chloride of potassium
and sulphite of osmium.
 . c. Compounds of Platina.—The author describes in a few words
the preparation of potassio-chloride of platina, which, heated with
sulphite of potash, serves for the preparation of a white substance,
which the author from his analyses considers as a double sulphite of
 potash and platina, 3KO, SO*+PtO*, SOJ + 2-JAq.; it resembles
the salt of osmium, but is more insoluble, almost insipid, heavier,
and contains only half the quantity of water. With hydrochloric
acid it acts ditferently from the preceding salts ; for it loses all its
sulphurous acid, and is converted into potassio-chloride of platina.
   d. Compounds of Ruthenium.— Sulphurous acid acts but little
upon the potassio-scsquichloride of ruthenium at common tempera
tures ; but a solution of the salt treated with sulphite of potash

398            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
becomes of a deeper red colour, and a pulverulent isabella-yellow
precipitate separates from the liquor. This substance, by repeated
solution and crystallization, is obtained of a white colour; and the
author is of opinion that it has the same composition as the other salts
obtained from the other platina metals ; but the small quantity of
ruthenium which he had at his disposal prevented him from veri
 fying.—L'Institut, Aout 1, 1849.
     ON THE COMPOSITION OF HONEY.               BY M. SOUBEIRAN.
   It has been long known that the honey of the bee contains two
different sugars, one of which is solid and the other liquid. The
former is considered as identical with the granular sugar, which is
slowly deposited from the syrup of raisin-sugar, or in that of cane-
sugar altered by acids. As to the liquid part of honey, it has been
but little studied. M. Biot has, however, stated that it is a sugar
which turns the rays of polarized light to the left.
   According to M. Soubeiran, honey contains three different sugars,
namely, granular sugar, or glucose of chemists ; another sugar which
rotates to the right, and is alterable by acids ; and lastly, a sugar
the rotary power of which is exerted to the left, but with an energy
which is nearly double that of altered sugar.
   M. Soubeiran has found in common honey, sugar which has rota
tion to the right, and which can be altered ; but it is especially
abundant in the liquid honey which is contained in the honey-comb.
The proportion is so considerable, that a solution of this honey, which
had a deviation of +0'96 towards the right, acquired, by the action
of acids, a contrary rotation equal to —13' 78.
   The author describes by the name of liquid sugar of honey, the
fluid portion obtained from honey by the use of the press. His ex
periments were made upon sugar extracted in 1841, and which has
been kept ever since unchanged and without any indication of cry
stallizing. This circumstance is sufficient to distinguish it from
altered sugar, which would not have failed to become a solid
mass of granular sugar. Liquid sugar of honey possesses, however,
a number of characters which belong also to cane-sugar altered
by acids ; it is, like it, uncrystallizable, and reducible to a sort of
barley-sugar, which is transparent and solid, but melts with great
readiness. Still further, the liquid sugar of honey is very sensible
to the action of alkalies, and is readily destroyed by them. The
two sugars have the same chemical composition, and combine with
alkalies in the same proportion. This agreement of characters would
tend to confound them, were it not that the liquid sugar of honey
cannot be converted into granular sugar, and that there is a great
difference in their rotary power : this power is almost double in the
liquid sugar of honey.
   To recapitulate, the experiments contained in this memoir by M.
Soubeiran establish the following facts :—Honey is composed of a
mixture of three different sugars : one is the granular sugar already
known ; another is the liquid sugar, which resembles in many par

                        Meteorological Observations.                           399
ticulars oane-sugar altered by acids, but is distinguished from it
in possessing a much stronger rotary power towards the left. The
absolute rotary power of liquid sugar of honey at the temperature of
55° F. for the red ray, and at the length of 100 millims., was found
to be equal — 33-103 towards the left; whilst that of altered
sugar under similar circumstances was found to be equal only to
 — 18'933. The liquid sugar of honey retains its rotary power towards
the left even after it has been rendered solid ; it is one of the few sub
stances which possess this character. The third sugar which con
stitutes part of honey is distinguished from granular sugar in being
unalterable by acids, and from liquid sugar in rotating towards the
right. Its proportion is considerable in honey from the comb, di
minishes by keeping, and even entirely ceases to exist ia solidified
honey.—L'Institut, Juin 11, 1849.
       METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR SEPT. 1849.
   Chiswick.—September 1. Heavy rain : lightning, with fine rain 10 p.m. 2. Fine :
thunder and lightning, with rain 8 p.m. 3. Very fine : lightning, with rain at
night. 4. Fine : cloudy : very clear at night. 5. Hazy : very fine : clear. 6.
 Clear and very fine. 7. Cloudy : very fine : cloudy. 8,9. Fine. 10. Cloudy:
heavy showers in the evening.       11. Ilazy : very fine: clear. 12. Heavy rain.
 13. Overcast : rain : clear. 14— 16. Fine. 17. Clear and fine. 18. Ciearand
cold : cloudy. 19. Very fine. 20. Fine. 21. Showery : fine. 22. Fine. 23.
 Dusky haze. 24. Foggy : very fine : clear. 25. Foggy : exceedingly fine.
 26. Foggy : fine : clear. 27. Fine: rain at night. 28. Clear : very fine : over
 cast 29. Overcast : fine : heavy rain. 30. Kain.
         Mean temperature of the month                               57°'76
         Mean temperature of Sept. 1848                              55 '96
         Mean temperature of Sept. for the last twenty-three years 57 -23
         Average amount of rain in Sept                                2'73 inches.
    Boston. — Sept. 1. Cloudy : rain p.m. 2. Cloudy: rain early a.m., with thunder
 and lightning. 3. Fine : rain early a.m., with thunder and lightning. 4. Cloudy.
5. Fine. 6. Fine: rain p.m. 7,8. Cloudy. 9. Fine. 10. Cloudy : rain a.m.
 and p.m. 11. Cloudy. 12, Cloudy : rain a.m. and p.m. 13. Rain: rain a.m.
 14,15. Cloudy. 16. Fine: rain a.m. 17—20. Fine. 21. Fine : rain and hail
 early a.m. S3, 23. Fine. 24. Cloudy. 25—27. Fine. 28. Rain : rain a.m.
 29, 30. Rain a.m. and p.m.
   Applegarth Manse, Dumfries-shire.—Sept. 1. Dull a.m. : cleared : fine harvest
 day. 2. Hail : thunder : rain a.m. : fine p.m.     3. Dew-like shower a.m. t fine:
sultry. 4, 5. Beautiful harvest day : sultry p.m. 6—8. Fine. 9. Showery all
 day.    10. Very wet a.m. : cleared and fine p.m.      11. Fair a.m.: shower p.m.
 and thunder. 12. Fair : dull r.M. 13. Fair: high wind. 14. Dull and threaten
 ing rain, but cleared and was fine. 15. A shower: looking unsettled. 16. Heavy
 rain early a.m. : thunder.     17,18. Fine: very beautiful day.      19,20. Fine:
 cloudy : fine harvest day. 21. Fine: cloudy : bar. falling. 22. Fair still. 23—
 26. Fair.     27. Fair : clear and cold.     28. Rain nearly all day.    29. Rain.
 30. Storm of wind and rain.
         Mean temperature of the month                               53°*5
         Mean temperature of Sept 1848                               53 -1
         Mean temperature of Sept. for the last twenty-five years . 53 -0
         Average amount of rain in Sept. for the last twenty years     3M3 inches.
    Sandurick Manse, Orkney.— Sept. 1. Cloudy: drops. 2. Damp. 3, 4. Fog.
 5. Bright : cloudy. 6. Cloudy.        7. Clear. 8. Bright: cloudy.      9. Bright:
 rain: aurora. 10. Bright : clear: aurora. II. Cloudy : rain: aurora. 12. Rain:
 drizzle. 13. Rain : clear : aurora. 14. Bright : showers.       15. Cloudy : clear :
 showers. 16. Showers : aurora. 17. Clear : cloudy. 18. Cloudy: rain. 19.
 Clear: cloudy.     20. Cloudy: fine: cloudy. 21. Fine: cloudy. 22. Damp:
 cloudy. 23. Bright: cloudy.          24. Cloudy. 25—27. Bright: cloudy. 2«.
 Cloudy : damp. 29. Bright : cloudy. 30. Bright : drops : clear.

HThompson
    rbetsiecnear
 oOMat
 marie
Veall,
Mr.
 Garden
Society
Chiswick,
 London;
of
the
 by         ruovlratouilroanlgsical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1-76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2-16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2-39
                                                                 it
                                                                 I -J
                                  Rev.
                                   Manse,
                                   C.
                                   Dunbar,
                                   Orkney.
                                   W.
                                   DSandnick
                                   by
                                    Houston,
                                    and
                                    the
                                    Applegarth
                                      at
                                      mfries hire;
                                     uBoston;
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0-50                                            0-40                                             73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0-83
                                                      Rain.
                                                                                        If
                                                                                        11                                                             0-43
                                                                                                                                                                                       15•
                                                                                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                                                                ¦t)2                                         •02.              ¦07                        •21                                              •32.. •25..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16
                                                                                           =1            se. se. ssc. se.                                          nne. ne. nnw. wnw. ssw. sse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         w. nw, nw.                        e. lie. se. e. e.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             enc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           enc. enc, ne.
                                                                                                                                                                   sw-ne                     w-sw
                                                                                         £2:                   c.-s.
                                                                                                                      e. ne. ne. e. ene. s. se.
                                                                                                                                                                          n.-e.
                                                                                                                                                                                e. nw.              sw w.       II.    nw. w. ne. ne. e. enc. e.                                     ne. in-.
                                                      Wind.                                  &
                                                                                                         e. sw. s. ne. lie.
                                                                                                                                           nne.   11.   nnw. sw,    S.           se.   nw. ¦w. s. s.           II.    nw. nnw. n. ne. ne. c. e. n. enc. e. se.
                                                                                                                                                                           M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mi
                                                                                                         e. nr. s. lie. e. ne. e. DC. lie. 8. sw. sw. aw.                                           s. ne.                                                                                  s\V. SW. sw.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n. ne. ne. ne. a, e. n. SW. e. e.
                                                                                                                                                                                              "V,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   51-91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5378
                                                                                                       531
                                                                                                       55                                                    51 471 511 53 51 53i
                                                                                                                                                             i                                                                                                        521
                                                                 Orkney, Sandwick.                            561
                                                                                                               57 55^ 54 55 53 53 55                                                                56 51 53 53 52 52 51 51 51 53 49 52 51 45 42'.
                                                                                             89                      57 55 55 59 51 55 57 53
                                                                                                                                                                          521
                                                                                                                                                                                 52
                                                                                                                                                                                       531
                                                                                                                                                                                              53 56 53 52 51 53 57 54 52 54 55 54 52 51 54 19 16
                                                                                                       531           551551 511 471441365461 47 11                                           49J531 391'571           152, !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      344          58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4I9J !        514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 60-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                62                                                471
                                                   Thermometer.   Dumfries                   c  s              56                                                               39 45.'.               48"                   40 58-5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51           : 4fl 49 45 45 52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          591                                                            46
                                                                                 shire.
                                                                                                                     705                                     i53 :60
                                                                                                                                                            |57i   574                 52
                                                                                                                                                                                       1541             57i
                                                                                                                                                                                                        60
                                                                                          Ai           68 65                67 70 62 60          59-5                      1 j6o
                                                                                                                                                                         '58
                                                                                                                                                                          57    55 55        59 60  595 51-5   59
                                                                                                                                                       I56
                                                                                                                                                        62                                                                                                                   56-5
                                                                                 se           j—       61-5                               61-5
                                                                                                              68 69 66 68                                                                                                                              60 60 63                     60 56 57 56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                       Chitwick.                       58 58 58 58 52 48!                        45 39 49 51 42 15 47 51 42 52 36 38 40
                                                                                                                                                67                                                                                        49 50     1 50 42 39 55 51 51 55 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                       69 77 So 76 77 75                               65 7o 7" 68 60 62 62 66 70 65 57 64 59 64 66 60 66 71 67 76 68 68 69
                                                                                                       29-85 2984 30-08 30-24 30-26 30-56 30-34 29-83 29-57 2949 29-      10 29-10 29-57 29-82 2971 30-15 30-40 30-44 30-45 3058 30-57 30-43 30-23 3008 30-03 3014 30-11 2995 2979 29-57
                                                                 Orkney. S.inihvick.       8* p.m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30-13130-03          129-68
                                                                                                       29-86 2976 2997 30-22 30-20 30-29 30-35 30-15 29-63 29-54 2927 10        29- 29-32 2971 29-82 2998 30-28 30-35 30-44 30-53 30-58 30-50 30-30 3016 30-05 30-12)                             29-83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                           •It    a.m.
                                                                      Dumfries-ih re.                  29-68 29-68 3000 30-17 3015 30-20 30-22 29-96 29-42 29-25 28-98 29-05 2970 2991 29-88 30-10 30-32 30-34 30-41 30-41 30-34 30-14 29-98 2982 29-86 29-86 29-82 29-65 29-40 29-24
                                                                                            g p.m.
                                                   Barometer.                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                   29-30        28-95
                                                                                                                                                                                i                                   I 30-34 30-43   1
                                                                                                        2973 29-51 29-80 30-12 30-20 3016 30-21 30-16 29-63               !
                                                                                                                                                                          29-05       '29-40[29-81 2991 30-00 30-32 30-41      ; 30-40 30-22 30-05 2989 29-85         \29-90  ;29-82 29-74'2955 2919
                                                                                                       i29-35
                                                                                                               29-11 29-38 29-54 2960 29-65 2969 2972 29-33 28-98 28-70 28-66 28-93 29-59 2970 2969 2990 29-88 3000 3000 2983 29-70 29-52 2940 29-38 2946 2938 29-34 29-20 28-65
                                                                                                       29-675 29-684 29-87430-030|30076: 30131 30092 29-640 29-255 291          1 29-410 30095 30-139 128
                                                                                                                                                                          11 29-01                                                        30- 30030 29-897 29829 29-834 29-807 29-723 29730 29-497 184
                                                                                                                                                                                                         30- 30-296 30-343 30-445 30-298 123                                                             29-
                                                                                               Min.                                     30-O54|
                                                                                                        29-782 29745 29-953 30-064 30-100 30-122 30-181 530-                                        30- 30-164 30-353 30-415 30460 30-407 30-172 30-082 29-915 29-866 29-839 29-843 29-763 29-825 29-678 29-216
                                                                                                                                                         18 29-884 29-466 29164 29094 29-955 30-166 170
                                                                                               Max.
                                                                                           1849. Sept.                                                                                                                                                                                                             58-7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29848
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mean.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47-96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29-864
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29-868
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29-933
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29"44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30-003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  67-56'
                                                                                                                      3. 4. 5. 6. 7- s.                                                                                       19- ¦2u. 21. 22. 23.                     25. 26. 27- 28. 29. 30.
                                                                2.
                                                                a
                                                                    OS                                                                                              10.    n. 13. 13- 14- 15. »16. 17. IK.
                                                                                                                2.
                                                                                                                O                                             <t
                                                                                                                                                             9.                                                                                                 2J4.

                                      THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
           JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                           [THIRD SERIES.]
                        DECEMBER 1849.
L. Observations and Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaria,
    the Animalcular source of the Phosphorescence of the British
    Seas ; together with afew general remarks on the phenomena
    of Vital Phosphorescence. By James H. Prino, M.D.*
   " A third kind of light arises, no doubt, from living animals which float in the
sea, and which must be produced by their peculiar organization, or rather their
component parts, which deserve to be better examined by chemical experiment."
—Tilhch't Magazine, vol. viii. 1800.
THE occasional phosphorescence of ocean-water has been
         the subject of observation amongst naturalists from the
 days of Pliny clown to the present time. The phenomenon
 is peculiar to no sea, and though most brilliant between the
 tropics, yet it occurs also in the frozen ocean of either pole,
and, as may be readily inferred, in every intermediate grade
 of clime.
     Very graphic and highly interesting are the accounts which
 travellers and others have given of this remarkable appear
ance; and various are the opinions which have at different
 times been advanced in explanation of its cause.
     It has been conjectured that, during the shining of the sun,
 light is absorbed by the ocean, and that the extrication of it
 again renders the water luminous, in a manner analogous to
 the action exemplified by Canton's pyrophorus, the Bononian
stones, &c., or to that which has been termed " insolation."
     Again, it has been supposed to depend upon a peculiar
 electrical state of the atmosphere, or that the ocean itself is at
 times capable of manifesting this light, as the result of a highly
 electrical condition of its waters; this last opinion, extraor
 dinary as it may now appear, having enrolled the name of
 Buffon amongst its supporters.
   * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the British
Association at Birmingham, September 1849.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 238. Dec. 1849.                     2 D

402             Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
   The attrition of the saline particles against each other, or
soii'.c unknown combination amongst them, has also been re
garded as a source of this marine light, whilst it hos further
been attributed to the presence of phosphoric matter extricated
from decomposing fish, &c; and lastly, it has been very gene
rally referred, especially in recent times, to a power of phos
phorescence possessed by numerous living marine animals,
similar, for the most part, in its character to that exhibited by
 the glow-worm and fire-fly on land.
  It is almost needless to observe, that, of the foregoing theories,
the last may now be said to be universally admitted as correct;
yet it is surprising that even with some of those who have in
vestigated the subject in a scientific point of view, no very
distinct ideas seem to be entertained as to the precise nature,
even in the instance of our own seas, of the animalcular source
to which the light is thus in general terms ascribed; whilst
the notions prevalent amongst sailors and others serve only to
exhibit how little has as yet been done towards removing the
popular ignorance in which the subject still remains enveloped.
    Amongst the scientific world again, we find that investiga
tion has chiefly been directed to those instances of vital phos
phorescence which are presented by that division of the animal
kingdom which is confined to the land; yet this division sinks
into comparative insignificance when contrasted with the great
variety and infinite multitudes of phosphorescent animals which
inhabit the ocean.
    With a view, however, to rendering the present notice more
complete, we shall glance rapidly at some of the more promi
nent instances of phosphorescence as displayed by land ani
mals, and then notice briefly some of the more important in
stances afforded by the tribes inhabiting the sea ; dwelling
more particularly, as regards the latter, on the example which
forms the chief subject of the present communication, the
Noctiluca miliaris, to which the phosphorescence occasionally
witnessed in the British seas is mainly attributable.
    If we except the instance of the Great American Bittern
amongst birds, which has been stated to possess the power of
" emitting a light from its breast equal to that of a common
torch, which illuminates the water so as to enable it to discover
its prey *," we are not aware that the property of phosphores
cence has been attributed to any land animals until we descend
so low in the scale as the class of Insects ; a division, however,
in which this power is very numerously and conspicuously dis
played, the family of the Lampyridas, or glow-worms alone
containing about 200 species known to be luminous, whilst
        * See Loudon's Magazine of Natural History, vol. ii. p. 200.

               Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.          403
  tbe number of the Elateridae, or fire-flies, possessing the same
  faculty, amounts to at least thirty. Nor are these the only
  families endowed with this singular power : it is exhibited like
  wise by the Scarabaeides, and is found also in the Paustts
  spheerocerus, the Scolopendra electrica, and in several species
 of the Fulgoras or lantern-flies. The ova also of some of these,
 as in the Lampyris splendidula, are said to be luminous, and
  the pupa and larva of this insect are reputed to possess the
  same property, though in a less marked degree. It has been
 stated also that the common centipede of this country has
  been observed to be slightly luminous, and the same has been
 affirmed of the common earth worm; but these statements
 require further confirmation before they can be received with
 confidence.
     Before quitting this division of our subject, it may be ob
 served that it is usual, in physiological writings, to find re
 ference made under the present head to the instances of lumi
 nosity in the living human subject which were brought under
the notice of the profession a few years since by Sir Henry
 Marsh (Prov. Med. Journ. 1842). The instances in question,
however, though highly interesting to the pathologist, like the
fact remarked by Cabanis of the excess of phosphorus in the
brain of maniacs, are nevertheless of a character which must
exclude them from our present inquiry.
    Passing then from the examples of phosphorescence thus
brought rapidly under view, as exhibited by that portion of
the animal creation confined to the land, we proceed briefly
to notice the instances of the same phenomenon as displayed
amongst the tenants of the deep. And here, as led on in the
pursuit of this interesting subject to seek the ocean as the field
of his further research, the curious inquirer cannot fail to be
struck with the vastuess and grandeur of the change presented
to his contemplation. Here he discovers not only a much
greater variety as regards the range and type of animal life
amongst which this power of phosphorescence is distributed,
but he will recognize some individual instances, which, though
so minute as to be revealed only by the aid of the microscope,
yet exist in such countless myriads, that the whole element
may be said to teem with them.
    In order to convey some idea of the general effect of the
phosphorescence of the ocean from the presence of a great
variety of luminous animals, and as witnessed on a large scale
at sea, I shall avail myself of some of the descriptions which
have been furnished us by travellers of accurate observation
and authenticity. In a highly interesting narrative of a
whaling voyage round the globe, from the year 1883 to 1836,
                               2 D 2

404            Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
by F. D. Bennett, Surgeon to the Expedition, we find the fol
lowing account of the phoenomenon :—
    " During a dark and calm night, with transient squalls of
rain, in lat. 43° S. long. 79° W., the sea presented an unusu
ally luminous appearance. While undisturbed, the ocean
emitted a faint gleam from its bosom, and when agitated by
the passage of the ship flashed forth streams of light which
illuminated the sails, and shone in the wake with great inten
sity. A net, towing alongside, had the appearance of a ball
of fire followed by a long and sparkling train ; and large fish,
as they darted through the water, could be traced by the
scintillating lines they left upon its surface*." And again,
"At midnight, on the 1st of December, in lat. 19° N. long.
 107° W. (half-way between the group of the Revilla-gigedo
and the continent of America), the sea around us presented
one uniform milk-white and luminous expanse, as far as the
eye could see from the mast-head. It emitted a faint light
 like that which attends the dawn of day, and bore a near re
 semblance to a field of snow reflecting the rays of the moon ;
 the horizon being strongly defined, by the contrast of its bright
 and silver hue with the murky darkness of the sky above.
 Close to the ship the water appeared brighter than elsewhere,
 and the dashing of the waves against her bows produced bril
 liant flashes of light; but it occurred very strangely, that al
 though the waves could be heard lifting in the ordinary man
 ner, it was difficult to perceive them ; and the sea appeared as
 one tranquil unbroken surface. A net and a bucket were
 employed to ascertain the cause of this phaanomenon. The
 former captured nothing but a few Medusa? of no phospho
 rescent power ; and the water taken up by the bucket, though
 it was thickly studded by luminous points, contained no tan
 gible bodies.
    " A shoal of porpoises came around us at this time ; and as
 they sported in the luminous ocean, darting rapidly beneath
 the surface, their dark bodies enveloped, as it were, in liquid
 fire, they tended to complete a scene, which, if correctly pic
 tured, would appear rather as the fiction of a fairy tale than
 the effect of natural causesf."
    In a small work entitled * The Ocean,' by Mr. P. H. Gosse,
 we have also an interesting notice of the same appearance,
 which is thus described :—" The most usual appearances, as
 far as they have fallen under my own observation in the At
 lantic, are as follow :—On looking over the stern, when the
 ship has steerage-way, her track is visible by a line or belt of
 light, not a bright glare, but a soft, subdued, yellowish light,
          • Pp. 17-18, vol. i.              f Pp. 289, £90.

              Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.           405
which immediately under the eye resembles milk, or looks as
though the keel stirred up a sediment of chalk which diffuses
itself in opake clouds through the neighbouring water, only
that it is light and not whiteness. Scattered about this cloudi
ness, and particularly where the water whirls and eddies with
the motion of the rudder, are seen innumerable sparks of light
distinctly traced above the mass by their brilliancy, some of
which vanish and others appear, while others seem to remain
visible for some time. Generally speaking, both these phae-
nomena are excited by the action of the vessel through the
waves, though a few sparks may be observed on the surface
of the waves around. But now and then, when a short sea is
running without breaking waves, there are seen broad flashes
of light from the surface of a wave, coming and going like sud
den fitful flashes of lightning. These may be traced as far as the
eye can reach, and in their intermittent gleams are very beauti
ful; they have no connexion with the motion of the ship*."
   When we inquire more precisely into the particular sources
of this marine light, we find it distributed, as before mentioned,
far more extensively amongst the various grades of animal life
in the ocean, than amongst those of the land. Although the
fact has been somewhat called in question, and the light attri
buted to the disturbance of the surrounding luminous water,
yet there appears little doubt that the power of phosphores
cence is actually possessed by animals ranking as high as the
class of fishes. Thus in the narrative of Mr. F. D. Bennett,
above alluded to, after referring the general luminosity of the
ocean on a particular occasion to the presence of Medusae, he
proceeds : " Though the discovery of these Medusae was a
satisfactory explanation of the phosphorescent appearance of
the water, I had yet to learn that the latter effect was partly
produced by living, bony, and perfectly organized fish : such
fish were numerous in the sea this night; and a tow-net cap
tured ten of them in the space of a few hours. They were a
species of Scopelus, three inches in length, covered with scales
of a steel-gray colour, and the fins spotted with gray. Each
side of the margin of the abdomen was occupied by a single
row of small and circular depressions of the same metallic-
gray hue as the scales ; a few similar depressions being scat
tered also on the sides, but with less regularity. The exam
ples we obtained were alive when taken from the net, and
swam about actively upon being placed in a vessel of sea-
water. When handled or swimming, they emitted a vivid
phosphorescent light from the scales, or plates, covering the
body and head, as well as from the circular depressions on the
                              * Page 355.

 406           Dr. J. H. Piping's Observations and
 abdomen and sides, and which presented the appearance of as
 many small stars spangling the surface of the skin. The
 luminous gleam (which had sometimes an intermittent or
 twinkling character, and at others shone steadily for several
 minutes together) entirely disappeared after the death of the
fish" It is almost needless to observe that there appears
 little room for questioning a fact thus minutely and accurately
 described. Another instance belonging to the Shark tribe,
 (the Squalus fi.lgens) has also formed the subject of minute
 investigation by the same observer. After describing the form
 and structure of this fish, and noting accurately the portions
 of the body devoted to the production of the light, he remarks,
 " I am inclined to believe that the luminous power of this
 shark resides in a peculiar secretion from the skin. It was
 my first impression that the fish had accidentally contracted
 some phosphorescent matter from the sea, or from the net in
 which it was captured ; but the most rigid investigation did
 not confirm this suspicion; while the uniformity with which
 the luminous gleam occupied certain portions of the body and
 fins, its permanence during life, and decline and cessation
 upon the approach and occurrence of death, did not leave a
 doubt in my mind but that it was a vital principle, essential
 to the oeconomy of the animal."
     Many of the Crustacea, of which the Cancerfulgens and the
 Oniscusfulgens may serve as examples, are universally admit
 ted to be highly luminous. The Mollusca, both testaceous
 and naked, afford well-marked instances of phosphorescence.
 Amongst the former, examples of which are somewhat rare,
 may be noticed the Cleodora cuspidata, described more par
 ticularly by Mr. Bennett, and also some of the Pholades, &c;
 whilst the latter contain the Salpse, the Fyrosomata, &c.
 Amongst the Annelida we find the Nereides and the Polyno'e
fulgurans enjoying the same faculty; and the same may be
 observed very generally of the Acalephae, the general phos
 phorescence of the ocean being chiefly due to the numerous
 kinds of Medusae, Polypifers, Rotiferoe, and Infusoria included
 under this class, and more paiticularly in our own seas to the
 microscopic example it contains, the Noctiluca miliaris, which
 brings us to the special object of the present communication.
    In noticing more particularly this minute yet powerful source
 of oceanic light, I shall first give a brief account of the general
 appearance imparted by its presence to the waters of our bay,
 as exhibited for several successive nights during the months of
 July and August hist, and then describe more particularly the
 little animal itself, and the various experiments to which it has
 been subjected.

             Experiments on the. Noctiluca miliaris.          407
    Taking, as a good example, the night of the 9th of August
last, which was remarkably bright and cloudless, and at the
same time serene and mild, the phosphorescence of the waters
of our bay, which bad been visible in a less degree for many
preceding nights, assumed about midnight a very brilliant
and beautifijl appearance. Seen from a distance, the aspect
presented at this time by the whole surface of the water was
that of a diffused silvery light, which caused the dark head
land of Brean Down, on the opposite side of the buy, to ap
pear as if laved by liquid silver. On approaching nearer the
water's edge, so as to observe more distinctly the waves as
they broke gently and with even regularity upon the strand,
the effect can -only be compared to masses of liquid fire rolling
and pouring in, and diffusing itself along the shore. On the
'north-west point of the bay is« projecting rock called Knight-
stone, joined by a raised causeway to the main land, and
forming at high water a sort of short pier, alongside of which
a few small vessels and boats usually lie at anchor. The
shelter against the current, together with the shade afforded
by the rock and walls of the pier, combined to prove highly
favourable to an observation of the effect in comparatively
still water, and under increased darkness. On looking down
then at this point, between the sides of the vessels and the
jock, a constant scintillation was to be observed on the sur
face of the water, very similar to a shower of fire or sparks,
the luminous points, some larger, others less in size, perpetu
ally dancing up as it were to the surface, and soon again dis
appearing to be replaced by others. The larger points, some
of which were as large as a pea, were produced, I conceive,
from several of the little animals having floated into close ap
proximation or contact, whilst the smaller ones, I imagine,
proceeded from detached individuals.
    On striking the surface of the water lightly widi an oar,
not only the spot immediately touched, but also all the water
dashed up, appeared, whilst raised in the air, and again on
falling into the surrounding water, to bear an exact resem
blance to liquid fire, affording a spectacle of the most brilliant
description. Several bottles were then filled with the water
from this spot where it appeared brightest. I likewise pro
 cured a bucketful of the same kind, and the whole was
 brought home for the purposes of observation and experiment.
 As tending to convey some further idea of the luminous
power of the water in its natural condition, it may be men
 tioned that on rendering my room perfectly dark and agitating
 the water in one of these bottles, it perfectly illuminated any
 object in its vicinity, so as to enable me to distinguish various

408            Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
objects on my table, pictures hanging against the wall, &c. ;
the luminous effect, however, being very transitory, and only
at the moment of agitation.
    Viewed the following morning by daylight, innumerable
very minute gelatinous bodies, of a globular form, could be
perceived even with the naked eye, floating near the surface
of the water; and on gently shaking the bottle containing
them, they could be observed to descend to a short depth,
gradually, however, rising again to their former level when
left at rest. From repeated observation of this fact, it would
appear that these little animals are naturally, or otherwise
possess the power of rendering themselves, specifically lighter
than sea water ; and this property appears to be a living attri
bute, since it ceases, and they are seen immediately to sink to
the bottom of the vessel, upon the occurrence of death.
     Placed under the field of a microscope, and magnified to
about the size of a large pea, the Noctiluca presented the ap
pearance of a highly delicate and translucent membranous
sac, of almost spherical form, and having the look on one side
 as if the mouth of the sac had been puckered up and turned
inwards ; yet this puckered part does not take an exactly cir
 cular form corresponding to a description which has been
 given of it, as "producing such an appearance as would arise
 from tying the neck of a round bag and turning it into the
 water;" but extends rather in a longitudinal direction, giving
 somewhat the effect of a longitudinal cleft ; and from one end
 of this cleft is observed to protrude a lengthened filamentous
 body, which seems to be a sort of tentaculum, and during the
 life of the animal is seen to be in almost constant motion.
     I have endeavoured in vain to
obtain a more accurate view of
this appendage; but the state of
constant motion it is in, together
with the extreme minuteness and
delicacy ofthe whole animal, have
hitherto rendered my efforts un
availing. That it is occasionally
employed as an organ of locomo
tion there can be no question, and
some of the movements executed
by it have appeared to me very
surprising. Thus I have wit
nessed it extended above the
animal,and
    .           , usedasa
              then   ., . fulcrum,
                            .  . ,     ,,  ... , view of, the
                                      Mainlined            , Noctiluca
                                                              .
as it were, to draw the body of the milia^ Natural size> T^th part
animal upwardstowards itself; yet of an inch in diameter.

             Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.            409
by what power so fine and hair-like a member can be made to
oppose such resistance to the water, as that the comparatively
large globular mass composing the body of the animal should
be drawn to it, rather than that it should pass to the globe,
I am unable to determine with precision, and consequently
refrain from offering a merely conjectural opinion.
    The method of examination which I have found to be the
most convenient, and from which the foregoing description is
taken, is to pour a small quantity of the luminous water into
a watch-glass and then submit it to the microscope, by which
means the little animals still remain flouting in the water, and
their movements, under the eye of the observer, are in no way
interfered with. Examined in this manner, there is nothing
to be discovered to indicate any special luminous organ, or
the precise part of the animal devoted to the production of the
light; but in several specimens 1 could clearly observe a mass
of loose flocculent mucus adhering to the part which has been
described as being puckered in, and more immediately near
the insertion of the tentaculum; so that I am disposed to
believe that the phosphorescent principle resides in this mucus,
and is probably most vivid at the moment of its secretion, the
secretion itself appearing to be influenced and thrown out
more abundantly under circumstances indicating danger,
 serving thus to account for the brilliancy with which the light
 is manifested on first agitating the water after it has been
 allowed to remain some time at rest. It seems probable, also,
 that the motion of the tentaculum may at times contribute
 somewhat to the effect, by disturbing the mucus, and thus
 bringing a newly-exposed surface of it into contact with the
 water ; the occasional scintillations to be witnessed, even where
 the water is under circumstances of perfect repose, being, in
 all probability, thus produced.
    The extreme minuteness and delicacy of this little animal
 (its natural size being stated not to exceed the ToWtn Pa,t °*
 an inch in diameter), have no doubt been the causes that have
 interfered to prevent its attracting any great share of popular
 attention; and which have also occasioned its being frequently
 overlooked, as formerly stated, even by scientific observers.
 Thus, in the passage formerly quoted from the work of Mr. F.
 D. Bennett, he mentions that a bucket of water which had
 been taken up, " though thickly studded with luminous points,
 contained no tangible bodies;" there can be little doubt that
 these "luminous points " were in reality due to the presence
 of these minute Noctilucae ; and the same remark may also
 be extended to a similar passage which occurs at p. 321 , vol. ii.
 of the same work. In some cases, on the other hand, it would

  410             Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
  appear that the same animal has beeu alluded to, but under a
 different title. Thus, although, it must be confessed, imper
 fect in its details, no one cau read the description given by
  Macartney of the Medusa scinlillans, without recognizing its
 full applicability, as far as it goes, to the subject of the present
 notice. Two other instances, the Medusa Aemisphat-ica and
 the Bero'e fidgens, are also described by Macartney as occa
 sionally to be met with in the British seas; but their compa
 rative rarity has led this author himself to regard the minuter
 example, of which we are now treating, as "the most frequent
 source of the light of the sea around this country," and even
 also " in other parts of the world." Passing, then, from these
 general- considerations as regards the animal itself, we shall
 proceed to detail the various experiments to which it has been
 subjected, which may lie most conveniently treated of in the
 following order, via.— 1, experiments subjecting the luminous
 water to the action of galvanism ; 2, to the action of various
 gases ; 3, to the action of the strong mineral acids ; 4, to the
 action of aether and chloroform, &c.
     1. Effects of Galvanism and Electro-magnetism.—Subjected
 to a simple galvanic current from two of Smee's batteries, no
 very perceptible effect could be observed to be produced. I
 then attached an electro-magnetic coil to the batteries, and
 thus passed the electro-magnetic current through the water
 for some time: at first no very appreciable result appeared to
 follow ; but in a short time a steady and continued glow of
light was given out from the whole of the water, the surface
of which appeared further ns if spangled with numberless
minute but persistent points of light. After a short time the
light began to grow more (aim, and in a quarter of an hour
had ceased altogether, without thepossibility of its being re
produced, the loss of the light being evidently dependent upon
the death of the animalcule.           ,i ., /, ,.K.     ¦. , , ,
    1. Gases. Effects q) ()xygi:n.— ( )n filling a bottle with oxy
gen gas, and allowing some of the gas to escape so as to be
replaced by a portion of the luminous sea-water, the phos
phorescence of the Noctilucee contained in the latter could be
perceived to be sensibly increased when the water was agitated
with the oxygen, but no continuous or persistent glow of light
followed this experiment. For upwards of a week, however,
the little animals continued to live beneath this atmosphere of
oxygen, evidently emitting, ou agitation, for several successive
nights during which the observations were continued, the same
tmount of increased light as had been observed to occur in
 he first instance.
   Effects of Nitrogen.— Subjected to the influence of nitrogen,

             Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.           *H
in ihe same way as has just been described with respect to
oxygen, the results were much less marked tlian might have
been anticipated. The Noctiluca? confined beneath the ni
trogen continued to live, and to display a vivid phosphores
cence when the bottle was agitated for above the space of a
week after the experiment was first instituted. If any differ
ence could be observed between this experinientand the former,
it was that the brilliancy of the light was somewhat less in this
than in the former, being probably about equal to what it
would have been if atmospheric air had been employed in
place of nitrogen.
   Effects of Nitrous Oxide Gas.—Oil being submitted in the
same manner to the action of this gas, the Noctllucae appeared
to be no otherwise affected than under a similar employment
of atmospheric air. They were alive and phosphorescent at
the end often days from the commencement of the experiment.
The intensity of the phosphorescence, however, appeared to
be neither augmented nor diminished by the action of this
gas.                        .>'..(¦ ¦¦¦       !¦¦¦¦:       i< •• ,¦¦
   Effects of Stilpkuretted Hydrogen Ga».— On treating a por
tion of the luminous water with this gas, the phosphorescence
was instantly destroyed, all the Noctiluca; being immediately
killed ; thus further demonstrating and establishing the well-
knoWn power of destructiveiiess to animal life which charac
terizes this gas.
   Effects of Carbonic Acid Gas.—-Of all the gases hitherto
noticed, the carbonic acid is the most remarkable in its effects
on the luminous sea water. Having filled a bottle with this
gas, and introduced it under the water so as to allow a por
tion of the gas to escape and be replaced by the watery in the
same manner as in the other instances just related, the lumi
nous property of the water was not only brought out and
highly increased, but was rendered permanent for at least a
quarter of an hour, during which time the effect might be
compared to a bright incandescent glow, of sufficient inten
sity to render the bottle visible from a distant part of the
room; and when approached more nearly, to enable me to
discern the hands of a watch by the sole aid of the light thus
afforded. At about the expiration of fifteen minutes the light
became gradually fainter, and in abont twenty or twenty-five
minutes had totally ceased ; the darkness, as in the other cases,
being evidently connected with the death of the animalculae,
which on being brought into the light, could be seen lying at
the' bottom of the vessel.
   A second bottle of this gas was then procured and employed
in the same way, for the purpose of ascertaining the effect of

 412           Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
the admission of atmospheric air, at the time when the phos
phorescent glow was beginning to grow faint. The result,
however, did not appear to be in any way influenced, nor was
the light in any degree resuscitated by this variation of the
experiment.
   Effects of Hydrogen.— Submitted to the action of this gas,
no very marked effect appeared to be produced upon the water.
On agitating a portion of it in a bottle containing this gas,
numerous specks of light, indicating the presence of the ani
malcule, could be perceived for many successive uights ; but
the light appeared somewhat less vivid in its character than
that afforded with atmospheric air, or in the instance before
mentioned, in which pure nitrogen was employed.
   Effects of Atmospheric Air.—The influence of atmospheric
air is here introduced merely as affording a standard of com
parison with the effects obtained from the employment of the
gases. A bottle of the luminous water, procured at the same
time as that used in the preceding experiments, retained its
luminosity a few days longer when subjected only to atmo
spheric air, than under the employment of any of the above-
mentioned gases ; but the phosphorescence was only to be
observed on the occurrence of any agitation of the water. It
appears also that the luminous property is retained longer
when the vessel or bottle containing the water is kept closed
or corked, than when it is left entirely open and freely ex
posed to the action of the air.
   3. Effects of the strong Mineral Acids.— For the purpose of
ascertaining whether the phosphorescence would be in any
way affected -by the strong mineral acids, a small quantity of
water was placed in each of three glass vessels, and then a few
drops of acid were added to the water in each vessel, this
latter part of the experiment being of course conducted in the
dark. On letting fall a few drops of strong sulphuric acid into
the water, the latter immediately emitted a bright light which
remained for the space of a minute or two, after which it
almost immediately disappeared.
   The effect of strong nitric acid appeared in no way to differ
from that produced by the sulphuric acid; but treated with
strong hydrochloric acid in the same manner, the increased
luminosity of the water was much less conspicuous than in
either of the former instances, and the darkness ensued almost
instantaneously.
   Effects ofJEther and Chloroform. — A few drops of aether
dropped into the sea-water in the dark appeared instantly to
deprive it of its luminous property, no degree of agitation to
which it was subjected being found capable of eliciting the

             Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.           413
smallest scintillation after the addition of the aether. On sub
stituting chloroform, however, in the second experiment in
the place of the aether, a very bright and persistent phospho
rescence was given out for the space of a few minutes, after
which the water speedily became dark, the animalculae being
evidently killed. Before taking leave of this division of the
subject, it may be as well to notice the influence simply of
fresh water upon the Noctilucse. On pouring some of the
sea-water, rendered luminous by the presence of these little
animals, into a vessel already containing some fresh rain-water,
a subdued continuous glow was given out from several lumi
nous points for a short period, during which the specks of
light were seen to subside to the bottom of the vessel, and
very speedily afterwards to become totally extinguished.
    Of the foregoing experiments, those connected with the em
ployment of the gases appear to be the most interesting; and
any degree of importance they may possess will be best ap
preciated from their bearing upon the topics now to be brought
under notice, in the form of a few concluding remarks of a
general character on the
    Phenomena of Vital Phosphorescence.— The development of
light as the result of a vital function, and as constituting an
essential feature in the ccconomy of some forms of animal life,
is a phenomenon of so interesting and remarkable a nature,
that it could not tail to arrest the attention of naturalists and
philosophers in almost every age. It is, however, only since
the impulse which the cultivation of chemical science received
about the latter part of the last century, that the subject has
come to be investigated in the true spirit of scientific inquiry.
 It was about the period here alluded to, also, that the animal-
cular source of the phosphorescence of the sea was first in
disputably established; and some valuable papers appeared
on the subject in the excellent journal conducted by Mr.
Tilloch. At this time, however, no higher object appears to
have been sought, than the mere establishment of the fact, as
just stated, of the dependence of the phosphorescence of the
sea upon an animalcular origin. Many individual instances
of phosphorescent marine animals were, indeed, adduced in
support of the new doctrine ; but this was done without much
method or accuracy of detail; and the minuteness and trans
parency of the little animal which forms the subject of the pre
 sent notice appear to have occasioned its being at that time
overlooked.
    At a period, then, when the fact of the animalcular source of
marine phosphorescence was barely admitted, and may be said
to have been almost a question still subjudice, it was scarcely

  414           Dr. J. H; Pring's Observations and
 to be expected that those forms of animal life, whose very ex
 istence was held to be problematical, should themselves be
 made the subjects of actual experiment; and it is accordingly
 among those more undoubted and easily accessible examples
 afforded by the insects to be found on the land, that the study
 of the phenomena of vital phosphorescence has been jchiefly
 prosecuted ; the glow-worm and the fire-fly having been
 generally selected for the purposes of experimental investiga
 tion, from the period in question even down to the present time.
     Thus, in the second edition of Chaptal's Chemistry, pub
 lished so long since as the year 1795, we read that " Mr.
 Forster of Gottingen found that the light of glow-worms is
 so beautiful and bright in oxygenous gas, that one single in
 sect was sufficient to afford light to read the Annonces Savantes
of GSltingen, printed in very small character." The same
 fact is likewise referred to, and ably commented on, in an
 excellent paper on ^he phosphorescence Of the Luciole (Lam~
pyris lialica) by Dr. Carvadori, in the second volume of Til-
 loch's Magazine; and similar notices ale thus incidentally to
 be met with interspersed throughout the mass of physiological
and chemical writings with which science is now enriched. It
 is, however, to Professor Matteucci that we are indebted for
the most accurate and comprehensive experiments that have
hitherto been undertaken in connexion with this department
of inquiry ,' and although still confined principally to the glow
worm, his observations may fairly be assumed to afford the
best exposition of the existing state of knowledge tin the sub
ject of phosphorescence now extant; and I must accordingly
refer to his valuable lectures, as published by Pereira, all
those who may be desirous of becoming acquainted with the
minute structure of the phosphorescent organs of the glow
worm, and such other topics as do not appear to fall strictly
within the design of the present paper. !l,:1
    On comparing the results obtained from the action of va
rious gases on the Noctiluca, as described in a former part of
this communication, with the effects produced by the same
agents upon the glow-worm as recorded by Professor Mat
teucci, some very remarkable differences will be found to pre
sent themselves to our observation. It is right, however, to
bear in mind the different circumstances under which the ex
periments are necessarily conducted in the two instances; the
animalculae in the former, being brought into contact with the
gas only through the medium of the water in which they float;
whereas in the case of the glow-worm, the insect is freely and
entirely exposed to the gas in which it is immersed.
    Bearing in mind, then, and making suitable allowance for

              Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.           11$
this difference of circumstance in the two instances, we shall
proceed to note some of the more remarkable points of con
trast which they present to us, and which may be thus sum
marily enumerated^ -,„•] |,m: |.-,].'ri,,'.ni. ,-,,,.;•   i. ..nornB
    As in the instances recorded by Matteucci and other ob
servers, with respect, to the glow-worm, so with regard to the
Noctilucae under consideration, the phosphorescence was found
to be remarkably increased by oxygen; in the former, how
ever, not only was the light increased in brilliancy, but also
 in duration ; whereas we have seen that the Noctilucae, con
fined under an atmosphere of oxygen, died somewhat sooner
than those confined in a bottle containing atmospheric air.
    In hydrogen, glow-worms are found to lose their phospho
 rescence at furthest in about twenty-five or thirty minutes;
 whilst the Noctilucae, under an atmosphere of this gas, con
 tinued to emit scintillations at the end of eight or nine days
from the commencement of the experiment. But it is in re
 spect to carbonic acid gas that the most; remarkable contrast
 is exhibited in the two cases. On placing glow-worms in this
 gas, Prof. Matteucci found that in a few minutes the light en
 tirely disappeared; whereas, in the case of the Noctilucae, we
 have seen that there is no agent which has the effect of in
 creasing the brilliancy of the light so powerfully as this gas,
 at the same time that the bright phosphorescent glow formerly
 described is rendered permanent for the space of fifteen or
 twenty minutes. After the lapse of this time, however, this
 gas proves as fatal to the Noctilucae, as to the glow-worm ; and
 to the former, without the power exhibited by the latter, of
 resuscitation of the light by the admission of atmospheric air.
    The effects of sulphuretted hydrogen gas appear to be pre
 cisely the same on the glow-worm and on the Noctiluca, both
 being very speedily destroyed by it.
    Although those which have now been cited appear to be the
 only instances which offer a fair opportunity for direct com
 parison, yet there are several other points which seem natu
 rally to demand notice in this place in connection with the
 experiments formerly detailed. The phaenomenon of vital
 phosphorescence has been regarded as presenting an analogy
 to the function of respiration, if not connected with it. Thus,
 in a paper in Tilloch's Magazine (vol. x) on the Phosphores
 cence of Ocean-water by Prof. Mitchell of New York, we
 find the maintenance of the process of phosphorescence
 ascribed to the presence of a supply of oxygen as conveyed by
 the arterial blood, the process in fact being compared to re
 spiration as expressed in the following somewhat curious pass
 age :—** The light, then," says he, " which these marine ani

416            Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
mals (the larger Medusae) exhibit, may be concluded to be
produced by a function in them analogous to the respiration
of animals which are of larger size and more complicated
structure. The only reason why it is visible from their bodies
is, that the gelatinous matter of which they consist is transpa
rent. It is not improbable that the same phenomena would
be as obvious in the bodies of other creatures, and even of
human beings, if the opacity of the materials of which we con
sist did not hinder the light within us from shining so as to be
seen."
    From the opinion expressed by Matteucci, he would appear
to compare the process of vital phosphorescence to a species
of combustion, in which however he also recognizes the ne
cessity for the presence of oxygen. In commenting on the
various experiments to which he subjected the phospho
rescent matter, he observes, " From all these experiments, I
conclude that carbonic acid is produced by the contact with
oxygen of the phosphorescent matter alone, separated from
the rest of the animal; that the light ceases to be produced
when this gas is not present, and that by the contact of the
latter, light and a volume of carbonic acid, equal to that of the
oxygen consumed, are produced ; and that the phosphorescent
substance of this insect, when not luminous, does not act on
oxygen. It is therefore natural to suppose that the luminous
segments of these animals, being enveloped by transparent mem
branes, and by means of the numerous tracheae discovered
here and there in these animals, atmospheric oxygen is brought
in contact with a substance, sui generis, principally composed
of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and azote." And again, " The
example of an organic substance which burns in the air by
absorbing oxygen and emitting carbonic acid, is not new ; this
is the case with decaying wood, with oiled cotton, with finely
pulverized charcoal, and with many other substances liable to
spontaneous combustion."
    On this question, however, there appears to be some ground
for a difference of opinion. The experiment in which the Noc-
tilucae continued for many days to emit very vivid scintilla
tions when confined beneath an atmosphere of nitrogen, must
be held to militate against the preceding explanation. It is
asserted also by Carradori, that the Luciole will shine in a
barometrical vacuum, but the experiments of Matteucci on the
same point limit this effect to two or three minutes. Admit
ting therefore the correctness of the latter observation, it may
still be questioned whether the effect, even for the time here
specified, can be wholly ascribed to the presence of oxygen.
Again, when operating on the phosphorescent matter only of

              Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.         417
the glow-worm, this matter being separated from the entire
insect, it was found by Matteucci to retain its luminous. pro
perty for thirty or forty minutes after it was placed in pure
hydrogen or carbonic acid gas. Here then we have the phos
phorescence continued much longer than in the case of the
barometric vacuum; and where, it may be asked, was the
supply of oxygen that maintained the combustion above half
an hour in this instance, or how can this fact be reconciled
with the statement formerly cited, " that the light ceases to
be produced when this gas (oxygen) is not present?" In re
ference to the same point, I may here advert to the increase
of light from the effect of carbonic acid on the Noctiluca; for
merly described, and may quote also an experiment from the
observations of Macartney, in which he states, "Some of the
scintillating and hemispherical species of Medusa, contained
in a small glass jar, were introduced into the receiver of an
air-pump, and the air being exhausted, they shone as usual
when shaken; if any difference could be perceived, the light
was more easily excited, and continued longer in vacuum*."
    A consideration of these and some similar facts would tend
rather to the conclusion drawn by Carradori in reference to
the experiments of Forster formerly quoted, on which it is
remarked, in the 2nd vol. of Tilloch's Magazine, " The ob
servation made by Forster, that the Luciole diffused a more
vivid light in oxygen gas than in atmospheric air, does not,
according to Carradori, depend upon a combustion more ani
mated by the inspiration of this gas, but on the animals feel
ing themselves, while in this gas, in a better condition;"—a
conclusion, which seems to furnish a view of the question of
sufficient importance, to say the least of it, to merit some no
tice. On the other hand, the instance of the detached lumi
nous segments placed under oxygen, and appearing to absorb
a portion of the gas, lends weight to the opinion of Matteucci.
 It appears, however, by no means certain, even in this case,
that the oxygen found to be absorbed, had actually entered
into combination with those particles only which are imme
diately concerned in the production of light; it may, on the
contrary, be supposed to have been absorbed also, if not prin
cipally, by the other constituents of the organic matter with
which the immediate light-emitting particles are combined.
And this brings us now to the consideration in the next place
of the
    Chemical Nature of the Phosphorescent Mailer. — In the
earlier inquiries respecting the proximate cause of vital phos
phorescence, we find that the actual presence of phosphorus
                  • Phil. Trans. 1810, part 1. p. 285.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 238. Dec: 1849.         2 E

418               Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
in some form of combination was deemed necessary to the
display of the luminous property, and in fact that this sub
stance was regarded as the essential ingredient entering into
the composition of the phosphorescent matter. Thus it is
stated by Carradori, " Behind this receptacle is placed the
phosphorus, which resembles a paste having the smell of
garlic, and very little taste*." Again, we find Chaptal
speaking of it without any hesitation as a phosphoric oil.
After noticing the solubility of phosphorus in oils, and more
especially in the volatile oils, he observes, " The combina
 tion of phosphorus and oil appears to exist naturally in the
glow-worm, Lampyris splendidula, Linnaei. Forster of Got-
 tingen observes that the shining matter of the glow-worm is
 liquid. If the glow-worm be crushed between the fingers, the
 phosphorescence remains on the finger f."
     More recently, again, we find Miiller enumerating several
 facts bearing on the subject, and deducing from them the fol
 lowing conclusion :—" From all the above facts, the opinion
 of Treviranus appears most probable; namely, that the light
 is derived from a matter containing phosphorus, which is
 formed under the influence of light, but, once formed, is in
 some measure independent of light:):." Nor am I indeed
 aware that this notion of the actual presence of phosphorus
 in the phosphorescent matter of living beings, has ever, pre
 viously to the observations of Matteucci, been entirely re
 jected.
     After detailing the influence of the various reagents em
 ployed in an elaborate chemical examination of the phospho
 rescent matter, Matteucci observes respecting it, —" It does
 not present any obvious trace of phosphorus; of this fact I
 have assured myself by calcining this matter several times in
 a platinum crucible, and by treating the dissolved residue with
  the tests which indicate the presence of the phosphates. From
  all we have now stated, we can no longer regard the presence
  of phosphorus as the cause of the light in these insects^;"
  and in another place, as before mentioned, it is said to be " a
  substance, sui generis, principally composed of carbon, hydro
  gen, oxygen and azote."                       «
      On a point like the present, however, where the statement
  just mentioned is so entirely in opposition to all previous ob
  servation, it would seem desirable that we should know with
  certainty what is the smallest possible amount of phosphorus
  which is capable, when placed under the most favourable cir-
     • Tilloch's Magazine, vol. ii. p. 79-
     t Elements of Chemistry, vol. iii. p. 362.
     X Elements of Physiology, vol. i. p. 103.          § p. 182.

               Experiments on the Noctiluca miliaris.         419
cumstances of combination, of giving rise to the phaenomena
of phosphorescence. The experiments on which Matteucci
grounds his opinion, were no doubt very carefully conducted ;
yet it may be questioned whether a different result might not
be obtained, could a test of such extreme delicacy be rendered
applicable in this instance, as we are furnished with by Marsh's
apparatus in respect to arsenic. Whilst still upon this sub
ject, I may mention that experimenting some years since with
a view to test the theory of the luminous matter of the glow
worm being a natural phosphoric oil, and at the same time to
imitate artificially the experiment of Forster, I enclosed some
phosphoric oil in a delicate membranous sac, which I then
introduced into oxygen gas. The result however was any
 thing but favourable to Chaptal's theory, since the phospho
rescence, which had been well-marked whilst in atmospheric
 air, ceased immediately upon the immersion of the bladder in
 oxygen.
    It has been supposed by many experimenters that vital
phosphorescence is remotely connected with, or dependent
 upon, the action which is termed "insolation"; and although
 we find experiments detailed by Matteucci which at first in
 clined him to this opinion, yet, on a more careful and exact
 repetition of them, he was led to admit that " when the insect
 is placed in its natural conditions with regard to temperature,
 humidity, &c, and continues to be nourished, the phosphores
 cent matter is preserved independent of solar action," a con
 clusion with which the result of the observations made by
 myself, in the case of the Noctiluca), entirely corresponds.
    In reverting here to the experiments on the Noctiluca;, it
 may be observed that the medium in which they live gave an
 opportunity for certain experiments which cannot be obtained
 in the case of the glow-worm—I refer more especially to the
 influence of galvanism and electro-magnetism formerly de
 scribed. From the agency of the former however we have
 seen little or no effect to be produced ; whilst the influence of
 the latter appeared to be only of the nature of a powerful
 stimulus, not dissimilar in its character from that produced
 by the strong mineral acids.
    An experiment may also be mentioned here, a notice of
 which, from its negative character, was omitted in its proper
 place ; and is now briefly introduced lest it should be sup
 posed, from the omission, to have been overlooked— I allude
 to the effect of temperature on the luminous sea-water. On
 placing a bottle of the sea-water in a vessel containing com
 mon spring water at the temperature of 90°, no remarkable
 effect or increase of light was to be observed ; and it has been
                                2 E2

420             Dr. J. H. Pring's Observations and
remarked, on the other hand, that when the sea-water is con
verted into ice it still retains its luminous property.
   It now remains only to offer a few words with respect to
the                          "              ' '.•' '.¦<:. . :l
    Use of vital phosphorescence, a subject, which, as it has
already proved the fertile source of a great amount of specu
lation, more remarkable for its ingenuity than for any more
satisfactory result, it will be my endeavour to dismiss without
increasing the accumulated mass of conjecture with which it is
already encumbered. As the instances of vital phosphorescence
occur amongst so varied and wide a range of the animal crea
tion, it is only reasonable to infer, that in different individual
instances this faculty will serve respectively a different pur
pose. Thus in the highly predaceous luminous shark, the
Sqtialusfulgens, formerly noticed, it may readily be assumed
with Mr. Bennett*, " That the phosphorescent power it pos
sesses is of use to attract its prey, upon the same principle as
the Polynesian islanders and others employ torches in night
fishing." In the insect tribe, again, it has no doubt been
correctly described as furnishing " a la lettre, le flambeau de
1'amour."
   Amongst the lower marine tribes, however, the object of
this luminous provision is generally admitted to be much less
apparent ; and the most probable conjectures that have been
formed respecting it, are those by which it is regarded as an
engine of defence. Mr. Kirby appears to have viewed it alto
gether in the latter light; upon which Mr. Bennett has the
following remark: —"I cannot believe, with Mr. Kirby, that
it serves as a mode of defence ; because from what we know
of the nature of fishes, this refulgence would be one of the
surest means of bringing their probable enemies upon them;
and if we are to regard the oeconomy in a destructive point
of view, we might rather suppose that it is intended to direct
the nocturnal predaceous fishes to their food. * * * But it
would be unjust to accuse Nature of thus wantonly investing
her creatures with a charm that can only tend to their destruc
tion f." The train of argument here employed may be cited
as an example of the uncertainty and perhaps error into which
the mind may be betrayed, when it quits the plain and sober
path of reason, to wander in the field of mere conjecture.
   In the instance of the Noctiluca, as already hinted, and for
the reasons formerly assigned, it seems probable that this
luminous property serves the purpose of defence; though whe
ther this is its sole object, is a question for future investigation
to determine.
            • Vol. ii. p. 258.               f Vol. ii. p. 325.

              Experiments oil the Noctiluca miliaris.               421
   •Whilst then we have thus cursorily glanced at some of the
theories which have been advanced on this subject, we are
compelled to confess that even those best established amongst
them are far from being in any degree satisfactory. In the
instance of the glow-worm, for example, the purpose which
tiiis provision fulfills may be said to be universally admitted
and agreed upon; yet what sufficient reason can be assigned
for such a faculty being conferred almost exclusively on this
insect, in preference, as it were, to all others? On this head
one cannot do otherwise than express an entire concurrence
in the conclusion of Matteucci, that this phenomenon, " in its
exceptional character, is one of those mysterious singularities
which Nature seems to have distributed amidst the immense
variety of beings, almost without any previous attention to the
animals on which she bestows them, as if merely for the pur
pose of constraining us to admire with humility the power of
her creative skill."            .' r-         ¦>¦        i
    In concluding this brief and imperfect sketch of a subject
involving so many points of interest, my object will have been
attained, if what has been here advanced should serve the pur
pose of rendering somewhat more defined the outline of a pic
ture which yet remains to be filled up in its details, and still
invites the hand of the more skilful artist to the undertaking.
The subject of vital phosphorescence, as embracing a minute
and accurate account of all the known examples of the phse-
nomenon, its causes, its uses, and a yet more critical inquiry
into the chemical nature of the phosphorescent process than
it has hitherto received, is still open to investigation. Atid
lest any should be inclined to underrate this humble yet in
teresting department of inquiry, I would venture, in reference
to it, to bring to their recollection the high authority of Bacon,
who says, " And here men ought to lower their contemplations
a little, and inquire into the properties common to all lucid
bodies; as this relates to the form of light; how immensely
soever the bodies concerned may differ in dignity, as the sun
does from rotten wood, or putrefied fish*."
   Weston-super-Mare, Sept. 8, 1849.
   * On the Doctrine of the Human Soul, p. 113. vol. i., Bacon's Philoso
phical Works.

                                [   422    ]
LI. On the Vibratory Movements which Magnetic and Non
   magnetic Bodies experience under the influence of external
   and transmitted Electric Currents. By Professor De la
    Rive*.
MWERTHEIM has published in the Annates de
       • Chimie et de Physique, 3rd series, vol. xxiii. p. 302,
some further researches on the sounds produced by the electric
current. He directs attention to the fact that these sounds
are of two kinds ; those proceeding from the action of an ex
ternal current which magnetizes an iron bar or wire, and
those produced by a current transmitted either through an iron
bar or wire. The sounds of the first kind were discovered as
early as 1837 by Mr. Page, and afterwards investigated by MM.
Marian, Matteucci,Wartmannf and myself. I was the first who
indicated the existence of the sounds of the second kind, which
Mr. Beatson discovered nearly at the same time as myself, and
which have also been the object of the researches of the physi
cists named above, and likewise of some others. M. Wertheim,
in 1844-, demonstrated that the electric current and magnetiza
tion produce a diminution of the coefficient of elasticity on the
bodies which are submitted to their influence ; but he thought
that he perceived in the sounds produced by these two causes
rather a mechanical effect than a molecular phenomenon J,
attributing the sounds which the magnetization determines to
the attractive action of the helix on the wire or on the bar of
iron, and those caused by the transmitted current to a kind
of shock which that transmission effected upon the conducting
metal. Admitting, in the case of magnetization, in part the
cause pointed out by M. Wertheim, I showed that the mole
cular action has its own, and that, in the case of the trans
mitted current, it alone is active. An experiment by M.Guiller-
min, and the researches of M.Wartmann, confirmed this view,
if not on all points, at least on the greatest number. Lastly, in
a more recent memoir, I succeeded in showing that, under the
influence of a magnet or a helix traversed by a continuous
current, all conducting bodies are capable of producing a
sound when they transmit a discontinuous current.
    In a memoir just published, M. Wertheim, resuming the
subject, establishes first, by numerous experiments made with
great care, that in magnetization there is a mechanical trac
tion due to a longitudinal and to a transversal component;
that the latter becomes null when the iron bar is in the centre
   • From the Annates de Chimie et de Phi/sirpie for June 1849.
  t Phil. Mag. vol. xxviii. p. 544.
   X Comptes Rendus det Stances de I'Academie des Sciences, vol. xxiii. p. 336.

         On the Sounds produced by the Electric Current.                  423
of the helix, but that in all cases the longitudinal one sub
sists ; and that this force, acting in the direction of the axis,
exists equally with a transmitted current. It must produce a
longitudinal sound, whether it tends to lengthen or abruptly
to shorten the bar; the transversal sound can only arise from
the external current, and in an excentric position of the bar.
Passing then to the examination of the sounds themselves,
M. Wertheim finds their explanation in the mechanical ac
tions which we have just indicated; he does not therefore
think that either the magnetization or the transmission of the
electric current produces vibrations of a particular kind ; but
he supposes that the mechanical actions which they engender
determine accidentally these longitudinal or transversal vibra
tions, as any other cause might do. He admits, however,
that there is in some cases a dull noise [bruit sec), like a kind
of crepitation, which is propagated at the moment when the
current traverses an iron bar or wire ; and he concludes by
remarking, that there are still in this class of phenomena
many obscure points, especially that which relates to the
manner in which a current traversing the iron produces in it
8 mechanical shock.
    M. Wertheim's new observations, of which I have thus
given a summary, have induced me to resume my experiments,
and to investigate more closely the curious phenomena in
question.
    It appears to me evident now, that the point which I have
sought to establish in my first memoir of 1845*, namely that
the magnetization or the passage of the electric current pro
duces a molecular derangement, is no longer disputed. I
admit, on the other hand, that I have perhaps attached too
much importance to the nature of the sounds produced, and
to the influence of certain causes, such as tension, which oc
casions them to vary. It may be, in fact, that the wire, once
set in vibration by either the external or transmitted cur
rent, a simple friction against any metallic piece next to the
monochord may suffice, if not completely, at least in many
cases, to account for the variety of the remarkable sounds
which are heard, especially when well-annealed iron wires are
usedt.
    My attention has therefore been especially directed, in
   * Camples Rendut det Stances de I'Academic del Sciences, vol. xx. p. 1 287;
and Archives de FElectricile, vol. v. p. COO.
   t The Comptes Rendu* de F Academic des Sciences, vol. xxvii. p. 457,
contains the extract of a memoir by M. Duhamel on the multiple sounds
of bodies, which it appears to me may be well applied to the study of the
Bounds produced in the iron wires by simple molecular movements. See
Phil. Mag., vol. xxxiv, p. 415.

424       Prof. De la Rive on the Vibratory Movements
the researches which I have just made, to the investigation
of the cause of the fundamental fact, that is to say, of the
oscillations which the particles of bodies experience around
 their position of equilibrium by the action of either external
 or transmitted currents. With this view, I first submitted to
 experiment bodies, like iron, susceptible of magnetism, and
 then other conducting bodies which are not magnetic j ,, ,:
§ I. Examination ofthe Vibrationsproduced in magnetic bodies
            hi either external or transmitted currents.
    On placing very fine iron-filings in the interior of a helix
with the axis vertical, these filings are seen to form themselves,
under the influence of the current traversing the helix, into
small pyramids, elongated in the direction of the axis, which
are destroj'ed and re-formed rapidly when the current is in
termittent. The action of the current of the helix on these
filings consists therefore, in distributing them under the form
of an elongated thread parallel to the axis, —a thread which
the weight alone prevents being as long as the helix itself.
   This experiment, which I have already described, and which
succeeds as well with very fine iron powder as with iron-
filings, proves that the particles of iron under the influence of
external magnetization tend to approach each other in the
transversal direction, and to extend in the longitudinal direc
tion. It is probable that this phenomenon is due to the form
of the elementary particles of the iron, and to the manner in
which they are polarized. One thing is certain, that it ac
counts for what passes in an iron bar or wire submitted to the
influence of the intermittent current of the helix. The particles
of the iron contending with the cohesion arrange themselves
in the longitudinal direction when the current acts, and return
to their primitive position as soon as it ceases ; from this re
sults a series of oscillations which are isochronous with the
interruptions of the current. This manner of viewing the
phenomenon entirely agrees with the contraction in the trans
versal direction accompanied by an extension in the longitu
dinal direction, which Mr. Joule observed in iron wires and
bars submitted to magnetization *.
   The same physicist has also remarked that when the wire
is much stretched, the magnetization occasions a shortening
instead of a lengthening,—an effect which agrees with the
cessation of the sounds I have observed when the tension
becomes too strong.
   All these effects are much more decided in soft iron than
                                                                . .j
                <U+2666> Phil. Mag. Feb. 1847 and April 1847.

               of Magnetic and Non- magnetic Bodies.                   425
 in hardened iron and steel ; the cause of which is, that in soft
 iron the particles are much more mobile around their position
 of equilibrium. Soft iron and steel magnetized by the action
 of a magnet or a second helix, exhibit weaker vibrations when
 the external current tends to magnetize them in the direction
 in which they are already magnetized, and stronger in the con
 trary case. The passage ofa continuous current through an iron
 wire modifies the sound which the intermittent action of the
 external current of the helix causes it to emit, provided that
 the transmitted current is very strong and the iron very soft.
    I shall not enlarge more on this first case, which I think is
 now well explained ; I pass to that of the transmitted current.
    An electric current transmitted intermittently through
 a wire of very soft iron and of small diameter (of 1 to 3
 millimetres), determines in it vibrations as strong as those
 which are produced in it by the same current acting exter
 nally under the most favourable conditions. If the iron wire
 becomes larger, or if it is more hardened, or if it is a steel
 wire, the effect of the transmitted current is less than that of
 the external current*. With rods of soft iron, of 4 to 5
millimetres in diameter, the transmission of the continuous
current does not completely extinguish, but only diminishes,
 the effect of the discontinuous current. If the rods are- very
large, the diminution becomes less perceptible, unless very
strong batteries are employed. In the preceding experiments,
 1 made use of two of Grove's batteries of five cells, one for
 the continuous current, the other for the discontinuous one.
    The same experiment made on steel rods and wires gave
 me precisely contrary results. The sound produced by the
 transmission of the discontinuous current is weak; but it is
increased, instead of being diminished, by the passage of a
continuous current passing in the same direction as the dis
continuous one. It is a curious fact, that this augmentation
remains some instants after the continuous current has ceased
to pass ; and that it disappears, not all at once, but by degrees
and by fits.
    I performed these experiments with steel wires of 1 and
2 millimetres in diameter, with rods, both tempered and not
tempered, of 3 to 4 millimetres in diameter. The results
were the same; the strengthening due to the continuous cur
rent is more decided with the rods than with the wires f.
   * This experiment of the iron wire covered with silk its whole length,
and which gives all the same sounds as when its surface is perfectly naked,
would seem to indicate that external causes, such as friction, enter less
than is imagined into the production of these sounds : this point deserves
to be more closely examined.
   f The steel rods are magnetized by the simple passage of these disconti-

426         Prof. De la Rive on the Vibratory Movements
    It seems to me to result from what precedes, that the effect
of the transmitted current is to give to the molecules of the
iron a transversal direction, as the effect of the magnetization
was to give them a longitudinal one. If the arrangement of
the particles of the iron-filings around an iron or any other
metallic wire, traversed by an electric current, be examined
with attention, these filings are seen to arrange themselves
in parallel transversal lines. This is very evident on fixing
the conducting wire into a groove made in a wooden board.
The filings, being unable to go round the wire, assume a
transverse position above it, forming small threads of 3 to 4
millimetres in length, which present opposite poles at their two
extremities. When the wire is free, these threads, instead of
remaining rectilinear, unite at their two ends, and envelope
the surface of the wire, forming around it a closed curve.
Now the arrangement which the iron-filings assume around
any conducting wire transmitting a current, should be equally
assumed by the molecules of the surface of a soft iron wire
itself traversed by a current, owing to the effect of this cur
rent transmitted through the whole mass of the wire. This
is moreover proved by the experiments of Mr. Joule, which
show that a soft iron wire or rod experiences a shortening from
the effect of a transmitted current. It results, therefore, that
when the transmitted current is intermittent, the particles of
the surface oscillate between that transversal position and their
natural one, and that consequently there is a production of
vibrations. These oscillations are the more easy, and conse
quently the vibrations are the stronger, in proportion to the
softness of the iron; with hardened iron, and especially with
hard steel, there is a greater resistance to overcome, and the
effect is consequently less perceptible. In the first case, the
transmission of a continuous current, by impressing on the
particles in a permanent manner the position which the dis
continuous current tends to give them, must annul or at least
materially diminish the oscillatory movement ; this in fact takes
place. In the case of the hardened iron or steel, the conti
nuous current must, on the contrary, by disturbing the par
ticles from the normal position, without however being able
completely to impress on them the transversal direction, on
account of the too great resistance which they offer to a dis
placement, facilitate the oscillatory action of the discontinuous
nuous currents without external current j but they acquire numerous poles.
Is this magnetization attributable to the effect of the terrestrial magnetism
which the molecular vibrations experienced by the steel would favour, or
is it a direct effect of the current transmitted intermittently? New re
searches would be necessary to solve this question.

             of Magnetic and Non-magnetic Bodies.              427
current ; experiment confirms this. With regard to the in
terruptions in the intensity of the sound in this last case, after
the continuous current has ceased to pass, they are probably
attributable to the fact that the particles, disturbed from their
natural position for a longer or shorter time, only return after
a more or less prolonged series of oscillations, which the un
interrupted action of the discontinuous current favours.
    In aid of the explanation which I have just given, 1 will
add that, having covered a copper wire with an iron en
velope which was contiguous to it, and, so to say, plated, I
obtained, by passing the discontinuous current through the
copper wire, the same erlects, excepting intensity, as if the
wire had been entirely of iron ; only the sound was not mu
sical, but resembled that which would have been emitted by
filings strongly agitated. As this result might be attri
buted to the fact that a part of the current traversed the
iron covering itself, instead of circulating exclusively through
the copper wire, I isolated this last by means of a layer of silk
or wax, so that the thin cylinder of sheet-iron which sur
rounded it was not in metallic communication with the copper.
The effect was exactly the same as in the preceding case;
that is to say, the copper wire being traversed by a disconti
nuous current, caused a series of vibrations, or dry and me
tallic sounds, in the iron covering. This covering underwent,
therefore, a transversal magnetization analogous to that which
 the surface of a wire entirely of iron experiences ; this, indeed,
 was easily proved from the fact, that the iron-filings were at
 tracted on the two sides of a small longitudinal slit which this
 covering presented in some parts of its surface, and that the
 two margins possessed an opposite magnetic polarity. All these
 effects were more marked when a continuous current, going
 in the same direction as the discontinuous one, was transmitted
 through the copper wire ; they ceased entirely as soon as the
 two currents no longer passed. This increase in intensity of
 the sound produced by the passage of the continuous current
 was due to the fact that the discontinuous current had not
 alone, from acting at a distance, power enough to surmount
 the coercitive force of the iron covering, which itself was very
 much hardened, nnd that it needed the aid of the continuous
 current to impress a transversal position on the particles of the
 iron.
    Before concluding this first part of my researches, I must
 again observe, that the passage of a continuous current, passing
in a contrary direction to the discontinuous one, diminishes
 the sound instead of destroying it completely, when the wire
 submitted to the experiment is of soft iron ; it modifies without

428       Prof. De la Rive on the Vibratory Movements
perceptibly weakening it in the steel wires and rods; lflsUy, it
causes it completely to disappear in the iron tube through
which the conducting copper wire covered with silk passes.
These, effects vary, moreover, with the absolute intensity of
the currents employed ; and they are easily interpreted on the
principles which we have stated. We must, moreover, not
lose sight of the fact, that when the continuous and discon
tinuous current^ are of equal force, they destroy oue another
whenever they pass together; so that the discontinuous one
no longer acts, and the continuous one becomes intermittent
in its action.       >, : ,, .,,....¦     u . >            •¦ .
   Lastly, permanent magnetization materially modules the
sound which the passage of the discontinuous current causes
a soft iron wire or rod to emit. In order to guard, in this
experiment, against the mechanical effects due to magnetiza
tion, I placed a soft iron rod on the two poles of an electro
magnet, taking care by means of an interposed sheet of paper
to avoid metallic contact between the poles and the rod.
I then placed upon it considerable weights, that its position
might not be modified by the magnetization, and passed the
discontinuous current through the rod ; it gave out a succes
sion of dry metallic sounds, which became much more in
tense and grave at the moment when 1 magnetized the elec
tro-magnet. It is evident that this modification and this
strengthening of the sound are caused by the contest which ia
established between the longitudinal position which the influ
ence of the magnetization impresses on the particles of the
soft iron, and the transversal position which the passage of
the current tends to give them ; the oscillations of the particles
must necessarily have more amplitude, since they take place
between these extreme portions. The effect of permanent
magnetization, although still perceptible, is less marked with
steel rods, and especially with those of tempered steel.
§ II. Investigation of the vibratory movements which non-mag
   netic bodies experience under the iiifluence of external and
   transmitted electric currents.
   I stated in a preceding memoir, that rods, even of a tolerable
size, of different non-magnetic metals emitted a distinct sound
when, after having placed them under and very near an electro
magnet or in the interior of the axis of a helix, a discontinuous
current was made to pass through them. The sound only be
came perceptible, whatever was the force of die transmitted cur
rent, at the instant when the wire ofthe electro-magnet or that
of the helix was traversed by a continuous current. I also ob
served that the effect was still more marked when the metal was

              of Magnetic and Non-magnetic Bodies.             429
in the form of a tube,or of a large wire turned into a helix. I
likewise convinced myself, by employing rods of large dimen
sions, that the production of the sound could not be attributed
either to a calorific effect of the current, nor to a mechanical
action exerted by the electro-magnet or by the helix u|xmi the
conductors traversed by the discontinuous current. I have
since made some new observations which sufficiently show
that this kind of action is of a particular nature, probably
molecular, like that which takes place in magnetic bodies.
   Let us first remark, that with a single discontinuous current
the phaenomenon may be produced without having need in
addition of a continuous current or of an electro-magnet. It
suffices, for this, to twist the wire which conducts the discon
tinuous current into the form of a helix. A magnet is thus
created; for every time that the current traverses the helix,
the latter acquires magnetic properties, and at the same time
the wire of the helix is itself a conductor traversed by the dis
continuous current upon which the whole of the helix con
sidered as a magnet acts. Moreover, every helix constructed
of any metallic wire, the coils of which, whether covered or
not with silk, are more or less pressed together, emits a very
distinct sound when it is traversed by a discontinuous current.
A continuous current, transmitted in the same direction as the
discontinuous one, causes the sound to cease entirely, or di
minishes its intensity materially, although a notable increase
results from it in the electro-magnetic intensity of the helix.
This neutralizing effect is probably owing to the fact, that the
continuous current impressing permanently on the particles
of the wire the position which they should take under the
magnetic influence which the helix itself exerts, the disconti
nuous current no longer causes, at the instant when it is trans
mitted, new displacements. This effect is perfectly similar to
that which is exerted by a continuous current when it passes
through an iron wire traversed by a discontinuous current;
it causes a cessation of the sound which this wire made under
the action of the last current.
   But if the continuous current, instead of traversing the wire
of the same helix which conducts the discontinuous current,
circulates through the wire of another helix which surrounds
the first, the effect is totally different. In this case the sound
is perceptibly increased, and becomes in general more metallic ;
this increase is more perceptible in proportion to the weakness
of the discontinuous current, and the energy of the ambient
continuous current. In this experiment the two currents pass
in the same direction ; so that the two helices, considered as
magnets, present each the same magnetic pole at their same

 430       Prof. De la Rive on the Vibratory Movements
 extremities. If the ambient continuous current proceeds in a
 contrary direction to the discontinuous one, the sound is
 weaker than in the preceding case, but stronger than when
 the exterior helix does not act; it produces likewise a differ
 ent impression : it resembles the noise of water on the boil,
 whereas before it seemed to resemble that which a succession
 of strong sparks would have occasioned. We must remark,
 however, that if the discontinuous current is powerful enough
 to cause of itself a sufficiently intense sound to be easily heard
 at some feet distant, the influence of an external continuous
 current, when it passes in a contrary direction, diminishes the
 intensity of the sound. It always increases it, and in all cases,
 when the two currents pass in the same direction.
    The continuous current may also be transmitted through
 the internal helix, and the discontinuous one through the
external helix, contrary to what took place in the preceding
experiments. In this case, if the two currents pass in the
same direction, the sound resembles a succession of shocks;
and when they pass in a contrary direction, the noise i3 only
slightly increased, unless the discontinuous current is produced
by a weak battery, for example, by a couple of Grove's cells:
then the increase takes place also ; only the noise resembles
that of water on the boil.
    It is easy to understand how a helix traversed by a continu
ous currrent, and placed externally or internally to the helix
traversed by the discontinuous current, increases the sound
which this latter emits. In fact, a permanent magnet is in
this case created, the action of which is added to that of the
temporary magnet which the discontinuous current creates
when it passes through the helix. Moreover, in passing the
continuous current through the wire of another helix than that
which transmits the discontinuous one, the molecules of the
conducting wire do not at first receive the position which
they take only by the effect of the passage of the disconti
nuous current; this it is that causes them to oscillate freely
around their natural position of equilibrium. The same re
sult could not be obtained when the two currents passed
through the wire of the same helix, as we have already re
marked.
   When the currents pass in contrary directions in the two
helices, it is evident that the result is a diminution in the total
magnetism of the whole of the two helices placed in juxta
position : this is the reason that the sound is not generally
increased ; and it is only so when the discontinuous current
being very weak, the magnetism of the helix which it traverses
is so likewise. The magnetism of the other helix, traversed

               of Magnetic and Non-magnetic Bodies.              ft3l
by the continuous current more energetic than the disconti
nuous one, then exerts a preponderating influence.
    \Vith respect to the difference in the nature of the sound,
according as the continuous current passes in the same direc
tion as the discontinuous one, or in a contrary direction, I
can only explain it by admitting that the influences of the two
magnetisms, opposed and unequal in intensity, diminish the
amplitude of the oscillations which the particles ol` the wire
traversed by the discontinuous current make around their
natural position of equilibrium,-an amplitude which, on the
contrary, is more considerable when the two magnetisms act
in the same direction.
    I placed a tube of soft iron between the two helices; an
increase in the intensity of the sound took place when the two
currents proceeded in the same direction,-a diminution and
even a com lete annihilation when they went in a contrary
 direction.     f the soft iron tube is longer than the internal
helix, its presence completely intercepts the influence of the
 external helix traversed by the continuous current: this is not
 the case if the tube is slit lengthwise ; its presence then in no de
 gree modifies thephaenomena. On placing the tube, ora massive
cylinder of solt iron in the axis of the internal helix, and no
 longer between the two helices, the sound is perceptibly in
 creased, especially when the continuous current traverses the
 internal helix, and the discontinuous one the external helix;
 the increase takes place even when there is only a discontinu
 ous current. In all cases the nature of the sound does not
 change; its intensity alone is modified.
    A tube of copper or of any other metal produces no effect
 when placed in the axis of the internal helix. This is not the
 case if it is between the two helices; it then causes a new
 sound: this sound is evidently attributable to a current of in
 duction which circulates around the copper tube; for if this
 tube is slit in its whole length, there is no longer any sound,
 even when, to increase the magnetic force of the helix, a cy
 linder of soft iron is placed in its axis.
     It is not necessary that the conductors traversed by a dis
 continuous current should have the form of wires or that ofa
 rod, to give out a sound under the influence ofa magnet or a
 continuous current. A brass disc, 12 centimetres in dia
 meter and I millimetre in thickness, was placed horizontally
 in the centre ofa helix, by means ofa vertical metallic support
  which was fixed in the centre of the disc. Care was taken to
  avoid any contact between the sides of the disc and the in
  ternal surface of` the helix; the discontinuous current was
  directed from the centre to the circumference, or from the

132        Prof. De ia, Rive on the Vibratory Movements
 circumference to the centre. As soon as a contimionscurrent
was transmitted through the wire of the ambient helix, a well-
 marked succession of metallic sounds was heard in the disc.
   Even mercury can produce sounds, ns I have already re
marked. To render them perceptible, it is only requisite to
introduce the mercury into a tube a few millimetres in diameter,
and shaped so as nearly to envelope the pole of the electro
 magnet. As soon as the latter is magnetized, and the discon
 tinuous current traverses the mercury, a series of sounds is
 heard similar to those which would result from a regular suc
 cession of sparks produced by a strong current between the
mercury and a metallic wire. There is not, however, any
trace of this, as may be easily ascertained ; and, moreover, a
current too feeble to produce sparks passed through the mer
cury is capable of producing the phaenomenon. A remarkable
fact is, that if, instead of being a little below the polar surface
of the electro-magnet, the tube which contains the mercury
is upon that surface itself, the sound is not heard. Alt these
effects are very distinct from the movement which the mercury
acquires under the influence of magnets, when it is traversed
by either discontinuous or continuous currents.' ¦¦'
   I shall not for the present recur to the remarkable sounds
which the voltaic arc occasions under the influence of the
electro-magnet,—sounds which I have carefully described in
a previous memoir*. They are, evidently of the same nature
as those of which I have just spoken ; for in the voltaic arc
the current is, so to say, intermittent from the very nature of
the arc which conducts it.
   The following, therefore, is the general phenomenon. When
any solid conductor, liquid or gaseous (at least very much
divided, as in the voltaic arc), is traversed by an electric cur
rent, —a magnet, or an assemblage of electric currents closed,
and having consequently magnetic properties, acts upon the
particles of this conductor so as to give them a relative jwsition
different from that which they have naturally. Hence it re
sults that, if the transmitted current is discontinuous, the par
ticles oscillate between their normal position and the forced
position which the magnetic influence tends to impart to them ;
this gives rise to the sounds, and explains the modifications
which it presents.
   Does the action of the magnetism alone suffice to alter
the relative position of the particles of all the bodies, or is the
combined action of the magnetism and the electric currents
requisite? Faraday's experiments seem to favour the first
hypothesis; for the action exerted on light by transparent
                     * PhU. Mag. vol.xxxi. p. 331.

               cf Magnetic and Non-magnetic Bodies.                433
 bodies subjected to the influence of a strong electro-magnet
 clearly indicate a molecular derangement in them. The re
 cent researches of M. Matteucci, showing that a mechanical
action, such as compression, may annul or increase on the
 same substance (heavy glass, for example) the effect obtained
 by Faraday by means of an electro-magnet, confirm the fact
that this last effect is also a molecular phenomenon.
     With regard to non-transparent but conducting bodies, if
they are magnetic, they experience a molecular modification
under the action of the magnet, as we have stated nbove. If
 they are not magnetic, they are diamngnetic; and then it is
very probable Uiat the diamagnetism causes a change in the
position of their particles, as magnetism does in the others;
for it appears to be satisfactorily proved that diamagnetism
 is attributable to a transversal polarity, as magnetism is due
 to a longitudinal polarity*. Now whenever any cause pro
duces a polarity in the particles, these must, in obedience to it,
 arrange themselves in a determined relative position exactly
as takes place in the phenomenon of crystallization.
    It is therefore probable that, under the influence of a mag
net or of an external current, the particles of a diamagnetic
body tend to arrange themselves transversely; whilst under
that of a transmitted current, they take a longitudinal direc
tion, as is shown by the force of projection which carries the
particles of a conductor from the positive to the negative pole,
at the point where the circuit is interrupted, in giving rise to
the voltaic arc. The struggle between these two contrary
tendencies, the one transversal, the other longitudinal, pro
duces the oscillatory movements of the particles around their
position of equilibrium, and consequently the vibrations.
    In the production of the currents of induction, this mole
cular derangement which is produced by the magnetic action
of a magnet or of a closed current must necessarily take place.
To this derangement is probably due the production of an
instantaneous electric current; just as when the molecular
derangement ceases on the disappearance of the cause which
has determined it, there arises a second electric current, ha
ving a contrary direction to the first. It is easy to understand
why these two currents pass thus in opposite directions.
    A conductor placed under the influence of an electro
magnet, or of molecular currents, must therefore be, as long
as that influence is exerted upon it, in peculiar molecular con
ditions. This is shown by the affections of light in those which
are transparent; it remains to be demonstrated by other
   * The recent researches of Prof. Faraday on the magnetic polarity of
crystals of bismuth are quite favourable to this view.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 238. Dec. 189.            2 F

434             Mr. J. Cockle on Quadruple Algebra
direct means, as to those which are opake, as Mr. Joule has
done for magnetic substances. For the proofs drawn from
diamagnetism and sonorous vibrations are only indirect,
although the last appear to be tolerably conclusive.
    I shall soon return to this subject, in reference to some
researches on the relation between diamagnetism and the in
 duced currents, on which I am at present engaged.
 LII. On Systems of Algebra involving more than one Ima
    ginary ; and on Equations of the Fifth Degree. By James
    Cockle, Esq., M.A., Barrister-at-Lavo*.
 CONCEIVE two imaginaries, such that their respective
        squares are equal either to positive or to negative unity.
 Then the product oi two linear functions of these imagiuaries
 is not of the same form as its factors. The product of the
 imaginaries prevents this similarity, and obstructs the forma
 tion of a System of Triple Algebra on the basis just men
 tioned. But, if we invest the last-named product with the
 character of a third imaginary, and assume that its square is
 equal either to positive or to negative unity, four systems of
 Quadruple Algebra will present themselves, in each of which
 the product of two linear functions of the three imaginaries
 will, in general, have the same form as its factors.
    Let a and /3 respectively represent the first and second, and
7 the third imaginary. Then y=a/3 or /3a. But as, in qua
druple algebra, a/3 is not always equal to /5a, I shall select the
former as the expression for y.
    Let A denote a linear function of a, /3, and y; in other
 language, let
                           A = ic + ax + fiy + yz,
then, in one of the four systems of quadruple algebra above
alluded to, the expression A bears the name of a quaternion.
In the remaining three systems the respective terms tessarine,
coquaternion, and cotessarine may be applied to it. At least
 I have suggested such a nomenclature in No. 1360 of the
 Mechanics' Magazinef, where I have shown the existence of
   • Communicated by the Author. In connexion with his paper published
nt pp. 406-410 of the preceding (34th) volume of this Journal, Mr. Cockle is
desirous of referring the reader to two articles subsequently communicated
by him to the Mechanics' Magazine, and which will be found at pp. 534
and 558, 559 of vol. 50 of thnt work.
   f See pp. 197, 198 of the current (51st) volume of that work. I had,
however, previously employed the term " Tessarine " both in thst and in
the present Journal.

             and on Equations of the Fifth Degree.            435
these four systems, discussed them, and pointed out their cha
racteristics. I here propose to advert for a moment to the
same subject, to consider it under a slightly different aspect,
and also to exhibit, for convenience of comparison, the mo
dular expressions of all the systems. We have, then,
   1. The Quaternion System of Sir W. R. Hamilton., in
which
                «9=-l, 02=-l, and «/3 = y;
but in which also
                              y4=-i,
contrary to what we should have inferred from the equations
                    y2=«902=-lx-l = l;
hence, the quaternion system is abnormal, or does not obey
the laws of ordinary algebra. The modulus of a quaternion is
the positive square root of the expression
                          Br«+«4+y+*8.
   2. The Tessarine System—a normal system in which
             a2=-l,      /39=1, and y2= -l=a9/32.
The true modulus of the tessarine A is the positive square
root of
                        {w±i/)* + (x±z)t.
   3. The Coquaternion System, in which
                   as= — 1, /32=1, and y2=l;
but the last relation is inconsistent with the conditions
                    y9=a9/32=-lxl=-l,
and the coquaternion system is abnormal. The modulus of
A, considered as a coquaternion, is the positive square root of
                          {w±y±z)*+x\
   4. The Cotessarine System, in which
                  ««=1, /32=1, y9=l.= a202,
and which is a normal system, having for its modular form the
positive square root of
                          (w> + ar±j/±*)2.
   It is to be borne in mind, that in all the above systems
y=a(3; that, whenever the double sign ( + ) occurs, the sign
of the term is indifferent and quite independent of that of the
preceding or following term ; that to, .r, y, and z are real
quantities, positive, negative, or zero ; and that, in multiplying
                               2 F2

436           Mr. J. Cockle oil Quadruple Algebra.
two expressions of the form A, the modulus of the product is
the product of the moduli of the factors. It is for the purpose
of analogy and of making the modulus positive, in all cases,
that I have given a quadratic form to the formula employed in
expressing the cotessarine modulus.
                  On Equations of the Fifth Degree.
    Whether Mr. Jerrard has succeeded in pointing out a
method of solving the algebraic equation of the fifth degree
or not, his investigations at pp. 5*5-574 of vol. xxvi. (continued
at p. 63 of vol. xxviii.) of the present Series of this Journal
must ever be a subject of interest, and form an essential part
of the theory of such equations. There are, however, one or
two portions of his papers which seem to me involved in doubt
and difficulty—difficulty which, in one case, he has himself
adverted to and endeavoured to explain. Mr. Jerrard will
pardon me if, with great hesitation, I venture to intimate an
opinion that the position taken by him in his note [J] to p. 579
of vol. xxvi. is untenable. By way of example, suppose that
the square root of x + h is the function to be expanded. The
general form of the expansion* is,—
 A Series of converging or diverging terms plus a Remainder.
    Now, when the series is convergent, the remainder may, in
all cases where numerical value is the subject of inquiry, be
entirely neglected ; but it does not the less constitute an essen
 tial part of the symbolic expansion. Hence I conceive that,
in considering the expansion under a purely symbolic point of
view, even the convergent development must be regarded as
incomplete without the remainder, and so plnced on the same
footing as the divergent one. Considered thus, the convergent
and divergent developments are deducible, the one from the>
other, by an interchange of x and //, and each admits of that
interchange without alteration of symbolic value. And I think
that we necessarily obtain an expression which admits of such
interchange—at least in all cases where a strictly symbolical
expansion is required; and, if I rightly understand Mr. Jer-
rard's argument, it is to such expansions that his remarks
    But, admitting for a moment that the convergent series with
the remainder neglected is a symbolic expansion of the function,
   • I have elsewhere (in the course of my Hortc Algebraica, Mechanics'
Magazine, vol. xlvii. p. 150) suggested contraction as a term to denote the
inverse of expansion. Would it be advisable to confine the terms expan
sion and contraction to tymbolic operation, and to use the terms involution
and evolution exclusively in reference to arithmetic or quasi-arithmetic
operations, including them both under the common name volution ?

      Mr. E. J. Lowe on a remarkable Solar Phenomenon.        437
  I feel some doubt as to another portion of Mr. Jerrard's ar
 gument. At all events I think it would be very desirable to
 show clearly the solvibility of the equation by which W is to
 be determined. It is true that one of its roots appears to be
 a known and rational function of another of them, and that an
 equation among whose roots such a relation exists is supposed
 to be capable of solution by means of the process of Abel.
 But doubts—and doubts apparently well-founded — have arisen
 respecting the universality of that theorem. It is not my
 object to discuss them here; but I would refer the reader to
 the learned paper on the Calculus of Functions in the Ency
 clopedia Metropolitana, where, at pp. 327, 328, art. (90.), and
 at pp. 381, 382, arts. (302.) and (303.) of vol. ii. of the Pure
 Sciences, he will find remarks upon this question ; and I
would also call attention to the respective notes to arts. (90.)
and (303.) just adverted to. There, the nature of the difficulty
which militates against the generality of the theorem—a diffi
culty which, in the instance of functions of a degree so low as
the third, is only obviated by our having complete solution of
a cubic—is clearly exhibited.
    Standing on the frontiers which separate solvible equations
from those as yet unsolved, the biquadratic partakes of the
nature of both. It resembles the one inasmuch as it is capable
of finite algebraic solution; the other, in its incapability of
finite algebraic solution in terms of irreducible biquadratic
surds. The latter characteristic might perhaps be of ser
vice in the discussion of equations of the fifth degree, and
in the manner which I suggested in my First Series of Notes
on the Theory of Algebraic Equations, published in vol. xlvi.
of the Mechanics' Magazine. The reader is referred to p. 12.5
of that volume, and to the condition mentioned at a subsequent
page (180) of it.
   2 Church -Yard Court, Temple,
        November 1, 1849.
                           .....
LTII. Remarkable Solar Phenomenon seen at the Villa,
    Beeston near Nottingham, October 22, 1849. By Edward
    Joseph Lowe, Esq., F.R.A.S.*
#"\N the above day a strange spectacle presented itself about
^-' the sun. The morning had been misty, and had cleared
up about 22h ; but being engaged with some papers I did
not look at the sun until 0h 10m, when a remarkable phe
nomenon was immediately discovered : it resembled a huge
                    * Communicated by the Author.

438     Mr. E. J. Lowe on a remarkable Solar Phenomenon.
pair of wings, AA, 70° in length, very sensibly prismatic, the
red being next to the sun, and almost as brilliant as the sun
                                         JL
himself. The sun was pale and sparkling, and the pheno
 menon brightest directly above that luminary. This was
 about 25° above the sun.
    0h 13m. The singular spectacle changed from being pris
 matic to pure white; and a circle, BB, of 50° diameter, having
 the sun for its centre (also colourless), was now visible.
    0h 14m. A mock sun, C,was apparent although faint, being
 tinged with prismatic colours, and had a well-defined edge.
 It was situated on the horizontal level of the true sun on the
 circle of 50° in diameter, and on the preceding side of the
 sun.
     0h 15m. Mock sun C vanished.
     0h 16m. Another mock sun, D, was faintly visible, formed
 on the circle above alluded to, and on its left-hand side, at
 about an altitude of 12|° above the horizontal level of the true
 sun.
     0h 18m. The appearance of wings, together with the mock
 sun D, disappeared ; but an arc of a circle, E, of very large
 dimensions, became apparent, which cut the former circle at
 C; it was inverted with respect to the true sun, and must
 have had its centre on or below the north horizon. It did
 not remain long enough to take any measurements.
     0h ] 9m. Mock sun C again visible, but faint.
     0h 20m. C vanished ; but another mock sun had appeared
  at F, ahout 4° below the apex of the circle BB.
     0h 21m. F, together with BB, disappeared ; but the wings
  AA once more became visible, being again prismatic.
     0h 26m. BB and C again apparent, and AA more brilliant.
     0h 27m. A mock sun, H, faintly visible, situated on the
  horizontal level of the sun, and on the succeeding side of the
  circle BB.
     0h 27,2m. H became brilliant and prismatic, having now a
  tail of 10° in length tapering off to a point, diametrically op

           On the Colouring of Glass by Metallic Oxides.        439
posite to the true sun ; also a mock sun, G, situated 4° below
the apex of the circle, BB, on the left-hand side.
    0h 33m. The winged appearance is the only portion which
now remains.
    0h 39m. AA has just vanished.
    During the whole of this phaenomenon thin scud was flying
rapidly over from the south, and the sky itself appeared of a
muddy blue, owing to a thin veil of vapour (probably cirro-
stratus) being interposed between us and the clear sky. Whilst
this singular appearance lasted, a thin sprinkling of rain con
stantly fell. The sky became overcast at 0h 45m with south
wind. Brilliant aurora borealis in the evening.
   Villa, Beeston near Nottingham,
           October 23, 1849.
LIV. Inquiries on some modifications in the Colouring of
          Glass by Metallic Oxides. By G. Bontemps*.
IN the presence of so many illustrious philosophers to
      whom the sciences are so much indebted, I must certainly
apologize for my temerity in daring to call for a few minutes
their attention to my humble observations; but if it is true
that the greater part of the improvements in manufactures are
the consequences of new scientific applications, it will be per
haps admitted that the observation of facts connected with
manufactures has led to many new scientific discoveries ; and
I should feel happy if I could bring before you a few elements
of new progress.
     The revival of painted windows, and the manufacture of
coloured flint-glass, first in Bohemia, and afterwards in all
 parts of Germany, in France and in England f, in an especial
manner directed the attention of glass manufacturers, about
 fifteen years ago, to the colouring of glass by metallic oxides.
 They probably tried the receipts described in the works of
 Neri, Merret, Kunckel, Ferrand, Haudiquer de Blancourt, and
 many others, and they must frequently have met with failure; in
 that case their conclusion must have been, that the authors did
 not obtain the results which they announced. But the truth is,
 that they had not operated under like circumstances. In all cases
 those receipts had but an empirical value; chemistry was not
 yet a science; it was merely an agglomeration of facts without
 any co-ordination whatever; nor was natural philosophy better
    * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the British
 Association at Birmingham, Sept. 1849.
    f See Phil. Mag., vol. ix. p. 466.

 440          M. G. Bontemps on some modifications in
 able to explain the observed phaenomena. In more modern
 times, by the aid of chemical science, we have been nble to
 analyse the metallic oxides, and their various combinations
 with acids. By analogy, glass having been considered as a
 salt with simple or multiple bases, general axioms were ad
 mitted in the colouring of glass by metallic oxides. It is said,
 for instance, that the silicates of potash and of soda are colour
 less; the silicate ofpotash or soda and manganese is purple ; the
 silicate of potash or soda and cobalt is blue; the silicate of pot
 ash and deutoxide of copper is blue ; the silicate of potash and
 protoxide of copper is red; the silicate of potash and gold is
pink, &c. Such axioms are quite sufficient for those who
 want only a superficial knowledge ; but in entering more
 deeply into the investigation of the phaenomena produced by
 the use of metallic oxides in glass-making, it will soon be
 acknowledged how fertile is the field of observations, and how
 incomplete is their explanation.
    Allow me to mention some of the phaenomena produced by
 a few metals; several of them will perhaps have for many-
 persons the charm of new facts, although these metals are
 those most generally used for colouring glass.
                              1. Iron.
    It is generally admitted that oxide of iron gives a greenish
 colour to glass to the mixture of which it has been added ;
but the truth is, that this colour is produced only in peculiar
 circumstances.
    The manufacturers of china, porcelain and earthenware,
are well-aware that oxide of iron is the colouring material of
a fine purplish-red enamel fired in their muffle (and it is quite
clear that enamels are real glass) ; if the temperature were
raised too high, this enamel would lose its purplish tinge and
tend towards orange ; so that three, colours of the spectrum
are produced by oxide of iron, even at degrees of heat which I
should call low, compared with the temperature of furnaces
for glass melting, which we shall now consider.
    If into a pot containing white melted glass or flint-glass we
introduce during the blowing a small fragment of iron, it
will, from its gravity, fall to the bottom ; now, if after the
blowing, this pot is taken out of the furnace, we shall see close
to the fragment of iron partly oxidized, a portion of the glass
coloured from orange to yellow. We have also an illustration
of the yellow colour produced by oxide of iron in the manu
facture of artificial aventurine. It is known that this aventu-
rine is produced by the exposure of soft glass containing a
large proportion of the oxides of copper and iron, to a tempera

             the Colouring of Glass by Metallic Oxides.        44 1
 ture below its fusion: during this exposure the copper is re
  duced in the form of metallic crystals, and the glass being
  coloured only by oxide of iron, takes a brownish-yellmv colour ;
 and the greater the reduction of copper, the yellower is the
 glass.                          •'"".'
     Proceeding now to the usual circumstances of colouring
 glass by oxide of iron, we find that at a temperature not very
 high, for instance in covered pots for flint-glass, oxide of iron
 fives a green colour approaching nearer to yellow than to blue,
   t is generally by mixing oxide of iron with oxide of copper
 (giving blue) that all the tints of green are produced. The
 greenish colour of bottle-glass must also be attributed to the
 oxide of iron combined with the carbonaceous matters con
 tained in the mixture. But when we melt at a high tempe
 rature, for instance in the manufacture of window-glass, we
 remark that the addition of a small proportion of oxide of
 iron to the mixture produces a glass of a bluish colour. It is
 known also by the manufacturers of bottle-glass, that when
 the glass is cooled in the pot, it becomes opake blue before
 being devitrified.
    We have shown by the preceding remarks that glass receives
 all the colours of the spectrum from oxide of iron ; and at the
 same time, it will be observed that these colours are produced
 in their- natural order in proportion as the temperature is in
 creased.
                          2. Manganese.
    It is generally known that oxide of manganese gives to glass
 a purple or pink colour, which property is used not only for
 the production of purple glass, but especially as glass soap, for
 neutralizing the light greenish colour produced by slight por
 tions of iron and carbonaceous matters existing in the materials
used in making white glass or flint-glass ; but it is very re
markable, that the light pink colour given by oxide of man
ganese is very apt to fade : if the glass remains too long in
 the melting-furnace, and afterwards in the annealing kiln,
the purple tinge turns first to a light brovonish-red, then to
yellow, and afterwards to green.
    I shall mention nlso a remarkable fact relative to the pre
sence of manganese in the composition of glass. White glass,
in which a small proportion of manganese has been used, is
liable to become yellow by exposure to light. Having melted
for the celebrated Augustin Fresnel the glass for the first poly
zonal lenses he made, and for which the whitest glass was
desirable, these prismatic pieces of glass became yellow after a
short time without losing their transparency and polish of

442         M. G. Bontemps on some modifications in
surface. I rightly attributed this colour to the presence of
manganese; and, indeed, by suppressing the oxide of man
ganese in the mixture, this effect no longer took place. Besides,
to prove that light had produced this colour, I took a pris
matic ring recently made of glass containing manganese : I
broke it into two pieces, one of which, exposed to light during
a few weeks, became yellow ; and the other, kept shut up in a
drawer, was not at all altered in its whiteness.
   It is also known that some window-panes, especially the
Bohemian window-glass, take a light purple colour after having
been a long time under the influence of light. The same
effect is produced in window-glass or flint-glass containing a
small proportion of manganese, when they remain in the flat
tening or annealing kilns long enough to produce incipient
devitrification ; in this case the interior of the glass becomes
opake white, whilst the outside takes a pink tint.
   I admit that some of the facts of colouring which I have
mentioned might be explained by reference to various degrees
of oxidation, and that manganese, for instance, loses part of its
oxygen when the glass passes from a purple to a yellow colour ;
but I doubt if this is sufficient to explain the phenomena
which I shall call photogenic, which take place when the glass
is in a solid state.
                            3. Copper.
   Copper in its highest state of oxidation gives to glass quite
free from iron a sky-blue colour, inclining more to green than
to purple, and in its lowest state of oxidation imparts a ruby
colour. In all limes, as at the present day, red window-glass
has always been coloured by protoxide of copper; but it is
not very easy to obtain this colour, because it is not at all
fixed; it must be seized at its proper time; and this produc
tion is the origin of a great many interesting and curious ob
servations. When the red glass is in the proper state to be
blown, if it is ladled into water so as to effect a sudden cool
ing, this produces yellow-green cullet ; if this yellowish cullet
is heated to the point of liquefaction and cooled slowly, the
red colour will gradually show itself as the glass cools,
becoming of the finest ruby, inclining more to orange than to
purple: in some Ciises this colour is so delicate, that the cool
ing resulting from the usual process of manufacture prevents
the manifestation of the red colour, and it is necessary to ex
pose the manufactured piece of glass to the temperature of the
annealing kiln, in which case the red colour is seen to increase
gradually till it arrives at its greatest intensity: if the tempe
 rature of this kiln is too high, or if the ruby glass already

            the Colouring of Glass by Metallic Oxides.         443
made is placed in a muffle too much fired, the bright orange-
red colour turns first to crimson-red, then to purple; by a
greater heat it takes a bluish tinge, and afterwards gets dis
coloured ; it is therefore acknowledged that ruby glass must
be exposed to the lowest temperature possible to obtain the
brightest tints. From these observations we conclude that
glass in which copper is kept in the state of protoxide by
addition of tin or carbonaceous matters, is apt to acquire suc
cessively all the colours of the spectrum, under circumstances
which do not appear to be the effect of modification by oxygen.
                               4. Silver.
    Oxide of silver is seldom added to the mixtures which are
 to be melted in glass furnaces, but is generally used to stain
 glass of a transparent yellow, on the surface of which it is laid
 and fired. This colour is produced without any addition of
Jiux; it is only necessary to lay on the surface of the glass or
 flint-glass a small proportion of oxide, or any salt of silver in
 a great state of division, mixed with a neutral medium, such
 as pounded clay or red oxide of iron, and to expose this glass
 to the heat of a muffle ; the medium is afterwards taken off by
 brushing the surface of the glass, and the glass is stained of a
 yellow colour, which varies between lemon or greenish-yellow
 and dark orange, according to the quantity of silver, and
 especially to the quality of the glass ; a red colour can even be
 produced by exposing the glass twice to the heat of the muffle.
 The celebrated Dumns has found by accurate analysis, that
 the glass which was liable to take the deep tints had its ele
 ments the nearest in definite proportions ; which agrees with
 this observation, that the glass must have been deprived of all
  excess of alkali by a long melting at a high temperature, to
  take the deep tints of orange and red.
     It is important not to heat the muffle to too high a tempe
  rature, otherwise the surface of the glass on which the silver
  has been laid becomes opalescent, although when seen through
  it still remains yellow or orange: the glass viewed obliquely
  reflects an opake blue colour, and at a still higher temperature
  it is liable to appear of a pink colour when seen through,
  although the opacity of the surface is still increased, and
  becomes brownish-yellow.
      If, instead of staining the glass in a muffle, silver added to
   a mixture of flint-glass is melted in covered pots in the short
   est time possible, the result is an ngatized semi-opake matter,
   which, by the combined effects of refraction and reflexion, will
  present all the colours of the spectrum ; this effect is most sen
   sible, if the surface of the glass, which is generally yellowish

   444         M. G. Bontemps on some modifications in
   green opake, is cut to different depths. These effects are
   produced by inequalities of cooling, as we have seen for man
   ganese and copper.
                               S. Gold.
       Oxide of gold gives to the glass a pink tint, which by an
   increase of quantity may attain a purplish-red. For this pur
   pose a small proportion of precipitated purple of Cassius is
  added to the mixture of flint-glass; but by the first melting
   this mixture gives only a colourless transparent glass, which
   must be heated again to show the pink colour. It, for instance,
  a small solid cylinder has been formed with this first melted
  glass, when cold it is quite white; but if this cylinder is
  afterwards exposed to the heat of the working-hole of the fur
  nace, we see it acquire the red colour gradually as it is pene
  trated by heat; and this colour remains fixed when the cylin
  der is gradually cooled again in the annealing kiln.
      I have remarked also, that by varying the degrees of heating
  a piece of this glass of some length at a high temperature, and
  re-cooling it several times, a great number of tints, varying
  from blue to pink, red, opake yellow and green, may be pro
  duced. But I am not certain that this effect might not be
  attributed to some fractions of silver mixed with the gold used;
 and the only point that remains quite positive, is the fact of
 the pink colour showing itself by a second Jiring in the glass
 into the composition of which gold enters.
     To these results of colouring by metallic oxides, I shall add
 an effect produced in the colouring of glass by charcoal, which
 effect is of the same nature as those mentioned in the colour
 ing by copper and gold.
     An excess of charcoal in the mixture of a silico-alkaline
glass gives a yellow colour, which is not so bright as the yel
low from silver, but good enough to be used in church win
dows ; and sometimes, according to the nature of the wood
from which the charcoal has been made and the time at which
it has been cut, this yellow colour may be turned to dark red by
a second[fire.
     I doubt, indeed, whether all the results which I have men
tioned can be explained only by various degrees of oxidation
of the metals. This multiplicity of colours, greater than the
number of oxides described for each metal, must lead us to
consider whether those phenomena are not the consequence of
physical laws. It is the peculiar character of our time, and the
result of the immense progress accomplished in chemistry and
natural philosophy, to bring their study to some united views,
which render the connexion of these two sciences indissoluble.

            the Colouring of Glass by Metallic Oxides.         445
    The various facts observed in the colouring of glass, which
are especially produced by the influence of different tempera
tures, are probably to be attributed to some modifications in
the disposition ofthe composing particles; which effects occasion
modifications in the reflexion and refraction of the rays of
light : indeed it might be remarked, that parts of the results
which I have mentioned are produced under some circumstances
which appear to place the glass in a condition of crystallization .
    In the last century, Edward Hussy Delaval, starting from
the experiments made by the immortal Newton in the colouring
of thin plates, instituted some researches into the causes of the
modifications of colours in bodies ; but he found chemical
science not in a state sufficiently advanced to establish his
observations on rational experiments. But at the present
time we have only to collect a sufficient number of precise
facts to be able to deduce from them the scientific explana
tions, which might probably lead to some new improvements
 in manufactures.
     As for glass, the observations relating to the constitution of
 its- particles are extremely delicate. This is proved by the
 difference of the action of light on it, according to the degree of
 annealing. It is known that even a very slight pressure, acting
 on a point of its surface, is sufficient to produce the doubly re
 fracting power, which is also given by incomplete annealing;
 and- this effect takes place, not only when the glass, having
 been quickly cooled from a red heat to the ordinary tempera
 ture, is liable to break by itself, but even in pieces of glass of
 some thickness, which might be considered to be well annealed,
 and which would really be sufficiently annealed for common
 use: it is a fact, that the greatest part of such a glass shows
 sensibly the phaenomena of polarization. This fact has still
 increased the difficulties, which were already very great, in
 manufacturing glass for optical purposes. The difficulty,
 which is not a small one for discs of three or four inches in
 diameter, is of course greater for discs often and twelve inches ;
 we have however surmounted it at Messrs. Chance's glass
  works for discs up to twenty-four inches : but before working
 such discs, or larger ones, we think that it would be desirable
  that practical opticians should throw sufficient light on the
  various parts of the processes which are used in the construc
  tion of achromatic telescopes; because we could not warrant
  that the glass which we consider to be free from defects, may
  not, with very high magnifying powers, give evidence of new
  imperfections which we have not yet suspected.
      I have laid before you practical facts. If they be found
  interesting enough to form the basis of new studies on the

446     M. A. De la Rive on the Cause of Aurora: Boreales.
modification of the atomic constitution of glass, I shall be
content to have brought the subject before the British Asso
ciation : if these observations, on the contrary, are considered
not worthy of the importance I attach to them, I shall have
my excuse in the love of an art to which I have all my life
been zealously devoted.
LV. On the Cause of Aurora; Boreales. By Auguste de
   la Rive, being an Extractfrom a Letter to M. Regnault*.
I HAVE just read, in a memoir by M. Morlet on the
      Aurora? Boreales, inserted in the Annales de Chimie et de
Physique, 3rd series, vol. xxvii. the following passage :—
   " With regard to the origin of this luminous matter (that
of the aurora borealis), it seems natural to attribute it to the
electric fluid contained in the atmosphere, and which, at great
heights where the air is rarefied, must become luminous as
under the receiver of the air-pump and in the barometric
vacuum : this hypothesis would acquire a great probability if
we succeeded in proving, by direct experiments, that mag
netism exerts an influence on electric light."
   This last expression induces me to request you to have the
goodness to communicate to the Academy of Sciences an ex
periment which I mentioned to you on my passage through
 Paris last June, and which you may perhaps remember ; its
object was to show, in support of the theory which I had ad
vanced of the aurora borealis, the influence exerted by mag
netism upon the light which is produced in ordinary elec
tric discharges. Hitherto this influence has only been shown
in the case of the luminous arc which escapes between two
conducting points, each communicating with one of the poles
of a. voltaic battery ; which is very different, both as con
cerns the phenomenon itself, and in what concerns its ap
plication to the theory of the aurora borealis. The following
is my experiment.
   I introduce into a glass globe about 30 centimetres in dia
meter, by one of the two tubulures with which it is furnished,
a cylindrical iron bar, of such length that one of its extremities
reaches nearly to the centre of the globe, whilst the other
extends from 3 to 4 centimetres out of the tubulure. The
bar is hermetically sealed in the tubulure, and covered through
out its length, except at its two ends, with an isolating and
thick layer of wax. A copper ring surrounds the bar above
the isolating layer in its internal part the nearest to the side
              • From the Compte* Rendu* for Oct. 15, 1849.

   M. A. De la Rive on the Cause of Aurora Boreales.            447
of the globe; from this ring proceeds a conducting rod, which,
carefully isolated, traverses the same tubulure as the iron bar,
but without communicating with it, and terminates externally
in a knob or hook. When by means of a stop-cock adjusted
to the second tubulure of the globe, the air in it is rarefied up
to 3 to 5 millimetres, the hook is made to communicate with
one of the conductors of an electric machine, and the external
extremity of the iron bar with the other, so that the two elec
tricities unite in the interior of the globe, forming between the
internal extremity of the iron bar and the copper ring which
is at its base, a more or less regular fascicle of light. But if
the external extremity of the iron bar is placed in contact with
one of the poles of a strong electro-magnet, taking good care
to preserve the isolation, the electric light takes a very different
aspect. Instead of issuing, as before, from the different points
of the surface of the terminal part of the iron bar, it is emitted
only from the points which form the contour of this part, so
as to constitute a continuous luminous ring. This is not all :
this ring, and the luminous jets which emanate from it, have a
continuous movement of rotation around the magnetized bar ;
one while in one direction, at other times in another, according
to the electric discharges and the direction of the magnetiza
tion. Lastly, more brilliant jets appear to issue from this
luminous circumference without being confounded with those
which terminate on the ring, and form the fascicle. As soon
as the magnetization ceases, the luminous phsenomenon be
comes again what it was previously, and what it is generally in
the experiment known by the name of the electrical egg. Not
having any powerful machine at my disposal, I used for my
experiment an Armstrong's hydro-electric machine, the boiler
of which I made to communicate with the copper ring, and
the isolated conductor which receives the vapour with the iron
bar, or vice versa" when I wished to change the direction of
the discharges. The experiment succeeded very well in this
manner.
   The experiment which I have just described appears to me
to account very satisfactorily for what passes in the phseno
menon of the aurora borealis: in fact, the light which results
from the union of the two electricities in the part of the atmo
sphere which covers the polar regions, instead of remaining
vaguely distributed, is carried by the action of the terrestrial
magnetism round the magnetic pole of the globe, whence it
seems to rise in a revolving column, of which it is the base
"We thus understand why the magnetic pole is always th/
apparent centre whence issues the light constituting the auroi
borealis, or toward which it appears to converge. I shall m

 448      M. A. De la Kive on the Cause of Aworca Bpreaies.
 recur to the other circumstances which accompany this me
 teorological phenomenon, the agreement of which I have shown
 with the explanation I have given in a letter addressed to M.
 Arago, which was communicated to the Academy, and inserted
 in the Philosophical Magazine for April 1849, p. 286. . ' ...
    But, having referred to this letter, in which the cjuestion
 was also raised respecting the explanation of the diurnal varia
 tions of the magnetic needle, permit me to add, that I have
 had occasion to prove, in England, both by my own observa
tions, and still better by the more extensive ones of several
 physicists*, the existence of electric currents having a direction
 from the north-west to the south-east on the surface of the
 earth. The presence of these currents can be easily proved
 by means of the metallic wires which serve as telegraphic com
 munications : wires which are placed underground and at the
 same time well-isolated, except at their two extremities which
 dip into the ground, are best suited for this kind of observa
tions. It is very curious to follow the agreement which exists
between the variations of intensity of these currents and the
variations of magnitude of the deviation of the magnetic needle
of declination ; a new proof to add to that drawn from their
direction, that they are the cause of the diurnal variations.
    Colonel Sabine has stated, in opposition to my explanation
of the diurnal variations, an objection drawn from die obser
vation of these variations at the Island of St. Helena and at
the Cape of Good Hope t- I do not think it well-founded,
and, without entering into the details which will better find
a place elsewhere, I shall limit myself to one single remark.
I attribute the origin of the currents which give rise to the
aurora borealis and to the diurnal variations, to the rupture
of the electric equilibrium occasioned, in each atmospheric
column, by the difference of temperature which exists between
its base which reposes on the surface of the globe and its upper
part which is at the limit of the atmosphere. Each column
thus forms a kind of pile charged at its two extremities with
contrary electricities, which unite in part by the pile itself, in
part by a circuit formed of the upper regions of the atmo
sphere, of the atmospheric polar regions, and of the surface
of the earth. Meteorological circumstances determine the
greater or less proportion of the two electricities which unite
by one or other of these ways.
    Now, the temperature of the base of the column must vary
   * See tlie observations of Mr. W. H. Harlow on this subject, Phil. Mag.
vol. xxxiv. p. 344.
   t Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiv. p. 406.

       M. A. De la Rive on the Came of Aurora Borealcs. 449
 not only with the season, with the time of the day, and with
 the latitude of the place where it is observed, but also with
 the nature of the surface of the globe on which it reposes.
  When, therefore, this surface is the sea, the hours of maxima
 and minima of temperature are not the same as when it is terra
Jirrna, all other circumstances being the same; it results
 necessarily that the hours of maxima and minima of inten
 sity of the electric currents, and consequently of the diurnal
 variations to which they give rise, must be equally different.
 Now, St. Helena and the Cape of Good Hope may be con
 sidered as places enveloped in atmospheric columns, which
 have almost their entire base resting on the sea and not on the
 land; thence the anomalies pointed out by Colonel Sabine
 are very easily explained, and, in particular, it is easily under
 stood how there is no agreement, in direction, which must in
 every case be different, between the diurnal variations ob
 served at the Cape of Good Hope and those observed at Al
 giers, which is equally distant from the equator, but to the
 north. An excellent paper by M. Aimc on terrestrial mag
 netism, inserted in the Annates de Chimie et de Physique, 3rd
 series, vol. xvii., in which he discusses comparatively the
 observations made at St. Helena, the Cape, and Algiers, has
 singularly facilitated the explanation of the anomalies pre
 sented as objections by Mr. Sabine.
    I, however, do not pretend that there does not exist any
 anomaly ; my explanation is not more free than others from
 those which result from certain local and exceptional causes.
 I am not further from admitting that the currents of induc
 tion determined on tlie surface itself of the globe, by its rota
 tion under the influence of its magnetic poles, cannot have
 any part in the phaenomenon of the diurnal variations and
 aurorae boreales, and account for the connexion which these
 variations appear to have with the absolute direction both in
declination and in inclination of the magnetic needle, and with
the absolute intensity of the terrestrial magnetism. But this
subject would require, for elucidation, to be treated more at
length than can be done in a letter; I shall therefore stop,
 and beg to refer those persons who may be interested in this
question to a memoir which I am on the point of completing,
and which will be published forthwith.
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 238. Dec. 1849.          2 G

                              [   450    ]
LVI. Descriptions and Analyses of several American Mine
    rals. By B. Silliman, Jun., M.D., Professor of Che
    mistry applied to the Arts in Yale College, and of Medical
    Chemistry and Toxicology in Louisville University, Ken
    tucky*.
T^HE results embodied in this article have been lately ob»
 -*- tained in the Analytical Laboratory of Yale College by
myself, or by my pupils under my immediate supervision and
direction.
    The researches upon the new and interesting species which
belong to the family of micas is not complete; but as many
months must pass before I can again take up this investiga
tion, it is deemed best to present the results already obtained,
that the attention of mineralogists maybe directed to them.
1 will present in a second memoir such further results as may
be determined by the analyses which will be carried forward
this winter on the same species. Enough has been done, it is
believed, to give definiteness and importance to the subject.
                I. Species of the Family Mica.
    This series of minerals, forming a new and very interesting
addition to the mica family, is found associated with the corun
dum of Pennsylvania; and one or more of the species are
probably associated with corundum in every locality where
the latter is found. My attention was first called to these mine
rals by receiving from Dr. J. L. Smith,. now in Constantinople,
a small portion of a similar mineral, which he has called
Emerylite. The quantity of this mineral received (only
02 grm.) was too small to enable me to obtain more than
its general characters. As this mica was the means of calling
my attention to the others, I will repeat the results of Dr.
Smith, with such additional characters as were obtained here.
                              Emerylite.
    This mineral is found associated with the emery from the
localities of Asia Minor. It is in brilliant micaceous scales,
brittle and inelastic. Colour, gray with a tinge of lilac;
laminae easily separable; hardness, 3 to S'25; gravity not
satisfactorily determined on so small a quantity. Before the
blowpipe alone in forceps, exfoliates, whitens and emits a very
brilliant light, but does not fuse. In close tube, yields water,
which gave a feeble reaction for fluorine. Dissolves in borax
to a clear glass, and leaves a siliceous skeleton in salt of phos-
             • From Silliman's Journal for November 1849.

          Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.         452
 phorus. The reactions for silica, alumina, lime, iron and pot
 ash are satisfactory. It is not acted on by strong acids ; even
 by long-continued boiling with Nordhausen sulphuric acid,
 very imperfect decomposition was effected.
    Fused with carbonate of baryta, a qualitative analysis gave
 reactions for silica, alumina, peroxide of iron, lime and potash,*
 with a trace of soda.
    I was unable, however, with the most exact care, to con
 firm Dr. Smith's observation of the existence of zirconia—
probably a larger portion of the mineral might give a different
result.
   Dr. Smidi gives the following as an approximate result of
 the constitution of the emerylite from several analyses made
by himself:—
         Silica                                        30-0
         Alumina                                       50-0
         Zirconia                                       4-0
         Lime                                          13-0
         Oxide of iron, manganese and potash        .   3-0
                                                      1000
   This analysis gives the ratio 4SiOs, 6A103, 3RO = SRO,
 Si03 + 3(A10S, ZrOYSiO8, which gives the following re
sult:—
         4 atoms Silica . . 2309-24 = 31 -93 per cent.
         6 ... Alumina . 3854-00              53-30
         3 ... Lime . . 1068-06               14-77
                                7231-30     100-00
   As however the mineral contains water and the analysis is
confessedly only approximate, this formula cannot be regarded
as entirely correct; but it will be found useful in connexion
with the results which follow.
   The mineral which most closely approaches Smith's eme
rylite, as far as our observations authorize us to form an opi
nion, is the next in order, and marked iu our analyses "A."
   A. This mineral is from Village Green, in the town of
Aston, Chester County, Pennsylvania, and was sent to me by
Mr. L. White Williams of West Chester, to whom mineralo
gists are much indebted for bringing to light many interesting
things. It is associated with corundum, and occurs in con
siderable masses ; and so much resembling common mica, as
to have escaped notice until Dr. Smith's observations on
emerylite called my attention to the minerals associated with
the American corundums. Form, like mica, apparently hexa
                               2G 2

 452      Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.
 eonal ; foliae easily separable, but inelastic and brittle. Co
 lour white ; transparent in thin foliae. "Lustre, silvery,
 vitreous and pearly. Hardness, 3-5. Gravity, 2-995. , B, Bl
 in forceps, exfoliates and emits a strong light; fuses on tlie
 edges of thin laminae. In the close tube it yields water, and
"gives very feeble traces of fluorine. It behaved with the fluxes
 like the Turkish mineral. A qualitative analysis showed the
 presence of silica, alumina, lime, magnesia, soda, a trace of
 potash and iron, water and fluorine, the last in very feeble
 quantity. ,                                                        , ¦
    The quantitative analysis of this species is still incomplete
 as to its alkaline constituents, which are given by the difference,
 and the amount of water is probably placed too high*. The
 analysis was conducted, under my direction, by my pupil,
 Mr. W. J. Crawe. Three analyses gave him as follows :—
                              I.           Jf.       lit.        Oxygen.
    Silica . . .' . 32-311 31-060 31-261 1624 =.4
    Alumina, ,. ,. ;. 49-243 51-199 51-603 23;7*,',; 0
    Lime .... 10663                       9239 10-146]I .•: -. ¦ : '
    Magnesia . . .          0298          0-283     0-499 Y $'±%y\u
    Soda and potashf        2-215         2-969     1-221 J    1
    Water ....              5-270         5-270     5270
                                                                   4-72 j ^
                          100-000 100-000 100-000
    It is obvious that this is very nearly the true constitution of
 the mineral. The following formula corresponds very closely
 with the analytical results, viz. —                               . .
    SRO, 4SJ03, 6A103 + 3HO=3(CaO, NaO, MgO)SiO»
                      + 3(2A103, SIO^ + SHO.
          4 atoms Silica . . 2309-24                30-51 per cent. >
          6 ... Alumina . 3854-00                   50-92
          3 ... Lime . . 1068-06                     Wll < v -• ¦ , V.''-'
          3 ... Water . .            33744            4-46
                                   756874          100-00           -,-. ,-r, <
    This result leaves but little doubt that the mineral hiere
 examined is the same as the Turkish emeryHte. That the
 American species will be found constant in containing water
 I have no doubt.
    Great care was bestowed on the trials to detect zirconia,
 but none was found.               ' ,. .       ¦,        - . . ...:          !'
                             Corundellite. ¦• • • ¦
    The next mineral belonging to this series Ihave culled
 Corundellite. This species in external characters much re-
      * The mean of two determinations.            f By the difference.

          Prof. B. Silliman 6n some American Minerals.             453
 sembles the last, but its composition is different in important
 particulars. It is also found associated with the corundum
 and emery of Unionville, Chester County, Pennsylvania.
 The specimen here analysed is marked "D," and was taken
 by me in May last from the mineral collection of the Chester
 County Cabinet formed by Mr. Williams. It is in broad
 foliated masses of a yellowish-white colour, easily cleavable,
 and apparently hexagonal in form, penetrated by hexagonal
 crystals of corundum. Inelastic, brittle; resembles common
 mica, but not so strikingly as A. Hardness, 3-5. Gravity, 3.
 B. B. gives the same characters as the last species. No reac
 tion could be obtained for lilhia or boracic acid in any of the
 minerals of this series. The reaction for fluorine in this one
 was feeble. It is unaffected by strong acids even on long
 boiling, except partially by very strong sulphuric acid. Its
 qualitative analysis gave silica, alumina, lime, potash, soda and
 water, with a trace of iron and fluorine.
    The following analysis was made by Mr. J. J. Crooke, on
 1*389 grm. of the substance fused with carbonate of baryta.
 It yielded—
                                                 Oxygen.
 Silica " . . . .           0*496 = 35*708 p. c. 18-553=18*55 = 9
 Alumina       . ' . "."   *0*7S8 53-131         24-872 24-87 12
 Lime .Iv.'t, .. l         0-101     7*271 "     -2'042l
 Potash /'«.>-«i>n.<-.-« > 0017       1-224       0-207 > 2-36       1
 Soda                       0-006    0*413        0-1 10 J
 Water and fluorine         0-032     2-303       2-050     205      1
                            1'390 100-068
    This gives the ratios
SSiOS4A103,RO+HO=RO,Si03 + 2(2A103,Si03) + HO.
                                 Atoms. Required.           Found.
    3 atoms Silica \         .  1731-94 = 36-31 percent. 35-708
    4 atoms Alumina          .  2569*32 53*87               53-131
    1 atom Lime . .          .    356-02    7-46         - 8926
    1 atom Water .           .    112-48    2-36             2*303
                                4769*76 100*00             100-068
   This species somewhat resembles margarite, and it may be
shown on further examination that margarite is a hydrated
mineral. At present it is reported as anhydrous, and its pro
portions of silica and alumina are different from the present
species. Its analysis, given by Hausmann on the authority of
the Gbttingen Laboratory, is—

454        Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.
Silica . . 83-50 == 8 atoms,            Silica . 4618-48 34-47 p.c
Alumina . 58-00 13                      Alumina 7708-00 57"55
Lime . . 7-50 3                         Lime . 1068-06 7-98
Protox.iron 0-42                                  13394-54 10000
Manganese 0-03
Magnesia . 0-05
                 99-50
      3RO, 12AI03, 8Si03=3RO, 2Si03 + 6(2 AlO3, SiO3).
Possibly a new analysis may bring these species together.
    The species corundellite occurs not only in the broad fo
liated masses above alluded to, but also in small scales disse
minated throughout the mass of granular corundum at Union-
ville, Pennsylvania, and in this form is quite abundant. Not
unfrequently these scales have a delicate shade of violet, espe
cially when wet. The rock is difficult to break, and the co
rundellite appears to adhere very strongly to the associated
minerals, and the laminae are not so easily separable as in the
foliated masses*.
                                Euphyllite.
    This beautiful pearly white mineral is found associated with
black tourmaline and corundum at Unionville, Pennsylvania.
Form, apparently hexagonal ; cleavage, eminent on basal
plane ; the laminae not so easily separable as in mica. Hard
ness, 3. Gravity, 2-963. Lustre of sides, faint pearly; of
basal plane, very brilliant pearly, resembling Heulandite, but
perhaps more brilliant even than in that species. Colour of
cleavage, face pure white, ofsides grayish, sea-green or whitish.
 Laminas, rather brittle, inelastic, and quite transparent.
     B. B. exfoliates, fuses on edges of thin lamina?, and emits a
 stronger light than either of the corresponding species. In
 the matrass it evolves water, and gives a reaction for fluorine.
 No reaction for lithia or boracic acid was obtained, but it
 gives a soda-yellow to the flame.
     The qualitative analysis of this mineral gave silica, alumina,
 lime, magnesia, soda, water and fluorine.
     The quantitative analysis was conducted by Mr. J.J.Crooke,
    * The species barsowite (G. Rose) appears in the Ural to hold the
 same geognostic relations to corundum as do the minerals of the present
 memoir in this country. Its composition however is quite distinct (silica,
 49-01; alumina, 3385 ; lime, 5-46 ; magnesia, r55=99-87, Varrentrapp),
 while its hardness, 6, and absence of micaceous structure, render it entirely
 distinct. It approaches scapolite in composition, but with a smaller quan
 tity of protoxide. I am led to allude to this species from the fact, that an
 intelligent foreign mineralogist, to whom 1 showed some of the corundel-
 lite, remarked that there appeared to be a similarity between the specic9.
 There is however a most marked difference, in that corundellite is a mica.

         Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.          455
and gave on fusion with carbonate of baryta the following
results, viz. quantity taken, 1-378 grm.; found—
                                                       Oxygen.
Silica .          0-538 = 39-042 per cent.              20-28 = 15
Alumina           0-708 51-378                          23-99 18
Lime .            0-044     3-193             0-897 ]
Magnesia          0-015     1-088             0-421 I 1-54       1
Soda .            0-012     0-871             0-223 J
Water             0-063     4-593                        4-08    3
                   1-380 100-165
    This gives the following as the theoretical composition of
the mineral :—
    5 atoms Silica ....           2886-55 = 39-02 per cent.
    6 atoms Alumina . . .          385400      52-10
    1 atom CaO, MgO . . .           319-38       4-32
    3 atoms Water ....              337'44       4-56
                                  73-97-37    100-00
The following formulae therefore express its constitution : —
   SSiO3, 6A103, RO + 3HO=RO, Si03 + 2(3A103, 2S103)
       + 3HO.
    The alumina obtained in this analysis (as well as in all the
others) was very critically examined for zirconia, but without
success.
    The black tourmaline which is associated with euphyllite
has left the impression of its crystals on the lateral face of the
mineral with such a smooth hard-looking surface that it shows
no trace of a micaceous structure. The tourmaline has an
uncommon form, the faces R of the primary form being rudi
mentary from the extension of the tangential plane, truncating
the summit.
    The beautiful foliae of this pearly white mineral have sug
gested the name euphyllite as an appropriate designation for
the species, while the name corundellite has the same obvious
derivation as emerylite, the mineral described by Dr. Smith.
    There is a similar mineral associated with the blue corun
dum of North Carolina, which was made known to mineralo-
fists by the Hon. T. L. Klingman, M.C.,from North Carolina,
  t occurs investing the corundum. Colour, faint olive-brown.
Lustre, vitreous to pearly, like mica. In cleavable plates,
apparently hexagonal. Cleavage, perfect ; lamina?, separable.
Hardness, 3. Gravity, 2-94 to 3-008. Brittle, transparent,
not acted on by strong acids. B. B. whitens, gives a brilliant

456       Prof. B. Silliman on some American Miners.
light, but does not fuse, unless with great difficulty, on the
edges. It contains a trace of fluorine, and a qualitative ana
lysis detected in it silica, alumina, lime, soda and water. An
insufficient quantity of the mineral prevented a perfect ana
lysis being made. So far as its constituents have been ob
tained, it contains,— silica, 36-3(39; alumina, 4-2-373; lime,
 10141; magnesia, 4-462; water, 1-448; the difference, soda
and loss. Soda, about 4 per cent.
    Should it appear, on repeating the analysis of this mineral,
that it is new, as the present would appear to indicate, I would
propose to adopt the name Clingmanite, suggested by Prof.
Shepard, in honour of the distinguished gentleman before
named, who has, shown great interest in advancing the study
of mineralogy*.
    I have had no means of comparing the optical properties
of these several minerals. The angle between their axes of
polarization should be measured to ascertain if the differences
shown in their composition are found also in their molecular
structure. When we review the characters of the minerals
here described, we are struck with the almost identity of all
their ordinary physical characters; and yet there are differ
ences which are apparent, especially in their composition. It
therefore becomes an interesting question, to decide if the
optical characters will sustain the chemical results. The oc
currence of a class of salts with such a very small amount of
protoxide bases, and so large a quantity of alumina as these
possess, is a novelty in the chemical history of minerals, and
may have some important theoretical connexions. Our know
ledge of the whole mica family is quite imperfect at present.
The true function of the fluorine found in so many of them
yet remains to be explained ; and especially is it of the great
est importance that a careful series of optical measurements
should be made on authentic specimens from numerous locali
ties, and at the same time an exact series of chemical analyses
conducted on specimens from the same localities.
    Mineralogy hardly offers a more inviting investigation than
this; and should it not fall into better hands, it will at a future
day be attempted in this laboratory.
   * Prof. C. U. Shepard had noticed this mineral, and supposing it to be
new, he had determined to give it the above name. When he found, how
ever, that I was engaged on this series of minerals, he promptly abandoned
the investigation. At that time we both thought thnt the emerylite of
Dr. Smith would probably include all the American species herein described,
which now appears not to be the fuct. On going to England in June, Prof.
Shepard left me a memorandum containing his notes on the North Caro
lina mineral, and I have embodied them in the above description with iny
own.             - ... ... . • ,. -.- • • . . ..... ... . _., «

             Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.                457
d;Ij no ,v'f.n.f"L jr.ijjL On Unionite. t.,: , . -. j. ¦
     —.j-'i'ujil.n'ju fi biii              .
      lhe next mineral to be noticed is from the same specimen
  which furnished me the euphyllite. In general appearance it
 somewhat resembles scapolite or spodumene. It is implanted
 in black tourmaline, and is intimately associated with the eu
 phyllite. Its form is discernible only by its cleavages, which
 are distinct in one direction, the planes dividing the mineral
 into parallel laminae ; in two other directions less distinct, but
 yielding a form probably triclinate*. Lustre, vitreous. Co
 lour, yellowish-white to white. Hardness, 6 to 6"5. Gravity,
  3-29S4. Brittle, and easily reduced to powder. In acids
 does not gelatinize.
    B. B. in forceps, it whitens, swells up and fuses to a white
 enamel, giving out at the same time an extremely brilliant
 light. In the matrass it gives out water which is acid, and
 the glass is etched with hydrofluoric acid. Qualitative ana
 lysis detected silica, alumina, magnesia and soda. The
 amount of water was determined by the loss on heating, and
  the fluorine was not separately estimated. In the quantitative
  analysis the mineral was attacked by carbonate of baryta.
    The following are the results of analysis. Taken, 07335
 grm. Yielded—
                                                               Oxygen.
 Silica       . . ." '. 0-32385 = 44-1 51 p. c.                22-940 = 7
 Alumina . .. 0*31000 42-263                                   19-763 6
 Magnesia . i .0-05400                  7*361        2-85 \
 Soda .... '. 0-01270                   1-731        0-46J       S^° l
 Waterand fluorine 0-02590              3-532            ' -'" 3*146 1
mLoss .. ¦¦¦.....
             ."¦     .- i.—*i0-00705 0-962                .   '¦.-#..¦.
                            073350 100-000
""'' "'7    atoms  Silica. ' ]"' . 4041-17 = 44-86 per cent.
        6   atoms  Alumina . . 385400               42'78
        3   atoms  Magnesia .         775-06           8-62
         3  atoms   Water .-¦.'¦¦ S3744                S'74
                                     9007-67      100-00
    3RO, 6A103, 7S103, 3HO=3RO, SiOa + etAlO3, SiO3)
¦i i ; . .-        ¦        '¦¦!¦¦ + 3HO.
                                      . ^ ,:. ¦>. . ¦•      .   i '• • .
    This formula and constitution are believed to be unknown
 in any previously noticed species among minerals, and I there
 fore propose it as new, and suggest for it the name Unionite,
 derived from Unionville, its locality. At present it is a rare
 substance, but I understand that the place where it was found
                  * The angles do not admit of measurement.

 458       Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.
 is to be worked soon for emery, and probably both it and the
 euphyllite will be obtained there in abundance. This species
 was also supplied to me by Mr. Williams of West Chester.
        III. On Monrolite, a mineral resembling
                              WSrthite.
    My attention was called to this mineral by [Mr. Wm. S.
 Vaux of Philadelphia, who had received it from the locality
marked " topaz." It somewhat resembles pycnite in general
aspect, but as will be seen is a very different thing.
    It occurs at Monroe, Orange Co., New York, where it is
found in a quartzose rock with magnetic iron, pink felspar,
black mica, pinite and common garnet. Colour green to
greenish gray. Structure radiating in sheafs from a centre in
groups from an inch to two inches in diameter. Also in
single implanted individuals. Cleavage and form of single
crystals resembles Sillimanite. Hardness, 7*25 on an angle;
on cleavage face about 6. Gravity, 3-04:5, 3-096, 3'07. Co
lumnar, fibrous. The oblique prisms were not measured,
being too irregular.
    B.B. alone in tube gives off neutral water. Infusible,
whitens; dissolves slowly in carbonate of soda, readily in bo
rax and in salt of phosphorus, leaves a siliceous skeleton which
reacts slightly for iron.
    Its qualitative assay indicated the presence of silica and alu
mina, with a trace of iron and magnesia.
    It was fused with carbonate of potash and caustic potash,
               J yielded—
and its analysis    3          i.           ir.          m.
       Silica    .    .  .  40-92         40-389       40-389
       Alumina        .  .  56-61         55-729       56*618
       Magnesia        . .     -28           "280         -280
       Water .        .  .   3-09          1-840        2-794
                           100-90         98238       100-079
   These analyses correspond closely with8Si03, lOAlO', 3H0.
        8 atoms Silica .        .   4618-48 = 40-59 per cent.
       10 atoms Alumina.        .   6423*30     5644
        3 atoms Water .         .    337-44       297
                                   11379-22 lOO'OO
    We have then the formula
                   8(A103, Si03) + 2AlO3, 3HO.
   The Worihite of Hess gave the formula—
5(A103, SiO3) + AlO3, 3HO corresponding to his analysis, viz.

         Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.                 459
                     Silica      . .   .¦    •¦ 40-79
                    Alumina . .        .     . 53-06
                     Water        . .  .     .   4-63
                     Magnesia          .      .  0-88
                                                99-36
   I have never seen the Wbrthile, and have therefore no
means of judging of the similarity of these two minerals in
other respects. The probability of being able to refer the
present mineral to kyanite seemed to me at first quite strong,
but I was unable by any care to procure an amount of silica
less than that given in these analyses Should this mineral
on further examination and comparison prove to be distinct,
I propose for it the name Monrolite, derived from the locality
where it was found.
IV. On the identity of Sillimanite, Fibrolite and
                   BUCHOLZITE WITH KYANITE.
   Sillimanite was orginally described by Bowen*, from an
analysis made in Yale College Laboratoy in 1825, which
showed it to be a silicate of alumina with a proportion of silica
too high to allow it to come within the formula of kyanite. It
was subsequently analysed by Dr. Thomas Muir, in the labo
ratory of Dr. Thomson, who found in it a large quantity of
zirconia, an observation which all subsequent researches have
failed to confirm. Since that time it has been analysed by
various chemists ; viz. by Connel, Norton, Staff, Hayes and
Thomson. The most recent of these analyses which has been
published is that by Thomson, who reports it to contain 45*65
per cent, of silica. We have then the following discordant
results in the amount of silica found in Sillimanite by different
 chemists in the order of their publication :—
               1.        3.     3.        4.         5.       6.       7.
             Bowen.    Muir.  Connel.  Norton.     Staff.   Hayes. Thomson.
 Per cent. 42-67 38*67 3675 87*40 37*36 4260 46-65
    The cause of this disagreement will undoubtedly be found
 in the difficulty of effecting a complete decomposition of an
 hydrous silicates of alumina, which contain a high per-centage
 of alumina. This decomposition can be completely effected
 only by the aid of caustic potash applied to the mixture of
 carbonates and the mineral during the fusion, as first recom
 mended by Berzelius, or by hydrofluoric acid.
    Select crystals of this mineral were taken from the original
 locality at Chester, Conn., and their analysis afforded the
 following results. Quantity taken, 775*5 grms. Found—
                  • Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci.Phil., ui. p.375.

  460        m^B^Sfflfltoh' hn sMe"Mmb2niahuka&
       <l  l
             Alumina .... 0*484                      62-411 T «.'
              .'¦•r> -i >('            —      —>-   — : > ,! :;'.
                              ,-...,       0-776 , 100-P64. ;/.
                                                               Required.
         2 atoms Silica .'           .   . '1154-62 rr-SiO3      37'47
         3 atoms Alumina             .   . 1927-00= AlO3         62-59
         :• j. ¦ i ¦ ;•¦¦ . ¦ -i >¦¦ 3081-62.¦•¦¦.•...'    . . 100-00
                                                                 i.
     This result gives then exactly the formula of kyanite, viz.
 SAlO^SSiO3. The analyses of Staff" and Norton give also
 the same result*.
     We can therefore have no longer any hesitation in referring
 Silli/nanite to kyanite, as originally suggested by Haidingerf.
     Bucholzite is a name given by Brandes to a silicate or alu
 mina from Tyrol, which occurs in compact masses of a finely
 fibrous structure and hardness equal to kyanite. Thomson
 has also analysed a mineral from Chester County, Pennsyl
 vania, well-known to collectors, and has referred it to Buchol
 zite j. Being in possession of authentic specimens of the
 Chester mineral, I have analysed it with the following result.
 Quantity taken, 0-561 grm. Found—
                                                            Another sample.
    Silica . \ . 0-1925 = 34*31 per cent.                        35-96
    Alumina0 :^.' 0*36 15                   64*43
    Magnesia . . ' 0*0028                    0'52
    Manganese .               trace         trace
                            0*5568         99*26
    This also will give us the same formula as kyanite. The
mineral being less pure than Sillimanite, cannot be expected
 to furnish results as accurate as the former analysis. Prof.
 Shepard in his System expresses the opinion that Bucholzite
and Sillimanite were the same species.
    There is also found at Brandywine Springs, Delaware, a
mineral which has been extensively circulated under the name
of both Bucholzite and fibrolite. A specimen from this locality
   • In Prof. Norton's analysis, which was made in Yale College Labora
tory, the excess of 2*73 was owing undoubtedly to aluminatc of potash
which remained with the alumina after separating the peroxide of iron by
caustic potash. Subtracting this sum from the sum of alumina and per
oxide of iron, we have 62'30 per cent, alumina and peroxide of iron, which
is almost exactly the quantity required by theory, and I have corrected the
analysis accordingly with the consent of Prof. Norton. That analysis was
made on the Sillimanite from Fairfield, New York.
   f In his translation of Molis, vol. iii. 154.
   X Erdmann appears also to have made his analysis on the mineral from,
the same locality.

           Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals,                 461
furnished me the following results, viz. quantity taken, 1*0675
grm. Found—
             Silica . . . 0*386 = 36*159 per cent.
             Alumina . . 0-679                  63'525
                                   1-065        99684.
    This is evidently identical with kyanite. Minute traces of
iron and manganese, which are found in both the above, are
regarded as of no importance in the result, being mere impu
rities*.
    Fibrolite of Bournon. — This mineral was first distinguished
by Count Bournon, who detected it among the associated
minerals of corundum from India and from China. The
name has reference to its fibrous character. It was analysed
by Chevenix, who found—
                     Silica ...... 38-00
                    Alumina ..... 58-25
 -•'.. i ..... .                                      96*25
    Even upon so imperfect an analysis, there has been no he
sitation with most writers in referring it to kyanite. Having
a specimen of this mineral from Count Bournon at my dis
posal, I have analysed itf. It yielded on 0*427 grm. taken—
           Silica .... 01551 ts 36*309 per cent.
           Alumina . ''. . 0*2665                62*415       '..,'„
           Magnesia '.' . 0*0030                   0*702      '„»',,
                                  0*4246          99*426
     The results just given leave it no longer possible for us to se
 parate Sillimanite, Bucholzite, and fibrolite from kyanite. The
 hardness of Sillimanite proves also to possess the same inequa
 lity on different faces which is found in kyanite. The cleavage,
 face is much softer than the angle or side of the prism, so as
   .*. It mny be objected to the conclusion that Bucholzite is identical with
 kyanite that I have not analysed a specimen of the original mineral. Thw
 I should have done could I have procured one in time for my present
 purpose. The Chester mineral here analysed was received by Baron Le-
 derer from Dr. Nuttall, and so far as I can learn, no one questions that the
 mineral from that locality corresponds entirely with the Bucholzite of
 Brandes. I am convinced that those chemists who have obtained so high
 a percentage of silica in their analyses of ditlhene minerals, had not taken
 the precaution to employ the aid of caustic potash, added to the assay
 during Jiuion, as recommended by Berzelius ; and that if they had re-ana
 lysed their silica they would invariably in cases where the amount exceeded
 38 per cent., have fonnd in it a portion of alumina.
    t The specimen referred to was taken from the collection of Col. Gibbs
 (now in Yale College), and was received by him from Count Bournon in a
 large collection of gems which this gentleman furnished to Col, Gibbs. . '

462       Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.
to be easily scratched with a sharp point of hard steel. The
crystalline forms of Sillimanite and kyanite are also identical;
the one being derived by the simplest modification from the
other. The cleavage in both is in the orthodiagonal.
    It may be worthy of remark that " Andalusite " has the
same chemical constitution as kyanite, but belongs to the right
rhombic form, while kyanite is oblique. Doubtless a case of
dimorphism, and perhaps the same may be said with truth of
staurotide.
    My pupil, Mr. George J. Brush, afforded me essential aid
in the foregoing investigation.
 V. On the Boltonite of Shepard, and Thomson's
                    Bisilicate of Magnesia.
    The mineral named Boltonite by Prof. Shepard*, is found
at Bolton in Massachusetts, in a lime quarry, disseminated in
irregular masses, seldom showing any traces of crystalline
form. The description of Prof. Shepard is quoted below f.
    The changes of colour are peculiar ; and often the same
mass, which is dark greenish-gray on one end, will have turned
light yellow on the other J. Hardness, 5'50 ; specific gravity,
3'008 —the same on. two specimens, one dark and one light.
    This mineral, when first found, was called PyraUolitet and
is now so labeled in some old collections. Baron Lederer's
cabinet of American minerals, now in the Yale College col
lections, contains eight or ten specimens of this mineral from
Bolton, under the name Pyrallolite, which were received, as
the catalogue indicates, from Robinson, Shepard, Nuttall,
Boyd, and other of the early cultivators of American mine
ralogy.
    In his remarks on this mineral, Prof. Shepard says, it is
believed to be identical with the substance described by Dr.
Thomson§ under the name of" bisilicate of magnesia;" and
accordingly the analysis of Dr. Thomson is quoted under
   * Shepard's Treatise on Mineralogy, Newhaven, 1836, vol. i. p. 78.
   t Prof. Shepard's description is as follows—" Massive, composition gra
nular : individuals large, cleavage in one direction pretty distinct, in two
others oblique to the first, indistinct, but affording indications of a doubly
oblique prism, fracture uneven or small conchoidal. Lustre vitreous.
Colour bluish gray, yellowish gray, wax yellow to yellowish white. The
darker colours change to yellow on exposure to the weather. Hardness,
5-0-6-0. Gravity 2-8-2-9."
   % Mr. Saemann of Berlin, Prussia, in a paper read before the Am. Assoc,
for the Promotion of Science at Cambridge, attributes the change of colour
in boltonite to minute grains of magnetic iron found disseminated in the
substance of the crystals, which, undergoing change by exposure, leave the
mineral of a lighter colour than it was when fresh.
   § Am. Lye. Nat. Hist., New York, vol. iii. p. 60.

          Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals.         463
" Boltonite," as giving the supposed chemical constitution of
this substance.
   It will presently be shown that there is every probability
that Dr. Thomson applied the name bisilicate of magnesia to
another substance ; and that the boltonite of Prof. Shepard is
not the substance which he analysed.
    Having received specimens of boltonite from Mr. Saemann,
a very intelligent and discriminating mineralogist from Berlin,
I was induced to undertake an analysis of it, which gave me
the following results. The specimen analysed was the yellow
variety. 0*5753 grm. of substance gave—
                                                     Oxygen.
    Silica .... 46-062 = ...                          23-23 == 8
    Alumina . . . 5-667                  ...           2-64    1
    Magnesia . . . 38-149               14-761
    Protoxide of iron       8-632        1-95 \ = 17-14        6
    Lime . . .              1-516        0-4SJ
                          100-026
    Formula SSiO8 1 AlO3 18MgO=2RO, (SiO3, AlO3), or
2(MgO, CaO, FeO), (SiO3, AlO3).
    8 atoms Silica . . . =370-08 = 46-556 per cent.
    1 atom Alumina . .              51-47        6-372
    18 atoms Magnesia .           372-66        47-072
                                  794-91       100-000
    If we consider the alumina as not an essential constituent of
the mineral instead of replacing a part of the silica (a view
which I am not disposed to take), then we shall have a silicate
of magnesia and the other bases, whose formula will be
                            9RO, 4Si03.
    Referring to Thomson's analysis and description of his bi
silicate of magnesia, we read (loc. cit. p. 50) that the mineral
received by him from Mr. Nuttall (from Bolton, Massachu
 setts) bears so much resemblance to the picrosmine of Hai-
dinger, both in character and composition, " that he strongly
suspects the two things to be mere varieties. The mineral is
 white, with a shade of green ; powder white. It consists of a
congeries of prismatic crystals, very irregularly disposed, and
 involved in each other. Lustre glassy; transparent on the
 edges." The analysis gave—
                    Silica                    56-64
                    Magnesia       . . . 36*52
                    Alumina ....               6'07
                    Peroxide of iron .         2-46
                                             101-69

 464       Prof. B. Silliman on some American Minerals,
    This analysis must certainly refer to another mineral than
 boltonite. The description certainly does not compare at all
 with that of boltonite, which cannot be said to " consist of a
 series of prismatic crystals," with a glassy lustre and faint
 green colour. Nor is it white. In searching among the
 minerals from Bolton, in the cabinet of Baron Lederer, for
something corresponding with Thomson's description, I found1
one from that locality marked " Picrosmine? " " Actynolite ?"
This mineral answers the description of Thomson, quoted
above, as nearly as anything could; and is undoubtedly the
same thing which he received from Mr. Nuttali, and examined
with the above results. Nothing else occurs at the locality at
all resembling the mineral which is described by Dr. Thomson.
A qualitative analysis of this specimen gave silica, magnesia,
alumina, peroxide of iron, manganese, but no lime or water.
These are the constituents of a hornblende, and this specimen
is undoubtedly such—variety actinolite*.
    If the foregoing conclusions are correct, it would appear
that boltonite and " bisilicate of magnesia " are not the same
mineral as described by Prof. Shepard.
    The formula for boltonite is that of a salt not before de
scribed, while that deducible from Thomson's analysis, cor
responds as accurately as we could expect with common
hornblende.
    I am happy therefore to be able to re-establish boltonite as
a species
    t        on fagood fagrounds.                                   ''¦"' +
                          VI. On Nuttallite.
    Nuttallite was established as a species by Mr. Brooke t, on
general physical grounds, principally of hardness and colour,
and a slight departure from the usual angles of scapolite. It
was analysed by Thomson J, who found for it a constitution
so different from scapolite, that it has been regarded as a di
stinct species by many mineralogists, and is so placed by
Nicol in his Manual just published. I was induced to make
a new analysis to decide the doubt regarding its true constitu
tion. The mineral is partially decomposed by strong hydro-
   * I am altogether at a loss to understand what Dr. Thomson intends,
when he says in his memoir before quoted, that the analysis here given
corresponds to the constitution of a " bisilicate of magnesia.'' For
                 2 atoms SiO3 = 9252 = per cent. 8172
                 latomMgO = 20-70                        18-28
                                      113-22            100-00
   This result is entirely different from his analysis,
   t Ann.ofPhilos., xli. p. 366.
   X New York Lyceum of Natural History, vol. Hi. p. 83.

                              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Ail hies.                465
  chloric acid with heat, but it is not thus possible to obtain a
  complete analysis. The mineral is found at Bolton, Mass.,
  in a.whUe.cleavable limestone with black augita. .Having a
  good specimen, I requested Mr. Ludwig StadtnwHerj cue of
  out pupils, to undertake the analyais. The Allowing ai e the
  results .confirmed by several trials; the alkaline constituents
  being, determined by fusion with carbonate of baryta.
    '*¦;•¦. .;
                                   Silica ....               45*791
    i- ¦.' :• , • .                Alumina . . .             80-107
    Mil ;::•¦'•¦                   Peroxide of iron .         1*861
    K    j'MiUJ     /¦>    ,¦
                                   Lime     ....             17*406
    • •• / i J        >.  •
                                   Potash ... .               3*486
    .l.'i-.r,. ¦¦ J . .'
                                   Soda         I . .
                                   Manganese/ . .            traces'
       1 -• i ' '¦ " \) j          Water ;       .    .  i    l*6SO
                                                            100-281
       Jt is obvious from simple inspection, that this analysis cur-
 responds exactly with scapolite, and wo have no hesitation in
 referring Nuttallite to scapolite.                             : ... .
  -¦- ''¦ •¦¦¦ •' '•¦ i             .  ., '  .,,   -,: ¦' ¦      I '¦¦: i ; , , , ¦ , '
    ¦ ,,;         XiVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    ON THE STATE IN WHICH ARSENIC EXISTS IN THE DEPOSIT
                PROM MINERAL WATERS. BY M. J. L. LASSAIGNE.
  SINCE the discovery of the presence of arsenic in the deposits from
              certain chalybeate mineral waters, it has been asked whether
 the poisonous properties of this substance are not neutralized by the
 state in which it is found. No experiment having been yet under
 taken on this subject, the author, at the request of M. Chevallier,
 has made several experiments. The object in undertaking thcin
 was to determine the proportion of arsenic contained, in what state
 of combination it existed, and the nature of the action which these
 arseniferous deposits exerted on the animal ceconoray.
      The first experiment was made on the deposit from the waters of
 WoUviller (Haut Hhin). In order to ascertain the quantity of
 ara ic, a portion of the residue was treated with nitro-h ydrochloric
 ac'iQ, to convert all the arsenic which it might contain into arseniate
 of iron.
      This residue, washed with distilled water, was calcined in a silver
 crucible with twice its weight of hydrate of potash ; the product of
this calcination was treated with hot distilled water, and the liquid
was filtered to separate the insoluble deposit ; the filtered liquid was
supersaturated with nitric acid, and the solution evaporated to dry
ness. The residue, rcdissolved by distilled water, gave a solution to
which was added solution of acetate of lead ; this produced a white
flocculent precipitate which was collected on a weighed filter. This
      Phil. Mag. S. 3. Vol. 35. No. 238. Dec. 1849.                           2 H

466           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
precipitate was recognized as arseniate of lead,— 1st, by the alliaceous
odour which it evolved when calcined on charcoal by the blowpipe ;
2ndly, by the brick-red colour which it immediately yielded by moist
ening it with a neutral solution of nitrate of silver. From the
weight of this arseniate of lead, the quantity of arsenic contained in
the deposit from the waters of Wattviller, was deduced. This ex
 periment showed that 100 part3 of the deposit, previously treated
 with nitro-hydrochloric acid and afterwards dried, yielded 4'42 of
 arsenic acid, containing 2-8 of metallic arsenic.
     After having determined the proportion of arsenic, a direct expe
 riment was atttempted to determine the effect of this deposit on the
 animal ceconomy. This experiment was made with a fresh quantity
 of the same deposit, furnished by M. Chevallier.
     Forty grammes of this deposit, divided into two portions, were
 forcibly given to a middle-sized young dog. Each dose of 20
 grammes was diffused through a decilitre and a half of slightly viscid
 honeyed water, and gradually introduced into the throat of the
  animal. This liquid, which was swallowed without any apparent dis
  gust, occasioned neither vomiting nor uneasiness, for on offering
  bread to the animal three quarters of an hour after swallowing, it
  was readily eaten. The second dose was administered in the same
  manner, and afterwards the animal eat about three ounces of brown
  bread. No alteration of appearance could be detected by an atten
  tive examination of the animal, (luring six hours from the commence
  ment of the experiment, and no difficulty was observable in its diges
  tion, even in twenty-four hours. After this time the animal was re
  stored to his usual diet, and there was no apparent alteration in his
  health.
      The following conclusions may be fairly drawn from this first ex
  periment : —
      1st. In the natural deposits of the mineral waters of Wattviller,
  arsenic exists to the amount of 2'8 per cent.
      2ndly. A portion of these deposits, representing T76 gr. of arsenic
  acid, or 1'14 gr. of arsenic, produced no effect upon the health of a
   dog.
      3rdly. This non-action shows that the poisonous property of the
   arsenic contained in these deposits, is destroyed by its combination
   with peroxide of iron.
      4thly. This result confirms what experiment has already shown,
   that peroxide of iron, by combining with arsenious and arsenic acid,
   destroys their poisonous properties, and consequently becomes an an
   tidote for them, as proved long since by the direct experiments of
   MM. Bunsen and Berthold Font.
      A second chemical experiment was made upon a certain quantity
   of the deposits of the waters of Hoyat (Puy-de-D6me), sent to the
   author by M. Chevallier; in this deposit, in which M. Chevallier and
   M. Goblcy had ascertained the presence of arsenic, it was found to
   amount to only To3nl7dths, and in the state of arseniate.
      The last conclusion was deduced from the presence of arseniate of
   iron and of lime, which was obtained from the deposit in hydro

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             467
chloric acid and treatment of the dry residue with alcohol. The
small quantity of pulverulent matter, of a chamois yellow colour,
which remained insoluble, consisted of arsenic acid, peroxide of iron
and lime.
   The author will not undertake to decide that the acid is combined
with these two bases in the deposit ; it being possible that a part of
the subarseniate of iron had been decomposed during the operation
by carbonate of lime, of which the deposit from the waters of Royat
contains a large quantity.
   Two hundred grammes of this deposit were divided into six por
tions of 33 grammes. Each dose was diifused through honeyed water
and] given every two hours to the same dog ; three doses were
given in one day and three others the next ; the animal showed no
peculiarity during the experiments, and continues healthy and lively.
—Journ. dc Che'm. Med., Septembre 1849.
           EASY MODE OF MEASURING SOLAR OBJECTS.
      To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
   I am not aware whether the expedient is generally known of mea
suring the solar spots by placing a graduated glass scale on the dia
phragm of the eye-piece and casting the sun's image upon a white
ground. The divisions of the micrometer become thus more palpa
bly distinguished, and the excess covered by the spots is more accu
rately estimated by the eye than when looking direct through the
telescope. In this way also an angle can be measured in any direc
tion by merely turning the eye-piece round on its axis. It greatly
saves the eye-sight, and is serviceable when only brief glimpses are
to be obtained and expedition is required. Although perfect accu
racy may not be attained, it may serve at least for general purposes.
   Should the suggestion seem to you worth noticing, I beg to leave
it to your disposal.
                             I am, Gentlemen,
  Edinburgh, Nov. 13, 1849.         Your obedient Servant,
                                                         W. Pringle.
NATURAL SOURCES AND NEW MODE OF PREPARING SULPHURIC
                     ACID.    BY M. C. BLONDEAU.
   Abundant sources of sulphuric acid exist in Nature. M. Bous-
singault has described several acid waters in America, and particu
larly the llio-Vinagre or Pasiambo, of which 1000 parts contain 2
parts of sulphuric acid. According to M. Boussingault's estimate,
the Pasiambo supplies 38610 kilogrammes of sulphuric acid in 24
hours, and this quantity is much exceeded by the discovery made
in the Paramo de Kiuz by M. Degenhart, the water there containing,
according to M. Lcwy's analysis, three times as much sulphuric acid
as the Pasiambo. Whence come these enormous quantities of the
acid J what are the processes which nature employs in their formation ?
                                 2 H2

 4G8           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 The author states, that a phenomenon which he observed in the de
 partment of Aveyron, gave him an opportunity of describing the na
 tural formation of an acid so much employed in the arts, and which
 placed him in a condition in the localities which he has examined, of
 readily manufacturing sulphuric acid, without having recourse to the
 complicated processes generally employed.
    In the coal-measures of Aveyron, and particularly in the environs
 of Cransac (arrondissement de Villefranche), the spontaneous com
 bustion of the soil is observed to occur, which is evidenced by the
 disengagement of gas and vapours, which at a distance resemble
 a small volcano. On approaching the place where this combustion
 occurs, it is evident that the earth has been mined, and large crevices
 are discovered from time to time, from which there is emitted much
 aqueous vapour and acid fumes. At the edges of these fissures the
 heat becomes intolerable, and surprise ceases to be excited that the
 effects of this heat, combined with the action of acid gases, should
 have modified so completely the places in which these chemical ac
 tions occur.
    In some spots of the burning mountain, there occur enormous
 rocks formed of conglomerates, which, having undergone the action
 of fire, are completely changed in appearance, and are united by a
 cement, which owing to the action of heat has a brick-red colour.
    The surface of the burning mountain consisted of grits, schists :ind
 argills; these substances have assumed the appearance of chalcedonies,
jaspers, enamels, glass and bricks, and sometimes even the cavernous
 appearance of volcanic stones. The aggregations which these sub
 stances have formed with argill have in some cases acquired the
 hardness of the most compact stones. The soil, gradually mined
 by the chemical agency occuiring within it, eventually sinks, occa
 sioning the formation of foundries, which, by their conical form, re
 semble in some degree the craters of volcanos ; it is through these
 vents that columns of vapour are disengaged, which sometimes rise
 to a great height in the air, and are at other times dispersed by the
 wind in the valleys.
    In these places a number of saline concretions, efflorescences, cry
stals of sulphur and hydrochlorate of ammonia are met with ; these
products have been converted to useful purposes, and dissolved in
rain-water, they constitute the minero'. waters frequently employed
in the locality now described.
   The causes of the phenomena become evident to any one who has
ascertained the presence of sulphuret of iron, which occurs abun
dantly in the various strata of coal country which constitute this
locality.
   This sulphuret, in contact with water and with atmospheric air,
burns and gives rise to sulphurous acid gas, which is converted into
sulphuric acid by the influence of air and of bases, such as alumina
and oxide of iron. The sulphates of iron and alumina which form
under these circumstances are decomposed by the action of heat, and
sulphuric acid is set free.
   The temperature resulting from these different reactions is some-

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles*              469
times sufficiently high to occasion the combustion of the coal- beds
which are near the surface, and the products of the combustion of the
coal are added to the vapour of water nnd of sulphuric acid, and thus
increase the grandeur of the phenomenon. The sulphuric acid which
arises under the conditions described, exerts a very euergetic action
on the mineral and organic substances which it meets with in its
passage; the trunks of the trees which occur in the neighbourhood
of the burning mountain are covered with the black colour of sub
stances which have been immersed in sulphuric acid. Mineral sub
stances are also strongly acted upon by this powerful acid, which
simultaneously attacks silica, alumina, lime, oxide of iron, the earths
and alkalies which enter into the composition of rocks, and eventually
sulphates are produced, among which is the double sulphate of pot
ash and alumina (alum) in sufficient quantity to be useful.
   The author analysed the efflorescences collected on the burning
mountain of Cransac. These efflorescences were white, strongly
acid, reddened tincture of litmus, and attracted moisture from the
air. After drying in vacuo by the air-pump, 50 grammes were dis
solved in a litre of distilled water, and the solution was treated as if
it had been a common mineral water
   The results of the analyses were : —
            Sulphate of potash and alumina . . 24"25
            Sulphate of alumina . . . , . . 53-31
            Sulphate of magnesia ."'.',..! . .          3-47
            Sulphate of manganese                       1-3j
            Sulphate of iron . .',. . V . . 10'29
            Free sulphuric acid ......                  7-33
                                                      100-00
   On examining the natural process which gives rise to the large
quantities of sulphuric acid, occurring not only combined with bases,
but also uncombined, it occurred to M. Blondeau to examine whether
under similar conditions sulphuric acid might not be immediately pro
duced from sulphurous acid gas.
   For this purpose some argillaceous sand was put into a porcelain
tube, one of the ends of which communicated with two vessels, from
one of which sulphurous ncid, and from the other vapour of water
was disengaged, and at the same time air was passed into the in
terior of the apparatus by means of a gasometer. At the other end of
the porcelain tube a bent tube was adopted, which was immersed in
water in a two- necked bottle, to one of which was fixed a disengaging
tube. The apparatus thus arranged, the porcelain tube was sur
rounded with burning charcoal, so as to heat it to dull redness, and
the sulphurous acid gas, air and the vapour of water were slowly
passed into it. The substance disengaged at the end of the tube was
sulphuric acid ; taking care to supply an excess of air, but very little
sulphurous acid is disengaged, the whole of it being converted into
sulphuric acid.
   To gu from this laboratory experiment to a manufacturing one,
sulphurous acid must be produced by the combustion of sulphur or

 470            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 sulphurets, and the products of the combustion passed into a cylinder
 of cast-iron strongly heated and containing argillaceous sand, passing
 into it at the same time excess of the vapour of water. The sul
 phuric acid will be received at the other end of the cylinder. The
 author is of opinion that no doubt can be entertained of the supe
 riority of this plan to that which is at present adopted, and that by
 employing an apparatus thus constructed, sulphuric acid will be
 procured at a lower price than is at present the case. — Comptes
 Rendus, Oct. 15, 1849.
             NOTES ON THE CALIFORNIA GOLD KEGION.
                      BY THE REV. C. S. LYMAN*.
    From the western base to the summit of the range of the Sierra
 Nevada, is a distance generally of a hundred miles, or more. The
 western slope is broken and precipitous, and through the deep ra
 vines that abound, flow the numerous mountain streams that form
  the tributaries of the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers. The gold
  region is a longitudinal strip or tract from ten to forty miles in width
  lying about midway, or a little lower, between the base and summit
  of the range, and extending in length a distance of many hundred
  miles— active operations being already carried on through an extent
  of four or five hundred miles at least. The gold mines near San
  Fernando in a spur of the same range, and which have been known
  and worked to some extent for many years, are doubtless a part of
 the same great deposit.
     On approaching the gold region from the valley of the Sacramento
 or San Joaquin, soon after leaving the plain, the attention is arrested
 by immense quantities of quartz pebbles, slightly rounded, and of the
^size of walnuts, scattered over the gentle elevations which form the
 western base of the Snowy Mountains. There is here but little soil
 —the earth is of a yellowish red colour, and nearly destitute of ve
 getation. Nearer to the gold deposits the quartz pebbles become
 larger, and not unfrequently boulders are noticed of considerable
 size. The quartz is so uniformly associated with the gold, that even
 the most unscientific explorer would not think of looking for the
 metal where quartz did not abound. Passing up the mountains it is
 easy to tell when you leave the region of gold from the sudden dis
 appearance of the quartz. In August of last year, in company with
 Mr. Douglass and others, I ascended from the " dry diggings,"
 near the Rio de los Americanos, to within a few miles of the snow,
 enjoying in the highest degree the sublime scenery presented by lofty
 and precipitous mountains, separated from each other by dark, deep
 ravines, and wooded with primaeval forests of towering firs and pines.
 The backbone of this mountain range is granite, the several varieties
 of which constituted almost the oidy rock visible in the last few
 miles of our journey. In descending we passed successively several
 forms of gneiss and other primitive and transition rocks, till we
    * In a Letter to B. Silliman, Esq., dated Pucbla de San Jose, March
 27, 1849.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            471
reached the slate formation which prevails in this part of the gold
district. We penetrated on this occasion some forty or forty-five
miles beyond the " dry diggings," and after leaving the quartz twelve
or fifteen miles up, scarcely a particle of gold was discovered.
   As I have mentioned, the prevailing rock of the gold region near
the Rio de los Americanos is slate. There are many varieties of it
—some shaly and friable, others hard and massive, somewhat resem
bling greenstone. The lamina? of the slate beds are nearly perpen
dicular, and their direction about N.N.W. and S.S.E., or nearly the
same as the direction of the range. These slate beds often include
dykes or beds of quartz rock several feet in thickness. At the dry
diggings above-named, I passed at right angles over the upturned
edge of continuous strata of slate a distance of four or five miles ;
and in the same direction, slate beds occur several miles further on,
but. I had not the means of knowing that they were a part of the
same great deposit.
    In some of the richest explorations yet made, the slate formation
immediately underlies the stratum of drift or diluvium which con
tains the gold, and much of the gold is found in the crevices of the
slate, the rough edges of the upturned strata forming innumerable
receptacles or " pockets," as they are called, into which the metal has
originally found its way, from its own gravity assisted by aqueous
agency. It is this accidental association of the gold with the slate
rocks which has caused the statement to be frequently made, even
by persons of much general intelligence, that the gold exists in
the body of the rock itself, and forms a component part of it, in the
 same sense that iron pyrites forms a part of the rocks in which it
occurs. But I have nowhere seen gold among the slate, except in
 circumstances where its presence could be accounted for by its in
troduction from without, a close scrutiny readily discovering some.
 cleft or opening through which it might have entered. The richest of
 these " pockets" are in the bottoms of sharp ravines which seem to
 have been notched into the body of the slate, and generally in situ
 ations where the bottom of the ravine, after descending at a consi
 derable inclination for some distance, becomes more nearly horizontal.
 Just below a sudden descent or precipice, in the bottom of a dry ra
vine, gold is often found in the cavities in great abundance, From
 such a spot Mr. Douglass extracted a pound of gold in a few hours,
even after the place had been previously " dug out," as was sup
posed, and abandoned.
    I have noticed in published accounts, many erroneous statements
respecting the geological position of the gold. Some have said there
is no particular formation in which the gold occurs, but that in dif
ferent places it is found in different kinds of earth or rock. You will
not need to be informed that this is without foundation. So far as
I have been able to examine, or can learn from competent witnesses,
there is but one geological formation with which the gold of the
 Sierra Nevada is associated and in which it uniformly occurs. This
is the stratum of drift or diluvium, composed of a heterogeneous mix
ture of clay, sand, gravel and pebbles, and varying in thickness from

  472          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  a few inches to several feet. Here, as elsewhere, this stratum is
  neither horizontal nor of uniform slope, but conformed to the vary
 ing inclination of the earth's surface, covering the declivities, and
  even the summits of the hills, as well as the bottoms of the ravines
  and valleys. Out of this stratum I have nowhere found gold, ex
  cept where a stream has cut it away and made its contents a part of
  some alluvial formation of comparatively modem date. The sand
  bars of some of the mountain torrents, and the gravelly projections
  formed at the bendings of the streams, are often extremely rich in
  metal. A bar in the Rio de los Americanos (at high-water an island),
  about twenty- three miles above New Helvetia (now called Sacra
 mento), and on which some of the earliest explorations were made, is
 of this character. But where the diluvium has remained undisturbed
 since the period of its deposition, I am confident no "alluvial" or
 " stream " gold has been, or will be discovered, except in connection
 with it. It is evidently as much " part and parcel" of this forma
 tion as its associated quartz, greenstone, hornblende, and other peb
 bles, and whoever will explain the origin of the one, will at the same
 time elucidate the origin of the other, for one and the same agency
 unquestionably spread both of them over the surface of the district.
 What the latest theory of geologists is to account for the dispersion
 of drift, I am too isolated from the scientific world to know. Quartz
 is the only substance with which I have seen the gold intimately
 united, and these compound lumps seem to show clearly that the
 original matrix or vein-stone of the metal was a dyke or bed of quartz
 rock. And we have only to suppose, that when the quartz, with its
accompanying rocky strata, was broken up by natural agencies at
some former geological epoch, the interspersed or included veins of
gold were at the same time reduced to fragments, and these rough
and angular fragments subsequently broken and further comminuted
and rounded by mutual attrition, to account for the present form and
 appearance of the gold, and for its constituting a portion of the ma
 terials of the drift. But whether these materials with their golden
treasure, now occupy the precise geographical position of their pa
rent rocks, or whether they have been transported by aqueous or
glacial agencies or both, from some neighbouring or perhaps far di
stant locality, is a question which future investigations into the geo
logy and physical geography of the region will better elucidate than
the imperfect data at present in my possession. I cannot avoid the
fancy, however, in connection with the glacio-aqueous theory, that
when the continent was wholly or partially submerged, the materials
of the diluvium, including the gold, were transported by icebergs
from their parent locality, and when at length set free, left to assume
their present position on what was then the rocky and uneven bot
tom of the superincumbent ocean. And we have only to imagine
these freighted icebergs stranded by oceanic currents against the
partially emerged range of the Sierra Nevada, to account for the
great longitudinal extension of the gold region along the western
slope of the mountains, while laterally it appears to extend neither
above nor below certain definite limits.             .             v

              Juieiligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               473
  The gold of different localities varies very much in size. That
from the banks and sand-bars of the rivers, is generally in the form
of small flattened scales, and commonly it is found to be finer the
lower down you descend the stream. That taken from the bottoms
of the dry ravines, which everywhere abound in these mountains,
and furnish outlets for the iorrents of the rainy season into the prin
cipal streams, is mostly of larger size, and occurs both in small par
ticles and also in small lumps and irregular water- worn masses, from
the sire of wheat kernels to pieces of several ounces or even pounds
in weight. The fine gold of these ravines is commonly less worn
and flattened than that in the alluvium of the rivers. And the flat
tened scale-like form of the gold in these latter deposits would seem
to be owing to the great malleability of the metal— the stones and
pebbles among which the minuter particles and fragments of the
original vein of native metal chanced to lie, and by which they were
rudely hammered, having performed very effectually the gold-beater's
office, and gradually reduced the rough angular particles, on their
granite anvils, to the flattened spangles which we now observe.
Some of these flakes are often an inch or more in diameter and
scarcely thicker than paper. Many specimens bear the distinct
impression of the crystalline structure of granite and other rocks ;
and I have seen several pieces deeply stamped, as with a die, by
crystals of quartz, the form of tiie crystal being as distinctly apparent
as the device on a gold eagle fresh from the United States mint.
   The black, ferruginous sand, which everywhere accompanies the
gold, and which, from its great specific gravity, remains with it in
the bowl or machine after the other earthy materials have been re
moved, varies in fineness with the size of the accompanying gold ;
that obtained in connection with the fine river gold being of the
fineness of writing sand, while that associated with the coarse gold
of the ravines is often as large as wheat kernels, or peas, and some
times of the size of hazel nuts or walnuts. These coarser pieces are
fragments of crystals very hard and heavy. I found no specimens
with the faces complete, and have not the means of knowing to what
species they belong, but suppose them to be magnetic iron. That the
fine sand is composed of fragments of the same crystals greatly com
minuted, I infer from the regular gradation of the one into the other.
   I am not aware that the gold has yet been discovered in place, or
imbedded in its native matrix. The slates, however, of the gold re
gion, as I have before observed, are often traversed by dykes or beds
of quartz rock, and I have examined these in many places for indica
tions of the presence of the metal, but could detect no traces of it.
Individuals have asserted that they have found veins of it in the rocks,
but they have refused to divulge the place where, inasmuch as they
intended to work the veins themselves as soon as the season would
permit. Though these statements are of course not impossible nor
indeed improbable, I do not consider the fact as established by tes
timony, since the witnesses are men in whom I place but little con
fidence.
   The amount of gold taken from these mines it is impossible to

474          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
estimate, but it has been immense, and the coming season it will
doubtless be greater. New and rich deposits are developing every
day. Accounts from various points in the mining district, represent
the gold as very abundant, more so if possible than last year—indi
viduals even early in the season obtaining often from three to ten
or even twenty ounces a day. The diggings on the several forks
of the Rio de los Americanos, the Stanislaus, the Tuwalumnes, the
Merced, the Mariposa, King's river (Lake Fork on Fremont's new
map), and in many other places, are represented as peculiarly rich.
   There was one specimen of gold mingled with quartz, found near
Stanislaus last autumn, which I had resolved to procure, if possible,
for the cabinet of Yale. It was irregular in form, about four inches
in diameter, and weighed 5£ pounds avoirdupois. The metal was
interspersed in irregular masses through the stone, and as near as I
could judge without special investigation, was equivalent to about
two pounds troy, perhaps a little more. Other specimens much
larger are said to have been found, and one of twenty pounds
weight pure, near the Stanislaus ; but these I have not seen. —Silli-
man's Journal, November 1849.
      COMBINATIONS OF OIL OF TUKPENTINE AND WATEU.
                          BY M. H. DEVILLE.
   Oil of turpentine and some isomeric compounds have the property
of combining with water, to form substances which well deserve the
name of hydrates, on account of the facility with which this water
may be separated from them. But some singular reactions which
occur entitle them to be regarded as compounds of a very peculiar
order, and which are without analogy in the history of products
of the same kind.
   These bodies lose a part of their combined water by the action
of heat or exposure to a dry vacuum, and they regain it by exposure
to a moist atmosphere.
   The action of reagents seems to indicate, at least with oil of tur
pentine, that the hydrate does not contain the primitive oil in
combination. The compound of camphor, obtained by means of hy
drate of turpentine and hydrochloric acid, is a proof of this. It will
also be seen, that this property has allowed of the conversion of oil of
turpentine into oil of lemons, or at any rate into a substance which
has all its chemical properties and characteristic odour.
   It has long been known that the oils of turpentine and lemon
sometimes deposit crystals which, as regards composition, differ from
the oil only by the presence of six equivalents of water. These are
the results to which the only good analyses that have been per
formed, lead. They arc those of MM. Dumas and Peligot, who, in
point of fact, found the formula of the crystalline bodies of oil of
turpentine and cardamom, &c. to be C90H«*O6 = Ci0H'6, H606.
   Some years since M. Wiggers observed that in certain veterinary
medicines formed of a mixture of alcohol, nitric acid, and oil of tur
pentine, there was deposited a considerable quantity of a crystallized

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              475
substance, which possessed the composition of the hydrates analysed
by MM. Dumas and Peligot.
    M. Deville continued the researches of M. Wiggers, and found
that, to obtain the hydrate of oil of turpentine in a short time, the
most convenient substances and proportions were, 4 litres of com
mercial oil of turpentine, 3 litres of alcohol at 85°, and 1 litre of
common nitric acid. At the expiration of a month or six weeks
 250 grammes of very pure crystals were obtained, and eventually
more than a kilogramme was gradually deposited. The oils of lemon
and bergamot yield the same results when similarly treated. Oil of
 copaiba with nitric alcohol acquires much colour, and after a long
time yields so small a quantity of crystals, that they could not be
 analysed.
    If a mixture be made of oil of turpentine and crystallizable acetic
 acid, no effect is produced even in several years ; but if a few drops
 of nitric acid be added to the mixture, solution takes place in a few
 days, and crystals are soon deposited. On putting the liquid in vacuo
 over a vessel full of potash, and another full of sulphuric acid, the
 vapour of water, of nitric and acetic acids, and of oil of turpentine
 is absorbed, and there remains a blackish paste, from which, by means
 of alcohol, there may be extracted crystals of the same form and com
 position as those obtained with nitric alcohol.
    The action of the nitric acid in the combination of water with the oils
 it is very difficult to determine. It i3 to be remarked that the acid
 does not increase the solubility of the oil in the alcohol, but on the
 contrary, diminishes it. Neither dilute alcohol, alcohol almost ab
 solute, nor alcohol acidified with nitric acid, had any effect on oil of
 turpentine after having been mixed with it for several years. Pure
 water and these oils combine, however, though very slowly, and in
 small quantity but regularly, in vessels in which the oils are kept
 impregnated with moisture. The crystals thus produced, although
 possessingthe same composition as those deposited from nitric alcohol,
 differ considerably from them in form, as will be seen hereafter. It
 is also to be remarked, that the hydrate of oil of turpentine, which is
 formed in a mixture of acetic and nitric acid, assumes a form which
 is sensibly different from that which it has after solution in and cry
 stallization from alcohol.
    The author states that he should have been curious to examine
*these various compounds which so resemble each other, and which
 are perhaps dimorphous ftnd chemically identical. Unfortunately it
 is very difficult to procure the hydrate formed accidentally in old
 oils, that is to say, the product analysed by MM. Dumas and Peligot,
 so that all hope of obtaining it in sufficient quantity, even for an
 imperfect examination, was relinquished.
     Hydrate of oil of turpentine is one of the most beautiful sub
 stances obtainable, on account of its size, perfection, limpidness and
 splendour of its crystals, which are right prisms with rectangular
 bases.
    This substance exerts no action on the plane of polarization ; it
 fuses from 217° to 221°, losing a little water; when exposed to a

 4.76          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 higher temperature its composition changes. When it has been
 melted it does not perfectly solidify on cooling, hut remains soft, and
 may be drawn into threads at common temperatures. It is at first
 transparent, and then after some time it becomes a mass of radiating
 crystals. At 50° Fahr. 100 parts of alcohol of 85° dissolve 14-48.
 Its composition, as well as that of the hydrates of oil of lemon and
 bergamot, is as follows : —
                                 Experiment
                         i            *           ->
                           I.        II.     III.
       Carbon            632        629     630 Calculation (C*>H"0«)
       Hydrogen ... 11-7            117     117
       Oxygen            25-1       254     25'8
                        1000      1000     100-0
    When hydrate of oil of turpentine is heated to a higher tempe
rature than that at which it melts, it is very rapidly decomposed into
water and a new hydrate, not containing more than two equi
valents of water, and which almost entirely evaporates ; the residue
is inappreciable.
    It will be remembered that MM. Blanchet and Sell have found and
 analysed a substance obtained from oil of turpentine, to which they
have assigned the formula Cso H'c H* O2. In the nomenclature
adapted to these series of compounds, the name of monohydrate of
oil of turpentine ought to be given, as well as to the product derived
from distilling the hydrate obtained from the action of nitric alcohol
on oil of turpentine ; M. Deville gives the name of perkydrate to the
 crystals collected in moist oil of turpentine or treated with nitric
alcohol.
    Heat is not the only agent which is capable of converting the ter-
hydrate of oil of turpentine into bihydrate ; the same effect is pro
duced by a dry vacuum. Moreover, the terhydrate is reproduced,
when, after having lost, by either mode, 2 equivalents of water, it is
left exposed for some time to moist air. This singular reaction is pro
bably unparalleled in organic chemistry : it is surprising to observe
a substance which is totally insoluble in water, like the bihydrate of
oil of turpentine, absorb water from a moist atmosphere, as is shown
by the result of quantitative analyses performed with care.
   The following are the results of an analysis of the bihydrate, re- .
cently prepared by means of many distillations :—
                              Experiment.        Calculation. (C«°H«004J
                Carbon             69-4              69-76
                Hydrogen ... 11-8                    11-63
                Oxygen            18'8               18-61
                   - r'
                                 100-0             10000
   The density of the vapour confirmed this formula ; by experiment
it was 6'257, by calculation 6-01 ; the bihydrate possesses no acid
reaction ; when heated with potash, it is volatilized and does not
combine with it, although its composition would lead to the con-

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.                477
elusion that it would have the properties of a fatty acid ; it boils
fixedly at 282° Fahr. ; it is volatile without residue.
   When oil of turpentine is treated with nitric alcohol, another
substance is obtained which may be considered as a liquid hydrate.
After remaining mixed for several years, these substances do not
dissolve, and the oil of turpentine is not entirely metamorphosed. On
heating the viscid and coloured oil which floats on the nitric alcohol
to 428° Fahr., water first comes over, then oil of turpentine, after
wards a peculiar liquid, into the composition of which, judging from
the results of analysis, the elements of water enter ; it is probably
only impure liquid bihydrate of oil of turpentine; it yielded by
analysis,—
                         Carbon              76-4
                         Hydrogen            1 1*6
                         Oxygen              12-0
                                            1000
   By analogy it ought to be admitted that a liquid terhydrate can
not exist at 292° Fahr. If it be supposed that an oil be present in
this product representing a liquid hydrate, its composition must be,
                           C*>              69-8
                           HM               11*6
                            O*              18-6
                                          1000
This formula is that of the solid bihydrate of oil of turpentine.
   It appears from the above detailed experiments, that oil of tur-?
pontine forma with water three very distinct compounds :—
                              OH10, H608
                              OH16, H*0*
                               C^H16, H'O* (Blanchet and Sell).
The two first may be converted into each other at pleasure, since a
dry vacuum takes away 2 equivalents of water from the terhydrate,
and moist air restores 2 equivalents of water to the bihydrate.—
Ann. de Ch. ei de Phys. Septembre 1849.
  ACTION OF PHOSPHORIC ACID ON THE HYDRATES OF OIL OF
                 TURPENTINE.        BY M. H. DEVILLE.
   When the bihydrate or terhydrate of oil of turpentine is treated
with anhydrous phosphoric acid, a colourless oil is obtained, which by
distillation is separated into two other oils of different volatility : one
is tereben, easily recognized by its odour, fluidity and composition.
It gave by analysis—
                                Experiment.        Calculation. (C=°H16)
                Carbon              88-1               88-24
                Hydrogen            11-9               11-76
                                   1000               10000
   The other oil is viscid, boils at a higher temperature, and is more
dense than the above ; it possesses characteristic dichroism, sometimes
appearing blue and at other times colourless : it is colophen.

  478          Intelligence
                      'o      and Miscellaneous Articles.
     Analysis gave—
                                 Experiment.       Calculation. (C^H32)
                Carbon               881               81"24
                Hydrogen             118               1176
                                     99-9            10000
  Oil of turpentine acts exactly in the same way with anhydrous phos
  phoric acid as the hydrates, being like them converted into tereben
  and colophen.—Ann. de Ch. et de Phys., Septembre 1849.
     ON THE INFLUENCE OF BOItACIC ACID ON VITRIFICATION.
     M. Maes, manufacturer of flint-glass, has, conjointly with M. Cle-
 mandot, long paid attention to the above-named subject. The prin
 cipal results hitherto obtained are : — 1st, borosilicate of potash and
 lime ; 2ndly, borosilicate of potash and zinc ; 3rdly, borosilicate of
 potash and barytes ; 4thly, borosilicate of soda and zinc.
    The borosilicate of potash and lime was formed with the intention
 of producing in close vessels with coal furnaces, the best imitations
 of Bohemian glass. In the Compte Rendu de VEnposition Atitrichi-
 enne, 1845, published by M. Peligot, it appears, that in order to
 make the purest and most durable glass in Bohemia, they use with
 100 parts of silica, 12 parts of unslaked lime, and only 28 parts of
 carbonate of potash. From this we must conclude that the glass is
 better the less potash and the more lime it contains.
    The above proportions yield a glass which is infusible in the fur
naces employed by M. Maes. The addition of a few hundredths
 of boracic acid is sufficient to occasion fusion, and the resulting pro
duct possesses all the limpidity, splendour and hardness which can
be desired.
    This first experiment naturally suggested the advantage which
might be derived from the solvent power of boracic acid so as to in
troduce bases into glass which had not hitherto been employed, as
borosilicate of potash and zinc, and that of potash and barytes. The
borosilicate of potash and zinc appeared to impart all the qualities of
a pure and durable glass. As to the borosilicate of potash and ba
rytes, it was prepared from native carbonate of barytes, contaminated
with sulphate of barytes and a ferruginous gangue. If then it be less
colourless than the zinc glass, the colour is certainly accidental : on
again making it with pure carbonate, this imperfection would un
questionably disappear.
    The beauty of borosilicate of potash and zinc led to the compara
tive trial of borosilicate of soda and zinc : this, although inferior to
the potash, incontestably excelled all the soda glasses compared
with it.
   To recapitulate : the borosilicates are chiefly remarkable for their
transparency and hardness. They derive these important qualities
from reducing considerably the potash and soda which almost always
are in excess in common glass; and every one knows that glass
which is too alkaline, is cloudy, soft and hygrometric.

                         Meteorological Observations.                               479
    These observations, in the opinion of the author, warrant the con
clusion, that boracic acid must before long contribute to the perfec
tion of glass for optical purposes, and M. Maes proposes to prepare
borosilicates of great density, with lead, bismuth, &c, besides ba-
rytes.—Comptes Rendus, Oct. 22, 1849.
                                      METEORS.
     On the 24th, about 8y p.m., I saw two fine meteors in a north -east
direction, one about ten minutes after the other. The former seemed
to burst like a sky-rocket and fall a little way ; the latter to shoot in
a north direction and fall to the horizon in pieces of blue colour.
 On the 30th, a little before 7 p.m., a very splendid one was seen in
this parish and also in Kirkwall, which is nearly twenty miles off.
 Here it appeared first near the zenith and travelled westward.—
 Rev. C. Clouston, Sandwick Manse, Orkney.
         METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR OCT. 1849.
     Chiswick. — October 1. Drizzly : overcast. 2. Cloudy. 3. Constant heavy rain.
 4. Heavy rain in the morning : showery. 5. Clear : fine ¦. overcast. 6. Fine :
 rain at night 7. Hazy : cloudy : rain. 8. Cloudy and cold : clear : slight frost
 at night. 9. Clear : very fine : frosty at night. 10. Dense fog : very fine : clear.
 11. Cloudy : clear. 12. Cloudy and cold : clear. 13. Rain. 14. Cloudy and
  cold. 15. Fine : clear at night. 16. Foggy : hazy : overcast. 17. Cloudy and
 fine.     18. Very fine : clear at night.   19. Slight fog: exceedingly fine : clear.
 20. Very fine. 21. Hazy : clouds : rain. 22. Foggy: fine.              23. Cloudy and
 fine. 24. Overcast : fine. 25. Showery. 26. Cloudy. 27. Drizzly. 28. Over
 cast : very fine. 29. Foggy : exceedingly fine. 30,31. Very fine.
           Mean temperature of the month                                  49°"58
           Mean temperature of Oct 1848                                   49 '59
           Mean temperature of Oct for the last twenty-three years 50 -51
           Average amount of rain in October                                 2-58 inches.
     Apptegarlh Manse, Dumfries-shire.— Oct. 1. Fair, but damp and raw. 2. Frost,
 hard : clear and fine.       3. Frost : rain p.m. : snow on the hills.     4. Frost a.m.
 6. Frost a.m. : shower p.m. 6. Frost still harder : thermometer 24J°. 7. Frost
 milder: wind high. 8. Cold, but little frost: fine. 9. Frost hard again: shower p.m.
  10. Frost hard : fine day. 11. Frost slight ; a few drops. 12— 14. Frost slight :
  clear and fine. 15. Frost : cloudy. 16. Little or no frost : cloudy. 17. Frost
  hard again: rain p.m.         18. Mild: rain: cleared r.ji.       19. Mild: cloudy:
  threatening rain. 20. Fair: variable : high wind p.m.        21. Showers, but mild.
  22. Slight frost a.m. : heavy rain p.m. 23. Mild: rain during night : rain p.m.
  24. Rain all day: Hood. 25. Rain all day : fog : flood. 26. Fine: one shower:
  cleared. 27. Rain again : thick weather.         28. Fine: clear.     29. Frost a.m. :
  fine: cloudy p.m. 30. Dark and cloudy : rain p.m. 31. Showery all day : mild.
        Mean temperature of the month                                      44°-0
        Mean temperature of Oct. 1848                                     46*5
        Mean temperature of Oct for the last twenty-five years ... 46 '6
        Mean rain in October                                                 3'25 inches.
         Rain, number of days in which it fell, 15. Average rain
           in Oct. for twenty years                                          3.56    ,,
      Sandwick Manse, Orkney.— Oct. 1. Bright : hail-showers. 2. Sleet-showers.
   3. Clear : frost. 4. Showers : clear : frost. 5. Clear : showers. 6. Bright :
  clear: frost. 7. Clear: aurora. 8. Clear: showers. 9. Sleet-showers: clear.
   10. Fine : very clear : aurora. 11. Frost: fine : very clear : aurora. 12. Fine:
   very clear.   13. Cloudy: aurora. 14. Bright: clear: aurora. 15. Showers.
   16. Cloudy. 17. Bright : showers: cloudy. 18. Drizzle : cloudy. 19. Bright:
  showers : cloudy. 20. Showers : cloudy. 21. Cloudy : showers. 22. Cloudy:
   fine : showers.    23. Showers : clear : aurora.    24. Fine : aurora.      25. Bain :
   fine : aurora. 26. Showers : clear. 27. Bright : showers. 28. Bright : showeis ;
   clear, 29. Rain: cloudy. 30. Cloudy: showers : aurora. 31. Bright: fine,

                                                                   7-0 : © o c* o o —• .73 —
             \tOUVO
              •Oiiqs
           -laujuina                            ¦O
       •aa
             •uoisog
            •<|0i.u!m3                                                                               10 — -»
                            — o o 9 *TO                       o o                                    000
            •jpilipUES    . k E £ . £ . k* . £ • £ £ * ^* s . . . ^ .• • ¦ c . • ^ ***•                          •-§
             'Xauvo
               •ajiqe
                        «!bbcss"B
                            S j I * *              1= 1s = «¦ g g g * i i **i**i* i f i i % i I
            •loujuinQ
       is     •uonoa
              •urd I
            •>|3!»!iq3   aJ o» js 5 S      * » £<U+25BA> g g g* S g g »-¦»»»• * i********             - s. J- J- f 0
                        NHiOiOO>OO«Oir>'OO-«h'«t0---QDCMX>tO00f<iXC*>OCI
            ;      -«!K roco
                        -*r    -ioco
                            CM co  O CM CM *r rocoCMCMCOCOoototM
                                               Tf r- r-10 cm corTtO\>ftOC           r— rrco — ovo c\ t-» — co f*iO c*
                                                                           c«5Ct inTtTf^coi"fl"l,1,tmr5^           ¦* ro
           .-£
            Er
            3 "    ¦*»M o\— 00 o woo o — co — cor— ONODcric^r^ciirjiooioci^r^iC'^fe^in —
           a
             •urn f8
                        icccmr^t- "^o^ctvco — cm cj> co o> -rt r- cm ^c»n-oc\c»c*--«c\'»
^J CO
                        r^»n— co*o votj'-f^o'O -* coco -* o inot^c>>nt^DnQ cm pcn/io — -t
                        wr^iooow- --oo-^ao-oo-^o-OkOoo'M'N t^» ¦¦tr^coonr*
                        lOiOTfOt-CfMTiXClCiO CM. CM 7- CO ^f !>• ^0 ^TiOTj'C^Cys^TiO.'pcop ^T ^T
                    ?!  ChC7NcScVicV>cVcV»0 C?\ C*i d C?\ © O O ^cVicViCriCTiCTiCJSCTiONO^C^C^WO c> c*»
                        wc<c<c<c<c<c<ncic<c»c<nnnc<^tNc<c4C<cici<Nc<c*c*c»nc<^
           J: 3         «OlO ^fOrfCCD 0%<0OC0 CT>— CM O* W »p »p "0 Cp CO CO ipO^O TfUlO C* *¦? T*"
                    sS  CTiC^CTtCr>cViCTiCT\6>C?\OGriC7NO O O C^C\Cr^CT»Cr\CyiCT»CNOSC3>OC>0 © CTiO
                        c om— noc< © Moooo-fi" tonconi.00000 o o o>wo o w o
                        u-jio— nio^o»oxoo t- o ao © cm — co uo op *p vp r-» ,p?*cp,p1P::cT*r^,.'>"r*3
                        cV\cTicVcViCTNC^cV>cVcr»cy\cric^o c © cS^c^cV*c7*c^c^cTicy^cx»Cftcrto © c* cr*
                        CNCMC»CMC<CMCMCMC*CMC<CMC0C0COCMCMCMCMCNC<CMCMC*CMC^CMCOC^C*CM
                        r*- <o <£> r» ei ¦<# oo >©            o o r— m — x       Off      o toco  CM— CO —•
                        r\ J ~ cm co 10 cm -*r <0 CM"* — c^co tOCO CO
                        t<o cm 0 ^O (O — ip CTiWS ¦'*                   o cy>co  — oco
                                   C?i CT\ 0s CT^ ^ C1WC1               ocVos    6 ononc        ¦ © 3% 0"» CT>
                                   01 d c< c< c« CN C4 CM               roCM c*  CO CM CM C     3 to CM C» C<
                        co co o cy> a> o 10 <o co r-o                   t r-u-j  •ton'          r*rnom
                        O cm cm i— -r 1^. en —                — vo c—            VO O O «"      1 cm ro« c-5
                                   7?" i— r- "N CT\ C CO vp fOOO        o o a>   -• O CT.C      ¦ — © co O
                                   CT» O'N CTi CT\ c^> ocVcV cV.cS 6    06 a. 6 6 aic
                                                              CM CM C*5 On CM
                                   C< C4 CM C* W
                        -^ClfO'^riO'Ot—CO C^© — CM ro^ic^ot—co CJ\©^-CMf*3^f»0*0r— oco© —
      jo sXuo                                            __-^-r--^r--^c*ac*c<c<c*c*c<c4nn
                            o                          ^                  •                       *                o

                                THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH and DUBLIN'
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
           •                     AND
            JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
       SUPPLEMENT to VOL. XXXV. THIRD SERIES.
LVIII. On the Rotation of the Plane of Polarization ofHeat
  by Magnetism. By MM. F. de la Provostaye and P.
  Desains*.
SHORTLY after the brilliant discovery of Prof. Faraday
      of the rotation of the plane of polarization of light by
magnetism, M. Wartmann announced t that he had tried the
same experiment with radiant heat. He employed the heat
of a lamp, which he partially polarized by making it. pass
through two piles of mica crossed at right angles. The elec
tro-magnets and a cylinder of rock-salt were placed between
these piles, and consequently very near the thermo-electric
apparatus. The galvanometer, on the contrary, to be pre
served from the action of the electro-magnets, was removed
to a great distance ; but the result was a considerable increase
in the length of the circuit, and a diminution of sensitiveness.
   Notwithstanding all these inconveniences, which he clearly
pointed out, and which he was not able to overcome, M. Wart
mann thought he observed that the needle of the galvanometer,
after having attained a fixed deviation under the influence of
the radiation not intercepted by the piles of mica, was ajrain
displaced and took a fixed position different from the first
when the current was established, which seemed to indicate a
rotation of the plane of polarization of heat.
   At Paris, some persons having vainly attempted to repro
duce these phaenomena, we have considered that it would
be useful to revert to these experiments, and to point out a
method which permits of making them succeed with facility.
   We have introduced into M. Wartmann's process three prin
cipal modifications:— 1st, we employ solar heat; 2ndly, we take
for polarizing apparatus two prisms of achromatic spar; Srdly,
and this appears to us indispensable, instead of placing the
principal sections at 90°, we arrange them so that they make
an angle of nearly 45°.
      * From tho Annates de Chimie et de Physique, October 1849.
       f Imlitut, May 6th, 1846, No. 644.
   Phil. Mag. S. 8. No. 239. Suppl. Vol. 35.                 2 I

482              On the Rotation of the Plane of
   The employment of spars and solar light permits of re
moving the electro-magnets to a great distance from the
thermo-electric pile. With respect to the arrangement of
the prisms, the law of Malus shows all the advantages which
it presents. In fact, let us take for unity the deviation which
the solar ray transmitted through the principal parallel sec
tions would produce. The deviation, when the prisms form
an angle of 45°, will be cos2 45°=—.        If the current is set in
action, and it produces a rotation of the plane of polarization
equal to 8, the deviation will be, according to the direction of
the current, cos2 (4-5°— 8) or cos2 (45° + 8), and we shall then
have, for the difference of the effects observed when the cur
rent is made to pass in a contrary direction,
              cos2 (45° - 8) - cos2 (45° 4 8) = sin 2 8.
   On placing the principal sections at 90c, the difference of
the deviations would be only
                 cos2 (90° - 8) - cos2 90° = sin2 8,
or
                 cos2 (90° + 8) - cos2 90°= sin2S.
Now sin* 8 is considerably less than sin 28. If, for example,
we suppose 8=8°, sin 28 is equal to more than fourteen times
sin 28.
   The eye, it is true, appreciates readily the transition from
darkness to light, but not so the difference in brightness of
two luminous images. This is not the case with the thermo-
scopic apparatus. There is therefore, when heat is concerned,
a great advantage in proceeding as above directed.
   The following are the details of the experiment: the solar
ray, reflected by a heliostat, traverses at first a doubly- re
fracting achromatic prism. The extraordinary bundle was
intercepted : the ordinary bundle traverses the electro- magnet
of M. Ruhmkorff's apparatus, and aflint-glass of38 millimetres
in thickness between the poles of the electro-magnet. It after
wards encounters, at about 3m,50, the second prism of spar,
bifurcates again, and gives two images, one of which may be
received on the thermo-electric pile placed at four metres from
the electro- magnet. The galvanometer was still a little further
removed from this disturbing force. It was ascertained, by
direct and repeated experiments, that on establishing the cur
rent there were no phenomena of induction, and that the
electro-magnets had no appreciable action on the magnetic
needle which, under their influence, remained at zero in a state
of perfect rest. In order to understand this, it must be borne
in mind that the two opposite poles are very close together,

               Polarization of Heat by Magnetism.              483
and that they act simultaneously upon a system already very
distant and almost completely astatic. It might be feared that
the electro-magnet, without action on the needle at zero, acted
on the needle already displaced by the action of the calorific
radiation. This would be possible in fact, if, in its first po
sition, the needle had the same direction as the line which
joins its centre to the electro-magnet, and if, when it deviates,
it made a notable angle with that direction. In our experi
ments, precisely the inverse condition was realized ; so that
the component of the magnetic action diminished more and
more during the movement of the needle, and became per
ceptibly null when it attained its greatest deviation. If there
fore it had no action in the first case, such ought for a stronger
reason to be the case in the second.
   By means of a commutator the electric current could be
made to pass, now in one direction, now in another, through
the wires of the electric magnet. We shall designate the two
currents by the abridged expressions Current A, Current B.
   The following are the deviations observed: —
                  Experiments of September 22.
(A Muncke's battery of 50 elements with large surfaces, but
                 already worn, was employed.)
                           First Series.
                                             Deviation).
                Current A                       21-0
                Without current . . . 19'0
                Current A                       21-4
                Without current . . . 18-6
                          Second Series.
                       (Acid was added.)
                Without current . . . 20'5
                Without current . . . 20'6
                Current B                       186
                Without current . . . 209
                Current A                      28*6
                Current B                       18'8
                Current A                      22-0
                Current B                       180
                Without current . . . 19*9
                          Third Series.
                Current B                       1 7*4
                Current B                      17*1
                Current A                       19'5
                Without current . . . 18'3
                               2 12

484         Prof. B. Silliman on a Granular Albite
                  Experiments of September 29.
(A Bunsen's battery of 30 elements, well-cleaned and amal
                     gamated, was employed.)
                            First Series.
                                               Deviations.
                Without current .         .  .    12-0
                Current A                         14-9
                Current B                          8-6
                Without current .         .  . 11*7
                Current B                          8'8
                Without current .          .  . 11-8
                           Second Series.
                Without current . . . 18*4
                Current B                         14-9
                Current A                         21*7
It is to be remarked, that here, if the principal sections of the
prisms were perpendicular, the deviation, at first null, would
scarcely attain one semi-division when one of the currents was
made to act.
   Lastly, to obviate every objection, a third series of experi
ments was made by taking away the prism of flint-glass, and
observing the deviations produced by the solar ray, when, as
before, the electric current was made to pass in the wires of
the electro-magnet, now in one direction, now in another.
              Devia-"1 As should be the case, the deviations are
               tions.   equal, which proves that the electric cur-
Current A ... 16-5 > rent and the magnet change the devia
Current B ... 16-8 tions in acting on the flint-glass and not in
Current A ... 16*8 acting on the needle of the galvanometer.
   The above experiments establish, we believe, in an irre
fragable manner, the rotation of the plane of polarization of
heat under the influence of magnetism.
LIX. On a Granular Albite associated with Corundum, and
   on the Indianite ofBournon. By B. Silliman, Jun., M.D.,
   Professor of Chemistry applied to the ^Jrts in Yale College,
  and of Medical Chemistry and Toxicology in Louisville Uni
  versity, Kentucky*.
 \ SPECIMEN of a granular mineral was sent me by
¦** Mr. Gibbs of Andover, last year, with the remark that it
was found in beds in Lancaster County, Pennsj lvania, and
            * From Silliman's Journal for November 1 849.

                    associated with Corundum.                   485
was so hard as to resist all attempts to penetrate it by hardened
steel, greatly impeding the operations of the miners in the
chrome iron districts.
   I also received other specimens of the same from Mr. Wil
liams of Westchester, associated with corundum, which was
found imbedded in it; and from this circumstance it has been
mistaken by some mineralogists for Indianite, which species
it resembles in hardness, gravity and in granular structure,
but not at all in composition.
   In its granular structure it so resembles dolomite, that no
difference can be detected between them by the eye, while
its hardness and great difficulty of fracture completely blind
the inquirer as to its real character. Its characters are as
follows :—
    Massive, compact, granular, resembling white dolomite ;
tough ; fracture even, but very difficult. Colour, white with
 shades of gray. Streak, white. Hardness, 7 to 7"25 (scratching
quartz with facility). Gravity, 2619.
    Insoluble in acids. Before the blowpipe, infusible, and
 does not colour thejlame ijellow ; with the fluxes yields evidence
 of silica, alumina and lime. By a quantitative fusion with
 carbonate of baryta, soda was detected.
    The first specimen analysed was from Lancaster County,
 Pennsylvania, and showed no trace of corundum disseminated
 in it.
    This analysis was made by Mr. G. J. Brush, and yielded
 on the quantity taken, 1 -234 grm., as follows : —
                                                  Oxvgen.
        Silica ....         0-8225 = 66-653 p. c. 34-85=12
        Alumina . . .       0-2565 20-786           10-70     3
        Lime ....           0-0253     2-050"]
        Magnesia . . .      00071      0-519 ^       S'08     1
        Soda . . . .        0-1155     9-360 J
                            1-2269    99-420
    It gives the constitution 4Si03, Al2 O8, NaO = Al2Os, SiO3
  + NaO, SiO3:—
           4 atoms Silica . .    2309-24       69-09 per cent.
           1 atom Alumina .        64233       19'22
           1 atom Soda . .         390-90      11*69
                                 3212-47      100-00
    This is precisely the formula and constitution of an albite.
    The second analysis was on a specimen from Unionville,
 Chester County, Pennsylvania, having identical characters,

486     On a Granular Albite associated -with Corundum.
but associated with corundum, which occurs implanted in/It.
This analysis was made by Mr. M. C. Weld. Quantity
taken,2-180 grms. Found —
                                                    Oxygen.
        Silica . .        1-4575 == 66857 p. c. = 12
        Alumina .         0-4772      21-889            3
        Lime . .          0-0389       1-785T
        Magnesia .        0-0105       0-481 V          1
        Soda . .          0-1914       8-779J
        Water             0-0105       0-481              • •
                          2-1860    100-272
   This obviously yields the same formula as the last analysis.
   The extreme hardness of this mineral is its most remarkable
quality, and is not easily accounted for. It is probably con
nected with its association with corundum, for we find the
quality equally developed in the Indianite (or anorthite), the
Asiatic associate of the same species.
   Analysis ofIndianite.—I thought it of interest, in connexion
with the foregoing analyses, to make a new analysis of Bour-
non's Indianite, which, as already remarked, is found to be
the matrix of the corundum in India. Being possessed of an
authentic specimen, I requested Mr. Brush to conduct the
analysis, the results of which are now given. This mineral is
granular, and of a pink colour, sometimes gray or blackish;
very tough and hard. Hardness, 7 to 7*25. Gravity, 2-668.
It gelatinized completely in cold hydrochloric acid. Before
the blowpipe alone, infusible. The analysis gave on 1-594
grm.—
         - .                                     Oxygen.
 Silica . . . 0-6710 = 4209 p. c.                21-859 = 4
 Alumina and a-1
    trace of iron J             38-89            17-160       3
 Lime . . . 0-2516              15-78 4-449\
 Soda . . . 00651                                 5-592       1
                                 408 1-043J
                    1-6077     100-84
     4SiOs, R2 O3, 3RO = 3RO, SiO> + S(R* Q\ SiO»),
which is the formula for anorthite.

                               [  *8?    ]
LX. Supplementary Considerations to Mr. S. M. Dkach's
       Epicyclical Papers (Phil. Mag. June to July 1849)*.
SINCE publishing my above-mentioned papers, I have
        unsuccessfully tried the general solution for more than
two circles. However, knowing p, the polycircloid
            x= 2 {at cos q$ + b{ cosptf = X, = 11. cos ©J,
           _y=2(a( sin qp + bt s\np$ = Y( = R, sin 6,),
may be regarded as the ultimate locus of a series of bicircloids,
the centre of each being on the curve of its immediate prede
cessor, beginning with the centre of the deferent. With an
odd value of/, one b{=0, and this last becomes a circle.
    We have also
               x=?.a.cos{q$ + t), j/ = 2ajsin (q$ + t),
giving
                      r2 =1a* + 2£a .ay cos q <p — q.<p,
independent of the common constant t.
          r=2,aicos(qi<p+t—6}i 0=Saisin(yjip-|-< — 9).
    If the cos angles in r2 naturally arrange themselves as the
powers of cos \J» = cos ptp — q<p, so that cos \J/ is extractible by
quadratic, cubic, or biquadratic equations, the solution is
always analytically possible ; e. g. the tricircloid
x = a cos qf + b cos p$ +/cos t$, y= a sin q<f + b sin p$ +/ sin t$,
.-. r2=s a2 + fl2 +/* + 2abcosp — qtp + 2qfcosq — lf + ibfcosp — tp
    Let
                           P ~ of — 1 ~ if — M> = ^»
          .-. r2 = a2 + (6 -ff + 2a£ + 26/cos vj/ + 46/cos2 vj/,
   , .-. 4J>fcos ty=—ab-af± </ ibfr* + {a* -4bf)(b -/')*.
And then
    '2rx cos \9={a(c+s)M + 8ic.}k+{a(c-s)i* + $<.c.}*
              sX(x-l)..(*-t + l)         /(<-!).. (i-j+1)
                       1 .2..<                  1 . 2 . .J-
           = 2cos (y— 2/ + i/[>}.
Substituting the powers of 2 cos v|» in 2 cos fa — 2/+i>J/, we get
the general equation of the curve.
                       * Communicated by the Author.

 488       Mr. S. M. Drach's Supplementary Considerations
    Ex. p=3, q = 2, t=l, gives
            86 cos3 4/ + 4a cosSJ/+ (6— S/)2 cos xjr— 2a = 2r,
 whence
         ±(a*b+fr*-b*f-bf*) */46/r2+ (a2 - 46/) (i -/)*
for the equation : if 6=/,
                   2f*x + 2ar* = ± (ah- - 2/2r + r3) ;
ifa = 2/2 = 262,
                      ?-6= (a2^ + 2fl*2)2 = (a? +y*f.
    But in these quadratics we have a circumstance analogous
to the discussion of the equations of the second order. For
that cos ty be real, the y'- must cover a positive quantity or
zero; which, when b and/have different signs, shows that
*6/{>"2 -(£-/)*} must be <(a6-a/)a; whena2=46/,
                           a cos \J/ = —b—f+r.
    Similarly, p = 3q— It, p = 4q — 3t would lead to a cubic or
biquadratic equation. Even higher powers are thus resolvable,
if the intermediate powers disappear through their coefficient*
vanishing, as
                         cos12\J> + 2A , cos6\J/ = A9
gives
                    cos4'=^(-A1+ ^A.^+AJ.
    The above tricircloidal expansion of 2rx cos \S exists what
ever X be assumed to be, and for cos we may write sin on each
side of the equation.
    The straight-lined, curved-cornered bicircloids, cos n$ =
funct. (r), are true regular bicircloidal polygons ofn sides, cor
responding to the angular ones of the simple circle (Euc.
book iv.).
    For the central bicircloids,'
                                            _
                              ;=2acos^—^-fl-
                                          p+q '
      rffi2 'r +                 +     L            df      Jrfs3
becomes
                         HP~ q)'io?r-b + kpqr'3,
.*. when q = 0 (excentric circle), as r~b (Princ. I. vii. 1).
    The length of these central bicircloids
          = 2afd8 \S \ —lpqXp + q)-*siii*Jp + q)(p—q)-t$,
an elliptic integral, except when q =0, =2«fl (see fig. Euc. i. 1).

                     to his Epicyclical Papers.                      489
   The loops of these curves are in general not analytically
identical with the lemnoid resembling |>oL where y=2, p = 3,
             8a?a-3-6xa-1 + 2 + 4x'ib-2 = 4:rib-\
For in the other loops (nn' = l) R2*'«2 gives
      {2aWa-2 + &c}»'=2Xn'+1-R2(n'+lX2X)n+1 &c. ;
so that x does not = X generally.
   The radius of curvature of the syphonoid
                    (x =s a cos q<p, y= cos pf)
is
{^(a4-*2) +p%b'i-yi) }»h- {p*qy */a*Zx*-q*px x v'i2^2},
and its area
       fydx =(p>/ (a2-#2)(£2-^2) + qxy) -^(q* -p*) .
For the lemnoid
                (x=a cos q<f, y=y' =b sin pf)
change +q to — q in these two expressions.                    Their arc-
lengths are
              fdysjaV«n'gf+**^«J¥
respectively
        " ""
   Tfhe following   table gives some results at critical points.
                                          J . -nJlUl
                 Rad. curvature.                 ¦„! Area.
              Syphon.      Lemnoid.     Syphonoid.          Lemnoid.
          0    O-s-0 p2o-s&«-1 qab(q*-p*)->                    0      '
          A \p*q-'ba-1 0-hO                              qab(qi—pi)~i
          0    0-M)            CO
                                      pab(qi—pi)~l             0
          &      CO          0-s-O          0            paB(q9—jr)~1
   Thus for the common parabola,
              p=l,       q = 2,    -zba-y     2
                                              —    7
                                                 ab,   -* abA
                                              3 ' 3
are the respective quantities (the latter for half the area at the
axis). Thus every lemnoid corresponds to a syphonoid.
   The paragraphs m the Literary Gazette for March 28,
1846, were not penned by me, who had just made Mr. Perigal's
acquaintance. Subsequent investigations have shown me that
this Kinematic Parabola, being a finite portion ofthe common

490         Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam.
conical one, has its x and y dependent on the periodic cos /x ;
which quantity enters explicitly and implicitly in the differen
tial expression for the centripetal force to the focus, which is
therefore uot identical with the Newtonian law.
                                                   S. M. Drach.
   November 26, 1849.
LXI. On Electricity and Steam. By Reuben Phillips, Esq.*
35. PT^HIS paper is a continuation of a former one (Phil.
       A Mag., vol. xxxiv. p. 502), wherein are described
some magnetic actions produced by steam in the act of con
densation. I regarded those motions as the effect of dynamic
electricity, and then endeavoured to obtain the static effect,
 which I think I have done.
    36. An electrometer was constructed in the following man
ner:—A straight slip of thin metal, about *4 inch wide, was
 bent at some distance from one end, the direction of the mo
 tion in bending being in a plane perpendicular to the original
 surface of the plate and parallel to its length, and the bending
 was continued until the included angle was 0; the bend was
 opened a little, the end of a slip of gold-leaf inserted, and the
 whole rendered secure with a binding-screw. Previously,
however, the plate at that part which was close to the end
that had been doubled in, had been bent in the same direction
as before, four times at right angles, so as to leave a little pro
jection across the plate, over which the gold-leaf hung; the
object being to keep the gold-leaf so far from the metal plate,
that a rapid inspection sufficed to show that the former was
free to move. The gold was the length of one side of the
usual gold-leaf, and the metal plate extended parallel with it
to its lower end. The doubled portion was now fitted into a
slit in a cork, which was then inserted into a glass tube, the
end of the bent portion projecting about f inch beyond the
external end of the cork. The other end of the glass tube
also held a cork, through which a straight metal plate passed
extending parallel to the gold-leaf. The tube was about 9
inch diameter and 5£ inches long, and the ends were covered
with sealing-wax ; however, care was always taken to connect
the plate of the lower cork with the earth. The whole could
be supported on a small wooden stand.
   37. A singular appearance, but not connected with elec
tricity, is presented by this electrometer when either of the
metal plates is made to vibrate, as by a slight tap ; for the
                    • Communicated by the Author.

            Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam.         49 i
gold-leaf is then powerfully attracted by, and drawn into con
tact with the vibrating plate. I suppose this observation is
new, and very significant with regard to theories of attraction
and repulsion, although I have not pursued it further.
    38. As this electrometer was very sensitive, I more gene
rally employed another, with two short gold leaves, and which
was very far from being a sensitive instrument. This instru
ment was always employed except where I have mentioned
that the single-leaf electrometer was used.
    39. Throughout these experiments the steam was at 40 lbs.
on the inch, and was supplied from the same little boiler and
discharged horizontally as before (7.).
    40. The Armstrong's condenser was removed, and the brass
jet (9.) was united to the cock of the boiler by two short brass
connecting pieces. This brass jet originally belonged to an
oxyhydrogen blowpipe, and its shape was slender and conical,
and the small hole at the end of the jet from which the steam
 escaped was \ inch long, the remaining portion of the bore
 was ^ inch diameter. The boiler communicated with the
electrometer by means of a wire. When the cock was opened,
the boiler became negative.
    41. In order to collect the electricity of the steam, I used a
piece of wire-gauze, insulated and supported on a stand, and
which by means of a wire could be made to impart its elec
 tricity to the electrometer ; the extent of one side of the piece
 of wire-gauze was about 2*5 square inches. The electricity
 of the steam was thus found to be positive.
    42. A straight glass tube about 3 feet long and "4 inch dia
 meter, was placed horizontally with the brass jet projecting
 into it to the extent of the ^th of an inch ; the tube was also
 supported so that an annular space existed between the end
 of the jet and the tube. In order to ascertain the electrical
 state of the inside of this, or any other tube, a few inches of
 its length were covered externally with a piece of tin-foil and
 bound on with wire, the other end of which could be taken
 to the electrometer.                                  i
    43. When the steam was turned on, the tube and boiler
 both became negative. A connexion existed between the tube
 and the boiler ; for when the leaves of the electrometer were
 divergent, touching the boiler made them collapse. Some
 times the first action of the steam was to make the leaves di
 verge to a small extent, then to make them approximate a
 little, and then to cause them to open much more with a ne
 gative charge; but when the connexion between the tube and
 the electrometer was broken before the approximation took
 place, the instrument was found to be positively charged.

  492        Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam.
 The wire-gauze being placed in the steam as it issued from
 the end of the glass tube showed that it was positive.
     44. A glass tube, S feet 10 inches long and 1*1 inch dia
 meter, was substituted for the former tube. With this tube
 all the foregoing effects were observed, but they were more
 powerful.
     45. These experiments are only exhibitions of frictional
 electricity ; and the different states of the tube are principally
 produced by the tube taking its charge, either from the brass
 jet or from the excited steam that issued from it.
    46. The Armstrong's condenser was now interposed, with
 water in it, between the boiler and the brass jet ; and the
 smaller tube (42.) had the end which came to the brass jet
 fitted with a good cork, through which the brass jet passed and
 projected into the tube much as before ; the joint was then made
 tight with caoutchouc and thread. To ascertain the state of
 the steam, I employed a piece of wire gauze, 6j inches by 4
 inches, attached by means of stout wire to an insulating handle,
 by which the gauze could be held in the steam and then
 taken to an electrometer. This wire-gauze collector was
 generally used in the following experiments.
    47. The steam being turned on, the tube and boiler became
positive. When the wire-gauze was held at about an inch or
two from the end of the tube, it took from the steam a nega
tive charge; and at the distance of something more than a
foot, the gauze also acquired a negative charge which affected
the single-leaf electrometer; and at intermediate positions the
charge was still negative.
    48. When the condenser was removed, and the jet was
screwed into the cock of the boiler, everything else being as
before (46.), no decided electrical effects were observed ; but
when the glass tube was also removed, then, having connected
the boiler with the single-leaf electrometer and cautiously
turning the cock, it was discovered that at a particular pres
sure the boiler became positive, and at much higher or lower
pressures negative.
    49. Now I regard these electrical effects as frictional, and
possibly similar to those alternations in the electrical state of
the boiler observed by Mr. Armstrong. (Phil. Mag. vol. xxiii.
p. 202.)
    50. While the steam was escaping into the air from the
brass jet as above, 1 made some attempts to ascertain whether
the steam was positive or negative ; the electricity was very
feeble, on which account I did not care much about it, but the
little that I obtained was decidedly positive. This may have
arisen, although it is improbable, from the boiler becoming

            Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam.         493
negative, but it is more likely that the steam was rendered
feebly positive from a cause which I now proceed to mention.
   5.1. The condenser and jet were arranged as in the experi
 ment (46.), and the smaller glass tube insteatl of being fastened
on with cork and India rubber stood before the jet as formerly
(42.). The steam being now turned on, the boiler and tube
became positive. When the wire-gauze was about 1 inch
from that end of the glass tube from which the steam was
escaping, it took a negative charge; but at the distance of
about a foot, the larger wire-gauze collector being employed,
the steam communicated a powerful positive charge to the
single-leaf electrometer. The electricity of the boiler and tube,
and the positive electricity of the steam, were much stronger
than the positive and negative electricities of the preceding
experiment with a tight joint between the tube and jet. The
negative charge was most probably given to the gauze by
the friction occasioned by the violent rush of steam and air
against it.
   52. The larger glass tube (44.) was put in the place of the
foregoing and carefully adjusted like the former tube, so that
the central line of the path of the steam should lie as nearly
as possible in the axis of the tube. The boiler and tube were
positive. A connexion existed between the tube and boiler,
for when the steam was passing and the leaves of the electro
meter were greatly divergent, touching the boiler made them
collapse to a comparatively small amount. When the gauze
collector was held at about an inch from the end of the tube,
a positive charge was obtained, and at a distance of 9 inches
a powerful positive charge was still obtained; further experi
ments in this direction were prevented by a wall.
   53. By means of India rubber, the end of the glass tube at
the brass jet was closed, which caused the electrical effects to
diminish to such an extent that the single-leaf electrometer
indicated but doubtful traces from either the tube or steam.
   54. A short glass tube, 14 inches long and of the same
bore as the preceding, was substituted for it. The tube was
always positive, and the boiler, except in one instance, neutral
or positive. The larger collector being held, from that end
of the tube from which the steam was escaping, at distances
varying from 1 inch to 2 feet 6 inches, gave always a powerful
positive charge.
   55. The glass tube was now removed and the larger col
lector held in the steam at about 9 inches from the end of
the brass jet; the boiler, collector and electrometer being
electrically united. An abundance of positive electricity was
obtained, which would doubtless have been obtained at a
much greater distance.

 494         Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam.
     56. The piece of a gun-barrel (20.) was now placed with
 proper precautions before the jet, and by means of wire con
 nected with the boiler. The boiler was positive, and the
 steam powerfully positive even at a distance from the jet of
 4 ieet 3 inches, the current of air at that distance being a
 mere breeze ; and I doubt not that had it not been for the
 wall, I could easily have obtained plus electricity at double
 the distance. From this it clearly follows that the plus elec
 tricity of the steam cannot be generated by friction against
 the gauze. Neither does friction in the tube generate it, for
 the effect was obtained without a tube (55.); nor can it be
 generated by friction in the brass jet, for this frictional elec
 tricity was found to leave the boiler negative, which negative
 electricity was not nearly equivalent to the positive of the
 steam {55.); to which I may add the similar experiment* with
 the tubes, the tubes being evidently collectors only and not
 generators of the electricity of the steam.
    57. It would seem as though positive electricity only, with
 out negative, was generated in these experiments ; however, it
 is not so.
    58. The single-leaf electrometer was now placed in the vial-
 holder ofa microscope, through which the motions of the gold-
 leaf were observed by a power of about 200 diameters, a micro
 meter eye-piece being employed. Also a thin piece of metal,
 2 inches by 6 inches, was fixed on an insulated support, the
 greater length of the plate being about perpendicular to the
 horizon. This metal plate was now placed at a little distance
from the end of the former gun-barrel arrangement (56.), and
 sufficiently distant from the path of the steam to be out of the
 way of the straggling drops of water ; this screen was now con
 nected with the electrometer, and the boiler carefully connected
 with the earth. When the steam was turned on, the electro
 meter received a negative charge. The extent of the motion of
 the leaf was very variable, depending, I think, on the amount
ofwater discharged with the steam; on the average, I reckoned
it about five micrometrical divisions. A brass tube, 6 inches
long and £,{T inch diameter, was now jammed on the end of
the gun-barrel, to increase its length, and the inducteous
plate was placed at the end of it, as before at the end of the
gun-barrel. The steam now being turned on, the leaf moved
over between twenty and thirty divisions.
    59. It was easy to become convinced that these motions of
the leaf were really produced by induction, by turning on the
steam and allowing the leaf to obtain its deviation and then
quickly shutting off the steam, when the leaf would promptly
fall back. Also with the brass tube on, I managed to charge
the instrument positively by turning on the steam, Uien open

            Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam.         495
ing a communication for a moment between the earth and the
plate, and then shutting off the steam.
   60. When the brass tube was on the end of the gun-barrel,
tne leaf seldom returned to its starting-point when the current
of steam was stopped, and the instrument appeared to have ac
quired a permanent charge, which was negative, and appeared
to go on increasing with the time that the steam was allowed
to escape. It was found, too, that as the inducteous plate was
removed in a direction perpendicular to the path of the steam,
the first-mentioned effect of induction rapidly diminished, but
that the power which appeared to give the permanent charge
Scarcely underwent any alteration, even when the distance from
the path of the steam was increased to 9 inches, the greatest
distance the apparatus would allow. I have but little doubt
that this apparently permanent charge was principally pro
duced by the inductric action of the steam-cloud.
    61. From the foregoing it is seen that the jet of steam im
parts positive electricity to any substance that it touches, while
at the same time the steam, as a whole, may be more or less
negative. These facts will very well comport with the idea
that the particles of water are positive and the gaseous mutter
negative ; hence when the current passes through a tube or
touches a piece of wire-gauze, the particles of water become
more or less separated from the air and vapour, leaving them
negative. That the negative electricity of the gaseous matter
is not immediately transferred to the particles of water, is, I
 suppose, due to the non-conducting power of gases.
    62. When these electric effects are being produced by the
jet of steam, a peculiar rough sound is heard, which is de
pendent on the discharge of water with the steam; for when
 the jet was screwed into the cock of the boiler, I never heard
any other sound than a smooth sibilation; and when water
 was discharged with the steam, if its quantity was not quite
 sufficient, the smooth hiss only was obtained. At such times,
the steam, as it issued from the jet, on being examined, was
found to be, for the distance of ^th of an inch from the end of
the jet, transparent, with the exception of a thread-like appear
 ance of cloud extending through the clear steam parallel to its
path. Presently, from a lowering of the pressure, or other
 cause, this little cloud expanded all round the jet, and then
 looked like a frustum of a little right cone of cloud stuck on
 the end of the brass jet, the roar being at the same time per
 fectly developed. These effects were obtained without any
 tube before the jet.
    63. With the arrangement described (51.) very instructive
results were occasionally obtained } the tube was connected

496        Mr. R. Phillips on Electricity and Steam.
with the electrometer. Sometimes, when the steam was turned
on, the roar was absent, and then the electrometer was with
difficulty acted on ; then suddenly the roar was set up, and
the electrometer was promptly and powerfully affected.
   6*. It appears to roe that when water is discharged with
the steam and a smooth sibilant sound only obtained, that the
water passes off as a little stream from one part of the orifice,
but that with the roar the water escapes about equally from
each part of the hole. In the latter case it is doubtless much
more finely comminuted.
   65. When a jet of steam and water thus escapes into the
air, the particles of water, from their size and consequent
weight, will soon move faster than the atoms of water which
were discharged in the gaseous state. From this follows the
question, Are the particles of water charged by rubbing against
the gaseous matter? To this it must be answered, that this
electricity was not generated in the former experiments (46,
S3.), where water, gaseous matter and friction were present.
Also, no experiment is known in which gaseous matter is cer
tainly charged electricnlly by friction. (See Dr. Faraday's
paper on Steam Electricity, Experimental Researches in Elec
tricity, vol. ii. p. 106.)
   66. A jet of steam being discharged into the air becomes
magnetic (11.), which I attribute to currents of electricity
passing from the hotter to the colder particles (33.), in this case
steam and air ; the steam, or water which was discharged as
steam, being positive, and the air negative. When particles
of water are projected through the steam-cloud, I suppose they
collect together the minute positive particles, thus becoming
themselves positively electrified, leaving the gaseous matter
negative. I have yet made no direct experiments to ascertain
the minimum pressure at which these effects are produced,
but I am certain they may be obtained at a much lower pres
sure than 40 lbs. on the inch.
   67. Since these electrical effects are produced by the trans
mission of drops of water through a steam-cloud in the act of
formation, it appears to me that these electrical developments
may occur in the atmosphere. In my experiments, the drops
of water were so fine that they were separated with difficulty
from the air, but I see no reason for supposing that the elec
trical action would be essentially different if the drops were
so much larger as to separate themselves by their weight.
Lightning will thus result from a rapid condensation, the de
scending rain and mist being positive, leaving the upper re
gions negative.
   68. I would have this explanation of the cause of lightning

         Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.         497
to depend, nt present, as little as possible on the mechanical
violence of the drops of water ; because some experiments, not
yet fit for publication, seem to show that when steam and air
at the same temperature are discharged into the atmosphere,
the amount of water simultaneously discharged may be greatly
reduced, perhaps to nothing.
    69. The negative state of the air, which one would expect to
find particularly strong just after a thunder-storm, may slowly
discharge itself on the earth by conduction, or on the clouds,
or rain, and thus to the eurth by convection; nevertheless the
direct tendency of lightning, according to this theory, is to
render the upper regions negative ; and the facilities for the
return of this negative charge to the earth will decrease in
some proportion as the altitude increases. The continual
thunder-storms of the hotter climates may therefore gradually
accumulate a powerful negative charge in the heavens. Sup
pose now, when the air is thus highly charged, that a co
lumn of mist sufficiently high and dense to act the part of an
electric conductor to the positive earth and negative heavens
should be interposed between them, the electricity would then
pass as a series of disruptive discharges, and would, I suppose,
 be the aurora.
   7 Prospect Place, Ball's Pond Rctmt,
            3rd December 1849.
 LXII. Geometry and Geometers. Collected by T. S. Davies,
                      Esq., F.R.S. and F.S.A.*
                                 No. IV.
 '"l^HE printing of the three letters of John Bernoulli to
  * Cramer, which I had designed to give as the next of
 this series of "gossipings," must be deferred for awhile; as,
 from particular considerations, I am led to think it desirable
 to confine myself, for the present at least, to matters of more
 purely English interest.
     In 1747 Mr. Thomas Simpson published the first edition
 of his Elements of Geometry ; and in 1756 Dr. Sirnsdn the
 first edition of his Euclid. In this latter work are two notes
 upon objections which had been raised in the former, to some
 of Euclid's processes. In 1760 Mr. Simpson published the
 second edition of his Elements, in which he defends himself
 with great earnestness on those topics; and Dr. Hutton (in
 his Life of Simpson, prefixed to the Select Exercises, ed. of
                      • Communicated by the Author.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. No. 239. Suppl. Vol. 35.           2 K

498      Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.
1792) states that these criticisms of Dr. Simson's gave him
"some trouble and vexation,"— though on what ground, except
his own sensitive nature under prostrated health and its con
sequent depression of spirits, it would be hard to tell. The
man who could maintain his temper under the offensive
ribaldry of the notorious Robert Heath, could not on any
other supposition than this, feel wounded very deeply by the
plain, though, it must be confessed, somewhat contemptuous
language of Simson, in those notes. Dr. Hutton further says,
that Dr. Simson again replied in the notes to his next edition
ol Euclid (Life of Simpson, p. xi.). Also Dr. Trail (Life of
Simson, p. 31), remarks that "some animadversions were
made on this edition (1756) chiefly by those whose works had
been criticised in the Doctor's notes; and to some of these,
in a second edition, replies and explanations were made."
These, of course, Simpson never read, as the edition referred
to was not actually published till 1762, whilst Simpson died
the year before, and had been some months prior to this in a
state thnt precluded reading and study of every kind. Nor
is there in the notes at the end of the second edition of his
 Geometry anything to induce a belief that he wrote them
under any irritable feelings ; and we have his distinct aver
 ment, at p. 263 (I quote from the fourth edition, which seems
to be paged precisely as the previous two), that he was igno
rant of the existence of Dr. Simson's Euclid till the middle of
 November 1759, and his own work is dated March 3 of the
 following year, when he was in a most enfeebled condition.
 This was indeed his last connexion with the press, if we ex
 cept his preparation of the Ladies' Diary for the following
 year ; in which, however, there is reason to believe that he
 was greatly assisted by his friend and successor, Edward Rol-
 linson.
    J have collated with some care the one hundred and five
 notes given by Dr. Simson in the first and second editions of
 his Euclid. There are but few variations in the greater part
 of them ; and even these merely verbal, or of the most casual
 kind. As regards our present purpose, it is enough to state
 that in the 8vo edition Simpson is referred to four times, and
 in the 4to only twice; and that these two notes are alike in
 both those editions. They are upon t. 22, 24 and 25, and
 xi. 1; the second and fourth of these Jirst appearing in the
 8vo edition.
    Dr. Simson, however, wrote a more expanded series of cri
 ticisms on Mr. Simpson's notes, a copy of which (in Sonne's
 hand) is amongst the papers 1 formerly described. An exact
transcript of the original it evidently is; and a memorandum

         Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.               499
at the head identifies its authorship and purpose. The paper
itself has much the appearance of being intended for press,
though there is not the least reason to think it ever was
printed. On this account I give it entire. Probably it was
cancelled on account of Simpson's intimacy with Nourse.
" Remarks upon some of Mr. Thomas Simpson's notes at the end of
            the second edition of his Elements of Geometry.
   "Art. 1 . In page 257 and the next there is a long note, one design
of which is to show the impropriety of conceiving one figure to be
transferred from one place to another when the thing in hand can be
done another way ; he says Euclid has never recourse to this in other
cases ; but Euclid not only uses it in the 4 Prop. 1 and in the 24
Prop. 3. but also in the 4 Prop. 6. where he might instead of con
ceiving one of the triangles contiguous to the other with its base in
the same straight line with the base of the other, have constructed a
triangle in that position, having its sides equal, each to each, to the
sides of the other ; and in like manner the corollary of 1 Prop. 6
might have been shewn ; but it would have been quite needless in
either case. Mr. Simpson himself uses this method in the axiom
liefore his 7th Book, where without the least necessity he conceives
the figure PQR to be formed equal and similar to the bases ABC,
DEF and the prisms upon these last bases to be placed upon the
base PQR ; whereas he needed only have conceived the prism on the
base ABC to be applied to the prism on the base DEF so as their
bases may coincide ; but he has been afraid that they could not stand
both together upon one base, and therefore he bids place them suc
cessively upon the base PQR."
    The reader will remark the quaint humour of the close of
this article: but long experience convinces me that very few
pupils are able to abstract all notions of impenetrability when
considering the geometry of solids. The term "solid" is
indeed an unfortunate one to have chosen, by which to desig
nate a figure of three dimensions ; and it is difficult to remove
from the young mind some vague notion of the impossibility
 (or absurdity of directing it) of applying one solid to another
 so that both shall be in the same place at the same time. The
 method of Simson's Euclid is unquestionably legitimate: but
 something must be conceded in the outset of a new course of
 study to the youthful incapacity for abstraction. The con
 ception of both solids being successively fitted into the same
 matrix, or in the form that Simpson gives it, is less likely to
 violate previous notions, than the more abstract and certainly
 more philosophical process. Neither is it inaccurate under
 any aspect as a method of reasoning; and the more desirable
 view will easily present itself to the mind of the careful student
 at a stage of reading not very remote.
    But is the supraposition of a plane figure upon another
                                 2 K 2

500        Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.
plane figure materially different from this? For one line to
be on another is surely not " coincidence" in the strict sense
of the word ; and certainly there is little reason to consider
an argument founded upon two lines so situated, as a legiti
mate proof. Yet how few who have read Euclid hare any
other idea of supraposition ! Euclid does not use the term;
and no commentator or teacher who does use it, would pass
it by without showing in what sense it is used. This is easily
done by recalling the definitions of the point, the line and the
plane, to the student's mind. The difficulty of perfect abs
traction of some material properties is of the same nature
here as in the case of " solids;" but it is much simpler, and
more easily removed from the young mind.
     As regards the legitimacy of the processes of transferring
figures, so much has been said on both sides that it might be
difficult to propound u view which somebody or other has not
taken before. One thing, however, is clear ; that no geometer
 has been successful in attempting to build up a legitimate
 system without the aid of this conception—either openly or in
 disguise. We are forced back, then, upon the necessity of
 using it ; and perhaps our notions of legitimacy may be of
 too exalted a character to be ever realised. Are we sure, in
 deed, that our conceptions of form and the other properties
 of figure are not so obtained by us initially as to necessarily
 involve the consideration of transfer? Many considerations
 are involved in this question which lie beyond the ordinary
 range of geometrical discussion. It was evidently Euclid's
 desideratum to evade it; and yet he was unable to do so in
 i. 4, i. 7, and Hi. 24 : nor has any one else succeeded in doing
 so with perfect strictness.
     That this method of transferring figures was amongst the
 very earliest modes of demonstration, there can be no room to
 doubt; and that it was much more used (even in the school
 of Plato) before the time of Euclid, appears to me extremely
 probable. Little, perhaps nothing, is likely to be found of a
 documentary character either to bear out this view or to sweep
  it away. It is a natural mode of proceeding, and it is in a few
  cases even yet an inevitable one. The refinements introduced
  into geometrical reasoning by Euclid, or perhaps partially so be
  fore his time, induced the attempt to eliminate all idea of motion,
  as one of the properties of matter. It is on the same ground
  that corresponding modern refinements have been attempted,
  in which the principle should be completely carried out. That
  the conditions which determined the equality of two triangles
   were not determined originally without the adoption of the
  principle of transfer is almost certain; and as to many pro

          Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.               501
{jerlies of the circle in the third book, the two circles being
 eft (both in the enunciation and demonstration), can only be
accounted for on the hypothesis that the proofs we now have
were modified from proofs by transfer. This (as well as the
fact that most of them would be more neatly exhibited in re
ference to a single circle than to two) would seem to point
out the change as an immediately recent one— most probably
 Euclid's own change. I cannot, however, further enlarge
here upon this question.
    "2. P. 261. The reasoning here is such that it is difficult to
 know what his meaning is. ' he says the question here, is, whether
a triangle, under certain specified conditions, can, or cannot be
formed ? and therefor [e] to conclude any thing from the properties of
 Triangles would be ridiculous, and nothing less than begging the
 question.' does he mean that because the triangle is to be made,
 and not yet formed that therefore it is not allowable to conclude
 anything from the properties of triangles which have been already
 demonstrated ? Were this true, he would, indeed, be in the right
 to affirm as he does that the problem has a limitation, yet it would he
 absurd to urge it in this case : he makes use of his own limitation
 in this Problem, and why may not Euclid make use of his which is
 easier to be understood, and the consequence from it that the circles
 will meet sufficiently plain. But really this deserves no serious
 reply."
     That the conclusion of the intersection of the circles can
  be obtained from Euclid's limitation (viz. that any two sides
  of a triangle are greater than the third), is true enough : but
  that it is actually made to follow by any reason beyond " in
  spection " no one surely will say. A process tantamount to
  Simpsou's is essential; and whilst many may think that the
  objection does " deserve a serious reply," no one will, I think,
  consider what is given above as any reply at all.
     "8. In the same note he observes that the point F ought to have
  been shown to fall below the line
  EG (or rather, because the point G
  is found by construction, that the
  point G falls above EF.) this pro
  bably Euclid omitted, as it is easy to
  see that 1)F being greater than DE
  the angle DFE is less than a right
  angle, and producing EF to H that
  therefore DFH is an obtuse angle,
  and consequently any straight line DH drawn to EF produced must
  be greater than DE, and that DG which is equal to it must fall
  above EH."
     That Simpson's objection was a valid one is now unques

502      Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.
tioned : whether the present completion of it, or that given in
the note upon i. 24 be satisfactory or not, will give rise to
different opinions. It will be necessary to prove what Dr.
Simson assumes in the opening of the above reply, that DFE
is less than a right angle ; and as to that in the note in Euclid,
there is an assumption not at all warranted by anything prior
to i. 24 :—except, indeed, the warranty of his own precedent
in i. 13.
    Simpson administers a very proper and dignified rebuke to
the Doctor in the same note, but which is not noticed either
in this MS. or in print.
    " Professor Simson (at p. 359 of his Euclid, Itoedit. 1756)
has been a little severe upon me, on this head, for attempting
to supply, what I thought a small defect in Euclid. ' Who is
so dull (says he) tho' only beginning to learn the Elements, as
not to perceive that the circle described from the centre F &c*
It is not without a real concern that I here see this able Geo
meter drop his own character so far as to express himself in
a manner so very ungeomelrical. If the thing is indeed so
easy to be perceived, it must be so either as an object of the
senses, that is, in plain terms, by inspection; or else it must
be in consequence of geometrical reasonings antecedent to the
 thing itself. Now I am clear that he would not be thought
 to mean the former; and as to the latter nothing had been
given from which the evidence of the inference could be so
clearly seen : For though, &c."
    It may be added, that a particular object induced me a
little time ago to note the assumptions that are tacitly made in
the first book of Euclid. Whoever does the same will not be
a little surprised at their number.
    There is no doubt that Simson removed a great number of
small blemishes from Euclid's Elements; but, it is equally
certain, that he has still left a great many more than he has
removed. He found some of them too firmly rooted into the
system to be able to eradicate them without venturing upon
far greater changes than he has done—and he showed no
*' lack of courage " in that way, either. The present is one of
them; for the proof ought to form part of the text; whereas
it is treated in a note as a thing " easy to see." The same
assumption in a still more objectionable connexion occurs in
the construction of i. 1 3. For there it is assumed that the
circle whose centre is C, and which passes through a point D
on the other side of the line AB, will cut that line in ttvo points,
F and G; as otherwise the construction following could not
be performed. It is also to be presumed that the circle can
only cut the line in those two points ; as if it cut in more than

          Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.              503
 two, say n, then there could be ——— perpendiculars drawn
 from C to AB. The line FG must then fall wholly within
the circle j whereas when we come to the third book we are
 required to prove this very property; and more strangely still,
 to draw a straight line within the circle in the antecedent pro
 position. The difficulty is inherent in the method pursued.
It compels the eye to supply the place of reason. We merely see
that it is :—not know why it must be so. It is not by such
phrases as "who is so dull as not to see?" or "it is easy to
see," that this blemish can be removed.
    I believe that no one who has been much concerned in
 mathematical education will complain of students "only be
ginning the Elements " being very short-sighted upon such
points as these. They find it " easy to see " that many things
are so and so which the tutor would prefer their proving. In
these cases, it is not the fact that is in question, but its place
in the logical system. Geometry by inspection is always more
acceptable to the majority of young students than geometry
by demonstration. Mr. Byrne must have known this, when
he carried the system to perfection in his Euclid in Colours.
Did geometry, however, stop at visible properties, it would be
ji'juue enough. I have often found, too, that the notion of
 the ultimate objects of geometrical research being principally
graphic, or in some other way merely practical, has, whilst it
has fostered the propensity to proof by inspection, generally
led to much confusion in the student's mind. Let it always
 be presented to his mind as a rational science— never as a
practical art, except, indeed, incidentally.
    " 4. In the same place he blames the bidding ' draw a straight
line within a circle, without specifying that it must terminate in the
 circumference ' not knowing that this way of speaking is constantly
used by Euclid and other Geometers ; as not only in this 1st. of the
 3d but in the 4, 14, 15, 2S of the same book, and though the '2 Prop,
 of the 3d is to prove that a straight line joining any two points of
 the circumference is within the circle, yet surely there is no need of
 demonstrating that a straight line may be drawn somewhere within
 the circle ; the 2d Prop, being to shew that though the points be
 taken never so near to one another, that the straight line joining
 them will neither fall upon nor without the circumference."
    Simpson had only noticed this as an instance of vague ex
 pression. Is it not such? Is it not more —even much more?
    " 5. In the same note he answers wliat is said in page 415. of the
4to English Edition, that it ought to be demonstrated not assumed
that a straight line cannot meet a straight line in more than one
point, and says it cannot be demonstrated, and that the Editor refers

.504       Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.
it to the 14th axiom of Book 1. (he means in Barrow's Euclid, for it
 is the 10th in the Greek), but all that in this case follows from that
 axiom is that if two strsiight lines
 AB, CD could meet with each
 other in two points E, F, the parts
 of them betwen E F must coincide,
 and so A B, C D would have the
 segment common to both ; but this
 does not prove that they cannot
 meet in two points, from which
 their not having a common seg
 ment is deduced in the Greek Edition, but because they cannot have
 a common segment, as is shewn in Cor. of 11 Prop. 1 . 4to Edition it
 follows they cannot meet in two points."                         . ,.
     As regards a logical system, Dr. Sanson is right in this
 view; but in all that relates to the line and plane, especially
 the first steps of deduction, there exists in most minds some
 degree of confusion, arising from the vugueness of the' defi
 nitions- of those objects of our contemplation. In discussing
 Euclid's method, it appears to be almost always forgotten that
 his met/tphypical creed was Platonism ; and questions arising
 out of such antecedent creeds always must present themselves
 in the initial steps of a science.
     It cannot be denied that Simpson might have retorted, had
he seen this, "who is so dt'll as not to perceive that two
straight lines cannot meet in two points ? " It would be an
assumption far less removed from our first conceptions than
some that Euclid makes and Simson justifies.
    "6. P. 265. The observation at the end of the note which begins
in p. 264, viz : that in the Corollary (of Prop 11 Book 1.) the lines
A B, B D, B C are supposed to be all in the same plane, which can
not be assumed in 1 Prop. 11. is very just. Soon after the 4*° Edi
tion was published I observed this error and corrected it in the way
Mr, Simpson has mentioned in this note, he is mistaken in thinking
the 10lh axiom he mentions here, to be Euclid's, the Axiom he means
is That two straight lines cannot have a common segment, which is
none of Euclid's, but is the 10th. in Dr. Barrow's Edition, who took
it from Herigon's Cursus vol. 1. and to supply this, is the design of
Corollary 11 Prop. 1.                                                  ,.-,.
    "7. Page 267. and the following contain several objections against
Euclid's doctrine of Proportionals, most of which with many others,
have been long ago distinctly and fully answered by the learned Dr.
Barrow in the 7th and 8th of his Mathematical Lectures. Some of
which relate to the notes on the 4to Euclid are as follows.
    *' 8. At the bottom of P. 270. he says that ' Euclid or 'Eudoxus
does never (that I know of ) refer to any definition till he has proved
either by actual construction, or by some Demonstration previous to
that in hand, that such definition involves no absurdity &c.' the

         Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.               505
contrary of this is manifest, for instance in the 4th Prop. 5 he refers
to (or makes use of ) 5 Def. 5 without ever having mentioned it, or
proved anything about it, after he had given it. Dr. Barrow has
sufficiently shewn the weakness of such objections ; see his Lect.
Mathem : P. 299 near the end, and the sentence which begins in
the last line of Page 303. nam si Ike."
   Dr. Simson must have been " hard driven " for an objec
tion to Simpson, to have quoted this case: inasmuch as it so
far furnishes a new argument against the perfection of Euclid's
work ; and thereby affixes a stigma to the " 440 Edition,"
which is as yet unremoved from any subsequent one. That
the canon enforced by Simpson is a safe, a sound, and an
essential one, who will deny? Nay, more: —not only should
the consistency of the definition be shown, but its completeness,
and its freedom from redundancy, likewise. There is perhaps
no instance in Euclid of incompleteness of defining conditions:
but there are several of redundancy—such as the square, and
similar rectilineal figures, so often quoted by editors and com
mentators. The mischief done in such cases as these is rather
done to the logic than to the geometrical facts : but then, on
the other hand, these superfluous conditions might be contra
dictory to the essential ones, just as easily as consistent with
them, or consequential from them.
   Instead of collecting all the definitions at the beginning of
a book er treatise, many judicious writers prefer to give them
pari passu, as the occasion for them, as well as their justifica
tion, shall present itself. Probably the fifth definition of the
fifth book and those connected essentially with it, may present
a good argument in favour of such a modi'. In more elabo
rate researches, and especially in the theories of modern geo
metry, this becomes almost indispensable; as for instance in
the doctrine of "radical axes," "similitude," "poles and
polars," "anharmonic ratios" and "involution." Many
points, lines, circles, ratios, and relations of different kinds
here demand specific names, which till their necessary existence
has been proved, it would be a manifest absurdity to confer
upon them. Under all circumstances, at any rate, whatever
arrangement may be given to the definitions in a printed book,
it is essential to observe the canon enforced by Simpson, as
above quoted, in giving the composition and logical place af >
every definition.
    It would require more space than I have at my disposal to
enter upon the question of Euclid's fifth definition of his fifth
book ; and as 1 cannot treat it adequately, it must be passed
over altogether, till some future time. For the same reason, I
shall here offer no remark upon the portions of this paper of
 Simson's, which bear upon the fifth book.

506        Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.
    Yet whilst I avoid such extended discussions as I should be
entangled in by this subject, it is certainly due to Thomas
 Simpson to state, that all geometers have not entertained, and
do not now entertain, that high estimate of Dr. Barrow's
treatment of ratio that Dr. Simson ilid, and which he here so
triumphantly quotes. It is satisfactory to be able to state my
own view in the felicitous language of a dispassionate judge,
and of one whose philosophical acumen in such matters needs
no praise of mine, Professor Powell. In a paper read before
the Ashmolean Society of Oxford in 1836, he thus expresses
 himself: — " Dr. Barrow, in his celebrated Mathematical Lec
 tures for 1666, has treated the whole subject of ratios and
 proportion in the most copious and elaborate manner, but, as
 appears to me, with more learning than perspicuity; be is
 extensively occupied in examining and refuting such objec
 tions as those just adverted to; and in doing so seems more
 explicit and satisfactory, than in any attempts to elucidate di
 rectly the doctrine itself on real philosophical principles. In
point of fact, in the midst of his very extensive dissertations,
 it is far from an easy matter to discover what is his own idea
 of the nature of ratios ; and when it is developed, it is by no
means clear wherein it substantially differs from the views of
some of his opponents" (p. 14). I not only fully concur ia
this view, but I believe that much of the praise bestowed upon
 Dr. Barrow's Lectures on this subject, has been bestowed for
fashion's sake, and not from those writers having read and
 unravelled that complicated series of discussions.
    '* 9. In P. 379 of the 4t0 English Edition it is said That in order
to prove what is affirmed in the Demonstration of 10. Prop. 5 in the
Greek Edition viz : that A cannot have a less ratio to C than B has
to it, it ought to have been shewn that if the ratio of A to C be
greater than that of B to C. and taking any equimultiples of A and B,
and any multiple of C, the multiple of A is ever greater than that
of C whenever the multiple of B is greater than that of C ; but this
is not done in the 10 Prop, but would easily follow from it and can
not without it be easily demonstrated. The author of the notes on
the 8V0 [4t0 ? the 8vo was not published till after Simpson's death]
Edition sayes, that this point ought to have been cleared up by pro
positions antecedent thereto and independent thereupon ( 1 suppose
he means upon the 10*. Proposition, else I do not understand him)
and adds that the 8th Prop, seems the proper place for doing it.
then he gives an account of what is proved in Prop. 8. and next
gives a demonstration that the ratio of A to C cannot be less than
the ratio of B to C. but in the very first words of it, he supposes that
A is greater than B, which is the thing that is proved in the 10th
Prop, and therefore he has done it by the help of the 10th, tho, a
little before, he had said it should be done by propositions indepen
dent upon it ; tiis demonstration is exactly the same with that at the

            Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.               507
end the notes on the 10. Prop. Page 380 of the English 4t0 Edition
¦which he says ought to have preceded the 10th. it can, it is true, be
done without the 10th but not so easily.
     " 10. In P. 271. at the bottom, he sayes ' the same objection oc-
' curs again in the 13th Prop, where it remains in its full force, for
' though it be allowed that there are some equimultiples of C and E
 ' and some of D and F such, that the multiple of C is greater than
' the multiple of D but the multiple of E not greater than the multiple
' of F ; yet it is not demonstrated nor in any sort shewn, that other
' multiples of these quantities cannot be taken such that the very con-
' trary shall happen.' No indeed, for the very contrary may often
happen ; but this has not the least force against the demonstration
Euclid gives of the 13th Prop, for Bince it is allowed, that such equi
multiples can be taken as just now mentioned, the Demonstration of
the 13th remains firm and legitimate, but indeed what he sayes here
is so far from having the least appearance of an objection, that the
mildest thing [that] can be said of it is, that the author has been in
so great a hurry as not to have taken time to consider what he was
writing.
     "11. In P. 272. at the foot, he mentions the principle whereby the
 difficulty he had before spoken of might be obviated, viz : ' that if a
 ' magnitude of any kind be given, or propounded, there may (or can)
 ' be another magnitude of the same kind which shall have to it any
 ' ratio assigned,' or which is the same thing, that unto any three
 magnitudes two of which are of the same kind, there can be found
 a fourth proportional. This he sayes I will by no means admit of
 (tho Euclid himself in 2. Prop. 12. has used it) and in P. 70 of his
 Elements at the foot he had said that ' this kind of argumentation
  ' is authorised and adopted by Euclid himself in his twelfth book' as
  to which is to be observed that Euclid in the 12 Prop. 6 has shewn
  that a fourth proportional can be found to any three straight lines,
  from which what he assumes in the 2 Prop. 12 can be legitimately
  deduced, as is shewn in the note at the foot of the page in the 410
  Edition [and in all subsequent ones the same note is retained] at
  that proposition, but his using here will not infer that he would
  have used it before he had shewn the 12. Prop, 6.
      " 12. Near the end of P. 274 the author is for ' entirely rejecting
  * the 10lhand 13th Propp. of Book 5th and everything else founded on
  ' the Definition of a greater and less ratio, as being of no other use in
  * the Elements than to open the way to these important theorems on
  ' the alternation and equality of ratios' (by the last he means the 22
  Prop. 5.) ' which may be better demonstrated without them, from the
  ' Definition of equal ratios alone, &c.' but tho the 14th and 20th
  Propp. 5 on which the 16. 22. depend, can be shewn without the help
  of the 10th and 13,h yet since these two last are frequently used both
  by antient and modem geometers, they ought to have a place in the
  Elements ; and since they are there, it was proper to demonstrate
  the 14th and 20th by them as it is done without any construction
  by taking equimultiples.
      *' 13. As to what is said concerning a nature or idea (' see P. 273'

                      : \ ¦¦ , ¦ .      i n - • -i I •« . I -'¦«"
508        Mr. T. S. Da vies on Geometry and Geometers.
in margin) antecedent to that given in the 6th and 8th (he means the
5th and 7 th in the Greek Text) Definitions of the 5th book, Dr. Bar
row has so fully answered it that nothing further need be added.
    " 14. Tho Mr. Thomas Simpson is a very able Mathematician,
yet he is very much displeased at the high encomiums and extrava
gant commendations that have been lavished on this 5th book of
Euclids ; and adds that * this superb fabrick of proportions, reared
• with so much art, stands upon a tottering foundation' but Dr. Bar
row who gives it the highest Encomiums, and who is the person,: I
believe, he chiefly intends here, was, as is well known, an exceeding
modest man, and never launched out too far in behalf of opinions he
had adopted ; he was on every account, one of the best judges of
this affair, and with respect to such objections as have been here
taken notice of against Euclid's Definition sayes in Page 297 of his
Lect ; Mathem : that this definition ' nisi machinis impulsa validori-
' bus in seternum persistet inconenssa.'"
     I have uot observed in Simson's correspondence with
Nourse, any allusion to this paper. It does not, indeed, fol
low that because no chasm appears in the letters of this period
between them, by reference to missing ones in subsequent
letters, that all the letters which Simson wrote to Nourse (the
one, specified formerly, excepted) are preserved. It is not
unlikely that this paper was written soon after Simson's re
ceipt of Simpson's book ; as much to satisfy Nourse with his
purchase of Simson's copyright as anything else*. One or
two passages of the ad captandwn kind would seem to bespeak
such a purpose. Why else the sneer about the able " mathe
matician " at the opening of art. 14, as a preliminary to his
being so strongly contrasted with Dr. Barrow for modesty
and learning? The character of the paper is, on the whole,
marked by a hauteur towards Simpson, that is only excusable
 in the writer, from a consideration of his age and the profound
 respect with which he had so long been treated by his own
    * It is a remarkable circumstance,- that whilst Simson's Euclid is the
universally-adopted text-book in geometry in England, it is almost as uni
 versally discarded in the Scottish schools and colleges — even in Glasgow
 itself. In Ireland, Ellington's edition is used; and on the Continent, the
 Elements is only viewed as a work of learned curiosity, and quoted, where
 quoted at all, for the purpose of animadversion. The honour of a prophet
 in his own country is here verified indeed 1 I have often thought, whilst
 reflecting upon this, that the maintenance of the preference for Simson's
 edition in this country was due to the earnest manner in which its supe
 riority was urged at Cambridge by Dr. Robert Smith, and the respect paid
 to Nourse's known good judgement at Oxford. Probably, but for this,
 Thomas Simpson's Elements (the best, perhaps, we yet possess, which does
 not follow close in the wake of Euclid) might have now held the same
 position in this country that Legcndre's does in France; nt least if our na
 tional propensities to admire everything antique should uot have given rise
 to some new translation with its distinguishing variations.

           Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.                       509
little circle in Glasgow. Simson was there, what Johnson was
in his "Club" in Fleet Street.
     Simpson is the only author referred to by Simson, who was
both British and unadorned by academic titles ; and he is
introduced into the first and second editions of the Euclid
almost by inevitable necessity. Throughout, he is rather a
social parvenu than a scientific brother.                   In many of the
 views of the preceding paper I concur: still I cannot but re
gret the tone in which some of them are expressed. The
 mode, too, in which Dr. Trail refers to Simpson is in too
 strict keeping with a feeling of contempt towards " those
 whose works had been criticised in the Doctor's notes ; " the
 reference applying, as far as I have been able to ascertain,
 to Thomas Simpson only. No other author of the time is
  mentioned, or even alluded to, in Simson's Notes, and indeed
 no other work on the Elements of Geometry was published
 during the interval in question. The first edition of Emer
  son's was in 176S, and 1 find no allusion there to Simson or
  to Simpson either.
      I have more particularly alluded to the matters in the pre
 ceding paragraph for the purpose of remarking that if a ma
  thematician of Simpson's eminence (and I may add of Simp
  son's European reputation too) could be thus siffle by " titled
  scholars," we cannot wonder at the general neglect with which
  the host ofgeometers in humble life, during the last century and
  first quarter of the present one, have been treated by academic
  bodies*. Few of my readers have the least idea of the exist
  ence of a body of men who, through several successive ages,
  have cultivated geometry with an ardour that is probably un
  exampled, and with a degree of success commensurate with
  that ardour. Their reward, as well as their patrimony, was
  poverty ; and their fame was limited to their own narrow circle.
      • As a specimen of even a somewhat recent manifestation of this spirit,
   1 may quote Dr. Cresswell's treatise on Maxima and Minima. He says,
  ™ the Elements of Thomas Simpson contain a scries of propositions on the
   Maxima and Minima of Geometrical Quantities, in which there is not
   much that is original " (p. 5). I confess myself unable to find in any
  writer antecedent to Simpson, a large relative portion of the propositions
  in his book, and I cannot accede to the dictum of Dr. Cresswell, except in
  the qualified sense of the chapter itself being a • little ' one — barely fifteen
  pages. But when a writer thus becomes critical upon the subject of origi.
  nality in others, we have a right to test him by the same criterion. What
   is there " new" in Dr. Cresswell's owu treatise, either as to principle, me
   thod of development, or final result ? Certainly a finer opportunity for the
   production of a truly classical work on the subject was never thrown away
   by any writer. Cresswell's volume on this one subject is really larger than
   Simpson's entire treatise on geometry generally. No man can do much in
   fifteen pages, but any competent person might do a good deal in 273.

  510     Mr. T. S. Davies on Geometry and Geometers.
  Their works, however, live after them : but at present, chiefly
 forming portions of books of high pretensions, and bearing
 other names than theirs on the title-pages. These were men
 of the school of Thomas Simpson ; their career was marked
 out by him; and their tastes were formed upon the models
 which he bequeathed to them. It may be safely affirmed that,
 as regards geometry generally, and geometrical construction
 especially, no works in our language furnish so many beauti
 ful, varied, and instructive exemplars as the three works of
 Simpson, viz. his " Elements of Geometry," the supplementary
 part of his " Elements of Algebra," and the second part of
 his " Select Exercises." It is much to be regretted that Dr.
 Stewart's Propositiones Geometric^ was not added to the
 scanty libraries of these able geometers, by its being published
 in their own, instead of a dead language. That day of learned
 foppery is, however, gone by, when a man who wishes to
publish a work on science must claim his title to " respectable
 birth, parentage, and education," by his Latin prose composi
 tion, before he can obtain the notice of the dilettanti of the
so-called literary and scientific world. Justice, however, will
yet be done to these men, humble artisans, excisemen, and
country-schoolmasters though most of them were. The able
analyses of their little duodecimo annuals which is in progress
in the Mechanics' Magazine, by Mr. Wilkinson of Burnley,
 will do much towards effecting this purpose; and I should
hope that book- manufacturers will in the end be compelled to
bow to the force of public opinion, so far as to give at least
some distinct acknowledgement of the sources whence they
obtain the materials of their works. A work might be
pointed out—a work which has passed through several large
editions, and produced to its "author" large sums of money—
which is made up wholly out of the periodicals written by these
men —without, in any single case, more than a verbal alteration
in the solutions, and very rarely even so much as that. Yet
there is not the least hint given as to whence these beautiful
investigations were taken ; nor indeed any marked indication
that they did not " drop from the clouds," or were the honest
produce of the mind of him whose name adorns the title-page.
     Shooters' Hill, Oct. 27, 1849.

                             [ 511    ]
LXI1I. Illustrations of a Method for computing Magnetic
   Declination, on the principle proposed by Professor Gauss.
   By Samuel Beswick*.
THROUGH the kind suggestion of the Astronomer
       Royal, I have been induced to examine attentively the
elegant and profound Essay of Professor Gauss on the subject
of Terrestrial Magnetism. For some time I have used a
method for computing magnetic declination, differing from
the one proposed by this eminent magnetician, though the
involved principle is precisely identical: but this fact was
wholly unknown until very recently. The method referred
to has been applied with varied success to more than three
hundred places, their localities being distributed over the four
continents and the principal oceans. A specimen of its ap
plication to Greenwich, its antipode Sydney, and St. Helena,
is presented in this communication for the examination of
your readers. The principle of Prof. Gauss's method for
computing magnetic declination is given in these words (Tay
lor's Scientific Memoirs, vol. ii.) :—
    " Consequently there are on the earth only two magnetic
poles, apart from the possible case of local exception spoken
of in art. 13."— P. 223.
    " The two extreme values of V correspond in this point of
view to two points, inclosed by the zones, at which the hori
 zontal force is =0, and where therefore the whole magnetic
force can only be vertical ; these points are termed the magnetic
poles of the earth."— P. 195.
    " We proceed to develope the mode of submitting them to
calculation. On the surface of the earth V becomes a simple
 function of two variable magnitudes, for which we will take
the geographical longitude reckoned eastward £-om an arbi
traryfirst meridian, —and the distance from the north pole of
 the earth (a complement of geographical latitude)."— P. 199.
    " Resolving the horizontal magnetic force into two portions,
 one of which, X, acts in the direction of the geographical
meridian, and the other, Y, perpendicularly to that meridian,
—and considering X as positive when directed towards the
north, and Y as positive when directed towards the west."—
 P. 200.
    I propose to give a demonstration of the above method,
 essentially differing from the one given by the Professor, and
 such as I have used for years.
                     • Communicated by the Author.

 512             Mr. S. Beswick on a Methodfor
    Explanation of the diagram.— The letters a, h represent
 the situation of the earth's poles; the capital letters A, B re
present the two orbits of the magnetic points of convergence
or poles ; and b, g represent those poles.
   Proposition.—Given the latitude and longitude of each
magnetic pole, or point of convergence of the horizontal force,
and of the place of observation, to find the declination of the
needle at the said place.
  Mean Declination at Greenwich for the present year 181-9.
   (1.) N. lat. 51° 29' : comp. 38° 31'.
                          long. 0°. 0'.
   (2.) Lat. and long, of N. magnetic pole.
                     N. lat. 70° : comp. 20°.
                     W. long. 91°.
   (3.) Obtain the value ofzza trigonometrically thus: as
                     bzza : ba :: abzz : zza.

                computing Magnetic Declination.                  513
                                »¦                     • *' ¦ .*
 O thus :
                sine 20° 0* .      . .   .  95S405
                sine 1°0' .        . .   .  824186
                sine ' 20'' '. ".' ". . ' 777591
    Throughout the computation we shall consider it useless to
 subtract the radius, which only leaves the result without the
firstJigure. The middle sine 1° is obtained thus :
                    91° (as above) — 90°= 1°.
    (4.) Lat. and long, of S. magnetic pole.
                   S. lat. 75° 5' : comp. 1 4° 55'.
                   E. long. 155°..
    (5.) Obtain the value of yyh in the      same way as in item
 third.
                         155° -90° =65°.
                sine 14° 55' . . . .        941063
                sine 65° 0' . . . .         995728
                sine 13° 29* . . . .         93G791
    (6.) Obtain the value of zzc thus : add, or subtract, as the
 case may be, the value of zza, found in item third, to the com
 plement of latitude or ac.
                     38° 3l' + 20' = 38°51/.
    (7.) Allow 20" to every degree without the orbit of the
 magnetic poles, for the variation of intensity, and 1' to every
 degree within the orbit.
                     38° 51' x 20"= 12* 57"
                      20° O'x l'=20' 0"
                                       32' 57"
    (8.) Obtain the distance zzyy thus :
                          zza + ah + hyy ;                   . ,
 or
                 180°+ 20' +13° 29*= 193° 49».
    (9.) Correct for the earth's rotundity in latitude, thus :
                 ah* : zzyy* : : S2r 57" : 38' 12".
    These minutes are for every ten degrees of the distance zzc;
 hence                       • ¦ ov ..., . '
                38° 51' x 38° 12'-*-10=2D 28'.
    This number is used for the correction of latitude, thus :
                      20o + 2°28' = 22°28'.
    Phil. Mag. S. 3. No. 239. Suppl. Vol. 35.              2L

514              Mr. S. Beswick on a Methodfor
   (10.)   Correct for the earth's rotundity in longitude. At a
distance   of 90° from each pole all angles vanish ; I therefore
take the   least and greatest distances of the magnetic pole, and
proceed   in a duplicate ratio, taking 90° as a basis, thus :
                 70°*: 110°:: 51° 29°*: 59° 30' :
which is the same as saying, as the square of the least distance
of the magnetic pole is to the greatest distance, so is the square
of the latitude of Greenwich to the number required.
   This number must be adapted to the angle of longitude by
the correcting number in the middle clause of item ninth.
                  90° : 59n 30' : : 2? 28' : 1° 37'.
   This number is used for the correction of longitude; thus,
in the present case,
                       91°— 1° 37'= 89° 23'.
   (11.) Having made these corrections, now obtain the tri
gonometrical values of the side and angle, be and bca.
   First fincMhe side dc, thus: as the radius is to the sine ac
(38° 31'), so is the sine dac (89° 23') to the sine dc; or thus :
                 sine 38° 31' ... . 979431
                 sine 89° 23' .... 999997
                 sine 38° 31' . . . . 979428
   Find the side da, as follows: as the tangent to the comple
ment ac (38° 31') is to the whole sine, so is the sine of the
complement cad (89° 23') to the tangent ad (29') ; or thus :
         sine of camp, and rad. 89° 23'       .  .   1803194
         tang, to comp. . . 33° 31'           .  .   1009914
         tan                            29' . .       793280
   The side be may now be found in the following manner.
Obtain bd by adding ba and ad, thus :
                      22° 28' -I- 29' = 22° 57';
then be results from the following proportion : as the radius
is to the sine of the complement dc (38° 31'), so is the sine of
the complement db (22° 57') to the sine of the complement be
(43° 54'). Or logarithmically thus:
            sine to comp. 38° 31'      . . . .      989344
            sine to comp. 22° 57'      ....         996419
            sine to comp. 43° 54' ... . 985763
This is the value of the side be.
   (12.) Now find the angle bca, thus : as the sine be is to the
sine bac, so is the sine ba to the sine bca. Or thus :

                  computing Magnetic Declination.            515
                 sine 22° 28' ...          .   958223
                 sine 89° 23' ...          .   999997
                                             1958220
                 sine 43° 54'    ...       .   984098
                 sine 33° 26'   .   .   .  .   974122
which is the angle ben.
   Inasmuch as the process for finding the values of the sides
and angles, and the corrections for the earth's rotundity in
latitude and longitude, is precisely identical when applied to
the southern hemisphere, it would be useless to repeat the
explanations and details of the process. But in order to faci
litate the computation, and yet avoid repetition, corresponding
items shall be arranged under corresponding numbers.
   (6.)          38° 31'- 13° 29'= 25° 2'.
   (7.)          25° 2'x20"= 8' 20"
                  14°55'x l' = 14'55"
                                  ¥3'15"
   (8.)          180° + 20' +13° 29' = 193° 49'.
   (9.)          32400 : 37S64 : : 23' 15" : 26' 57".
                 26' 57" x 25° 2'-i-10= 1° 7'.
                 14° 55'+ 1° 7'= 16° 2'.
   (10.)         75° 5'8 : 104° 55' : : 51° 29»* : 49° 1 9*.
                 90° :49° 19':: 1° 7' : 36'.
                  155°+ 36'= 155° 36' : compl. 24° 2t'.
   (11.)         sine 38° 31' ....           979431
                 sine 24° 24' ... .          961606
                             L'              941037
         sineofcomp. and rad. 24° 24'        .   .  1995937
         tang, to comp. . . 38° 31'          .   .  1009914
         tang                      35° 56'   .   .   986023
                     35° 56-16° 2* =19° 54'.
            sine to comp. 14° 54' .... 998515
            sine to comp. 19° 54' . . . . 997320
            sine to comp. 24° 41' ... . 995841
   The complement is 155° 19'.
                                2 L2

516             Mr. S. Beswiclk on a 1Method/or
   (12.)       sine 16° 2' .             .  944122
               sine 24° 24' .            .  961606
                                           1905728
               sine 24° 41' .            . 962076
               sine 15° 51' .            . 943652
which is the southern angle.
   (13.) Having obtained the two sides and angles required
by the theory of Gauss, we now proceed to find the value of
the angle bcx formed by the needle. As the sum of the sides
bc + cg (43° 54' -I- 155° 19' = 199° Is') is to the sum of the
angles or bca+gch(3S° 26'+ 15° 5l' = 49° 17'), so is the north
side be (43° 54') to the angle bcx (10° 51'). Or more clearly
thus:
                      Sides.    Angles.
                     43° 54' 33° 26'
                   155° 19' 15° 51'
                   199° 13' : 49° 17' : : 43° 54' : 10° 51'
   Hence if bcx be subtracted from bca, there will remain the
angle xca which the needle makes with the meridian of Green
wich, in other words the declination.
                               33° 26'
                               10° 51'
                               22° 35' W.
which is the mean west declination at Greenwich for the pre
sent year 1849.
   Mr. James Glaisher, of the Royal Observatory, informed
me, June 27, 1849, "that the average valtte of the W. declina
tion at Greenwich, at present, is about 22° 35'."
  Calculation of the Mean Declination at St. Helenafor the
                          present year 1849.
    (1.)        S. lat. 15° 55' : comp. 74° 5'.
                W. long. 5° 43'.
    (2.) Lat. and long, of N. magnetic pole.
                N. lat. 70° : comp. 20°.
                W. long. 91°-5° 4S'=85° 17'.
    (3.)        90°-S5° 17'= 4° 43'.
                sine 20° 0* ... .            953405
                sine 4° 43' . . . .          891502
                sine 1° 37' . . . .          844907

                  computing Magnetic Declination.            517
   (4.) Lat. and long, of S. magnetic pole.
                 S. lat. 75° 5' : comp. 14° 55'.
                 E. long. 155° + 5° 43'= 160° 43'.
   (5.)          160° 43' -90° =70° 43'.
                 sine 14° 55' . . . . 941063
                 sine 701 43' ... . 997492
                 sine 14° 4'    .   .  .    .   938555
  (6.)               74°5'+l037/ = 75°42'.
   (70           75° 42' x 20" = 25' 14"
                 20° O'x I' =20' 0"
                                   45' 14"
  (8.)            180°- 1°S7'+14°4'=192027'.
  (9.)            32400 : 37037 : : 45' 14" : 51' 39".
                  51' 39" X 75° 42'-i-10=6° 30'.
                  20°+ 6° SO' = 26° 30'.
  (10.)           70°*: 110°:: 15° 55'* : 5° 40\
                  90° : 5° 40' : : 6° 30' : 24'.
                  85° 17' + 24'=85°41'.
  (11.)         sine 74°   5' . . . .          998302
                sine 85°   41' . . . .         999877
                sine 73°   31' ... .           998179
      sine of comp. and    rad. 85° 41'        . . 1887661
      tang, to comp. .     . . 74° 5'          . .    945511
                                               . .    942150
                    14°47' + 26°30'=41 °17'.
           sine to comp. 73° 31' . . . . 945292
           sine to comp. 41° 17' . . . . 987590
           sine to comp. 77° 41' . . . . 932882
  (12.)         sine 26° 30' ...          .    964953
                sine 85° 41' ...           .   999877
                                              1964830
                sine 77° 41' ...          . 998989
                sine 27° 6' ...           . 965841
which is the northern angle.

518        On a Methodfor computing Magnetic Declination.
    (6.)                 74° 5'+ 1*° 4' = 88° 9'.
-{!.)'                    88° 9* x 20" = 29* 23"
                           14°55'xl' = 14'55"
                                          44' 18"
' -(8;)              180°-1° 37'+14.04'=192027'.
    (9.)            32400 : 37037 : : 44' 18" : 50 38".
                    SO' 38" x 88° 9'-f-10=7° 26'.
                    14°55' + 7026' = 22°21'.
    (10.)           75° 5" : 1 10° : : 51° 29'2 : 4° 42'.
                    90° : 4° 42' : : 7° 26' : 23'.
                    160° 43'— 23' = 160° 20' : comp. 19° 40'.
    (11.)          sine 74° 5' ....              998302
                   sine 19° 40' . . . .          952705
                   sine 18° S3' . . . .          951007
           sine of comp. and rad. 19° 40'        . . 1997390
           tang, to comp. . . 74° 5'             . .    9455 11
           tang                        73° 9'    . . 1051879
              73° 9' + 22° 21' = 95°    30' : comp.  84° 30'.
              sine to comp. 18° 53'      . . . .      997597
              sine to comp. 84° 30*      . . . .      898157
              sine to comp. 84° 48'      ... .        895754
The complement to be used is 95° 12'.
    (12.)          sine 22° 21' ...           .  958008
                   sine 19° 40' . . .         .  952705
                                                1910713
                   sine 84° 48' ...           .  999821
                   sine 7° 23' . . .          .  910892
                     Sides.    Angles.
     (18.)         77° 41' 27° 6'
                   95° 12'      7° 23'
                  172° 53' : 34° 29' : : 77° 41' : 15° 29'.
                                   7° 23'
                                  15° 29'
                                  22° 52' W.

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                      519
 which is the mean west declination at St. Helena for the pre
sent year 184-9.
     Mr. Glaisher, of Greenwich Observatory, kindly informs
 me, that "at St. Helena, 1845, it was 23° 32' W., decreasing
 8' yearly."
     Hence in 1849 it would have decreased about 32', leaving
 the declination about 23° \V., which is only 8' more than our
computation. Even this would probably diminish, if not en
tirely vanish, could we obtain the mean declination for the
present year.
    Manchester, Nov. 23, 1849.
             LXIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                  ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 391.]
Nov. 9, A PPEARANCE of Saturn's Ring, &c. in the Equatoreal
  1849. ** of Cambridge, United States. By Professor Bond.
    " During the period of the disappearance of Saturn's ring in 1848,
we often noticed breaks or inequalities in the ring, such as would
arise from irregularities in its structure, were the matter of which it
is composed unequally distributed in its different parts.
    " Something of this kind has- often before been observed, but
hitherto only on the illuminated side of the ring. That similar ap
pearances present themselves also on the unilluminated side is a new
feature, important in its bearing on the true explanation of these
phenomena,
    " From June to September 1848 the light reflected from the edge
of the ring (the only part then visible), instead of being uniformly
distributed over a single line, was interrupted on each side of the
planet by spaces of some seconds in breadth, where it was barely
possible to trace the continuity of the edge. These inequalities were
sufficiently abrupt to render it difficult to distinguish at first sight
between them and the somewhat similar effects produced by either
of the small satellites being projected upon the ring ; their presence
could only be detected by their motion, of which the indications were
usually decisive in 15 or 20 minutes. On the other hand, the ir
regularities of the ring always retained one fixed position with re
ference to the ball, as long as the earth remained elevated above the
southern unilluminated surface.
    " The same appearances were again presented between September
and January 1849, while the earth was elevated above the northern
unilluminated surface, in all this time retaining one fixed position with
respect to the ball.
   " It is an unavoidable inference from our observations that these
breaks in the illumination of the edge do not rotate about the globe
of Saturn ; a result perfectly in accordance with what Schroeter has
established with regard to the corresponding irregularities on the
illuminated side.

520                   Royal Astronomical Society.
   " The fact of these inequalities always retaining one unaltered po
sition may be explained without precluding the possibility of a rapid
rotation of the rings, by attributing them to the reflexion of the solar
rays from their inner edges. There seems to be no other way of ac
counting for their being seen on both surfaces, both when illuminated
and when turued away from the sun.
   " The first reappearance of the ring took place between August
31d'78, Greenwich M.T., and Sept. 3d-80; the second disappearance
between Sept. 12d-80 and Sept 13d-62; and the final reappearance
in 1849 between Jan. 18d-47 and Jan. 19d-43.
   " On two or three occasions in the past year we have enjoyed the
sight of all the eight satellites at once.
   " Our observations for a year or two past on the variations of the
brightness of Jupiter's satellites afford some curious results. Atten
tion was first drawn to the subject in observing a transit of the third
satellite on the 6th of January, 1847. A few minutes after its en
trance the satellite was visible on the disc just within the limit of
the planet, being brighter than the surrounding surface ; soon after
a dark spot, supposed to be the satellite, could just be discerned in
its place. The telescope used was an achromatic of 2£ inches aper
ture, of excellent quality, but not powerful enough to enable us to
decide whether or not the spot was really the satellite.
   " On the 28th of January, 184S, during the transit of the shadows
of the first and third satellites, the third satellite itself was seen with
the great refractor under very beautiful definition, as a black spot
between the two shadows, and not to be distinguished from them
except by the place it occupied. It was smaller than its shadow in
the proportion of 3 to 5, not duskish simply, but quite black like the
shadows. On the 11th of March it was again seen dark on the disc,
smaller than its shadow.
   " On the 18th of March we watched the entire transit. At the
first internal contact the satellite was distinctly seen on the disc,
brighter than Jupiter, though it had entered on a bright channel
south of one of the great equatoreal belts ; 20 minutes after it had
become nearly of the same brightness with the planet, so as to be
barely perceptible, yet still whiter than the surrounding surface.
While watching it with close attention, a minute dark speck sud
denly made its appearance, in the place of the satellite, increasing
very rapidly till it occupied a space of about one second of arc in
diameter, quite black and nearly round, though an irregularity of
shape was suspected. Remaining thus for about two hours, the dark
ness gradually lost its intensity, and quite disappeared before the
satellite left the disc. Something of this nature we have always ob
served to accompany a transit of this satellite. The first and fourth
satellites we have also seen black or dusky on the disc, but the former
has once or twice crossed without our detecting any change. The
spots are always less than the shadows, but have appreciable diameters,
and make their appearance after the entrance of the satellite upon
the limb of Jupiter. Changes of relative brightness are constantly
going on ; the feeblest, on the average, being the fourth, and the
brightest usually the third.

                        Royal Astronomical Society.                            521
   ** It would be well, as soon as Jupiter reaches a convenient position,
Bay during the ensuing winter and in the spring of 1850, for observers
generally to record their estimates of the relative brightness of the
satellites as often as possible. The labour of doing this will be but
trifling, and may lead to the discovery of the laws of these singular
phenomena.                                                                      *
   " We have observed Schweitzer's comet twice since its reappear
ance.
   " From the circles of the great equatoreal compared with B. A. C.
No. 1634, we have—
             Cambridge M.T.         Comet'. It. A. 1849-0    Comet's Deri. 18I0.O
         1849.     b m a                 h m      a                o    /   II
       Aug. 24    15 37 30               4 45 0-4               -27 14 14
             26   15 38 42              4 41 54                 -27 17 45
   " With the micrometer we have the following places :—
        Cambridge M.T.
       IB49. h m a                            ma                            in
 Aug. 24 15 37 30 Comet follows * in 0 34-75 Comet N. of * by 7 36-5
        26 15 38 42            precedes * by 3 20-35           N. of* by 4 5-7
   * is Lacaille 1613, whose place seems to be erroneous in N. P.D.
     "The star Lalande 9167, of the 7-8 magnitude, is missing."
   The Astronomer Royal exhibited an instrument for performing
arithmetical multiplications and divisions, constructed under the di
rection of William Bell, Esq., Coronation Road, Bristol. The Pre
sident remarked, that for mere exhibition of the significant figures
produced by a single multiplication or division, to a certain degree
of accuracy, nothing could be more convenient than the common
sliding rule containing two similar scales, one fixed and the other
moveable, in which the lengths corresponding to the numbers re
presented are the logarithms of those numbers corresponding to a
certain modulus. In the scales of this kind in common use at the
Royal Observatory, the distance from 1 to 1 0 upon the scale is about
12 inches ; and with these dimensions, a product or quotient will be
accurate, with the roughest degree of attention, to -jJ-^ part ; an ac
curacy which suffices for a vast amount of the small calculations in
an observatory. And with proper scales for trigonometrical functions,
the problems of plane and spherical trigonometry can in most cases
be easily solved. These inconveniences, however, attend it : — 1st. It
cannot be conveniently applied to multiply three or more quantities,
or in general to exhibit a product of even two which is given in a
different denomination ; as when a sine is given by the product of
two tangents ; this failure, however, may usually be remedied by the
use of two parallel sliders. 2nd. When used to multiply numbers,
it gives no information as to the place of the decimal point in the
product. It is to remove some of these inconveniences, but espe
cially the last, that Mr. Bell has constructed his instrument.
    The logarithmic spaces in Mr. Bell's machine are arranged upon
a circle, a single series of numbers from 1 to 10 occupying the entire
circumference. This construction, as is well known, may be used
in the same way as the common sliding rule ; but, like it, it gives no

522                  Royal Astronomical Society.
information ns to the decimal point. But the revolving circle is
connected 05- toothed wheel-work with two smaller circles, each of
which performs one revolution for ten revolutions of the principal
circle, and each of which lias upon its circumference ten series of
logarithmic numbers. These small circles, then, give us the means
of-defining the decimal place, in multiplicand, in multiplier, and in
product. Thus, the successive figures 1 upon one circumference
may stand for -00001, 0001, 001, -01, -1, 1, 10, 100, 1000, 10000.
The rotating index of each circle is adjustable ; there are also ad
justable indices on the fixed frame. Suppose, then, we had to mul
tiply 27'42 by 332'6, we should, both in the principal circle and in
one of the smaller circles, set the 1 of the moveable circle or index
to 27-42 on the fixed circle; but there would be this difference,
that on the principal circle we have no respect to the decimal point,
whereas on the smaller circle we should set to the 2742 following
the 10. Then for 332*6 we should turn the principal circle from 1
to 3326, but we should also turn it two complete revolutions, which
would carry the index of the second small circle from 1 to the 3326
following 100. Then the figures of the product will be exhibited very
accurately on the principal circle, and much less accurately on the
first of the small circles, but they would be found in that series of
numbers which follows 1000, and the place of the decimal point would
thus be exactly defined.
   For the multiplication of three or more numbers, it is necessary
to plant moveable indices after performing the first products ; thiB
process, however, is much less convenient than that with two sliding
scales in the sliding rule.
   The Astronomer Royal remarked, that in his opinion this construc
tion is too expensive and too cumbrous to be extensively used. But
he wished much to call the attention of members of the Society to
the use of the sliding rule, and to the peculiar defect which he had
indicated ; and to represent to them the great value of any simple
construction, which, while preserving the other advantages of the
sliding rule, would effectually remove that defect.
   Mr. Drach suggests that a calculating machine, exhibited by Mr.
F. Schiereck in 1837 (the construction of which was concealed by
the inventor, who wanted 700/. for his secret), might probably be a
particular modification of the sliding rule applied to a circular form.
He also suggests the addition of other concentric circles to Mr. Bell's
scale, in which the trigonometric or other logarithmic numbers might
be laid down.
   The Astronomer Royal gave an oral statement of the progress
made by Lord Rosse in the mounting of his 6-feet speculum.
   In a lecture delivered on this subject by the Astronomer Royal in
November 1848, a detailed account was given of the distortions pro
duced in the speculum by using the telescope at different inclinations
to the horizon, and of the explanation of these distortions suggested
by Lord Rosse, and also of the nature of the remedial measures tried
by Lord Kosse while the Astronomer Royal was at Parsonstown. It
will be sufficient to recall here, that when the edge of the speculum

                     Royal Astronomical Society.                    523
rested against short iron pillars fixed in the breech-piece of the tele
scope, the firm hold produced by friction of the edge of the speculum
on the pillars, combined with the varying elasticity of the triangular
lever-supports in different inclinations of the telescope, caused
distortion of the mirror ; and that when, to avoid this friction, the
mirror was suspended (as regarded its edge-bearing), either by a
semicircular hoop or by a chain, a small difference in the edgewise
pressure, depending on a difference of inclination of the telescope,
threw some of the points of the supporting levers out of bearing, and
distortion of the mirror was produced. This latter fault arose from
the circumstance that the mirror could not slip freely over the points
of the supporting levers. To remedy this, the following arrange
ment is now made. Each of the plates resting on the 27 supporting
 points, instead of being partially attached to the mirror by a layer of
 felt and pitch, is completely separated from it, to the distance of
 about 1£ inch, and the speculum rests upon each plate by three
 turned brass balls at the three angles of the plate ; so that the whole
 surface of the speculum is now supported by eighty-one brass balls.
 Each of these balls has a fine wire passing through a small hole in
 the plate, and kept in tension by a weak spring on the opposite side ;
 this prevents the ball from rolling nway when the mirror is detached,
 but allows entire freedom of motion to the ball, to the extent of about
 one inch in any direction. Lord Rosse has reason to think that this
 construction is perfectly successful for its object. He has already
 found that the speculum may be moved laterally half an inch without
 the smallest discoverable distortion. Before the balls were used,
 when the speculum was moved laterally -j^th of an inch, vision was
 destroyed.
    Lord Rosse thinks it, however, desirable to arrange the edgewise
 support, so that as little as possible may be trusted to the motion of
 the balls. The lower semicircle of the edge is now to be grasped by
 a strong iron hoop, very neatly fitted to it ; and the upper semicircle
 is to have a thin hoop furnished with a drawing-screw or contracting
 screw, merely for the purpose of bringing the strong hoop constantly
 into fair contact with the edge of the mirror. And the ends of the
 strong hoop (which are at the extremity of a horizontal diameter of
 the mirror) are to be supported by rods, attached to a horizontal bar
  which rests on the two upper pillars of the breech-piece, with the
  utmost freedom of motion ; so that the mirror will be supported
  edgewise by jimbals of the most perfect construction. Lord Rosse
  hopes that, with this arrangement, in combination with the support
  on the balls already described, the mounting of the mirror will be
  sensibly perfect.
     Lord Rosse had also communicated to the Astronomer Royal some
 remarks upon the process of grinding large mirrors. With mir
 rors of 3 feet aperture there is not the smallest difficulty. In the
 mirrors ground and polished by his apparatus, there is no appreciable
 difference of focal length of the central part and the annulus next
 the edge ; and this result is obtained uniformly. Still, with the
 6-fect mirrors there is great difficulty. In all cases, a figure is ob

 524                  Royal Astronomical Society.
 tained which will do well for work ; rarely is one obtained which is
 perfectly satisfactory. This arises in part from the impossibility of
 testing the mirror while it is under the machine.
    Adverting to Mr. Lassell's use of a wooden polisher, Lord Rosse
 had stated to the Astronomer Royal, that he himself had at first used
 a wooden polisher, but that he bad abandoned it, as there appeared
 to be abundant evidence that the polisher was continually changing
 its figure from the absorption of moisture. He considers it totally
 inadmissible for very large specula. It will, however, probably be
 necessary, with Mr. Lassell's apparatus, to use a light wooden po
 lisher, because it appears scarcely practicable in that apparatus to
 apply a counterpoise.
    In speaking of the results of observations with the large telescope.
 Lord Rosse had stated to the Astronomer Royal that the nebula H.
 131 exhibited a well-marked spiral structure, and that 2241 has a
 central hollow.
    Some Remarks on Falling Stars by Mr. Lowe*.
    Mr. Lowe gives the following epochs when falling stars are said
 to be abundant : —
            April 22d to 25d                  Nov. 12d to 14d
            July 17 .. 26                     Nov. 27 . . 29
            Aug. 9 .. 11                      Dec. 6 .. 12
    To which he adds from his own observation, Oct. 16d to 18d.
There are many occurrences in January, but the days do not appear
to be fixed.
    Mr. Lowe then states by whom observations have been made at
the foregoing epochs, and when and where.
    The August epoch has been observed every year since 1841, and
is said by Mr. Lowe to be the most certain. •
    The November epoch, 12d to 14d, seems also well-fixed, but has
in late years been surpassed by the August epoch in brilliancy.
    The epochs, Nov. 27d to 29d, and Dec. 6d to 12d, are somewhat
 doubtful, so far as Mr. Lowe's observations extend.
    The October epoch has been observed in 1843, 4, 6, 7 and 8, but
has not, so far as Mr. Lowe knows, been usually considered an
epoch.
    On referring back the paths of meteors, it is found that a consider
able number diverge from the same point in the heavens ; thus, du
ring the July period of the present year, and up to the 9th of August,
the paths of the meteors, if produced backwards, would nearly meet
at a point to the east of a, Cygni.
    In 1848, of 80 meteors seen on August 19th, the paths of 55 were
recorded ; 23 came from Cygnus, 26 from Cassiopeia, and 6 were
discordant. In 1847 out of 13, 5 came from Cygnus and 8 from
Cassiopeia. This is confirmed by other observers. It seems very
   * Further particulars will be found in the forthcoming Report of the
British Association, " Catalogue of Observations on Luminous Meteors,"
by Professor Powell ; and " Some Remarks on Luminous Meteors," by E.
J. Lowe, Esq.

                    Royal Astronomical Society.                     525
probable that this divergence was merely apparent, and that the me
teors were nearly parallel to each other.
   On the 16th of August last, Mr. Lowe was surprised to see a
number of very small meteors, but brilliant for their size (being only
the apparent size of the smallest fixed star on a clear night), which
moved more slowly, and occupied a smaller portion of the heavens
than on the 10th. He attributes this difference to their greater
distance.
   On the 10th of last August, Mr. Lowe observed that out of 55
meteors there were 1 1 cases in which one star followed another in
the same track nearly, and after an interval varying from 2 minutes
to 15 seconds. When a meteor follows another in the same path,
it has invariably been noticed that it also moves with the same speed.
From this circumstance, together with the fact that such meteors are
frequently very different in size, it may be supposed that the two
bodies are connected. If this be so, then a meteor at 10h 29m had
two attendants. This suggestion, if confirmed, would also show that
these bodies are material.
   Mr. Lowe conceives that in our present state of knowledge of
these curious appearances, we might conveniently arrange them in
three classes :—
   1st. Falling stars which leave luminous streaks behind them.
   2nd. Stars which do not leave such streaks.
   3rd. Luminous bodies, with defined discs.
   The first probably shine by inherent light, for otherwise it is dif
ficult to account for a luminous streak which lasts several seconds
(in some cases even minutes) after the meteor itself has disappeared.
The second may shine by reflected light, as described by Sir John
Lubbock, and the third are probably atmospheric, as they chiefly
move in discordant paths, are various in shape, and not unfrequently
change colour.
   On the 8th of last August, at 10h 16m, a meteor of a conical
form, about twice the apparent size of a star of the first magnitude,
moved slowly in a horizontal direction from £ Bootis, about 1 ° below
Arcturus (it left numerous sparks in its track). Here it suddenly
disappeared, and reappeared in about Is and about 1°^ further on.
Thus it had moved in the same track, though invisible. On its re
 appearance it was neither so large nor so brilliant as before, and gave
 the impression of a body moving rapidly and nearly directly from
the observer. It was orange-red, and was visible about 5" besides
the time of disappearance. The length of its path after its reappear
 ance was about 3°. The disappearance might be accounted for by
 supposing the meteor to shine by borrowed light, and to have passed
 through the umbra of some solid body. Sir John Lubbock suggests
 that it may have passed through the shadow of the earth.
   At Castle Lecky, Newtown- Linawady, county of Londonderry,
 Mr. Webb saw (Nov. ld, at llh p.m.) in the north, a descending
meteor, which having fallen a considerable distance in an inclined
straight line diverged suddenly (to the west) on approaching towards
a dense cloud. The meteor described a curved path, concave to the
cloud, by which it was evidently diverted, and then disappeared.

526                Institution of Civil Engineers.
                 INSTITUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.
   Nov. 27, 1849. —" A description of the Old Southend Pier-head,
and the extension of the pier ; with an inquiry into the nature and
ravages of the Teredo navalis, and the means hitherto adopted for
preventing its attacks." By Mr. J. Paton.
   After describing the form of construction of the old pier-head, and
showing the adoption of copper sheathing for protecting it from
decay, and the important considerations involved in the attempt to
preserve marine structures, the paper explained the ravages com
mitted by marine worms {Teredo navalis, Limnoria terebrans, and
others) on the piles, both above and below the copper sheathing.
A general outline of the extension of the pier, and a minute descrip
tion of the pier-head, were then given ; followed by an investigation
of the nature and operations of the Teredo navalis, which showed, as
a remarkable peculiarity, that no chemical means had hitherto pre
vented wood from being destroyed by these animals and the Lim
noria terebrans, whose destructive powers were likewise noticed, as
having penetrated between the copper sheathing and the wood at
Southend. The operations of the Teredo, although most destruc
tive in warm climates, extended themselves to all places, having been
found almost in the Polar seas. The chief peculiarities which distin
guished the Teredo were stated to have been ascertained by minute
microscopical investigation, and that woody fibres of an extremely
minute nature had been discovered in the body, thus setting at rest
the question as to whether the Teredo did actually feed upon the
wood. It was stated, that the failure of chemical means to preserve
timber from destruction by the marine worm was believed to proceed
from two causes, namely, of poisonous compounds having no seriously
injurious effect upon them, and the sea- water, and other things, de
composing the poisonous ingredients contained in the wood.
   In corroboration of the first of these views, accounts of experi
ments made by Mr. Paton were adduced ; and physiological facts,
quoted from the British and Foreign Medical Review, were brought
forward to show that cold-blooded animals were much more tenacious
of life than those of a higher temperament ; and hence it was argued,
that as it required a very large quantity of poison of the most virulent
nature to destroy animals of a much higher order than the Teredo
navalis, it would take a still greater quantity to affect those animals
as they existed in their own element ; and it was questioned, under
these circumstances, whether wood could ever be so completely and
thoroughly saturated as in any degree to affect them.
   The corrosive action of the sea-water, its extended influence and
constant variableness in different parts of the globe, were then com
mented on, and some of the various salts held in solution mentioned.
It was believed to be impossible to form any general notion of the
precise action of sea- water on timber, whether chemically saturated
or not, without a series of most minute experiments, and a large body
of facts carefully collected in different parts of the globe; as that
which might be advantageously used in the Thames might not be of

                    Institution of Civil Engineers.                   527
the slightest avail in the Tropics, and vice versa ; it was thus ques
tioned whether any generally applicable principle could be found for
the counteracting of that universal solvent of soluble matter.
    The conclusions arrived at were, that the ravages of the marine
worm were not prevented by any chemical application, and that
nothing but mechanical means could ever prove completely success
ful : studding with broad-headed nails was considered to be the most
effectual remedy, and various authorities were quoted, proving its
success. The paper concluded with a list of places where wood,
prepared witii various chemical ingredients, had been destroyed from
various causes.
    The discussion commenced by the Dean of Westminster, chiefly
remarking on the analogous action of the Pholas on stone, was
announced for continuation at the next meeting.
    Dec. 4. —The discussion on Mr. Paton's paper extended to such
a length as to preclude the reading of any original communication.
Numerous specimens were exhibited, and commented on, of timber
thoroughly perforated by worms ; whilst beside them, under the same
circumstances, the " Jarrow wood " from Australia was shown to
have remained completely free from injury. The reference to the
age of Homer, as an instance of the ancient ravaging habits of the
Teredo, induced a return to geological questions ; and it was shown,
that in the London clay remains had repeatedly been found of
timber perforated by sea-worms. The oolite and greensand forma
tions also exhibited petrified wood filled with boring molluscs;.
This led to the consideration of the formation most likely to with
 stand the attack of the Pholas ; and it was shown that the Portland
 stone was, from the quantity of silica it contained, least liable to be
 attacked. The Pholas was shown to have been in active operation
 upon certain rocks from the earliest periods, but never upon Port
land stone. Hence it was argued, that kind of stone should be used
 for breakwaters and other works exposed to the action of the sea.
    The early state of the Teredo was noticed ; when escaping from
 the egg, in the shape of a free swimmer, it was drifted about with
 the tide until it met with a log, a pile, or the side of a ship, to which
 it attached itself, and making an inroad into it, became a non-loco
 motive animal of different form and habits, never again to leave
 the habitation it had burrowed for itself in the body of the timber.
 The question, of whether the boring operation of the marine worms
 was carried on by chemical or by mechanical means, was lengthily
 discussed. The thin shell, covered by its delicate membrane, was
 instanced as not possessing strength enough to cut away timber ;
 but it was on the other hand shown, that the shape of the two shells,
 forming the extremity of the animal, admirably adapted them for
 powerful cutting or rasping tools, when moved rapidly in a circular
 direction, as was evidently the case, from the uniformly cylindrical
 character of the holes. The shells of the Pholas were also shown to
 be used in that manner, and the opinion appeared generally to lean
 to a mechanical cause for the effects observed. This bearing of the
 discussion naturally induced remarks upon the ravages of the white

 528                            ttoyal Society.
 ant of India ; which, however, appear to have been little studied,
 and less understood, as far as attempting to arrest or to prevent its
 inroads.
    The various materials, such as Kyan's corrosive sublimate of mer
 cury, Sir W. Burnett's chloride of zinc, Margary's salts of metals,
Payne's combination of muriate of lime and sulphate of iron, forming
in the timber an insoluble compound, and Bethell's creosote or oil
of coal tar, were discussed. All had their partisans, and were stated
 to have succeeded and failed under certain circumstances. Speci
 mens of piles from Lowestoft harbour, whose waters were notoriously
 full of worm, showed that timber in a .natural state was in a few
 months thoroughly perforated by Teredo in the centre, and Limnoria
 on the surface ; but that piles which had been properly saturated
according to Bethell's system, in exhausted receivers, and subjected
to such pressure as ensured the absorption of about ten pounds' weight
of the creosote, or oil of coal tar, by each cubic foot of the timber,
were perfectly preserved from attacks of marine animals of any kind.
In one instance a partially "creogoted" pile had a notch cut into it,
deeper than the impregnation had extended ; a Teredo made its entry,
and was found to have worked in every direction, until it arrived
within the reach of the creosote, when the animal turned away and
eventually left the pile. Bethell's system was admitted, by all the
speakers, to be that which hitherto, after many years' experience,
had afforded the most satisfactory results. Some most conclusive
experiments, instituted by Mr. Rendel at Southampton, were stated
to have produced the same results ; and at Leith all the piles were
weighed before and after their saturation, to ensure their absorbing
the full allowance of at least ten pounds per cubic foot.
                               HOYAL SOCIETY.
                           [Continued from p. 235.]
    June 21, 1849 "On the Anatomy and Affinities of the Family
of Meduste." By Henry Huxley, Esq. Communicated by the Bishop
of Norwich, F.It.S.
    The author commences by remarking that no class of animals has
been so much investigated with so little satisfactory and comprehen
sive result as the family of Medusce (including under that name the
Medusa:, Monostomatw and the Rhizostomida), and proposes in this
paper to give a connected view of the whole class considered as
organized upon a given type, and an inquiry into its relations with
other families. This he has been enabled to do through numerous
and peculiar opportunities for the investigation of these animals,
enjoyed during a cruize of some months along the eastern coast of
Australia and in Bass's Strait*.
    The memoir is divided into two sections, of which the first treats
of the anatomy of the Medusa?, and the second of their affinities.
   * Mr. Huxley is Assistant. Surgeon to H.M.S. Rattlesnake, now engaged on a
surveying voyage conducted by Capt. Stanley on the coasts of Australia and New
Guinea.

                            Royal Society.                          529
   The organs of the Medusae are formed out of two distinct mem
branes—foundation membranes. Both are cellular, but the inner
is in general softer, less transparent and more richly ciliated than
the outer, but contains fewer thread-cells. The outer is dense,
transparent, and either distinctly cellular or developed into a mus
cular membrane. It may be ciliated or not, and is usually thickly
beset with thread-cells, either scattered through its substance or con
centrated upon more or less raised papiiloa developed from its sur
face. When the stomach is attached to the disc, the outer mem
brane passes into the general substance of the disc, while the inner
becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the canals. There
is a larger or smaller space, termed by the author the " common
cavity," between the inner aperture of the stomach and the openings
of the canals, with which both communicate. This is the structure
of the stomach in the Cryptocarpae and Phanerocarpas ; in the
Rhizostomidse it is fundamentally the same, but the stomachs are
very minute, and collected on the edges and extremities of the ra-
muscules—a common stem. The Rhizostomes, quoad their digestive
system, have the same relation to the Monostome Medusa? that the
Sertularian Polypes have to the Hydrse, or the Coralline Polypes to
the Actiniae. In consequence of a very irritable contractile mem
brane surrounding and overlapping the orifices of their stomachs,
they are seen with difficulty. This membrane consists of two pro
cesses, one from each side of the perforated edge of the branch. In
Rhizostoma they generally remain distinct, but in Cephea they are
frequently united in front of and behind each aperture so as to form
a distinct polype-like cell. In the structure of the disc there exists
no difference between the Monostome and Rhizostome Medusae.
The author gives an account of his observations on the minute struc
ture of the disc. The arrangement of the cavities and canals of the
disc differs in the different sections. In very many of the Crypto
carpae there is a circular, valvate, muscular membrane developed
from the inner and under edge of the disc. In the Phanerocarpse
such a membrane does not seem to be present, but in Rhizostoma
and Cephea it is evidently replaced by the indexed edge of the disc.
In the Cryptocarpae the marginal corpuscles are sessile upon the cir
cular vessel. They are spheroidal vesicles, containing a clear fluid,
aud one or more strongly-refracting bodies occasionally included
 within a delicate cell. The marginal vesicles are placed between
 the inner and outer membranes of the circular vessel. In the Pha
 nerocarpas the marginal corpuscles are pedunculated and protected
by a semilunar fold. The author describes peculiarities in this part of
 the organization of Rhizostoma. The excretory orifices, described
 by Ehrenberg as general in Medusa aurita, were not detected by
 the author in Cephea ocellata. Nor does he admit the supposed
 nerves and interteutacular ganglia of that author to be such.
   Paragraphs 29 to 36 are occupied by a minute description of the
tentacles of Medusae.
   The generative organs of the three groups of Medusae are always
portions more or less developed of the walls of the system of canals,
   Phil. Mag. S. 3. No. 239. Suppl. Vol. 35.                 2 M

530                         Royal Society.
and consist of the two " foundation " membranes, in or between which
the generative elements, whether ova or spermatozoa, are developed.
This the author concludes from his observations on several genera,
which he gives in detail, and which add considerably to, and differ
in some respects materially from, what has been stated by previous
observers. In the ovarium, the two membranes develope between
them immense multitudes of ova with* dark granulous yelk and
clear germinal vesicle. The ova are attached to the outer surface
of the inner membrane. In the testis the inner membrane is pro
duced into a vast number of thick pyriform sacs, which lie between
the two membranes, with their blind ends towards the inner surface
of the outer membrane; internally, they open each by a distinct
aperture on the tine surface of the inner membrane. The contents
of the sacs are spermatozoa, and cells in every stage of development
towards spermatozoa, which appear to be formed by the elongation
of the secondary cells contained in the large cells.
   The author's observations lead him to believe that the muscular
fibres are always developed in the outer "foundation" membrane.
Each fibre in Rhizostoma is made up of very small and indistinct
fibrils, which are transversely striated. He has not observed any
indubitable trace of a nervous system in the Medusa?, nor of the
so-called blood-vascular system described by Will.
   In this section of the memoir the affinities of the Medusa? are
considered. In their essential characters,—viz. their construction
out of two membranes inclosing a variously-shaped cavity ; their
generative organs being external and variously developed pro
cesses of the two membranes ; and the universal presence of the
peculiar organs called thread-cells,—they present a striking resem
blance to other families of Zoophytes, as the Hydroid and Sertula-
rian Polypes, the Physophoridae and the Diphydae. The disc of a
Medusa is represented by the natatorial organ among the Diphydae
and Physophoridae, but has no homologue among the Hydrae and
Sertularise. The cell of the Sertularian Polype rather resembles the
" bract " of the Diphydae than the natatorial organ, and the latter
family forms a connecting link between the Medusae and the Phy
sophoridae. Of the two kinds of tentacles in the Medusae, the first
is represented in the Physophoridae and Diphydae, by the thickenings,
richly beset with thread-cells, that frequently occur in the lip of the
stomach; in the Sertularian Polypes by the tentacles of the margin
of the mouth. The second kind is homologous with the prehensile
organs of the Diphyda and Physophoridce, and with the peculiar
clavate processes of Plumularia. All these organs commence their
development as bud-like processes of the two joining membranes.
The peculiar clavate organs of Plumularia are developed from the
common tube independently of the stomach. They have not been
hitherto described, and were observed by the author in two species
of Plumnlaria dredged at Port Curtis. They were of two kinds, the
one attached to the cell of the polype, the other to the pedicle of the
ovary. To each species there were three processes of the former
kind, two above proceeding from near that edge of the aperture

                                         Royal Society•.                                          531
    which is towards the stem, the other below from the front part of
    the base of the cell. They were conical in one species, club-shaped
    and articulated in the other, and consisted of an external horny
    membrane open at the apex, and an internal delicate membrane in
    closing a cavity, ail these being continuous with the corresponding
    parts of the stem. At the apex of each, and capable of being pressed
    through the aperture, kiy a number of thread-cells. The second
    kind of organ was present in the species with conical' processes. It
    consisted of a stem proceeding from the pedicle of the ovary, bearing
    a series of conical bodies, having the same constitution as those just
    described ; the whole bearing a close resemblance to the prehensile
    organs of the Diphydae.
       The following table exhibits the homologies of the several families,
    which must be regarded as by no means so distinct as hitherto sup
    posed, but rather as members of one great group, organized upon
    one simple and uniform plan, and even in their most complex and
    aberrant forms reducible to the same type.
                    Stomachs identical in Structure throughout.
      Medusa.          Physophorida.             Diphyda.             Sertuterida.          Hydra.
Disc                 Natatorial organ .... Natatorial organ.
„ .                f Canals of natatorial ) Canals of natatorial
  811             1 organ                 i organ.
c3s™f branches Koinmon tube . . . . { Sa^UL!» * com' } Ca'ity of stem.
   (Bha.)         J                       X montube               '
                                        Bract                       Polypc-ceH.
Tentacfc.,        {*%£&.•**}¦                                    •• Oval tentacle.
           S         Prehensile organs                              Clavate organs .... Tentacle* (?) .
                  {Generative sac                                   Generative organ.. . Generative organ.
                     Natatorial organ of 1                                             i Natatorial organs
                       generative sac .. /                  '•"        T'Vlll'.V "I (CosyneJ.
Marginal vescicle              ?                                              <      •         <
       "On the Microscopic Structure of the Scales and Dermal
    Teeth of some Ganoid and Placoid Fish." By W. C. Williamson,
    Esq. Communicated by Edwin Lankester, M.D., F.R.S.
       The author commences his paper by stating that the structure
   and modes of growth of fish-scales have been studied by many ob
    servers, especially by Leeuwenhoek, Agafsiz, Maudl and Owen.
    The first of these considered each scale to consist of numerous
    superimposed laminae added successively to the inferior surface.
    This view has been revived, with some important modifications, by
    M. Agassiz, and especially applied to the scales of ganoid fish ;
    which he showed to consist of lamina' of true bone, usually
    covered with enamel (email), the latter often resembling the den
    tine of fishes' teeth. M. Mancll denied that ganoid scales had
    been formed by such successive additions of lamina; ; and Professor
    Owen also opposed the idea, that they had merely been the result of
    successively excreted deposition. The author then proceeds to the
    examination of the scales of the following genera nnd species : —
    Lcpidosteus osseus, Lepidotus semiscrrutus, L. Alantelli, and L.fim
    briates, !Sami not us rhombifer, Pholidottts Leachii, Ptychokpis BoU
                                               2 M 2

552                           Royal Society.
lensis, Beryr, Dapidius orbit, and D. granulosus ; all of which ap
pear to be constructed according to a common 'type—one singular
modification of which is seen in Paheonincus comptus and P. Beau-
monti, and another in Gyrodtu and Asjtidorhynchus acutirostris.
Still more elaborate complications occnr in the scales of the Stur
geon and of Platysomus parvulas, the minute structure of which
is described. Then follow detailed accounts of another interesting
group of structures found in the genera MegaHctitkyt, HohptycMut
and Diploptents, in which the osseous tissues and tlieir superficial
coverings are exceedingly beautiful and complicated. The next fish
examined is Macropoma Manlelti from the chalk. In tiiis the true
bony operculum is studded over with dermal teeth, as is also the
posterior part of each scale ; the portion of the latter, however^
which is subjacent to these dermal teeth, is not osseous, but consists
of thin laminae, which do not contain lacunae. The hollow viscus
found in the interior of the Macropoma, is shown to be a cylinder
 of true osseons tissue, of a singular laminated structure full of lacuna1.
 The author rejects the idea of its having been a stomach, but thinks
 that it may have served the purpose of an air-bladder.
    The structure and arrangement of the dermal teeth from the skin
of the Dog-fish are then investigated, and appear to resemble those
on the opercular bones and scales of Macropoma. Simitar teeth are
described in the fossil skin of Hybodus reticulatus, from the lias of
Lyme Regis. In the latter, numerous small granules of calcareous
matter, having a concentric laminated structure, have been im
bedded in the substance of the soft cutis, under the dermal teeth.
The corresponding dermal teeth from the Raia darata are described,
and also those covering the snout of the common Saw-fish ; as well
as the very singular premaxillary bones of the Calorhynchtis.
    From an examination of the dermal appendages of the fishes thus
cursorily enumerated, the author concludes—
   That what has hitherto been termed' enamel, is in fishes a com- '
pound structure, separable into ganom and kosmme (koo}i€iv, to
adorn) ; the former being transparent and laminated, but otherwise
structureless, whilst the latter consists of minute branching tabes re
sembling the dentine of true teeth.                '* • " il1 ¦• " -
    That the kosmine covering the osseous scales of so many ganoid
fish, as in Lepidotus Stmiterrahte, Megalicltthys HMerti, &c, is
homologous and identical with the substance composing the dermal
teeth of the true placoids, such as the Dog-fish, Thornback, &-c,
only that, whilst in the former the areolae of kosmine are aggregated •
upon bony scales, in the latter they are implanted in the soft integu
ment, without the intervention of any bony matter. It follows from
this, that the distinction of "ganoid" and "placoid" is scarcely a
physiological one, inasmuch as the scales of ninny so-called ganoid
fish, such as Dapidius orbis, Acipenser,&^, exhibit little or no trace <
of either gnnoin or kosmine; that in many of the Placoids these sub-'
stances are very largely developed ; and that a series of well-defined,
links exist, passing through the common Thornback, the common
Spotted Dog-fish, Hybodus reticulatus, Macropoma Mantellu, Da~

                             Royal Society, y,                      533
pidms granulosus, Holoptycliius, JHploptcrus and Megalichthys, by
which the ganoid. and placoid tonus merge in one another.
    Tli.it gauoid scales consist of variously modified osseous lamella;,
the result of successive additions made chiefly to the lower surface
of eaoh; but also, under particular circumstances, either, to apart,
or to the whole of the upper surface.            ,,     • \ ,,¦ |>    ,
    That, these lamella} have not been the result of any process of
excretion, or depositions from a secreting surface, as supposed by
M. Agassifi, but that they have been formed by the calcification of
the lower lamina; of an investing vascular periosteum; and that
consequently the phenomena attending the structure and growth of ,
these ganoid scales contribute in a material degree to establish the
correctness of the views recently promulgated by Professor Sharpey
respecting the growth and development of human bone ; the gra
dual formation of Haversian canals, being traced with great ease
from the simple lamina? seen in the scales of Lepidosteus, Lepidotus,
&c, through Aspidorhynchus, Acipenser, Holoptycliius, &c. to their
high degree of development in Megalichthys.
    That the study of the microscopic structure, of the dermal ap
pendages offish may, when carried on with due caution, be made a
valuable auxiliary, both in distinguishing between allied species, and
in establishing the existence of important affinities, even when ap
plied to otherwise insignificant fragments ; but that it is capable of
 being overstrained, and of leading to erroneous conclusions, if any
classifications are founded upon it irrespective of the other portions
of the fish to which the scales belong, because of the unequal ratio
 in which the various parts of an organism may have been developed.
 Thus, whilst Lepidosteus osscus presents one of the simplest forms
of ganoid scales, it has the concavo-convex vertebral articulations of
 the Ophidians ; on the other hand, in many species, as in Megalich
 thys and Holoptychius, whilst the structure of each part of the exo-
 skeleton is highly developed, the vertebrae appear to have the double
 concave articulation common amongst fish and enaliosaurs.
     The author, in conclusion, acknowledges his obligations to Sir
 Philip M. de Grey Egertou, M.P., Dr. Mantell, Mr. Binuey, Mr.
 J. E. Gray and Mr. Searles Wood, for their valuable co-operation
 in supplying many important specimens for examination.
     " On the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat." By J. P. Joule,
 Cor. Associate R. Acad. Sciences, Turin, &c. Communicated by
 M. Faraday, D.C.L., F.K.S., Foreign Memb. Acad, of Sciences,
 Paris, &c.
     After passing in review the experimental researches of Rurnford,
 Davy, Dulong, Faraday, and others who have successively discovered >
 facts tending to prove that heat is not a substance, but a mode of
  force, the author mentions the papers he has already communicated
 to the Royal Society, and published in the Philosophical Magazine,
  in which he has endeavoured to show that in the production of In at
 by the expenditure of force, and vice versa, in the production of
force by the expenditure of heat, a constant relation always subsists
  between the two. This relation he denominates the " Mechanical

 534                           Royal Society.
 Equivalent of Heat," and the object of the present paper is to advance
 fresh proofs of its existence, and to give to it the numerical accuracy
 requisite to fit it as a starting-point for further inquiries.
    In carrying out the above design, the author has determined the
 relation of work done to heat produced in the cases of the friction,—
 1st, of water ; 2nd, of mercury ; and 3rd, of cast iron.
    In the experiments on the friction of the fluids, the liquid was
 contained in a covered cylindrical vessel of copper or iron, and the
 agitation was effected by vanes of brass or iron, fixed to a vertical
 axis revolving in the centre of the vessel, whilst fixed vanes pre
vented the liquid being whirled in the direction of rotation. In the
 experiments on the friction of solids, a disc of cast iron was rotated
 against another disc of cast iron pressed against it ; the whole being
 immersed in a cast-iron vessel filled with mercury.
    The force expended was measured by the descent of the weights
 employed in rotating the apparatus ; and great care was taken to
correct it for the friction of the axes of the pullies employed, &c
    The heat evolved by the friction was measured by exact thermo
 meters, and very laborious precautions were taken in order to elimi
nate the effects of radiation or conduction of heat to and from the
surrounding atmosphere. The corrected therniometric effect was
then reduced to a known capacity for heat, by means of extensive
series of experiments made in order to ascertain the specific heat of
the materials in which the thermometric effect was observed.
    In this way the number of units of work, estimated in pounds one
foot high, required to be done in order to develope one degree Fahr.
in one pound of water taken at about 50°, was found to be as
follows : —
      772*692 from friction of water, a mean of 40 experiments.
      774'083 from friction of mercury, a mean of 50 experiments.
      774-987 from friction of cast iron, a mean of 20 experiments.
    "On the Nitrogenous Principles of Vegetables as the sources
of artificial Alkaloids." By John Stenhouse, F.R.S.
    After observing that there are few departments in organic che
mistry which during the last six or seven years have attracted more
of the attention of experimenters than the artificial formation of the
alkaloids, and attributing this fact to the interesting nature of this
class of bodies both as regards their well-defined chemical properties
and the important medical virtues which many of them possess, the
author proceeds to slate, that although attempts to form the natural
alkaloids, such as quinine, cinchouine, &c, by artificial means have
hitherto been unsuccessful, yet chemists have been enabled by various
processes to procure artificially a considerable number of true alka
loids very analogous to those which occur in nature. The various
methods by which this has been effected, such as by acting on essen
tial oils with ammonia, by the destructive distillation of coal and
animal substances, &c, are then enumerated and described.
   It is also remarked as somewhat singular, that while so many other
sources have been examined, no attempt should have been made to
procure alkaloids from vegetable albumen, fibrine, caseiue, &c, which

                               lloyal Society.                       535
are so rich in nitrogen, and which occur in such abundance in many
plants. What renders the neglect of these substances the more re
markable, is the consideration that coal has been one of the most
productive sources of the alkaloids, yielding them, as it does, four
other bases besides ammonia. Now as coal is universally admitted
to be of vegetable origin, and to consist of the remains of a variety
of extinct vegetables, the nitrogenous principles of which must be
regarded as the sources of the bases which ityields.it seemed to the
author not unreasonable to expect, that, by acting on the nitrogenous
principles of recent vegetables, the same organic bases as those ob
tained from coal, or at any rate a series of analogous bases, would be
obtained in still greater abundance ; and it subsequently appeared that
this latter expectation was not altogether without foundation.
    From the difficulty of procuring vegetable albumen, fibrine, &c.
in a state of even tolerable purity, those portions of plants (usually
their seeds) were selected which contain those principles in the greatest
abundance.
    In the first instance, a quantity of Phaseolus communis, or common
horse-bean, was destructively distilled in a cast-iron cylinder, and
the products collected by means of a large condensing Liebig's appa
ratus. These products closely resembled those obtained from the
distillation of bones and other animal matters, comprising among
other substances acetic acid, empyreuraatic oils, tar, a great deal of
ammonia and several organic alkaloids. The crude product was super
saturated with muriatic acid, and the clear liquid decanted after the
tar had subsided. The acid liquor was next passed through a cloth
filter, which removed the greater portion of the resinous matter.
The clear liquid was then poured into a capacious still, and super
saturated with carbonate of soda. When the liquid began to boil,
much ammonia was disengaged, and a quantity of oily bases col
lected in the receiver. Their amount increased as the distillation
proceeded. These bases were separated from the ammoniacal liquid
by means of a pipette, and were purified by suitable processes which
it is unnecessary to particularize. These bases, though they were
found to vary very considerably in their boiling-points and some of
their properties, were very similar in other respects. They were
transparent colourless oils, which were all of them lighter than water,
and refracted the light strongly. Their taste was hot, resembling
that of oil of peppermint. They all exhibited strong alkaline re
actions, and neutralized the acids perfectly, forming crystallizable
salts. The most curious circumstance respecting them was, that they
were apparently quite different from the series of bases obtained
from either bones or coal, and contained no aniline.
    One of these bases was isolated and subjected to analysis. It
boiled between 150° and 155° C. Its formula was found to be
C:o H; N, which differs only by two equivalents of hydrogen from
nicotine. The only obstacle which has hitherto prevented the se
paration and examination of each of these bases individually, has
arisen from the difficulty of procuring them in sufficient quantity.
Not that beans when distilled yield bases in so much smaller quan

 536                         lioyal "Society.
 titie?than boties a»id other animal substances ; but as both bonesand
 Coal are distilled on the largest scale for commercial purposes, their
crude oils may be easily procured in any quantity, and from these
their respective series of bases may be readily prepared. In Tegard
to the bases from beans and other seeds, the case is quite different ;
as the scientific chemist is compelled to distil these substances on
purpose, an operation which cannot be conveniently conducted in a
laboratory, as it requires an apparatus so large as to be almost upon
a manufacturing scale.
    Oil-cake As the Phaseohts communis was regarded as the type
 of the Leguminoste, oil-cake, or the expressed seeds of Linum tisita-
 lissimum, was selected from that numerous class of plants in which
 the starch of the (irnmineje is replaced by oil. The products of its
 distillation were very similar to those from beans, containing how
 ever more ammonia anil a somewhat smaller proportion of oily bases,
 which, though similar, appeared to dirl'er from those of the pre*
 ceding series. They were also equally devoid of aniline.
    Wheat, Tritirum hybernum, and subsequently peat from the
 neighbourhood of Glasgow, were also destructively distilled. Both
 of these substances, in addition to ammonia, yielded a series of oily
 bases, which also contained no aniline.
    Distillation of tcood.—-The author proceeds to state, that through
 the kindness of an extensive pyroligneous acid manufacturer he
was enabled to examine considerable quantities of the crude acid
liquor obtained from the destructive distillation of beech, oak, aud
other hard woods. The stems and larger branches of trees are alone
employed for this purpose. He found to his surprise that this acid
liquor contained scarcely a trace of ammonia or of any other organic
base, showing that the woody portions of the limbs and stems of
trees are nearly devoid of nitrogenous matter, in which respect they
ditTer extremely from peat, which in general contains two per cent,
of nitrogen ; and he considers this circumstance as perhaps calculated
to throw some light upon the origin of the coal-beds, which some
geologists believe to have been formed from the submersion of
forests and the floating of uprooted timber into estuaries and lakes,
while others contend that they have been produced by the submersion
of beds of peat. Irrespective therefore of other considerations, the
author urges in favour of the latter opinion, that wood is not capable
of furnishing the amount of nitrogen we find existing in coal, while
peat contains rather more than double the quantity required. The
expectation of procuring aniline, picoline, &c, the coal series of bases,
from the distillation of peat, was disappointed ; a result only to be
accounted for on the hypothesis, that the different genera of plants,
when destructively distilled, yield different series of organic bases.
    From the facts which have previously been stated, the author con
siders himself warranted in concluding that when ammonia is pro
duced by the destructive distillation of either animal or vegetable sub
stances, it is always accoinpauied with the formation of organic
bases. Now as ammonia is known to be procurable from these sub
stances by other methods than destructive distillation, it seemed

                             Royal Society.                          537
 highly probable that on these occasions organic bases would also be
 produced. JJeaus, oil- cake and Hesh, were therefore successively
 boiled in a distilling apparatus with strong alkaline lyes. In every
 instance, in addition to ammonia, a series of organic bases was also
 produced. Similar results were also obtained when the above-men
 tioned substances were digested in strung sulphuric acid, the acid
 solution supersaturated with an alkali and subjected to distillation.
 The ammoniac: 1 liquor which passed into the receiver was found
 invariably to contain organic bases.                                   ,
    Bases by putrefaction.-—As putrefaction is almost the only other
 means by which ammonia is readily procurable in quantity from
 vegetable and animal substances, the effects of this process were also
 examined in the first instance in the case of guano. An aqueous
 solution of Peruvian guano was saturated with carbonate of soda
 and distilled. In addition to much ammonia, a quantity of basic oils
 was also obtained. Subsequent to this experiment the effects of putre
 faction on a quantity of horse-flesh were also examined, when a con
siderable amount of oily bases was found to have been generated.
    From the facts which have now been enumerated, the author con
cludes "that whenever ammonia is generated in large quantity from
complex animal or vegetable substances, it is invariably accompanied
by the formation of a larger or a smaller amount of volatile organic
bases." If therefore researches similar to tlie present are actively
 prosecuted, and if the scedsand leaves of tlie various genera of plants
 are subjected to these or analogous processes, it seems not unreason
able to expect that the number of the organic alkaloids will ere long
be considerably increased.
   " On the Development and Varieties of the Great Anterior
Veins in Man and Mammalia." By John Marshall, Esq. Commu
nicated by Professor Sharpey, F.lt.S.
   The object of this paper is to state the result of observations on
the metamorphosis of the gnat anterior veins in Man and Mam
malia, and on the relations existing between the primitive and final
condition of these vessels, in different cases, both in their normal
arrangement in animals, and their abnormal condition in the human
subject.]
   From an examination of the form and structure of the sinus of the
great coronary vein, and of the arrangement of its branches and
valves in Man and some of the Mammalia, and from a comparison
of those parts with the terminations of the great coronary and other
posterior cardiac veins in the other Mammalia, the coronary sinus
in Man and one set of Mammals, as the Dog, Cat, and Seal, is shown
to be analogous to the lower part of the left vena cava anterior found
in another set, represented by the Elephant, Rabbit and Hedgehog,
and to the. lower part of the lift vena azygos, found in a third set, as
exemplified in the Sheep, Ox and Pig. The great coronary vein,
therefore, is shown always to end in a similar way, viz. in a larger
muscular venous channel, which, in all cases, ends in the right auri
cle of the heart, by a wide orifice situated in an exactly correspond
ing part of that cavity.

 538                          Royal Society.
     The author remarks that a similar view has recently been published
  by Bardsleben; but his own observations were completed, and his
 deductions arrived at, quite independently.
     Reflecting on the above-mentioned analogies and on the known
  method of development of the great anterior veins in all the Verte-
  brata, as pointed out by Ratlike, from four primitive lateral venous
  trunks, viz. two anterior or jugular, and two posterior or cardinal
  veins, the coronary sinus is demonstrated to be the lower persistent
  portion of the left anterior primitive venous trunk, next to the heart.
  By Ratlike, however, the whole of this left primitive trunk, from the
  neck down to the heart, is supposed to become occluded and then
  entirely to disappear in Man, and in such animals as are similarly
  formed in respect to these great veins; but the author finds that not
  only does its lower part persist in a previous condition as the coro
  nary sinus, but that other remnants or vestiges of this primitive ve
  nous channel are to be found throughout life in Man, and in those
  animals in which the great anterior veins undergo a like metamor
  phosis.
     The inquiry thus opened is then systematically pursued, first, by
 tracing the details of the metamorphosis of the great anterior veins
 in the embryos of the Sheep and Guinea Pig, and in the human foetus ;
 secondly, by a comparison of the adult condition of these great veins
 in the entire class of Mammalia; and thirdly, by an examination of
 the occasional varieties of the same vessels met with in the human
 subject.
     1 . Ofthe development of the great anterior veins.—After describing
 at length the metamorphosis of these vessels, the author proceeds to
 give an account of the remnants of the left anterior primitive vein
 in the adult.
    These are indicated by the following parts, traced from the sum
 mit of the left thoracic cavity down to the back of the heart. Out
 side the pericardium certainjine bands offibrous tissue, which descend
 beneath the pleura, from the trunk of the left superior intercostal
 vein to the front of the root of the left lung ; and inside the peri
 cardium, afold of the serous membrane which passes down from the
 left pulmonary artery to the subjacent pulmonary vein, —certain
 opaque lines or streaks upon the side and back of the left auricle,—
 a small oblique auricular vein which iscoutinued from those streaks
 down to' the coronary sinus,—and lastly, the coronary sinus itself.
 The fold of the pericardium, which hitherto has escaped observation,
 is particularly described. It is named by the author the vestigial
fold of the pericardium, or, from its having contained the canal of
 Cuvier in the embryo, the Cuvierian fold.
    2. Under the second head, a comparison is instituted between the
great anterior veins of Man and the Mammalia generally.
    Having remarked that, as high up in the vertebrate scale as Birds,
no fundamental alteration occurs from the primitive condition of two
anterior and two posterior independent lateral venous trunks, the
author remarks that in all Mammalia one characteristic change is
met with, viz. the formation of a transverse branch across the root of
the neck.

                             Royal Society.                         5 89
   The right anterior primitive vein in all cases persists as the right
or ordinary vena cava superior ; but the left vein either remains un-
occluded, and returns the blood from the left side of the head and
neck, from the left upper limb, the left side of the thorax, and from
the substance of the heart; or, owing to a partial occlusion, returns
only the blood from the left side of the thorax and from the substance
of the heart ; or, owing to still further occlusion, from the substance
of the heart alone. Hence three principal groups arise.
   a. In the first group a right and a left superior vena cava exist,
connected by a cross branch at the root of the neck, as in the Mono-
tremata, Marsupialia, the Elephant, most Rodentia, the Hedgehog
and the Bat.
   b. In another group a tight superior cava and a left vena azygos
exist, as in the Sheep, Goat, Ox, Pig, Horse, Mole and Guinea Pig.
   c. In the third group there is found, besides the right vena cava
superior, only a left cardiac venous trunk or coronary sinus, together
with the vestiges already described, as in the Cetacea, Carnivora and
Quadrumana, as well as in Man.
   In each of these groups subordinate varieties are shown and clas
sified.
   3. TJte almost numberless varieties of the great anterior veins in the
human subject are then arranged on principles similar to those adopted
in regard to the different conditions found among Mammalia; but
the groups are arranged in the inverse order, and the usual con
dition of the veins in Man is included as a necessary element in the
series.
   In one large class of cases, comprehending three groups similar to
those of the different Mammalia already defined, the cross branch in
the neck is always present.
   a. In the first group there is a right vena cava superior, and a left
cardiac venous trunk or coronary sinus. This is the ordinary con
dition. Further subdivisions arise, depending on peculiarities of the
vena cava itself, which are rare; of the azygos system, which are
exceedingly numerous; and of the coronary vein and sinus, which
are again uncommon. Transposition occasionally produces a further
modification, in which the superior cava is found on the left side;
whilst the coronary sinus, the oblique vein and the vestigial fold of
the pericardium, exist on the right.
   b. In another group there might exist a right vena cava superior
and a left vena azygos, as in the Sheep ; but no example of this pos
sible variety has yet been met with in the human subject.
   c. In the third group a right and a left superior cava coexist, as
in the Elephant, constituting what is termed a double vena cava su
perior. Thirty examples of this condition are adduced, of which
eleven only have occurred in adult and otherwise perfect hearts.
One of these was met with by the author, and is specially described.
   Lastly, a separate or second class consists of those cases in which
the cross branch is wanting, and which are, accordingly, destitute of
the characteristic mammalian type, and present, as in Birds, the per
sistent condition of four independent lateral venous trunks.
   The paper is illustrated by original drawings, of the development

54-0                        Royal Society.
of the veins in the Sheep and in Man, of the vestiges of the lelV pri
mitive vein ordinarily fouud in the. adult human subject, and of the
fresh example of double vena cava superior in Man met with by the
author,.^, ,, ,,•,.,. ..:,.','        ',' ,., '.       '"," ",' '
   " A Mathematical Theory of Magnetism." By William Thomson*
M.A., F.R.S.E , Fellow of St. Peter's College, Cambridge, and Pro
fessor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Glasgow.
   The theory of magnetism was first mathematically treated in a
complete form by Poisson, Brief sketches of his theory, with some
simplifications, have been given by Green and Murphy in their works
on Electricity and Magnetism. In all these writings a hypothesis.
of two magnetic fluids has been adopted, and strictly adhered to
throughout. No physical evidence can be adduced in support of
such a hypothesis ; but on the contrary, recent discoveries, especially
in electro-magnetism, render it extremely improbable. Hence it is
of importance that all reasoning with reference to magnetism siiould
be conducted without assuming the existence of those hypothetical
fluids.                                                           ' . ii
   The writer of the present paper endeavours to show that a com
plete mathematical theory of magnetism may be established upon
the sole foundation of facts generally known, and Coulomb's special
experimental researches. The positive parts of this theory agree
with those of Poisson's mathematical theory, aud consequently the
elementary mathematical formulae coincide with those which have
been previously given by Poisson.
   The paper at present laid before the Royal Society is restricled to
the elements of the mathematical theory, exclusively of those parts
In which the phenomena of magnetic induction are considered. •
   The author hopes to have the honour of laying before the Society
a continuation, containing some original mathematical investigations
on magnetic distributions, and a theory of induction, in ferro
magnetic or diamagnetic substances.
   " On the Structure of the Dental Tissues of Marsupial Ani
mals, and more especially of the Enamel." By John Tomes, Esq.
Communicated by Dr. Grant, F.R.S.
   The author of the communication bearing the above title, after
examining microscopically the teeth of many marsupial animals taken
from the majority of the families that make up the order Marsupialia,
finds that they possess a structural character by which they may be
distinguished from other mammalian teeth, subject only to one or
two exceptions; in which exceptions, however, the teeth are small,
and may readily be distinguished from marsupial by their external
character. They are the teeth of the Jfyrax Capcnsis, the British
Shrews, and the molar teeth of the Jerboa.           •¦.-... i
   The author states, that so far as he has had opportunities of er*
animation, the teeth of the various Species may also be d^tinguished,
the one from the other. He points out, for instance, that, on com
parison, the teeth of Dasyurus ursrnus may lie distinguished from
the D. macrourus.                                • ¦
   The peculiar characteristic of marsupial teeth exists in the con

                                Royal Society.                                         541
tinuation of the dentinal tubes into the enamel ; so far as the author
has. investigated them, he finds but one exception, and that in the
Wombat,—the representative of the rodents in the marsupial order.
This creature, he finds, has teeth that are nearly allied in structure
as well as external form to the teeth of rodents, and more especially
to the Hare and Rabbit.             : , , .. [' ,., >¦,-,! [' [, ¦,¦¦.. i,,:„ „;;,¦ r i ¦>
 - The author states, that he has observed that the dentinal tubes in
the human and other teeth are sometimes continued for a short
distance into the enamel. This he considers a rudimentary condi
 tion which is fully developed in the marsupial teeth. The author
 observes that the dentinal and enamel pulp become firmly united to
 each other previous to the commencement of calcification in either,
 and that it is highly probable that the linear columns of the. two
 pulps are joined end to end, and that the columns of the enamel pulp
 so joined become developed into tubes instead of into solid enamel
 fibres. He considers this the more probable, as he has observed
 that the enamel fibres in an early stage of development are partially
 tubular in the teeth of several animals whose enamel fibres are ulti
  mately solid.
     The teeth described and figured are those of the—.
          Macropus gigantens. '                Petaurus sciurens.
          Hypsiprymnus penicillatus.           Dasyurus rnacrournS; !
      ."_       minor.                         -—- ursinus.
          Phalangista vulpiiia.                 Thylacinus Cynocephalus.
         Wombat.                               Didelphis virginiana.
          Petaurus taguanoides.
     The author considers that the facts stated in his paper justify two
  conclusions of a general character. First, that the existence of prp»
  longed and fully-developed tubes in the enamel, continuous with
  those of the subjacent dentine, is. common to the great majority, if
   not all, of the marsupial animals, excepting the Wombat. And, se
  condly, that the enamel and dentine Jire so closely related, that they
  should be regarded as modifications of each other, rather than as
  tissues of a wholly different nature.
     "On the Motion of Gases."—Part. II.                  By Thomas Graham,
   F.R.S. &e.                     ¦ ...... ••         , ¦• ¦„¦ :
     The experiments of the former paper by the author on the same
  subject, afforded grounds for assuming the existence of a relation in
  the transpirability of different gases, that is, their passage through
  capillary tubes of an equally simple nature as that which is recog
  nized among the specific gravities of gases, or even as the still more
  simple ratios of their combining volumes. Compared with solids
  and liquids, matter in the form of gas is susceptible of small variation
  in physical properties, and exhibits only a few grand features. These
  differences of property, which are preserved amidst the prevailing
  uniformity of gases, may well. be supposed to be among the most
  deep-seated and fundamental in their nature with which matter is
  endowed. Under such impressions he has devoted an unusual
  amount of time and attention to the determination of this class of

  542                        Royal Society.
 numerical constants. As the results, too, were entirely novel, and
 wholly unprovided lot' in the received view of the gaseous const itu-
 tion, of which indeed they prove the incompleteness, it was the more
 necessary to verily every fact with the greatest care.
    The most general and simple of the results is, that the transpira
 tion velocity of hydrogen gas is exactly double that of nitrogen gas.
 These gases, it will be remembered, have a less simple relation in
 density, namely 1 to 14. This was the conclusion respecting the
 transpiration of these gases of his former paper, and he has obtained
 since much new evidence in its favour. The transpirability of car
 bonic oxide, like the specific gravity of that gas, appears also to be
 identical witli that of nitrogen.
    The result which may be placed next in point of accuracy and
importance is, that the transpiration velocity of oxygen is related to
 that of nitrogen in the inverse ratio of the densities of these gases,
 that is, as 14 to 16. In equal times it is not equal volumes but equal
 weights of these two gases that are transpired, the more heavy gas
 being more slowly transpired in proportion to its greater density.
 Mixtures of oxygen and nitrogeu have the mean velocity of these
two gases, and hence the time of air is also found to be proportional
to its density when compared with the time of oxygen.
    The relation between nitrogen and oxygen is equally precise as
 that between nitrogen and hydrogen. The densities calculated from
the atomic weights of oxygen and nitrogen, namery, 16 and 14,
being 1 for oxygen, 0-9010 for air and 0-8750 for nitrogen, the ob
served times of transpiration of equal volumes of the same gases are
for oxygen 1, air 0-8970 to 0-9010, and for nitrogen to 0-8708. The
result for carbonic acid, which is perhaps next in interest, appears
at first anomalous. It is, that the transpiration time of this gas is
 inversely proportional to its density : when compared with oxygen or
0-7272, the time of oxygen being 1, their velocities will of course be
directly as their densities. It is to be remembered, however, that
carbonic acid is a compound gas, containing an equal volume of
oxygen. The second constituent, carbon, which increases the weight
of the gas, appears to give additional velocity to the oxygen in the
same manner and to the same extent as inciensed density from pres
sure or from cold increases the transpiration velocity of pure oxygen
itself. A result of this kind shows at once the important chemical
bearing of gaseous transpirability, and claims for it a place with the
doctrines of gaseous densities and combining volumes. The circum
stance that the transpiration time of hydrogen is one-half of that of
nitrogen, indicates that the relations of transpirability are even more
simple in their expression than the relations of density among gases.
In support of the same assertion may be adduced the additional fact,
that biuoxide of nitrogen, although differing in density, has the same
transpiration time as nitrogen. Protoxide of nitrogen and carbonic
acid have one transpiration time; so have nitrogen and carbonic
oxide, as each pair has a common density.
   The transpiration of twenty other gases and vapours is experi
mentally determined, and shown to be uniform, like the preceding

                              Royal Society.                         543
gases, with tube resistances varying in amount from 1 to 1000. This
list includes protocarburetted hydrogen, olefiant gas, ammonia, cya
nogen, hydrocyanic acid, hydrosulphuric acid, bisulphide of carbon,
sulphurous acid, sulphuric acid, chlorine, bromine, hydrochloric acid,
ether, methylic ether, chloride of methyl, coal-gas and the vapours of
water, alcohol and coal-tar naphtha.
   The principal results respecting the transpiration of these vapours,
and on the influence which pressure and temperature have upon the
transpiration of a gas, are summed up as follows :—
   The velocity of protocarburetted hydrogen is0"8, that of hydrogen
being 1.
   The velocity of chlorine appears to be 1 £ that of oxygen ; of bro
mine vapour and sulphuric acid vapour the same as that of oxygen.
   Ether vapour appears to have the same velocity as hydrogen gas ;
their densities are as 37 to 1.
   Olefiant gas, ammonia and cyanogen appear to have equal or nearly
equal velocities, which approach closely to double the velocity of
oxygen.
   Hydrosulphuric acid gas and bisulphide of carbon vapour appear
to have equal or nearly equal velocities.
   The compounds of methyl appear to have a less velocity than the
corresponding compounds of ethyl, but to be connected by a certain
constant relation.
   The resistance of a capillary tube of uniform bore to the passage
of any gas is directly proportional to the length of the tube.
   The velocity of passage of equal volumes of air of the same tem
perature, but of different densities of elasticities, is directly propor
tional to the density. The denser the air, the more rapidly does it
pass under a constant propulsive pressure.
   Rarefaction by heat has a similar and precisely equal effect in
diminishing the velocity of the transpiration of equal volumes of air,
as the loss of density and elasticity by diminished pressure has.
   A greater resistance in the capillary is required to bring out the
law of densities, than appears necessary for the two preceding results ;
and a resistance still further increased, and the highest of all, to
bring out the law of temperatures.
   Finally, transpiration is generally promoted by density, and equally
whether the increased density is due to compression, to cold, or to
the addition of an element in combination, as the velocity of oxygen
is increased, by combining it with carbon without change of volume,
in carbonic acid gas.
   It did not enter into the plan of the author to investigate the pass
age of gases through tubes of great diameter, and to solve pneuma
tic problems of actual occurrence, such as those offered in the dis
tribution of coal-gas by pipes. But he states that the results must
be similar, with truly elastic gases such as air and carburetted hy
drogen, whether the tubes are capillary or several inches in diameter,
provided the length of the tube is not less than 4000 times its diar
meter, as in the long glass capillaries of his experiments. The small
propulsive pressure applied to coal-gas is also favourable to transpU

 544                         lidyal Society.
 ration, as well as the great length of the mains ; and he therefore
 would expect the distribution of coal-gas in cities to exemplify ap
 proximately the laws of gaseous transpiration. The velocity eif coal-
 gas should be 1*575, that of air being 1, under the same pressure.
 And with a constant propulsive pressure in the gasoBietwytheflpw/
 of gas should increase in volume with a rise of the barometer or wj)U»
 a fall in temperature, directly in proportion to the increase of its
 density from either of these causes.                           ...'.•¦
    These laws, it will be observed, are entirely different, from those
 which direct the passage of gases through an aperture in a thin plate,
 or their flow into a vacuum as it is usually said, and could not be ;
 deduced, like the latter, from our speculative ideas respecting the-
 elastic fluids.    ...
    " On the Automatic Registration of Magnetometers awl Me
teorological Instruments by Photography."—No. IIL By Charles
Brooke, M.B, F.R.S.
    The author describes the construction of an apparatus for regis
tering the variation of the thermometer and psychrometer on one
sheet of paper. As in the apparatus for registering the vertical force
magnetometer, described in a former paper, the photographic papal"
is placed between two concentric cylinders, placed with the axis ver
tical, and carried round on a revolving plate or turn-table by the
hour-hand of a time-piece, which makes half a revolution in twenty-
four hours ; thus each .half of the paper presents a record of the
variation of one instrument during twenty-four hours. The scales
of the instruments are continuously impressed on the paper by placing
fine wires opposite each degree across the aperture through which
the light falls on the stem ; the fight transmitted by the empty bare
is intercepted by these wires, and the darkened portion of the paper
is marked by a series of parallel pale lines corresponding to each
degree : thus the distortion of the scale arising from the varying di
rection of the pencils of light k corrected. Every tenth degree is
marked by a coarser wire, and therefore a broader line; as also the
pbints &r, 54°, 76°, 989 ; one at least of these points will occur on
each register, and the position of the extra broad'line serves toiden-
tify the part of the scale to which the register relates.
   An alteration in the mode of adjusting the wick of the ramphlne
lamps described in a former paper is mentioned, by which the chance
of smoking is considerably diminished ; likewise the successful ap
plication of naphthalised gas, and of an oil-lamp, to photographic
registration.
   'The paper concludes with the description of a new method of de
termining the scale and temperature coefficients of the force magne
tometers, by which a greater degree of accuracy is presumed to be
attained than by the methods ordinarily employed. Two magnets*
designed for self-regfstering instruments for the observatories at
Cambridge and Toronto, having been submitted to this method, gave-
consistent results which indicate thetftw'of the temperature coefficient
to be sensibly different from that which has hitherto been assumed.

                                [   545     ]¦
           LXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles."
ON THE PASSAGE OF HYDROGEN GAS THROUGH SOLID BODIES.
  .,,-- ¦                   BY M. LOUYET.          > ";        '.¦•¦-..
M. LOUYET has made a curious observation connected with the
history of hydrogen : he found that when a horizontal current of this
gas, emitted from a capillary orifice, was directed upon a sheet of
paper held vertically and perpendicularly to the gaseous current, the
fluid passes through the paper without being sifted, as might be ex
pected, but retaining the form of a current, and so perfectly that it
may be inflamed behind the paper, absolutely as if it did not exist.
Spongy platina placed behind the paper became incandescent, and it
is to be observed that the pressure under which this phacnomenon '
is produced does not exceed that of 40 to 48 inches of water.
    M. Louyet has also stated that hydrogen gas passes in the same
manner through gold, silver and tin leaf, even double, and also
through thiu membranes of gutta percha, such as are obtained by
evaporating a solution of this substance in chloroform.
    Lastly, the author has observed that the same gas does not sen
sibly pass through pellicles of glass obtained by strongly blowing a
bulb at the end of a tube, however thin they may be.—Ann. de Ch.
et de Phys., Septembre 1849.
  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DETERMINATION OF PHOS
                     PHORIC ACID. BY M. LECONTE.
    The importance of phosphoric acid in vegetable and animal physi
ology is well known, and, in this point of view, the utility of detecting
the presence and determining the quantity of this acid in food, ma
nures, lie, has been duly appreciated, particularly in those manures
 intended to fertilize the soils in which wheat is grown.
    For twelve months several chemists have been occupied with this
 question, which appears a proof both of the interest and difficulty at
 tached to solving it. M. Raewsky's process by acetate of peroxide of
 iron, and that of M. Cotterau by nitrate of silver, have been described.
 M. Leconte states that he has found the soluble salts of uranium to
 be the most certain for detecting and determining the quantity of
 phosphoric acid, on account of the absolute insolubility of the phos
 phate of uranium, and the facility with which this salt precipitates
 notwithstanding the presence of other saline substances, acids, &c.
    The quantitative determination of phosphoric acid in soluble phos
 phates is very simple. A solution of nitrate of uranium is prepared,
 of which every cubic centimetre precipitates Ogr/001 of phosphoric
 acid ; a known weight of the phosphate to be analysed is taken and
 dissolved in a known bulk of distilled water, taking care to neutral
 ize it ; fifty cubic centimetres of this liquor are boiled in a flask, and,
 by the aid of a graduated tube, nitrate of uranium is added to it, till
 the liquor standing over the precipitate becomes limpid. It must be
 boiled for a second after each addition of the test solution.—Journ. de
 Ch. Mid., Novembre 1849.
     Phil. Mag. S. 3. No. 239. Suppl. Vol. 35.                    2 N

                                          5+6
                    INDEX to VOL. XXXV.
ACIDS:—carbo-benzoic,73; molyb-               Barreswil (M.) on the chemical na
  dic, 75 ; alizaric, 212 ; pyro-aliza-          ture of the egg, 158.
  ric, 215 ; rubiacic, 216 ; sulphani-        Bartenbach (M.) on gold in certain
  lic, 237 ; stearic, ib. ; melissic, 247 i      mines of the department of the
  palmitic, 250.                                 Rhone, 309.
Airy (Prof.) on instruments adaptsd           Becquerel (M.) on the development
   to the measure of small meridional            of electricity in the act of muscular
   zenith distances, 294; on an in               contraction, 53.
   strument for performing arithmeti          Beechey (Capt. F. W.) on the tides
   cal divisions and multiplications,            of the English Channel, 149.
   521.                                       Beke (C. T.) on the sources of the
Albite, analysis of, 484.                        Nile, 99.
Algebra, on a new system of imagi-            Bell's (W.) instrument for perform
   naries in, 133 ; on quadruple, and            ing arithmetical multiplications and
   equations of the fifth degree, 434.           divisions, description of, 521.
Alizaric acid and salts, 212.                 Beswick (S.) on a method for com
Alizarine, on the properties and com             puting magnetic declination, 511.
   position of, 210.                          Bile, on the inorganic constituents of
Alkaloids, on the nitrogenous princi             the, 278.
   ples of vegetables as the sources of,      Birt (W. R.) on the production of
   534.                                          lightning by rain, 161.
Altain i M.) on gold in certain mines         Blondeau (M. C.) on the natural
   of the department of the Rhone,               sources and new mode of preparing
   309.                                          sulphuric acid, 467.
Ammonia, on the quantity of, in at            Blood of the ox, analysis of the ash
   mospheric air, 318.                           of the, 185.
Anharmonic ratio, observations on,            Bodies, on the inorganic constituents
   165.                                         of organic, 1, 171, 271 ; on some
Animals, on the inorganic constitu              facts relative to the spheroidal state
   ents of, 9 ; on the structure of the         of, 60 ; on the vibratory movements
   dental tissues of marsupial, 540.            of magnetic and non-magnetic, 422.
Arkansite and Brookite, identity of,          Boltonite, analysis of, and observa
   75.                                          tions on, 462.
Arsenic, on the state in which it exists      Bond (Prof.) on the appearance of
   in the deposit from mineral waters,          Saturn's ring, &c. in the equato-
   465.                                         real of Cambridge, United States,
Ashes of organic substances, on the             519.
  analysis of, 1, 15, 309.                    Bonjean (M.) on glairine, 75 ; on
Asturias, on the geological structure           glairidine, 78 ; on zoiodine, ib.
  of the, 34.                                 Bontemp9 (O.) on some modifications
Atmosphere, on the amount of am                 in the colouring of glass by metallic
   monia contained in the, 318.                 oxides, 439-
Attraction, on the universal law of,          Books, new :—Thompson's Introduc
   234.                                         tion to Meteorology, 225 ; Gal-
Aurora borealis, of Nov. 17, 1848,              braith'e Edition of Ainslie's Trea
   account of the, 69 ; of Feb. 22,             tise on Land-Surveying, 293.
  1849, observations on the, 71,. . • i Boracic acid, influence of, upon vitri
Aurorae boreales, on the cause of, 446.         fication, 479.
Balsam of Peru, experiments on, 72.          Boutigny (P. H ) on some facts rela-

                                      INDEX.                                    5*7
   tive to the spheroidal state of bo        Cobalt, on the preparation of pure
   dies, 60.                                    oxide of, 154; on aluminate of, 155.
Brodie (B. C.) on the chemical nature        Cockle (J.> on systems of algebra
    of wax, 244.                               involving more than one imaginary,
Bromine, on the detection of, 156;             and on equations of the fifth de-
    on a method of ascertaining the        , gree, 434.
    quantity of, 394.                       Colophene, on the preparation and
Bronwin (Rev. B.) on the theory of             composition of, 477.
    the tides, 187, 264, 338.               Colouring principles of madder, on
Brooke (C.) on the automatic regis             the, 204.
    tration of magnetometers and me         Copper, on the blue areeniatc of,
    teorological instruments by photo          310.
    graphy, 544.                            Corenwinder (M. B.) on the prepara
Brookite and Arkansite, identity of,           tion of nitrogen gas, 317.
     75.                                    Cornndellite, analysis of, 452.
 Bryce' (Jas.) on the lignites and al       Cotton, on a peculiar fibre of, 334.
     tered dolomites of the island of       Crum (W.) on a peculiar fibre of cot
     Bute, 81.                                 ton which is incapable of being
 Bucholzite, on the identity of, with          dyed, 334.
     kyanite, 459.                          Crystals, on the notation of, 321.
 Buff (Prof.) on Du Bois Reymond's          Cumberland, on the meteorology of
     discovery of the development of           the Lake districts of, 70.
     electricity by muscular contraction,   Curves, on the intrinsic equation of,
     288.                                      229.
 Bull (B. W.) on the inorganic con          Daguerreotype process, observations
     stituents of yeast, 286.                  on the, 374.
  Caillat (M.) on the analysis of plants    Davies (T. S.) on geometry and geo
     by incineration, 309.                     meters, 497.
  California gold region, notes on the,     Davy (Dr. J. D.) on carbonate of lime
     470.                                      as an ingredient of sea- water, 232.
  Cambridge Philosophical Society, pro      De la Rive (Prof.) on the vibratory
     ceedings of the, 228, 392.                movements which magnetic and
  Carbanilamide, on the properties and         non-magnetic bodies experience
     composition of, 236.                      under the influence of external and
  Carolles (M. Blondeaude) on the for          transmitted electric currents, 422 ;
     mation of fatty matters in vege           on the cause of aurora boreales,
     tables, 158.                              446.
  Chnllis (Rev. J.) on the views of the     De Morgan (Prof.) on anharmonic
     Astronomer Royal respecting the           ratio, 165.
     modification of sounds by distance     Desains (P.) on the rotation of the
     of propagation, 241.                      plane of polarization of heat by
  Chancel (G.) on the nitrogenous com          magnetism, 481.
     pounds of the benzoic series, 236.     Despretz (M. C.) on the electricity
  Chapman (£. J.) on the notation of           developed by muscular contraction,
     crystals, 321.                            55.
  Chlor-melal, on the properties and        Deville (M. 11.) on the combinations
     composition of, 249.                      of oil of turpentine and water, 474;
  Chloroform, on the refractive and di         on the action of phosphoric acid on
     spersive power of, 94 ; observations      the hydrates of oil of turpentine,
     on, 314.                                  477.
  Claudet (M.) on the theory of the         Dixon (T. H.) on rain, the cause of
     principal phenomena of photogra           lightning, 392.
     phy in the Daguerreotype process,      Dcepping (M.) on a compound of
     374.                                      sulphurous acid and water, 393.
  Claus (M. C.) on the metals of pla-       Dolomites of the island of Bute, on
     tina, 396.                                the, 81.
                                        2 N2

                                       I N D EX.
Drach (Mr. 6. M.) on Epicyclical                balance of the food in nutrition,
   curves, 487.                                 127 ; on the quantity of ammonia
Dyeing, observations on the process             contained in atmospheric air, 318.
    of, 241. ' ' '                           Gases, on tile motion of, 541 .
Earnshaw (Rev. S.) 6n the transfor           Geology, researches in physical, fid.
   mation of linear partial differential     Geometry and geometers, 497.
    equations, 24;                           Gerhardt (M.) on the composition of
Earth, on an experiment to determine            stearic acid, 237.
    the density of the, 95 j on the va       Gladstone (Dr. J. H.) on the com
    riation of gravity at the surface of        pounds of the halogens with phos
    the, 228.                                   phorus, 345.
Egg, on the chemical nature of the,          Glairidine, observations on, 78.
     158; on the inorganic constitu          Glairine, observations on, 75.
    ents of the white and yolk of the,       Glaisher (J.) on the weather daring
     886. '" "                                  the quarters ending June 30 and
 Elastic solids, "on an instrument for          September 30, 1849, 137, 356 ; on
     measuring the extensibility of, 92.        the reduction of the thermometrical
 Electric current, on the sounds pro            observations made at the apart
     duced by the, 422.                         ments of the Royal Society from
 Electricity/development of, in the act         the year 1744-1781, and 1787-
     of muscular contraction, 63, 55 ;           1843, 151.
     of steam, observations on, 490.          Glass, on some modifications in the
 Emerylite, analysis of, 451.                   colouring of, by metallic oxides,
 Enamel, on the structure of the,               439.
     540.                                     Gold in certain mines of the depart
 Epicyclical curves, on an easy rule             ment of the Rhone, occurrence of,
     for formularizing, 487.                     309.
 Equations, on the transformation of          Gold region of California, notes on,
     linear partial differential, 24 ; gene      470.
     ral methods in analysis for the re       Graham (T.1 on the motion of gases,
     solution of linear, 147.                    541.
 Ethylamine, on the properties and            Gravity, on the variation of, at the
     composition of, 312.                        surface of the earth, 228.
 Kuphyilite, analysis of, 454.                Grove (W. R.) on the effect of sur
 Falling stars, remarks on, 524.                 rounding media on voltaic ignition,
 Fehlmg (M.) on the methods of as                114; on the direct production of
     certaining the quantity of bromine          heat by magnetism, 1 53.
     in solution in mother-watere, 394.       Hamilton (Sir W. R.) on quaternions,
 Fibrolite, on the identity of, with ky-         or on a new system of imaginaries
     anite, 459-                                 in algebra, 133, 200.
 Fish, on the microscopic structure of        Hargreave (C. J .), researches concern
     the scales and dermal teeth of some,        ing numbers, 36 ; on general me
     5M.                                         thods in analysis, for the resolution
 Fleitmaflh (M.) on the ashes of hu              of linear equations, infinite differ
     man fasces and urine, 273.                  ences, and linear differential equa
 Forbes (Prof J. D.) on an instrument            tions, 147.
     for measuring the extensibility of       Heat generated in a platinum wire by
     elastic solids, 92 ; on the refractive      a voltaic current, observations on,
     and dispersive power of chloroform,          1 14 ; on the direct production of,
     94 ; on the determination of the            by magnetism, 153 ; on the rota
  ' earth's density, 95 ; on the alleged         tion of the plane of polarization of,
     evidence for a physical connexion           by magnetism, 481 ; on the mecha
     between stars forming binary or             nical equivalent of, 533.
     multiple groups, arising from their      Hennessy (H.) on physical geology,
     proximity alonp, 132.                       66.
 Fresenius (Dr. C. RJ on the proper           Herschel (Sir J. F. W.) on the deter-

                                    INDEX.                                      .5-19
   mination of the most probable orbit   Maes (M.) on the influence of boracic
   of a.binary star, 386*                   acid upon vitrification, 479. < • •
Heney, on the composition of, 398.       Magnetic declination, illustrations of
Horse-flesh, on the inorganic consti        a method for computing, 511.
    tuents of. 27 1.                     Magnetism, on the direct production
Huxley (H.) on the anatomy anil             of heat by, 153; on the rotation
    affinities of the family of Medusa',    of the plane of polarization of heat
    528.                                    by, 48] ; en. a mathematical theory
Hydrogen gas, on ; the passage of,          of, 540.
    through, solid bodies, 545.          Magnetometers, on the automatic re
Hylseosaurus, on the osteology of the,      gistration of, by photography, 544.
    64. >~ ,no -¦ •„                     Man and mammalia, on the develop
Iguanodon, osteology of the, 04.            ment and varieties of the great an
 Indianite, analysis of, .486.              terior, veins in, 537.
Institution of Civil Engineers, pro      Mantell (G. A.) on the osteology of
    ceedings of the, 526.                   the Iguanodon and Hylaeosaurus,
 Iodine, on the detection of, 156, 395-     64.
 Iridium, on some compounds of, 396.     Marshall (John) on the development
Jones (H. B.) on the variations of the      and varieties of the great anterior
    acidity of the urine in the state of    veins in man and mammalia, 537.
    health, and on the influence of me   Matteucci (M.) on the voltaic arc,
    dicines on the acidity of the urine,    289.
    152.                                 Medusa?, on the anatomy and affini
 Joule (J. P.) on the mechanical equi       ties of the family of, 528.
    valent of heat, 533.                 Melene, on the preparation and pro
 Kopp (M.) on liquid storax and bal         perties of, 253.
     sam of Peru, 72.                    Melissic acid, on the properties and
 Kyanite, on the identity of Silliman-       composition of, 247.
    ite, fibrolite, and Bucholzite with, Melissine, on the preparation and
    459.                                     composition of, 246.
 Lassaigne (M. J. L.) on the state in    Metallic oxides, on the colouring of
     which arsenic exists in the deposit     glass by, 439, .
     from mineral waters, 465.            Meteorological instruments, on the
 Laurent (M.) on the composition of          automatic registration of,by photo
     stearic acid, 237.                      graphy, 544,
  Leconte (M.) on the qualitative and    Meteorological observations, 79, 159,
     quantitative determination of phos      239. 319, 399. 479-
     phoric acid, 545.                    Meteorology of the Lake district of
  Lightning, on the production of, by        Cumberland, on the, 70.
     rain, 161, 392.                      Meteors, 479.
  Lignites and dolomites of the island    Methylamine, on the properties and
     of Bute, on the, 81.                    composition of, 311.
  Louyet (M.) on the preparation of       Mialhe (M.) on chloroform, 314.
-rJptire oxide of cobalt, 154 ; on alu-   Milk, on the inorganic constituents Of,
a minate of cobalt, 155 ; on the pass        279.
     age of hydrogen gas through solid    Miller (J. F.) on the meteorology of
     bodies, 545.                            the Lakedistrict ofCumberland and
  Lowe ( K. J.) on a remarkable solar        Westmoreland, 70.
     phenomenon, 437 ; on falling stars,  Miller (Prof.) on the identity of
     524.                                    Brookiteand Arkansitc, 75.
  Lubbock (Sir J. W.) on shooting         Mineralogy : —Arkansite, 75; Brook-
     stars, 356.                             ite, ib. ; Emerylite, 451 ; Corundel-
  Lyman (Rev. C. S.) on the California       lite, 452 ; Euphyllite, 454 ; Union-
     gold region, 470.                       ite, 457; Monrolite, 468; Silli-
  Madder, on the colouring principles        manite,459; fibrolite, 460; Huchol-
     of, 204.                                zite, ft. ; kyanite, ib. ; Boltonite,

 550                                INDEX.
     462 ; Nuttallite, 464 ; granular       Plants, on the inorganic constituents
     albite, 484 ; Indianite, 486.             of, 1 ; on the amount of silica con
  Mineral waters, on the state in which        tained in some, 181 ; on the ana
     arsenic exists in the deposit from,       lysis of, by incineration, 309-
     465.                                  Platina, contributions to the chemistry
  Mirrors, remarks on the process of           of the metals of, 396.
     grinding large, 523.                  Poleck (M.) on the inorganic consti
  Molybdic acid, on the estimation of,         tuents of the white and yolk of
     75.                                       hen's eggs, 281.
 Monrolite, analysis of, 45S.              Precipitates, on a simple apparatus for
 Myricine, investigations on, 244.             washing, 96.
 Nepenthes, on the chemical composi        Pring (Dr. J. H.) on the Noctiluca
     tion of the fluid in the ascidia of,     miliaris, the animalcular source of
     192.                                     the phosphorescence of the British
 Newton's Principia, on Hegel's criti-        seas, 401.
 ,. cismof, 392.                           Pringle (VV.) on an easy mode of mea
 Nile, on the sources of the, 99.             suring solar objects, 467.
 Nitrobenzamide, on the action of the      Provostaye (M. F. de la) on the rota
    hydrosulphate of ammonia upon,            tion of the plane of polarization of
     236.                                     heat by magnetism, 481.
 Nitrogen gas, on the preparation of,      Pyro-alizaric acid, on the preparation
    317.                                      and composition of, 215.
 Noctiluca miliaris, observations and Quaternions, a new system of imagi-
    experiments on, 401.                      naries in algebra, 133, 200.
 Numbers, analytical researches con       Railway bridges, on a differential
    cerning, 36.                              equation relating to the breaking
Nutrition, on the proper balance of           of, 230.
    food in, 127.                         Rain, on the production of lightning
Nuttallite, analysis of, and observa          by, 161, 392.
    tions on, 464.                        Rape-seed and rape-straw, examina
Oil of turpentine and water, on the           tion of the inorganic constituents
    combinations of, 474 ; on the action      of, 177.
    of phosphoric acid on the hydrates    Reboulleau (M.) on blue arseniate of
    of, 477.                                  copper, 310.
Osmium, on some compounds of, 397.        Reflex zenith telescope, description of
Palmitic acid from the saponification         the, 294.
    of myricine, observations on the,     Reynoso (M. A.) on the detection of
    250.                                      iodine and bromine, 156.
Paton (J.) on the Old Southend Pier       Rose (M. H.) on the estimation of
   head, and on the nature and ravages       molybdic acid, 75 ; on the inorganic
   of the Teredo navalis.and the means       constituents of organic bodies, 1,
   adopted for preventing its attacks,        171,271.
    526.                                  Rosse (Lord) on the process of grind
Peas and pea-straw, examination of           ing large mirrors, 523.
   the inorganic constituents of, 171.    Roval Astronomical Society, proceed
Phillips (Reuben) on electricity and         ings of the, 294, 386, 519.
   steam, 490.                            Roval Society, proceedings of the, G4,
Phosphorescence, vital, on the pha:-         147, 231,5-28.
   nomena of, 401.                        Rubiacic acid and salts, on the prepa
Phosphoric acid, on the qualitative          ration and composition of, 216.
   and quantitative determination of,     Rubiacine, on the properties and com
   545.                                      position of, 215.
Phosphorus, on the compounds of the       Rubiau, on the properties and compo
   halogens with, 345.                       sition of, 218.
Photography, on the theory of the         Ruthenium, on some compounds of,
   principal phienomena of, 374.             397.

                                    INDEX.                                    .551
Saturn's ring, appearance of, in the     Summers (E. C.) on a simple appa
   equatoreal of Cambridge, United         ratus for washing precipitates, 96.
   States, 519.                          Teeth, on the microscopical structure
Schunck (E.) on the colouring matters      of, 531, 540.
   of madder, 204.                       Terebene, on the preparation and pro
Sea- water, on carbonate of lime as an      perties of, 477.
   ingredient of, 232, 308.              Teredo navalis, on the nature and
Shooting stars, observations on, 356.      ravages of the, 526.
Silliman (Dr. B., jun.) on several       Thermometrical observations made at
   American minerals, 451 ; on a           the apartments of the Royal So
   granular albite associated with co       ciety, on the reduction of the, 151.
   rundum, and on the Indianite of       Thompson's (D. P.) Introduction to
   Bournon, 484.                            Meteorology, reviewed, 225.
Sillimanite, fibrolite and Bucholzite,   Thomson (\V.) on a mathematical
   on the identity of, with kyanite,        theory of magnetism, 540.
   459.                                  Thorel (M. L.) on the detection of
Slatter (J.) on the aurora borealis of      small quantities of iodine, 395.
   Feb. 22, 1849, 71.                    Tides, on the theory of the, 149, 187,
Smythies (J. K.) on the universal law       264, 338.
   of attraction, 234.                   Tomes (J.) on the structure of the
Solar objects, easy mode of measuring,      dental tissues of marsupial animals,
   467.                                     and more especially of the enamel,
Solar phenomenon, account of a re           540.
   markable, 437.                        Unionite, analysis of, 457.
Soubciran (M.) on chloroform, 314 ;      Urine, on the variations of the acidity
   on the composition of honey,             of the, and on the influence of me
   398.                                     dicines on the acidity of the, 152 ;
Sounds, on the views of the Astrono         analysis of the ashes of, 273.
   mer Royal respecting the modifica     Valeramine, on the preparation and
   tion of, 241.                            composition of, 313.
Star, binary, on the determination       Vegetables, on the formation of fatty
   of the most probable orbit of a,         matters in, 158 ; on the nitroge
   386.                                     nous principles of, as the sources of
Stars forming binary or multiple            artificial alkaloids, 534.
   groups, on the alleged evidence for a Verneuil (M. E. de) on the geological
   physical connexion between, 132.         structure of the Asturias, 34.
Steam, on the electricity of, 490.       Villarceau (M. Yvon) on the deter
Stearic acid, on the composition of,        mination of the most probable orbit
   237.                                     of a binary star, 388.
Stcnhouse (J.) on the nitrogenous        Vitrification, on the influence of bo-
   principles of vegetables as the          racic acid upon, 478.
   sources of artificial alkaloids, 534. Voelcker (Dr. A.) on the chemical
Stokes (G. G.) on the variation of          composition of the fluid in the
   gravity at the surface of the earth,     ascidia of Nepenthes, 192.
   228 ; on a differential equation re   Voltaic arc, observations on the, 289.
   lating to the breaking of railway               ignition, on the effect of sur
   bridges, 230.                            rounding media on, 114.
Storax, liquid, experiments on, 72.      Watkins (Rev. C. F.) on the aurora
Struve (M.) on the amount of silica         borealis of the 17th of November,
   contained in some plants, 181.           1848, 69.
Styracine, observations on, .74.         Wax, investigation of the chemical
Styrol, experiments on, 73.                nature of, 244.
Sulphuric acid, natural sources and      Weather, remarks on the, 137, 357.
   new mode of preparing, 467.           Weber (M.) on the inorganic consti
Sulphurous acid, on the hydrates of,       tuents of peas and pea-straw, 171 ;
   393.                                     of rape-seed and rape-straw, 177 ;

552                               INDEX.
  of wheat and wheat- straw, 182 ; of    Williamson (W. C.) on the micro
  the blood of the ox, 185; of horse        scopic structure of the scales and
  flesh, 271 ; of cow's milk, 279.         dermal teeth of some ganoid and
Weidenbusch (M.) on the inorganic          placoid fish, 531.
  constituents of the bile (of oxen),    Wurtz (M. A.) on methylamine and
  278.                                     ethylamine, 311; on valeramine or
Wheat and wheat-straw, examination         valeric ammonia, 313.
  of the ash of, 182.                    Xanthine, on the preparation and
VVhewell (Dr.) on the intrinsic equa        composition of, 219.
  tion of curves, 229 ; on Hegel's cri  Yeast, on the inorganic constituents
  ticism of Newton's Principia, 392.       of, 286.
White (W.) on carbonate of lime as       Zenith distances, on instruments
  an ingredient of sea-water, 308.          adapted for measuring, 294.
Williams (Rev. D.) on a cliff section    Zo'iodine, observations on, 78.
  of Lundy Island, 28.
                   END OF THE TI1IRTY-FIFT11 VOLUME.
               PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR,
                         RED LION COCRT, FLEET STREET.



                                                  raysio
                 °°K NOT ClffOJUTE
                   MEZZANINE
   Stanford University Library
            Stanford, California
In order that others may ase this book, please
return it as soon as possible, but not later than
the date due.
                               4
&


