This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

Philosophical
magazine






                                         71*?"- 4/L><7
                                     THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                      AND
       JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                                 CONDUCTED BY
   SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
   SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Kkt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                       AND
   WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
    " Nee aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee noster
 Tilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Polil. lib. i. cap. I . Kot.
                    VOL. XXL— FIFTH SERIES.
                        JANUARY—JUNE 1886.
                                 LONDON:
   TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, BED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
SOLD BT LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. ; KENT AND CO. ; SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, AND CO.
      AND WHITTAKER AND CO. ;—AND BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK, AND
          T. AND T. CLARK, EDINBURGH ; SMITH AND SON, GLASGOW; —
             HODGES, POSTER, AND CO., DUBLIN; PDTNAM, NEW YORK; —
              VECVE J. BOYVEAU, PARIS ;—AND ASIIEK AND CO., BEIIL1 N.

   " Meditationis est perscrutari occulta ; contemplationis est admirari
perspicua        Admiratio generat qusestionein, qurestio investigationeni,
investigatio inventionem."—Hugo de S. Victort.
                 "Cur spirent venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur niare turgescat, pelago cur tantus aniaror,
             Cur caput obscura l'hcebus ferrugine condat,
             Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas,
             Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulniina ccelo,
             Quo micet igne Iris, superos quis conciat orbes
             Tam vario motu."
                                                 /. B. Pinelli ad Maxtmium.
                                           rUMMAII.

             CONTENTS OF VOL. XXI.
                         (FIFTH SERIES).
             NUMBER CXXVIIL—JANUARY 1886.
                                                               Page
Dr. Silvanus P. Thompson on the Law of the Electromagnet
   and the Law of the Dynamo                                      1
Lord Rayleigh on Prof. Himstedt's Determination of the Ohm.      10
Mr. E. F. Herroun on the Electromotive Force of certain Tin
   Cells                                                         13
Mr. W. M. Mordey on the Dynamo as a Generator and as a
   Motor. Some Analogies and Contrasts                           20
Mr. G. W. Whipple on the Verification of Thermometers at
  the Freezing-point of Mercury                                  27
Mr. T. Mather on the Calibration of Galvanometers by a Con
   stant Current                                                 29
Drs. W. Eamsay and S. Young on some Thermodynamical
   Relations.—Part II                                            33
Profs. Ayrton and Perry on Dr. Lodge's Paper on The
   Seat of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell            51
Mr. R. Moon on the Integration of Partial Differential Equa
   tions of the Third and Higher Orders                          €3
Dr. W. W. J. Nicol on Saturation of Salt-solutions.—Part II.     70
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mr. W. Whitaker on some Borings in Kent.—A Contri
        bution to the Deep-seated Geology of the London Basin.   77
      Mr. F. A. Bather on some Recent Openings in the Liassic
         and Oolitic Rocks of Fawler in Oxfordshire, and on
         the Arrangement of those Rocks near Charlbury ....     78
Experimental Proof of the Law that both Electricities are
   Developed at the same Time and in the same Quantities, for
  Pyroelectricity, by E. Dorn                                   78
A New Form of Absorption-cell, by Arthur E. Bostwick ....       80
On the Cooling of a Wire when Stretched, by E. Dorn ....        80
               NUMBER CXXIX.—FEBRUARY.
Mr. C. Chree on Bars and Wires of varying Elasticity            81
Profs.W. E. Ayrton and J . Perry on the Winding of Voitmeters. 100
Dr. J. J. Hood on the Theory of Fractional Precipitation . . 119
                             8939 3

IV            CONTENTS OF VOL. XXI.     FIFTH SERIES.
                                                                Page
Mr. W. A. Dixon on the Constitution of Acids                     127
 Dr. G. Gore on the Eeality of "Transfer-resistance " in Elec
   trolytic Cells                                                130
 Drs. W. Ramsay and S. Young on some Thennodynamical
   Eelations.—Part HI                                  "         135
 Mr. W. Sutherland on the Mechanical Integration of the Pro
    duct of two Functions                                        141
 Dr. T. Muir on the Differential Equation of a Conic             143
 Dr. G. Gore on the Eelations of Surface-resistance at Elec
    trodes to various Electrical Phenomena                       145
 Dr. E. J. Mills on the Numerics of the Elements.—Part II.       151
 Notices respecting New Books :—
       Prof. Ketteler's Theoretische Optik : gegriindet auf das
          Bessel-Sellmeiersche Princip                           158
 Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
       Mr. G. W. Ormerod on Old Sea-beaches at Teignmouth,
          Devon                                                  160
       Prof. J. W. Judd on the Gabbros, Dolerites, and Basalts
          of Tertiary Age in Scotland and Ireland                160
 A simple way of explaining Clerk Maxwell's Electromagnetic
    Theory of Light, by Miss J. M. Chambers, B.Sc                162
  On a new Apparatus for Measuring Electric Currents, by
    M. de Lalande                                                163
  On a new Secondary Element, by M. Kalischer.                   164
                    NUMBER CXXX.—MARCH.
  Mr. Threlfall on the Theory of Explosions                       165
  Prof. Spencer TJmfreville. Pickering on the Calibration and
     Standardizing of Mercurial Thermometers                      ] 80
  Prof. Osborne Reynolds on the Flow of Gases                     185
  Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of Temperature on the
     Viscosity of Air and Carbon Dioxide. (Plates I. & II.) . .   199
  Dr. A. Woeikof's Examination of Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on
     Geological Climates                                          223
  Mr. C.V. Boys on a Machine for Solving Equations. (Plate III.)  24 1
  Mr. H. G. Madan on some Organic Substances of High Re
     fractive Power                                               245
  Mr. A. "W. Clayden on the Determination of the Volume of
     Mercury in a Thermometer                                     248
  Dr. G. Gore on " Resistance " at the Surfaces of Electrodes
     in Electrolytic Cells                                        249
  Profs. W. E. Ayrton and J. Perry's note on the Paper on some
     Thermodyn anneal Relations by Prof. "W. Ramsay and Dr. S.
     foung                                                        255

               CONTENTS OP VOL. XXI.    FIFTH 8ERIES.               V
                                                                 Page
Mr. CunyDghame on a Mechanical Method of Solving Quad
  ratic and Cubic Equations, whether the Roots be real or
  Impossible                                                     260
Dr. O. Lodge on the Seat of the Electromotive Forces in
  Voltaic and Thermoelectric Piles. Reply to Professors
  Ayrton and Perry                                                263
Notices respecting New Books :—
     Dr. H. F. Morley's Outlines of Organic Chemistry ; Miss
        A. M. Clerke's Popular History of Astronomy during
        the Nineteenth Century                              277, 279
Proceedings of the Geological Society : —
     Mr. W. H. Hudleston on a recent Section through
        Walton Common, exposing the London Clay, Bagshot
        Beds, and Plateau-gravel                                  281
     Mr. J. A. Brown on the Thames Valley Surface-deposits
        of the Ealing District and their associated Palaeolithic
        Floors                                                    283
     Messrs. W. Hill and A. J. Jukes-Browne on the Mel-
        bourn Rock and the Zone of Belemnitella plena, from
        Cambridge to the Chiltern Hills                           283
      Mr. W. Hill on the Beds between the Upper and Lower
         Chalk of Dover, and their comparison with the Middle
         Chalk of Cambridgeshire                                  284
 On the Velocity of Efflux of Liquids, by M. Vautier              285
 A Method of precisely Measuring the Vibratory Periods of
   Tuning-forks, by Prof. A. M. Mayer                             286
 On the Permeability of Various Diaphragms, by A. Zott .... 288
                   NUMBER CXXXL—APRIL.
 Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Electromotive Forces developed
   during the Combination of Zinc and Iodine in presence of
   Water                                                           289
 Mr. W. C. Unwin on the Relations of Pressure, Temperature,
   and Volume in Saturated Vapours                                299
 Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Law of Error and the Elimina
   tion of Chance                                                  308
 Prof. S. U. Pickering on Experimental Error in Calorimetric
   Work                                                            324
 Prof. S. U. Pickering on Delicate Calorimetric Thermometers       330
 Prof. Tait on the Foundations of the Kinetic Theory of Gases      343
 Mr. A. Schuster on the Diurnal Period of Terrestrial Mag
   netism                                                          349
 Dr. G. Gore on the Peltier Effect at different Temperatures .     359
 Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Rev. P. B. Brodie on two Rheetic Sections in Warwick
         shire                                                     362

VI             CONTENTS OF VOL. XXI.      FIFTH SERIES.
                                                               Page
      Mr. E. Witchell on the Basement-beds of the Inferior
        Oolite Qf Gloucestershire                              363
      Messrs. P. F. Kendall and R. G. Bell on the Pliocene
        Beds of St. Erth                                       363
      Mr. G. A. J. Cole on the Alteration of coarsely Spheru-
        litic Bocks                                            364
      Mr. H. B. Woodward on a Well-sinking made by the
        Great Western Railway Company at Swindon               365
On the Resistance in the Voltaic Arc, by E. Edlund             366
On the Deviation of Oxygen from Boyle and Mariotte's Law
   under Low Pressures, by Christian Bohr, of Copenhagen . .   368
                    NUMBER CXXXIL—MAY.
Lord Rayleigh on the Reaction upon the Driving-point of a
   Svstem executing Forced Harmonic Oscillations of various
   Periods, with Applications to Electricity                   369
Lord Rayleigh on the Self-induction and Resistance of Straight
   Conductors                                                  381
Prof. S. P. Langley's Observations on Invisible Heat-Spectra
   and the Recognition of hitherto Unmeasured Wave-lengths,
   made at the Allegheny Observatory. (Plate IV.)               394
Mr. A. P. Laurie on Measurements of the Electromotive
   Force of a Constant Voltaic Cell with moving Plates ....    409
Mr. W. Baily on a Map of the World on Flamsteed's Pro
   jection. (Plate V.)                                         415
Mr. C. Tomlinson's Note on Supersaturated Saline Solutions.    417
Prof. J. H. Poynting on Discharge of Electricity in an Im
   perfect Insulator                                           419
Dr. T. E. Thorpe and Mr. A. W. Riicker on a " Relation
   between the Critical Temperatures of Bodies and their
   Thermal Expansions as Liquids "                             431
Prof. Balfour Stewart on the Cause of the Solar-Diurnal
   Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism                         435
Notices respecting New Books : —
      Dr. Helmholtz's Sensations of Tone as a Physiological
        Basis for the Theory of Music                          445
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Dr. W. T. Blanford on additional Evidence of the Oc
        currence of Glacial Conditions in the Palaeozoic Era,
        and on the Geological Age of the Beds containing
         plants of Mesozoic type in India and Australia        448
Magnetic Investigations, by G. Wiedemann                       449
A Lecture Experiment on the Diffusion of Gases, by A.
   Winkelmann                                                  451
On Vapour and Mist, by Robert von Helmholtz                    451
On the Weight and the Cause of the Layer of Water on Glass
   and other Bodies, by E. AVarburg and T. Ihmori              452

              CONTENTS OF VOL. XXI.      FIFTH 8KRIES.            Vll
                   NUMBEK CX XXIII.—JUNE.
Dr. Werner Siemens on the Conservation of Energy in the
  Earth's Atmosphere                                             453
Lord Rayleigh's Notes, chiefly Historical, on some Funda
  mental Propositions in Optics                                  466
Prof. S. P. Thompson on some New Polarizing Prisms.
  (Plate VI.)                                                    476
Mr. S. H. Burbury on the Foundations of the Kinetic Theory
  of Gases. Note on Professor Tait's paper                       481
Mr. C. Toinlinson on a new Theory of Dew                         483
Mr. H. Wilde on the Efflux of Air as modified by the Form
  of the Discharging Orifice                                     494
Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Determination of the Modulus
  of Errors                                                      500
Notices respecting New Books : —
     Mr. W. Crookes's Select Methods in Chemical Analysis
        (chiefly Inorganic)                                      507
      Fourth Annual Keport of the United States Geological
        Survey, for 1882-83                                      510
      " Photo-relief " Maps                                      511
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mr. G. W. Lamplugh on Glacial Shell-beds in British
         Columbia                                                512
     Mr. A. B. Wynne on a certain Fossiliferous Pebble-band
         in the " Olive group" of the Eastern Salt-range, Punjab 513
      M. F. L. Cornet on the Phosphatic Beds in the neigh
         bourhood of Mons                                        513
On Magnetization, by M. Mascart                                  515
On an Instrument for Beproducing an Invariable Quantity
   of Electricity, by M. Marcel Deprez                           518
Experiments in Thermoelectricity, by MM. Pilleur and E.
   Jannetaz                                                      519
On the Origin and the Laws of Atmospheric Electricity, by
   Prof. Franz Exner                                             520
Index                                                            521

                                 PLATES.
  I. & II. Illustrative of Prof. Silas W. Holman's Paper on the Effect of
         Temperature on the Viscosity of Air and Carbon Dioxide.
III. Illustrative of Mr. C. V. Boys's Paper on a Machine for Solving
         Equations.
IV. Illustrative of Prof. S. P. Langley's Paper on Invisible Heat-Spectra
         and the Recognition of hitherto Unmeasured Wave-lengths.
 V. Illustrative of Mr. W. Baily's Paper on a Map of the World on
         Flamsteed's Projection.
VI. Illustrative of Prof. Silvanus P. Thompson's Paper on some New
         Polarizing Prisms.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBURQH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                 AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                        JANUARY 18M.
     I. On the Law of the Electromagnet and the Law of the
      Dynamo. By Silvanus P. Thompson, D.Sc, B.A.*
 IT is remarkable, considering the vast amount of research
        that has been made, that authorities in physics are in so
 little agreement as to what the law of the electromagnet is.
 Upon the one topic that is all-essential to the electric engineer
 the professed physicist is either silent, or gives mathematical
 rnles that are hopelessly wide of the observed facts, and based
 in most cases on no consistent theory. The expressions given
 by Webert for the relation between the magnetizing force
 and the induced magnetism are an exception ; but they are
 unmanageable in the extreme, and have led to no useful re
 sults. The expression given by Lamontf is also based on a
 certain consistent theory, but it appears to be entirely un
 known both to physicists and to electric engineers, and is to
 be found only buried in the depths of Lamont's own treatise.
 The two mathematical formula which are most often given in
 treatises on physics as representing the relation between the
magnetizing current and the induced magnetism of the elec
tromagnet are the following : —
    Lenz and JacobVs Formula.—According to the experiments
 of these early investigators (1839), the magnetism of the
electromagnet is simply proportional to the strength of the
current and to the number of turns of wire in the coil. This
may be written as                 m*=kSi,
   • Communicated by the Physical Society : read 14th November, 1886.
   t Weber, Elektroaynamitcht Maasbesttmmungm, p. 572. See also
Maxwell, ' Electricity and Magnetism ' (2nd edition), vol. ii. p. 78.
   X Lament, Magnetismus, p. 41.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 128. Jan. 1886.                      B

2              Dr. S. P. Thompson on the Law of the
where i is the strength of the current, S the number of turns
in the coil, k a constant depending on shape and quality of
iron, and m the strength of the pole. Joule (1839) showed
this rule to be incorrect, and that as the iron became saturated,
m ceased to be proportional to St.
    Mailer's Formula.—Miiller gave an expression of the
form :—
                            m = b tan-1 — ,
where b and a are constants, depending on the form, quantity,
and quality of the core and on the form and disposition of
 the coils. Very similar formula? have been used by Von
 Waltenhofen, Dub, Cazin, and Breguet. They are purely
 empirical, fail to represent the facts with accuracy, and have
 moreover the defect of not lending themselves conveniently
 to use in the equations of electromagnetic motors, dynamo-
 electric machines, and other kinds of electric machinery.
     More recently another formula has been coming into use,
 and is known—for reasons which will presently appear—as
 Frblich's formula : it is written
                                         i
                                      a + bl'
 where a and b are again constants, b being the reciprocal of
 the maximum value of m. This formula, like the preceding,
 is a perfectly empirical expression not based in itself upon any
 physical theory, and it accords with the observed facts of the
 electromagnet better than any of the preceding formula?.
 Frolich, who in 1878 was using merely Lenz and Jacobi's
  formula*, appears to have adopted this expression in 1880f,
 in consequence of the experiments which he had made with
 dynamo-machines. A similar formula had been used twenty-
 five years before by RobinsonJ to express the lifting-power
 of an electromagnet, and similar formula? have been used by
 Oberbeck§, Frommefl, Clausius"J, Ayrton and Perry**, and
 Eiickertt-
     Now it must be obvious that since almost the whole of
    * Frolich, Die Lehre von der Elekiricitat und dem Magnetumus, p. 237.
    t Frolich, Berl. Berichte, Nov. 18, 1880, p. 973 ; also Elektrotechnitche
 Zeitschrift, 1881, April, p. 139.                                           >
    1 Robinson, Trans. Roy. Irish Academy, vol. xxii. p. 1, 1865.
    § Oberbeck, Pogg. Ann. cxxxv. pp. 74-98, 1868.
    || Fromme, Pogg. Ann. civ. p. 305, 1878.
    H Clausius, Wied. Ann. xx. p. 367, 1883.
    '* Ayrton and Peiry, Journ. Soc. Telegr. Eng. aud Electr. xii. p. 317,
 1883.
    tt Riicker, Phil. Mag. ser. 6, xix. p. 463 (June 1885).

           Electromagnet and the Law of the Dynamo.                            3
electric technology deals with the electromagnet and its
applications, it is of utmost importance to know what the true
law of the electromagnet is. If the technologist is left to
the mercy of the physicist, he has to choose between formulas
that are based on physical conceptions and which are utterly
unmanageable for his purpose, and formulae that are purely
empirical expressions and have no rational basis.
   But the study of the modern dynamo-electric machine has
brought us to a point that makes some decision a necessity.
The entire action of the dynamo is dependent on the magne
tizing action of the electric current, and the law of the dynamo
is, in the very nature of things, not to be discovered, save by
the discovery of the law of the electromagnet. It is indeed
extraordinary that such able physicists as Mascart and Angot,
Mayer and Auerbach, Schwendler, and Herwig sought in vain
for the true law to connect the electromotive force of the
dynamo with its speed, the resistance of its circuit, and the
constants of its construction. Hopkinson came nearest to
the mark when in 1879 he described the properties of the
dynamo in terms of those of a certain curve, which we now
call the characteristic curve of the machine ; but he did not
state the law of the dynamo algebraically, and apparently ho
accepted as true Weber's formula for the electromagnet.
   But the law of the dynamo is now known, and expressions
have been deduced which are found to agree with the utmost
accuracy with the observed facts. The discovery is almost
entirely due to Dr. Frblich*, whose papers, published at intervals
from 1880 to 1885, are in their way already classical. The
results first obtained by Frolich related exclusively to that
form of dynamo in which the armature-coils and the field-
magnet coils are both included in the main circuit—the
series-dynamo—though they have been further extended by
the present writer, and by others, including Frolich himself,
to other forms of machine. A very brief resume of Frolich's
research will explain his method of arriving at the law.
    His theory is based upon (1) Faraday's law of induction,
(2) Ohm's law, (3) a curve, called by him the current-curve,
expressing certain results of experiments made on the series-
wound dynamo.                                ¦
    Following Faraday's principle, the induced electromotive
force E will be proportional to the speed of the machine n and
to a quantity M which Frolich calls the " effective magnetism,"
and which is itself proportional to the effective area of the
   * Frblich's chief papers are as follows :—Berl. Berichte, 1880, p. 978 ;
Elektrotechniiche Zettschrift, vol. ii. p. 184 (1881) ; ib. vol. iii. pp. 69 and
113 (1882); ib. vol. iv. pp. 60, 67, and 71 (1833) ; ib. vol. vi. pp. 128,
139, 227 (1885).
                                      B2

4            Dr. S. P. Thompson on the Law of the
armature-coils and to the intensity of the magnetic field.
Writing this as an equation, we have
                             E = nM,
and. by Ohm's law,
                             E = t'/R,
which gives ns for the current t,
or
                             M- R
   Since M is itself a function of t, and not primarily of n or
R, it is clear that t is itself a function of n/R, and we may
write
This function Frolich set himself to investigate by pure
experiment without making any hypothesis whatever. He
determined the values of i
at various speeds and with
various resistances, and plot
ted out the results as a curve,
values of t being taken as
ordinates and values of n/R
as abscissae. This curve (see
figure) he termed the " cur
rent-curve." It shows itself
to be very nearly a straight
line, which, however, does
not pass through the origin.
The portion which departs
from the line is difficult of
observation because it is only obtained when either n is very
small or R very large, that is to say when the dynamo is
scarcely able to excite its magnets. Neglecting this unstable
state, and dealing only with that part of the curve which
relates to the machine as it is when in action, it is clear that
the relation between the two variables may be expressed as
                              u n
                              6t— g— a,
where b and a are constants ; giving us as the equation of the
series-dynamo :—

           Electromagnet and the Law of the Dynamo.            5
 Substituting for n/R its equivalent i/M, Frolich then obtained
 from the law of the dynamo the following expression for
 the " effective magnetism ":—
                                 a + bt
an expression which he himself appears, in his original paper,
 to have considered as a mere interpolation-formula. It is,
 however, this expression which is generally referred to as
 Frolich's formula for the electromagnet.
    It was in 1883 that the author of this paper, in working at
the problem of the dynamo, realized the significance of this
 result of Frolich's. He had been using as the fundamental law
                           E = 4nAH
to express the average value of the electromotive force de
 veloped by rotating in a uniform magnetic field of intensity
 H, an armature whose total effective area was A ; and requiring
a formula to connect H with the exciting current, he wa3
 considering the various equations of Miiller, Weber, and
others when he became aware that Frolich's expression fur
 nished what was needed ; and, finding it necessary for the
case of compound-wound machines to express the excitation
in terms of ampere-turns rather than of amperes, he rewrote
 the formula in the following way :—
                       H = GStr*
where, as before, Si is the number of ampere-turns, G a geo
metrical coefficient, k the coefficient of magnetic permeability
in the initial stage, and a a small saturation-coefficient de
pendent on the quantity and form as well as on the quality
of the iron of the core.
   Writing similarly Zi, for the ampere-turns of a shunt-
winding, the expressions for H became
                       H = GZi.•1 + o-Zi,
for shunt-wound machines, and
                 H = G(St-±Zt-,)1 + g(^.±z.)
for compound-wound machines.
   Inserting these values in the fundamental equation at once
gave the following expressions :—

6             Dr. S. P. Thompson on the Law of tlie
   Series dynamo.
                       ¦ _l/4nAGA         11
                      1 A       2R        8J
   Shunt dynamo.
    Compound dynamo (at critical speed for regulation).
or
               = 1 f r,(ra + rm)       r. 1 (1      shunt)
              e=
where r„, rm, r„ and R are the resistances of armature,
main-circuit coil, shunt-coil, and external circuit respectively,
and e the difference of potentials at the terminals of the
machine. These results were announced by the author at the
Montreal meeting of the British Association, and were pub
lished by him in nis volume on Dynamo-Electric Machinery,
as was also the important proposition that the factor - (which
may be called the determinant of the working power of the
 dynamo, since it appears in every one of the equations, both
 of current and electromotive force) is that number of ampere-
 turns which will reduce the effective permeability of the
 electromagnet, or rather of the magnetic circuit, to half its
 initial value. It will be seen that all these synthetical results
 were new, except that for the current of the series dynamo,
 which is identical with the expression that had been deduced by
 Dr. Frblich from the current^curve which represented his
 experimental results.
    Since the publication of the author's treatise, Frolich has
 further elaborated the equations of the compound-wound
 machines ; and a more generalized form has been deduced
 by Prof. Sticker in the masterly paper which he communi
 cated to the Physical Society in March last, in which, how
 ever, he attributes to Frolich (I know not on what grounds)
 the general equation for the electromotive force of all kinds
 of dynamos. Frolich has also verified the adequacy of these
 formulae by comparing results calculated from them with
 actual experiments on compound-wound machines. One ex
 ample will suffice.

            Electromagnet and the Law of the Dynamo.
        n.         R.        r obs.      e calf.    i obs.     t oalc.
       850        0-841       127          127      1510       1510
       853        1-22        133         133       1090       1090
       855        2-34        139         140        59-9        59-4
       mo         4-52        138         139        30-3        30-5
       850        9-25        136         138        14-7        14-7
       850       22-1         137         136         6-2         6-2
       845      2220          133         134         0-6         0-6
    Such a series of results proves the law of the dynamo to be
fully established. But if the law of the dynamo, so deduced
from Frolich's empirical expression for the electromagnet, be
true, then, to an equal degree of precision, must the law of the
electromagnet be itself true.
   But Frolich's expression is not the expression of any
 physical law: it is a mere interpolation-formula, destitute of
rational significance. What then is the true law of induced
magnetism ? And how comes it that an expression devoid of
physical significance so nearly expresses the physical law ?
   That question the author believes to have been already
solved by a forgotten investigation of Lamont, published
almost without note or comment in his Handbuch von dem
Magnetismus in 1867. On p. 41 of that work he gives the
following equation:—
                                      aMx
                            m — ire          »
                                    M + ax
as a convenient first aproximation to another equation based
on a new theory of induced magnetism. In the above
equation x stands for the magnetizing force, m the induced
magnetism, and M the maximum value of the latter. Writing
Qk for a, St for x, and a for ^, we at once get
                                    M'
                                     GkSi
                           m =
                                    l + <rSi'
which is the author's way of writing Frolich's equation.
   The physical theory which led Lamont up to this result is
of great interest, the more so since it has been revived
during the current year in a more elaborate form by Bosan-
quet*, who has apparently been led thereto by an inde-
         * Bosanquet, Phil. Mag. ser. 5, xix. p. 85 (Feb. 1885).

8            Dr. S. P. Thompson on the Law of the
pendent line of thought, and who has gone much further
than Lamont in bringing in the additional consideration of the
forces resisting the orientation of the molecules. Lamont's
theory is, briefly, that the permeability of the iron diminishes
as the permeation increases, being at every stage of the
magnetization proportional to the deficit of saturation. He
assumes that for every bar there is a certain maximum of
magnetization, to which it could only attain under the in
fluence of an infinitely great magnetizing force ; and that the
permeability of the bar is at every stage of the magnetization
proportional to the difference between the actual magnetization
and the possible magnetization. This is, in other words, as
if in every bar there were room for only a certain limited
number of magnetic lines of force, and that, when any lesser
number have been induced in it, the susceptibility of the bar
to the reception of additional lines is proportional to the room
yet left for them in the bar. Lamont's theory is expressed as
follows : Let the magnetism present at any stage be called m,
and let the maximum magnetism be called M. Then the
amount which the bar can still take up is M— m; and it is
to this that the permeability dm/da; is proportional. Here x
may be understood, as itself proportional to the number of
ampere-turns of the exciting current ; and we may write
where k is a constant depending on the units employed, and
on the initial value of the permeability of the magnetic circuit
when wi=0. Integrating we obtain
                          M— m = Ae~hc,
where A is a constant of integration.          But when x=0,
7/i = 0 also ; whence A = M, giving
                         m=M(l-e-*'),
which is Lamont's formula.
    Lamont also develops this expression in ascending powers
of kx,
                 —^-ri+nrr-                                    >
and he then makes the remark that it may be approximately
represented by the simpler, but empirical expression
                              _ aM.x

            Electromagnet and the Law of the Dynamo.            9
 which is identical in form with the expression known as
 Frblich's. Now, writing k for a/M,
                                   M/fc.r
                                  l+kx'
 and expanding this in ascending powers, we get
                        ro=MA*(l-ifc* + AV-                     ).
     Neglecting the fourth and higher terms, it will be seen
  that the formulae are very nearly equal for all small values of
  he, and are identical for the value
                                i     3
  or when the actual magnetism has about '456 of the value it
  would have under an infinite magnetizing force. For larger
  values of the magnetizing force the values of m calculated by
  the empirical formula are slightly greater than those calcu
  lated by the exponential formula.
     None of these formulas render any account of a phenomenon
  noticed in many cases where an electromagnet is magnetized
  with gradually ascending magnetic forces, namely, a concavity
  in the early part of the curve of magnetization, the per
  meability apparently becoming greater after a certain degree
  of magnetization has been attained. The researches of
  Chwolson and of Siemens seem to show that this apparent
  increase in the permeability (which is not observed with de
  scending magnetic forces) is due to non-homogeneity, and to
  the resistance of some of the molecules to magnetization.
  Bosanquet's theory may be taken in connection with the
  recent observations of Rowland, Warburg, Ewing, and Hop-
  kinson on this subject, which, however, is of no great im
  portance here since the apparent maximum of permeability is
   attained in most cases at a much lower degree of magnetization
   than that at which the dynamo is actually worked.
     The very close agreement between the observed values of
  current and potential of the dynamo and those calculated by
  the equations based upon Frolich's formula, proves that
  nowhere within the working range do the actual values of
  the magnetization differ sensibly from those calculated by the
  Frolich formula. That is to say this formula may be taken
  as something more than a first approximation to the true law
  of the electromagnet for all degrees of saturation of the
" magnets employed in practice, and may be taken as a first
  approximation for all degrees of saturation beyond that
  usually attained.

 10              Lord Kayleigh on Prof. Himstedt's
    It is eminently desirable, in the face of these facts, that
 the imperfect formula of Lenz and Jacobi, as well as that of
 Miiller, should henceforth disappear from the textbooks of
 physics, and that instead thereof the true law of the electro
 magnet should be stated, either in the exponential form or in
 the simpler form that is found to be equally true within the
 range of saturation attained in practice.
       II. On Prof. Himstedt's Determination of the Ohm.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
       Gentlemen,
AS there is still some discrepancy in the values of the ohm
         obtained by able workers using various methods, it
seems desirable to put forward any criticisms that may suggest
themselves, in the hope that the causes of disturbance may
thus come to be better understood. I propose accordingly to
 make a few remarks upon the paper of Professor Himstedt,
 translated in your November number, not at all implying that
 his results may not be as good as any other, but rather in
 order to raise discussion on certain points which the author
may be able to treat satisfactorily when he publishes a more
detailed account of his work.
    The leading feature in the method of Prof. Himstedt is the
use of a commutator, or separator, by which the make- and
break-induced currents are dissociated, one or the other passing
in a stream at equal small intervals of time through a galva
nometer, by whose aid their magnitude is appreciated. The
instrument works with mercury contacts. When I first con
sidered the methods available for the solution of this problem
at Cambridge in 1880, 1 found ready to my hand an ingenious
apparatus, contrived by Prof. Chrystall for this very purpose.
The contacts were effected by metallic dippers, controlled by
eccentrics, and passing in and out of mercury cups. What de
termined me against this method*, notwithstanding its obvious
advantages in respect of sensitiveness, was the recollection
of unavailing attempts of my own in i870 to make satisfac
tory mercury contacts with dippers carried by electrically
maintained tuning-forks. Even when silver was the metal
employed, the contacts were uncertain, and no trustworthy
galvanometer deflection could be obtained. It may be men-
   * I may remark that Brillouin used a commutator of this nature in
his researches on the comparison of coefficients of induction : Theses
presentees a la Faculty des Sciences de Paris, 1882.

                     Determination of the Ohm.                       11
tioned, in passing, that the object was to obtain, through the
galvanometer, a stream of charges of a condenser, separated
from the discharges, with a view to the determination of v
(the ratio of electrical units) . Dippers in electrical connec
tion with the body of the fork (and by means of a wire attached
to the stalk with one pole of the condenser) were carried on
both the upper and lower prongs. Underneath these, mercury
cups were so arranged that the vibrating-fork was in contact
with them alternately, but never with both at the same
time. One of the cups was connected with the insulated pole
of the battery and the other with the earth. The fork was
driven by a current entirely insulated from it. It was found,
however, that the contacts could not be made perfect, and the
direct use of the fork was abandoned in favour of a commu
tator with platinum contacts driven by the fork*. This form
of the apparatus is unsuitable as a separator of induced
currents ; and I was inclined to favour the observation of a
single induced current with a ballistic galvanometer as carried
out by Rowland, and afterwards by Glazebrook.
    It is to be presumed that the contact difficult)'' has been
overcome by Prof, flimstedt; and my principal reason for
mentioning it is that I found it particularly capricious and
insidious. The galvanometer indication would often remain
steady for minutes together, and then suddenly change. It
would be interesting to know whether Prof. Himstedt has
met with any behaviour of this sort.
    The next question that I wish to raise relates to the
measurement by the galvanometer of a series of induced
currents, each of short duration. On page 421 there is a
reference to " cross magnetization " that I do not quite under
stand. I have myself t objected to the use of a ballistic gal
vanometer, on the ground of the tacit assumption that the
needle at the moment of the impulse, when subject to a power
ful cross-magnetizing force, retains its axial magnetization
unaltered ; but in the method of Prof. Himstedt the question
assumes a different shape. In this case the needle stands in
an oblique position, and we have to consider whether the axial
magnetization does not alter under the action of a force
having a sensible axial component%. In all probability Prof.
   • " On the Determination of the Number of Electrostatic Unite in the
Electromagnetic Unit of Electricity," J. J. Thomson, Phil. Trans. 1883,
p. 710.
   t Phil. Trans. 1882, p. G70.
   % " On a Permanent Deflection of the Galvanometer Needle, &c," B.A.
 Report 1808. Phil. Mag. Jan. 1877. Chrystall, Phil. Mag. Dec. 1876.

12      On Prof. Himstedt's Determination of the Ohm.
Himstedt has considered this matter. It admits of a very
simple test, all that is necessary being to deflect the needle
into its oblique position with an external permanent magnet,
and then to allow the induced currents to pass, suppressing the
interruption of the secondary contact. Both make- and break-
induced currents would then pass, whose mean value is
zero ; and any deflection of the needle under these conditions
would be a sign that its magnetism fluctuated and that the
evaluation of either stream alone would be vitiated.
   An interesting feature in Prof. Himstedt's work is the
arrangement of the primary and secondary coils, of which the
former is a long solenoid embraced by the latter. The fact
that as regards the secondary the induction-coefficient depends
sensibly upon the number of turns only, without regard to
radius, is much in its favour. Any one who has had to do
with the measurement of coils will appreciate too the advan
tage of reducing the primary to a single layer. There are,
however, disadvantages in this arrangement which must be
kept in sight. I will not dilate upon the use of a wooden
core on which to wind the primary, though I should think it
hardly safe. But assuming that there is no important uncer
tainty as to the value of R (the mean radius of the primary) ,
though it should be remarked that it occurs in the formula as
a square, nor in the data relating to the secondary, we have
still to consider the factor K, expressive of the number of
turns per unit length in the primary. So far as appears, the
value of this quantity is obtained by simply dividing the whole
number of turns, 2864, by the measured length, 135*125 cm.
Now there is here a tacit assumption either that the wire is
wound with perfect uniformity, or that we have to deal only
with the mean value. The latter alternative is manifestly in
correct, since the central parts lying nearly in the plane of the
secondary are necessarily more effective than the remoter parts.
In point of fact the simplicity of this arrangement is more
apparent than real, relating rather to calculation than to
measurement, as I have already had occasion to remark* in
connection with a somewhat similar use of a long solenoid in
Mascart's determination of the electrochemical equivalent of
silver. How far uniformity was attained in the present case I
have no means of judging ; but where the successive turns are
merely brought into contact with one another I should not
expect a high degree of precision, if only because the thick
nesses of the wire and silk are liable to vary. Again, it may
be possible to verify the uniformity a posteriori, or to obtain
                      • Phil. Trans. 1884, p. 418.

         On the Electromotive Force of certain Tin Cells.         13
data for the calculation of a correction. But at any rate it
seems misleading to exhibit the result as determined by the
average number of turns per unit length, when it really de
pends also upon the ratios of the rates of winding at the various
parts of the length.
    Bepeating that I throw out these remarks merely for pur
poses of discussion,               I remain,
                           Your obedient Servant,
                                                      Raylbigh.
  III. A Note on the Electromotive Force of certain Tin Cells.
        By E. F. Herroun, of King's College, London.*
HAVING failed to find any published account giving the
         electromotive force of cells consisting of tin in solutions
of any of its salts, opposed to other metals in solutions of their
corresponding salts, I thought that some measurements re
cently made by myself might be of interest to this Society
as tending to complete the series of double-fluid cells already
investigated and recorded by others.
    The cells examined consisted of an outer containing-vessel
 of glass or glazed earthenware, in which was placed one of
the metals in a solution of one of its salts, and an inner porous
pot 8 centim. high containing the other metal in a solution
of its corresponding salt. It will be seen that they were,
therefore, similar in construction to the ordinary laboratory
 form of Daniell cell, and the standard employed in these ex
periments was a Daniell cell made up in exactly the same
manner.
    The solutions in the Daniell cell were copper and zinc
sulphates of equal molecular strength as recommended by
Dr. C. Alder Wright, the proportion being 1-8 M"S04, 100
HjO. The cell made up in this way was assumed to have an
electromotive force of 1'08 volt, and it probably differed but
little from this value.
                      Method of Measurement.
    The measurements of the E.M.F. of the cells were made by
the zero method of Latimer Clark, in which no polarization is
 possible when the adjustment is effected. The standard Daniell
 cell was used before and after each experimental cell in order
to avoid error due to variation in the potential of the wire,
resulting from changes in the E.M.F. or internal resistance
of the third or polarizing battery, which consisted either of
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read November 14, 1885.

  14            Mr. E. F. Herroun on the Electromotive
  two Daniell cells or a Fuller's bichromate. This precaution,
  however, was usually found to be superfluous, as the circuit
  of the third battery was only closed when an observation was
  being made, and its E.M.F. and internal resistance varied
  only within very small limits.
     In order to ascertain if the E.M.F.'s measured were really
  due to the essential chemical changes occurring within the
  cell, it was usual, after making an observation with an ex
 perimental cell when first put up, to allow the cell to work
 for a short time on a circuit of a few ohms, so as to cause
 the surfaces of the metals to become dissolved and deposited
 upon respectively. The circuit was then opened, and after a
 short rest the E.M.F. was again determined. If this differed
 by little or nothing from the previous measurements it was
 considered to be the true value for that cell ; if, on the con
 trary, there was an appreciable difference further measure
 ments were made. By operating in this way it was found
 that copper plates (particularly electro-deposited metal) which
 had been exposed to the air, and had acquired a superficial
 film of suboxide, usually gave, when first put up, an E.M.F.
 somewhat in excess of their true value. After allowing the
 cell to send a current for a few minutes, the E.M.F. fell to
 the normal value, and thereafter remained sensibly constant.
 ( Vide also Dr. Fleming, " Use of Daniell's Cell,"' Proc. Phys.
 Soc. vol. vii. p. 168.)
     As such initial fictitious electromotive forces would affect
 to their full extent the results obtained by a method like that
 of Poggendorf or Latimer Clark, or in fact any method in
 which difference of potential and not the current is measured, it
 was thought well to control such measurements with one or
 two cells by using Wheatstone's method of adding a resist
 ance to bring down the deflection of a galvanometer-needle
 through a given number of degrees. The results obtained
 by this means agreed remarkably with those found by the
 previously mentioned process.
    In the calculations relating to the heat of formation of
 some of the salts, it has been taken as a mean value that the
electrochemical equivalent of hydrogen is "0001038*, and
that the Joule equivalent is 4'16 x 107 ergs. From these
numbers the factor which, multiplied into the heat, expressed
in gramme-degrees, evolved by the displacement of the
gramme equivalent of one metal by that of another, will give
the electromotive force in volts, is found to be 4"318 x 10-5
or4-32xl0~8 nearly.
   * " On the Determination of Chemical Affinity in terms of Electromo
tive Force,'' by Messrs. Wright and Thompson, Phil. Mag. vol. six. p. 7.

                     Force of certain Tin Cells.               15
   The electromotive forces of the following combinations have
been measured :—tin and copper, zinc and tin, cadmium and
tin, in solutions of their sulphates and chlorides ; and zinc
and tin in solutions of their iodides.
    The stannous sulphate employed was obtained by the action
of sulphuric acid with the aid of heat upon finely granulated
tin, in presence of platinum or copper to aid the action. The
solution of stannous sulphate contained some free sulphuric
acid ; and in fact it appears to be impossible to prepare a
neutral solution suitable for these experiments, as on dilution
to the required strength it deposits a basic salt, the solution
becoming acid. Moreover a nearly neutral solution of stan
nous sulphate when kept is easily acted on by atmospheric
oxygen, becoming cloudy and finally depositing what is pro
bably either a mixture of basic stannous sulphate and stannic
hydrate, or a basic stannic sulphate (?). With free sulphuric
acid present in the proportion of from 1 to 2 per cent., the
solution was satisfactory, and the effect of the free acid is
 considered below. For similar reasons it was found necessary
to operate with solutions of stannous chloride containing a
 small amount of free hydrochloric acid, and with stannous
 iodide containing free hydriodic acid.
     The metallic tin employed as plates in these cells was
 chemically pure, it having been obtained by electrolysis of a
 pure solution of the sulphate. The electro-deposited metal
 was carefully fused and rolled into strips.
     The copper plates employed had in all cases been well
 covered with the electro-deposited metal. The zinc used was
 a good specimen of commercially " pure " metal, and was
 amalgamated. The cadmium was fairly pure, and was covered
 with the electro-deposited metal.
 Electromotive Force of Cells consisting of the Metals immersed
                   in Solutions of their Sulphates.
                      I. Zinc-Tin Sulphate Cell.
     A cell in which zinc in ¦5ZnS04, 100 HaO is opposed to tin
 in •5SnS04, 100 H20, both solutions containing about 1*5 per
  cent. H2S04, was found to have an E.M.F. of from "519 to
  "535 volt, the variation being due to two causes : (1) slight
  differences in the percentage of free HsS04, and (2) differences
  in the condition of the surface of the tin plate.
     It is thus difficult to assign an exact value except between
  such limits ; but with solutions of the above strength, and
 with a tin plate covered with freshly deposited tin, the value

 16          Mr. E. F. Herroun on the Electromotive
 of *525 volt may be taken as a tolerably accurate average
 E.M.F. for this kind of cell.
    It would, of course, be unphilosophical to assume that an
 equality in the amount of free acid present in each solution
 has the same effect as operating with neutral solutions ; but
 being unable to employ a neutral solution of stannous sul
 phate, the addition of an amount of sulphuric acid to the zinc
 solution equal to that present in the SnS04 solution was con
 sidered to be the fairest way of meeting the difficult}'.
    Increasing the amount of free sulphuric acid in the tin solu
 tion only has naturally the effect of" lowering the E.M.F., so
 that with 5 per cent. H8SO« the E.M.F. is not higher than
•49 volt.
    Substituting a 10 per cent, solution of HjSO^ for the zinc
sulphate, leaving the stannous sulphate unchanged, raises the
E.M.F. to -596 volt.
    The effect of varying the strength of both solutions (keep
ing them of equal molecular strength) is the same in kind as
 that which occurs with the zinc-tin chloride cell, but is less
 marked. (See Zinc-Tin Chloride Cell.)
    The heat of formation of stannous sulphate being unknown,
it is impossible to compare the value "52ft volt with deduc
tions from thermal data.
                  II. Tin-Copper Sulphate Cell.
    A cell in which tin in -5SnS04, 100 HsO is opposed to
 copper in "5CuS04, 100 HaO, containing from 1 to 2 per
 cent. HjS04 in both solutions, was foundto have an E.M.F.
 varying from '56 to "572 volt, according to the condition of
 the surfaces of the plates and the acidity of the solutions.
 The effect of increasing the proportion of free HsS04 in the
 tin solution is to raise the E.M.F. of the cell, and it is, of
 course, opposite to the effect observed in a cell in which zinc
 displaces tin. The increase of free sulphuric acid equally in
both tin and copper solutions also tends (at least through a
 certain range up to 3 or 4 per cent.) to slightly raise the
E.M.F. ; and from this I conclude that with neutral solutions
of the above strength, the value would not exceed, and would
probably fall slightly below, '56 volt. Preference would
therefore be given to the minimum value *56 instead of the
mean value "566.
   Alteration of the strength of the solutions is complicated
by the question whether such alteration involves a change in
the percentage of contained acid or only of the salts employed.
Increase of strength of the solutions as regards the salts only,
is attended with a slight depreciation of the E.M.F. ; but if

                    Force of certain Tin Cells.                 IV
the addition of more salt causes an increase in the acidity of
the tin solution, the effect is to heighten the E.M.F., so that
these opposite effects may equal each other, or one may ex
ceed the other, according to their relative magnitude.
    Cells were set up in which tin in a solution of 20 per cent.
HSS04 (sp. gr. 1*141) was opposed respectively to tin in
•5SnSC*4, 100 H20, containing 1£ per cent. H2S04, and to
•5CuS04, 100 HjO, and the following values obtained : —
   Tin-tin sulphate cell                        -058--062 volt.
   Tin sulphuric-acid-copper sulphate cell. "59 volt.
   (It will be seen that the last-mentioned cell does not exceed
the tin-copper sulphate cell (,566) by an amount equal to the
tin-tin cell, the lower E.M.F. being probably due to an ad
verse E.M.F. resulting from diffusion into the comparatively
strong sulphuric-acid solution.)
    If the mean values assigned to the zinc-tin cell and the
tin-copper cell are added together, they are found to exceed
the zinc-copper cell, which they should theoretically equal
           (•525 + -566 = l-091-l-08=-011 excess).
    This result confirms the opinion that for neutral solutions
 the value "566 is probably too high for the tin-copper cell,
 and justifies the minimum value *56 being taken as correct.
 This still gives a slight excess l-085-l-08 = 0-005, and in
practice it is found that a zinc-tin cell and a tin-copper cell
united in series actually give an E.M.F. slightly in excess of
the zinc-copper cell. This difference may be due either to
 the different conditions of the surfaces of the two tin plates
 or to some less obvious cause ; but as it has been found to
exist on several occasions in different cells, it can hardly be
a mere coincidence.
                III. Cadmium-Tin Sulphate Cell.
   A cell set up with cadmium in *5CdS04, 100 HsO, opposed
to tin in -5SnS04, 100 H20, both containing about 1*5 per
cent. H,S04, was found to have an E.M.F. of • 189 volt.
    In order to compare the summation with the zinc-tin cell,
a determination of the zinc-cadmium sulphate cell was made
(using -5M"S04, IOOHjO), and it was found to have an E.M.F.
of '335 volt. (The value given by Messrs. Wright and
Thompson for the zinc-cadmium cell where m=*5 and the
solutions'are neutral is "3G1, which, correcting for difference of
                  1*08
standard, gives ¦..,-.. x -361 = "349 or somewhat higher.)
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 128. Jan. 1886.           C

18           Mr. E. F. Herroun on the Electromotive
   Adding together the values obtained we get "189 + '335
= *524 volt for the zinc-tin cell, a result which shows a
striking agreement with the average value previously given,
viz. *525.
    The average E.M.F. of the cadmium-copper cell was also
determined and found to be *744, Messrs. Wright and Thomp
son finding "753 for the same cell, which gives I —. ... = 1
•73 volt ; or, in other words, my value for the cadmium-
copper is as much above, as my zinc-cadmium is below, their
estimate, both values adding up correctly,
                          •73 + '349 =1-079,
 and
                         •744 + -335 = 1-079.
 This discrepancy is no doubt due to the fact that the solutions
 employed by me contained about 1*5 per cent, of free HsS04
 in order to keep the conditions uniform with the tin cells.
    Subtracting the E.M.F. of cadmium-tin from that of cad
 mium-copper, we get the E.M.F. of tin-copper, thus :—
                       •744--189=-555 volt;
 which accords fairly well with -56, but is, as would be antici
 pated, somewhat less.
     Cells the algebraic sum of whose E.M.F.'s should equal
                     1"08, the standard Daniell.
 Zinc-tin-eulphate + tin-copper-sulphate.
       •525          +         -56                        = 1085.
   Zinc-cadmium      +      cadmium-tin   +      tin-copper.
        •335         +         -189       +         -56 «=    1-084.
      Zinc-tin       +    cadmium-copper —      cadmium-tin.
        •525         +         '744       -         -189 = 1-08.
  Electromotive Force of Cells consisting of the Metals in Soltitions
           of their Chlorides of Equal Molecular Strength.
                      I. Zinc-Tin Chloride Cell.
     A cell set up with amalgamated zinc opposed to tin in
  solutions of their chlorides of the strength -5 M"Clj, 100 HjO,
  containing 1 per cent. HC1, gave an E.M.F. of "544 to -553
  volt, mean = -549 volt.
     Diluting the solutions equally with distilled water causes a

                    Force of certain Tin Cells.                19
rise of E.M.F. np to about "607 volt, bat dilution with 1 per
cent, hydrochloric acid causes a slight diminution of E.M.F.
This and other facts render it probable that with this cell,
and to a less extent with the zinc-tin sulphate cell, increase of
solution-strength without increase in the percentage of con
tained acid is associated with a rise of E.M.F. ; but that with
a corresponding increase of acidity, with a fall of E.M.F.
Thus it is that dilution with distilled water raises the E.M.F.
not because the metallic salt is diluted, but because the free
acid is more attenuated.
   Mutatis mutandis the same remarks apply to tin-copper or
other cells in which tin is the metal attacked (i. e. with con
stant acidity and increasing strength of solution the E.M.F.
falls, bat with increase of both the E.M.F. rises, or does not
fall).
   The heat of formation of zinc chloride and of stannous
chloride being known, the theoretical E.M.F. is directly
calculable.
       [Zn, Cl„ aq.] = 112840.        [Sn, Cl„ aq.] =81140.
   112840-81140=31700; half of which multiplied into
4*32 x 10-5 gives *684 volt as the E.M.F. of zinc displacing
tin from solution of its chloride, and the difference between
the observed and calculated value is '684 — "549 = "135 volt. Or
to employ the terminology of Messrs. Wright and Thompson,
—•135 is the " Thermovoltaic constant " for tin in solution of
its chloride for certain strengths of solution (near "5 MC13,
100 H,0).
                 II. Cadmium- Tin Chloride Cell.
   A cell set up with electro-cadmium opposed to tin in
solutions of their chlorides, *5 M"Clj, 100 H,0, was found to
give an E.M.F. of "247 to -2b'2 volt and an average value of
•249 volt. The solutions used contained the same amount of
free hydrochloric acid, namely about 1 per cent.
   The heats of formation being [Cd, Cl„ aq.] = 96250 and
[Sn, Cls,aq.] =81140 and their difference 15110 or 7555 per
equivalent, the theoretical E.M.F. of cadmium displacing tin
from dilute solutions of its chloride is '326 volt, and the dif
ference between this and the average observed value is *077.
   The E.M.F. of a zinc-cadmium chloride cell was also deter
mined and found to be between '291 and *308 volt, giving an
average of *301 volt. This is below the value given by Messrs.
Wright and Thompson, owing to the solutions used by me
containing 1 per cent, free HOI, thev giving for this cell •329
                                02     '

20             Mr. W. M. Mordey on the Dynamo
volt, which becomes (          *..— = J -318 volt, allowing for
difference of standard.
   In reference to a point to which these authors* drew
attention a short time ago, namely, that, although the heat
evolved by displacing cadminm by zinc in solutions *25
CdClj, 100 H,0 is greater than that evolved by the same
substitution in the case of the sulphates, yet the E.M.F. of
the zinc-cadmium chloride cell is materially less than that of
the zinc-cadmium sulphate cell, my measurements afford direct
confirmation, as the value given here for the average E.M.F.
of the zinc-cadmium sulphate cell is "335 volt and that for the
zinc-cadmium chloride cell only •301 volt, or a difference of
•034 volt, substantially the same as the difference given by
them, viz. "035.
       III. Electromotive Force of Zinc- Tin Iodide Cell.
   A cell set up with amalgamated zinc in *25 Znl2, 100 HjO
opposed to tin in '25 Snl2, 100HsO, both solutions acidified
with 1*5 per cent, of HI, was found to have an E.M.F. of from
•47 to "49, averaging "485 volt.
   There being no thermal data at my disposal no comparisons
can be drawn.
   IV. The Dynamo as a Generator and as a Motor. Some
     Analogies and Contrasts. By W. M. Mobdky, Ksq.^
 DURING the last few years an immense amount of atten
        tion has been given to everything relating to theory
 and practice of dynamo machines. So thorough has been the
 study of the problems connected with these machines, which
 are of a character to appeal both to the physicist and the
 practical constructor or engineer, that it is now not difficult to
 lay down, in a fairly complete form, the laws governing their
 action, and the rules and principles under which they should be
 constructed ; although three or four years ago much confusion
 and uncertainty existed as to what was best in dynamo
 construction.
    But in electric motors the case is very different. While it
 is easy to name physicists and constructors in considerable
              » Pbil. Mag. vol. xvii. p. 378 (May 1884).
              t Communicated by the Author.

                   as a Generator and as a Motor.                  21
numbers who hold clear and correct views on the subject of
electric generators, it is by no means easy to find definite and
correct explanations of what is right and what wrong in regard
to the allied subject of electric motors.
    And on no point does there appear to be greater uncertainty
than on that of the analogies and the differences between the
two machines. For instance, while it has been proved beyond
question that in dynamos the most economical and best working
conditions are obtained by employing field-magnets of great
magnetic strength, and armatures which are relatively very
weak magnetically, the only definite assertion within the
writer's knowledge given with authority on this point, asserts
exactly the contrary to be the case with motors, viz. that the
fields should be relatively much lighter and weaker than the
armatures*.
    Again, what can be more striking than the great and known
 difference between dynamos and motors in respect to the very
important matter of efficiency ! Almost any modern generator
 will give a return in the form of electric energy of 90 per
 cent, of the mechanical energy expended in it, and a useful
 yield of over 80 per cent, in its external circuit. In the case
 of the best generators this is a considerable understatement of
 the working conditions. With electric motors, on the other
 hand, one has to be contented with a much lower efficiency.
 The energy supplied to them is severely taxed in the process
 of conversion. Motors frequently yield, as mechanical energy
 in a useful and available form, only 30 per cent., and seldom
 more than 60 per cent., of the electric energy absorbed.
     The reversibility of the dynamo, or its ability to work either
 as generator or motor, has been spoken of as one of the
 most important discoveries of late years (the great physicist
  credited with the expression of this opinion having apparently
  overlooked the fact that Pacinotti made his famous machine
  as a motor in the first place). But the fact that a given
  machine which will work well and efficiently as a dynamo,
  will not work so economically when its action is reversed
  and it is made to act as a motor, is a proof that the reversal
  is accompanied by some radical change in its action. This
  difference, where it is noticed at all, is generally sought to be
  explained by an assertion or a supposition that having been de
  signed and made for one purpose, it was therefore not suitable
  for the other. No satisfactory explanation, as far as the writer
  is aware, has been given of the cause of this lower efficiency
    ¦• Profe. Ayrton and Perry, " Electromotors and their Government,"
  Journ. Soc. Teleg. Eng. and Electricians, March 1883.

22             Mr. W. M. Mordey on the Dynamo
of motors, or, in other words, of how the missing power is
expended. In what particnlars a good motor should resemble
a good dynamo, and in what they should differ from one
another, are also interesting questions of great importance
which await answers.
   The writer having, with Mr. C. Watson—who is his assistant
in the works of the Anglo-American Brush Electric Light
Corporation—given some attention to the matter from a prac
tical point of view, a great necessity was felt for some founda
tion on which to work, similar in character to the broad general
principles which serve to guide the practical constructor of
dynamo machines. In the search for such general principles,
all those ways of considering the actions which depend on the
idea of magnetic poles in the armature were abandoned, and the
conclusion was arrived at that the armature should have no polar
action whatever, that the iron of the armature should have only
the function of a conductor of lines of force, and that the power
of the motor should be due to the simple action between the
lines of force of the magnetic field and the armature-wires con
veying currents at right angles to those lines of force. This
mode of regarding motor action is convenient on several
grounds, and leads to certain conclusions, which, if correct,
form substantial bases for practical construction. Thus the
armature, instead of being, as hitherto, considered as a strong
electromagnet placed in the field of another electromagnet,
is to have its electromagnetic functions reduced as much as
possible, or preferably suppressed altogether.
   The field is to be very strong.
   As with such an arrangement there is no polar effect in the
armature except that due to the direct magnetic induction of
the field-magnets, it follows that the maximum power is
obtained with any given current when the brushes occupy an
absolutely neutral position, or, in other words, when there is
no " lead " and no distortion or rotation of the field. These
conditions do away with the most troublesome and prolific
 cause of the sparking at the brushes, which is so often an
objectionable feature of most electric motors.
   But by working backwards in this way it was seen at once
that the conditions which seemed to be best for a motor were
precisely those which the would-be designer of a perfect
dynamo would set before him as his goal.
    Certain perfect analogies had been arrived at. In both
dynamos and motors, according to this briefly sketched
view:—
    (1) The field should be a very strong, the armature a very
weak electromagnet.

                   as a Generator and as a Motor.                  23
     (2) In both generators and motors " lead," distortion, or
 displacement of brushes or of magnetic field is wrong, and is
 to be avoided by attention to (1).
    Whatever " lead " there may be in either case, there is this
 difference, that in dynamos this " lead " is in the direction of
  rotation ; in motors it is in the opposite direction, as the course
 of the current through the armature is reversed, but the field
 is the same.
    (3) In both generators and motors absence of sparking at
 the brushes depends mainly on the conditions of (1) being
 complied with.
    (4) Reversal of rotation. In neither generators nor motors
 is movement of the brushes necessary.
    But having got so far, a little consideration suggested the
 Erobable existence of another analogy. Since a dynamo
   aving the above theoretically perfect form and action, with a
 constant field would produce a constant electromotive force if
 run at a constant speed, independently of the load or amount
 of current generated, a motor constructed on the same prin
 ciples and having a constant field, if supplied with energy at
 a constant difference of potential, should run at a constant
 speed, independently of load.
    If this should prove to be a true analogy, a simple means
 of obtaining results of great use in the practical applica
 tion of electricity would be obtained—results which have been
 sought in many directions, more or less complicated, without
 any great success.
    By permission of the Anglo-American Brush Electric Light
 Corporation experiments were carried out in the testing-room
of their works, with a " Victoria " dynamo. The results ulti
mately obtained, which are given in the following tabulated
account of the experiments, and in the curves plotted for them,
show that this fifth analogy is as true as the preceding ones, a
constancy of speed being obtained which was very remarkable
—even when the load was increased, until much more than that
which as a generator was usually considered the full working
current was traversing the armature.
    Two sets of readings were taken, working up to about th«
same current in each set, but with the potential-difference of
the supply different in the two cases, as stated. The field was of
the same strength throughout. The load consisted of another
" Victoria " dynamo driven through a modified White's trans
mission-dynamometer, the work being varied as required by
altering the external circuit of this dynamo.

24              Mr. W. M. Mordey on the Dynamo
       Experiments with, a Dt " Victoria " Shunt Motor at
                           Constant E.M.F.
                        Difference of
                         potential at
 Speed.        Current. terminals.          II. p.#
    975         36-3        140               1-8 "J       Curve A.
    965         66-5          i)              6-6 1 Maxiinnm speed-
    948         97-1          »)            12-87 (       variation 3 per
    945        130-8          »             16-3 J cent.
    680         29          100               1     "")    Curve B.
    677         61-4                         4-8        Maximum speed-
    675        102                            9-14 1 variation 3 per
    660        125            >>            11-7 , ' cent.
   Curves connecting Speed and Work of Ds " Victoria " Shunt Motor.
             With supply at constant difference of potential.
1000
    At first it appeared that the counter electromotive force of
the motor was dependent neither on speed nor strength of field,
as the latter was constant and the former very nearly so, while
the current rose with the work ; but calculation showed that
this was not the case, indeed it could not be so.
    Let us call the counter electromotive force e, and the loss of
potential caused by the resistance of the armature e%} and the
difference of potential at the terminals E. Then
                                 <2 + <?l = E.
            * Including an unascertained loss in transmission.

                   as a Generator and as a Motor.               25
    Calling the current C, and the resistance of the armature R,
we know that
                             e^CRj
    The resistance of the armature of the motor in question
was "027 ohm, which we will call "03 in order to make some
allowance for the effect of heating.
    In the first and last readings of the second set of tests
(curve B) we have therefore the following conditions :—
                 Speed.          e,.            e.
                  680            -87          99-13
                  6b'0          3-75          96-25
Now
                        680x96-25
                            660       OQ.,„
                                     ="   13'
From which it appears that the counter electromotive force was
exactly proportional to the speed, as is to be expected where
the field is constant and the magnetic distortion nil.
    The other cases do not work out with the same accuracy.
The results are, however, quite within the limits of error in
 separable from the rather rough conditions of these workshop
 tests.
     One other fact may be pointed out in connection with these
 tables of results and curves. In the case of dynamos working
 with a constant field, the output with the same current is almost
 exactly proportional to speed, as the E.M.F. is also simply
 proportional to speed. So with the motor, the speed is pro
 portional to the E.M.F. of supply ; and the work, with the
 same current in the two cases, is simply proportional to speed,
 therefore to E.M.F.
     With regard to the theory alluded to above, that in a motor
 the fields should be much weaker and lighter than the arma
 ture, it may be pointed out that in this, as in the other points
 mentioned, there is a real analogy between motors and gene
  rators, inasmuch as, according to the views briefly expressed
  in this note, such a motor, although a bad one from most points
 of view, would have a certain advantage in that for its weight
  it would do a good deal of work. Similarly, dynamos may he,
  and have been built, which, although far from efficient and
  reliable, will give a large output for their weight. Their con
  struction is, however, scarcely to be recommended on this
  ground, except, perhaps, under very exceptional circum
  stances; and they, as well as the motors constructed on the
  same lines, appear to be instances of a mistaken apprehension
 of elementary principles.
     Having briefly traced the analogies between generators and

 26      On the Dynamo as a Generator and as a Motor.
 motors thus far, the subject may be dismissed for the present
with the remark that a further consideration of the matter
serves only to reveal the fact that in almost every phase of their
actions the two machines afford further opportunities of a direct
 comparison.
    Turning now to the question of efficiency alluded to above,
it is evident that there is some important cause of loss or waste
 of energy in electric motors which is absent in generators.
 This has always been a kind of lacuna in the explanations
of the action of motors ; and in order to localize the loss
and to ascertain its cause, the several possible sources of waste
were carefully considered. These are:—(a) Friction at the
 bearings, air-friction, and friction of the brushes against the
commutator, (b) Loss of energy in heating the armature
 and field-conductors, and a certain loss due to self-induction,
 (c) Loss by the production of eddy-currents in the iron.
    Now it is evident, especially with a generator or motor
having the qualities sketched above, that at the same speed,
and working with the same currents in its conductors, the
losses under (a) and (b) must be identical, whether it be
working as a generator or as a motor. And as with such
conditions its efficiency as a motor is lower than as a generator,
the cause of the loss must be sought under (c), t. e. the eddy-
currents in a dynamo must be less than in a motor, all other
conditions being the same. And such is the case, the expla
nation arrived at by the writer and Mr. Watson being a very
 simple one.
    In a dynamo the rotation of the armature causes eddy-
currents to be generated in the iron core, in the same direction
as in the conductor proper with which the core is surrounded.
Of coarse, as the armature is always more or less subdivided
or laminated in a direction at right angles to the lines of force,
any circulation of currents round the core is avoided ; but local
currents, which are aptly called eddies, are set up, and, taken
as a whole, these eddy-currents on the outside of the core are
in the same direction as the current flowing in the copper
conductors.
    In an electric motor, however, the eddy-currents and the
currents in the copper conductor are in opposite directions ;
as, although the E.M.F. setup in the conductor is in the same
direction in a motor as in a dynamo, the current in the former
is forced through the armature in a direction contrary to the
E.M.F., or opposite to its course in a generator. According
to the laws of induction, therefore, it will be seen that while
in a dynamo the two sets of currents, those in the iron and
those in the conductor, tend to oppose and to reduce one

 Verification of Thermometers at Freezing-point ofMercury. 27
another, in a motor they act in such a manner as to mutually
assist each other. Thus, with the strength of field, the current
in the conductor, and the speed the same in the two cases, it
will be seen that in a motor the eddy-currents in the iron core
of the armatures will be greater than in a generator, and
therefore the heat-loss in the former will be more than in the
latter. There is little doubt that this is the cause of the lower
efficiency of motors than of generators; and it points to the
advisability of giving even greater attention in the former to
those principles which are well understood for the reduction
or elimination of eddy-currents.
V. Note on the Verification of Thermometers at the Freezing-
   Point of Mercury. By G. W. Whipple, B.Sc, FJi.A.S.,
   Superintendent of the Kew Observatory *.
IT is not many years since the operation of freezing mer
      cury was considered a scientific feat, and a party of
gentlemen were invited to the Kew Observatory to assist at
the performance of the operation by the late Mr. R. Addams.
That gentleman produced the solidified mercury by the
action of ether upon carbonic acid gas in the solid form, and
with his assistance considerable quantities of mercury were
frozen, and a number of observations were made with care
fully constructed thermometers, which gave the value for the
melting-point of mercury which has since been accepted as
the fixed point. Prof. Balfour Stewart communicated an
account of these experiments to the Royal Society, in whose
publications they will be found (Phil. Trans. 1863, pp.
425-435).
   Since that date the determination of the low-temperature
fixed point of thermometers has become a regular operation
in the verification department of the Kew Observatory,
and some eight or nine dozen instruments are compared in
melting mercury annually, most of them being destined for
use in Canada and other cold countries.
   As the mode of making this comparison is not described in
any readily accessible publication, we have frequently been
requested to give an account of it, and have accordingly
drafted this paper with a view of putting it on record.
   The carbonic acid in its liquid form is purchased generally
of Orchard, of High Street, Kensington, in the well-known
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read November 14, 1885.

28    Verification of Thermometers at Freeting-point of Mercury.
heavy iron bottles so familiar in lecture-rooms as recipients of
compressed oxygen. A convenient quantity for the prosecu
tion of an experiment is 200 gallons of gas, which weighs
about 3 lb. The quantity of mercury operated upon is from
17 to 20 lb. By means of a common salt and ice freezing-
mixture, the vessels, thermometers, mercury, and ether are all
cooled down to about —10° C. beforehand.
    The collecting-box being applied to the nozzle of the gas-
receiver, the valve is unscrewed and gas allowed to escape
through the apertures in the handles of the box for about a
minute, during which time about 550 grains of solid carbonic
gas are deposited in the form of snow.
    The box being opened, the snow is removed with an ivory
paper-knife and laid on the surface of the mercury previously
placed in a wooden box well jacketed with felt. 2 oz. of ether
is then poured over it, and the pasty mass forced under the
surface of the mercury by means of a special wooden stirrer.
The liberated gas and ether-vapour escaping through the
mercury rapidly cool its temperature down, and a thin film
of solid mercury forms on the top of the mass, which is
immediately broken up by the stirrer. About six charges of
acid snow and six fluid ounces of ether are usually necessary
to convert the whole of the mercury into the finely granular
 mass of a pasty consistence.
    It is considered inadvisable to freeze the mercury into a
 solid state, as then it becomes necessary to take it out of the
box, and cut it up with shears into small lumps before the
 thermometers can be inserted into it, an operation which
 entails great loss of time and frozen mercury.
     When the mass is in the semi-solidified condition the ther
 mometers are plunged into it and allowed to fall to the
 requisite temperature—a well-verified standard being always
 placed in the bath at the same time and carefully watched
 during the progress of the comparison.
     As soon as this standard is seen to begin to rise above the
 lowest point, the thermometers are taken out, and an additional
 quantity of snow and ether forced into the mercury until its
 temperature is again reduced, and the feel of the thermometer
 shows it has regained the proper consistency.
     When the operation is properly and carefully performed, it
 is found that the work of comparison may be spread over
  from half an hour to forty minutes, a period which permits of
 more than 100 mercurial thermometers being read with the
  necessary exactitude.     If the thermometers are ordinary
 alcohol or Rutherford minimums with large bulbs, only from
  thirty to forty can be compared at a time.

     Calibration of Galvanometers by a Constant Current.           29
   The operation might be continued for an indefinite period
were a sufficient supply of liquefied carbonic acid available,
but at Kew we usually find the 200-gallon bottle, which,
as already referred to, contains about 3 lb» weight of gas at
sufficient pressure to afford snow, adequate for our purpose.
   The cost of the materials is as follows :—gas 19*. 2d; ether
1*. 2d.
   We do not wish to claim any credit for the process above
described, but only to bring before the Fellows of the Society
a description of our modus operandi as a matter which may
perhaps be of a little interest to some of them.
VI. Note oil the Calibration of Galvanometers by a Constant
    Current. By T. Mather, Assistant in Physical Department,
    City and Guilds of London Central Institution*.
THE principle of the method to be described consists in
       measuring the turning moment exerted on the magnetic
needle of the galvanometer by a constant current, when the
needle and coils are in different relative positions.
    Suppose the galvanometer is placed in any position in a
uniform field, and that a suitable current be passed through
it, which current we will take as our unit current. The needle
will take up some position of equilibrium, say, at an angle
D to the magnetic meridian, and at angle 6 to the zero of the
scale (fig. 1).
   When in this position, the controlling couple is :: to
sin D ; and since this is balanced by the deflecting couple due
to unit current, we see that this couple due to unit current,
when the needle points to 6 is also : : to sin D (fig. 1).
                               Kg. 1.
                                                     -»-H
                                               o
                                                 Magnetic Meridian
             H-e
   * Communicated to the Physical Society by Trofeseor W. E. Ayrton,
F.R.S. : read November 28, 1885.

30            Mr. T. Matber on the Calibration of
   But in the ordinary use of the instrument the line of zeros
is in the magnetic meridian, and when the needle is deflected
through angle 0 the controlling couple is : : to sin 0. Hence
the current required to produce this deflection 0 when
the galvanometer is used in the ordinary way, is ——~.
For the currents must be proportional to the controlling
couples, since the relative positions of the needle and coils
are the same (fig. 2).
                              Fig. 2.
                                                    *-K
                    I             »^"L _ -ift—'iS^t-^tr'^"'J'
           H-*
   This being true for any deflection, the calibration-curve is
got by plotting 0 and -^—=:.
   Of course the same strength of current must be used in
determining the different values of D.
   To measure the angle D corresponding to any 0, we have
merely to break the circuit and observe the angle through
which the needle moves before coming to rest in the magnetic
meridian. 0 is read off directly on the 6cale of the galvano
meter when the current is passing.
   Below are appended the results of a calibration obtained by
this method, for which I have to thank Mr. Kilgour, a student
of the Central Institution, who made the observations :—
                                             sin 6
                0.             D.
                                            bill D'
               10            348            •304
               20            35-3           •592
               30            32-2           ¦938
               40            29-2          1-318
               60            250           1-813
               60            192           2-633
               70            12-9          4-209

                 Galvanometers by a Constant Current,        31
               sin 6
   If 8 and -—p. be plotted, we get the calibration-curve for
that particular galvanometer (fig. 3).
                               Fig. 3.
                                                      I
            4'0
            '6'h       ¦ ¦¦¦
                       ¦ ¦Hi
                                                   u
        ill
         •8 25         ¦ ¦¦¦                     m
         54 O-ii            ¦¦¦
                                              rm
                            HE             n
             1-0            mm
             0-5
                  i    0    M     30       hi 50   M)  "0
                                 Values of 9.
    In the foregoing Table the values of 6 are integral numbers
 of degrees ; but this is not at all necessary, for no fine
 adjustment, such as is required with sine-galvanometers, need
 be attempted. All that is needed is that the position of the
 needle, as indicated on the scale of the galvanometer, should
 be accurately noted before breaking the circuit to observe the
 corresponding D.
    The method described above may be utilized as a ready
 means of testing whether a galvanometer, whose law is sup-
fwsed to be known, does actually conform thereto. For if the
  aw of the galvanometer is C=f(0), then, on plotting f{6)
 and -;—ji, a straight line should result.
    In the case of tangent-galvanometers, where f{6) =/t tan B

32      Calibration of Galvanometers by a Constant Current.
 (k being a constant), we have to plot -^—,=r and tan 6 (t. e.
sin 0                                      ^^
«     *). Thus sin 8 is common to both variables : and hence,
cos 0
if we plot sin D and cos 9, we should get a straight line if the
 galvanometer be really a tangent one.
    About the law of sine-galvanometers there can be no
question if the controlling field be uniform ; and herein lies
one great advantage of sine-galvanometers.
    In " proportional " galvanometers, where the deflection is
 supposed to be proportional to the current, the curve obtained
by plotting 6 and -—^ should be a straight line ; or
                        sin 0         ,
                      -n——Fi = a constant,
                      6 sin D
if calculation be preferred.
    It may be pointed out that, by choosing our unit current
  such that the maximum value of D is nearly 90°, the method
 admits of great sensibility.
    The quantity of apparatus required to perform the calibra
 tion is reduced to a minimum, nothing but the galvanometer
 and a suitable current-generator being needed.
    As described above, the angle D is measured by breaking
 the circuit and allowing the needle to come to rest in the
 magnetic meridian. This requires some time, if the needle is
  not dead-beat, and the observations could be greatly facilitated
 by the use of a fixed divided circle or pointer, by which D
  could be read off simultaneously with 0 without breaking the
 circuit. If so arranged, the whole operation could be com
 pleted in a few minutes ; but as the method is chiefly
 characterized by the fewness and simplicity of the apparatus
  required, it was thought undesirable to mar that simplicity by
 the addition of something not essential.
    In conclusion, I desire to thank Professor Ayrton, F.R.S.,
 for his kindness in suggesting the simple way of describing
the method adopted in this note, and also for the statement of
 a problem which led to the results herein stated.

                              [  33    ]
       VII. Some Thermodynamical Relations.—Part II.
  By William Ramsay, Ph.D., and Sydney Young, D.Sc*
IN a note at the conclusion of the ..first of this series of
       papers, it was stated that the absolute temperatures of
certain nearly related bodies corresponding to equal vapour-
pressures are constant at all pressures. Further investigation,
however, has shown that although it is only in the case of
nearly allied substances, such as chlorobenzene and bromo-
benzene, that tho ratio of the absolute temperatures corre
sponding to the same vapour-pressure is a constant, whatever
(within the limits afforded by experimental data) that pressure
may be, yet a relation does exist between the ratios of the
absolute temperatures of all bodies, whether solid or liquid
and whether stable or dissociable, which may be expressed in
the case of any two bodies by the equation
                         R'=R+c(f-f),
where R is the ratio of the absolute temperatures of the two
bodies corresponding to any vapour-pressure, the same for
both ; R' is the ratio at any other pressure, again the same
for both ; c is a constant which may be 0 or a small + or —
number ; and t' and t are the temperatures of one of the bodies
 corresponding to the two vapour-pressures
    When c=0, R' = R, or the ratio of the absolute temperatures
is a constant at all pressures ; and where c is greater or less
than 0, its value may readily be determined either by calcula
 tion, or graphically by representing the (absolute) temperatures
of one of the two bodies as ordinates, and the ratio of the
absolute temperatures at pressures corresponding to the abso
lute temperatures of that body as abscissae. It is found that
 in all cases the points representing the relation of the ratio of
 the absolute temperatures of the two bodies to the absolute
 temperatures of one of them fall in a straight line. This is
 illustrated in some of the examples which are brought for
 ward to prove the truth of the law. It follows from this
that, if we know accurately the vapour-pressures of one
 substance, we only require two, or, better, three, accurate
determinations of the vapour-pressure of any other substance,
at temperatures moderately far apart, in order to be able to
 calculate the vapour-pressure of that substance at any required
 temperature, or, rather, to calculate the temperature corre
 sponding to any vapour-pressure within the limits of pressure
 comprised in the determinations of the standard substance.
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read December 12, 1886.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 128. Jan. 1886.             D

34                 Drs. Ramsay and Young on
    In the examples which follow, the same substance has not
always been taken as the standard ; but generally, in the
comparison of any two bodies, that one is taken as correct
which is likely to have been the more accurately investigated.
Twenty-two different bodies have been examined, and they
are arranged in twenty-three couples. The absolute tempe
ratures corresponding to definite vapour-pressures of a number
of substances are given in the tables in a previous portion of
this paper. For other substances, curves were drawn to
represent the relation of temperature to pressure, and the
temperatures corresponding to definite pressures read off.
    1. Ratios of the Absolute Temperatures of Water and Carbon
Bisulphide at Definite Vapour-pressures.—As an example of the
method employed, the whole of the data are given in this case,
and also a diagram showing how the value of c may be
obtained graphically. The absolute temperatures of water
corresponding to the definite vapour-pressures are taken
to be correct, and are made the ordinates in fig. 1. The
                                   Fw.l.
0-810    0'520  0-830   0 840      0m50      0-800    0-870   0860 0-8SK)
                         i of Absolute Temperature!1. .,-08.*

                   tome Thermodt/namical Relations.                      35
abscissae are the ratios of the absolute temperatures of carbon
bisulphide to those of water at those vapour-pressures. As
might be expected, some of the points representing the rela
tion of the ratios of the absolute temperatures to the tempe
ratures of water fall slightly to one or other side of the straight
line drawn to pass through them. In order to find the error
involved in these slight deviations from the straight line,
points on the line itself corresponding to the same tempera-
tares of water were read off, and these are given in the table as
smoothed ratios. Lastly, the absolute temperatures of carbon
bisulphide were calculated by multiplying those of water by
the smoothed ratios; and the recalculated temperatures of
carbon bisulphide are given together with the observed tem
peratures. It will be seen that the difference between the
observed and recalculated temperatures is very small.
                            Ratios of
               Absolute      absolute            Recalculated Observed
  Pressures. temperatures temperatures Smoothed    absolute     absolute
                                         ratios. temperatures temperatures
               of water.    of CS to
                          thoseoI'HjO.              ofCSa.       of OS,.
   millim.         o                                   o
       50        311-3        •8161       •8160      254-0        25405
      100        324-7        •8245       •8242      2676         267-7
      160        333-1        •8301       •8296      276-3        276-5
      200        3396         •8339       •8338      283-2        283-2
      300        348-9        •8403       •8400      2931         293-2
      400        3560         •8448       •8449     300-8         30075
      600        361-7        •8485       •8483     306-8         3069
      600        306-5        •8517       ¦8519     312-2         31215
      700        3707         •8545       •8545     3168          316-76
      800        37445        •8567       •8571     3209          3208
      900        3778         •8589       •8590     324-5         324-5
     1000        380-85       ¦8612       •8611     327-95        328-0
     1500        393-2        •8695       ¦8692     341-8         341-9
     2000        402-5        •8753       ¦8757     352-5         3523
     3000        410-5        •8852       ¦8850     368-6         S68-7
     6000        435 85       •8987       ¦8978     391-3         3917
    In the equation Bf=R + c(f-i) the value of c= '0006568.
    The greatest difference between the observed and recalcu
lated temperatures is at the highest pressure (5000 millim.),
and is only 0o,4.
                                      D2

36               Drs. Ramsay and Young 0n
                                        XT f\
   2. Water and Ethyl Alcohol, ttwty                Temperatures of
water taken as correct, and made the ordinates. c= -0000962.
                                          Absolute temperatures of
                                                   Alcohol.
     Pressures.   Ratios.     Smoothed
                                ratios.
                                         Recalculated.    Obserred.
          10      1058           10527       2701           269-25
         50       10553         10553        295-0          2950
        100       10559         10567        307-3          3075
        150       1-0565        1-0574       3150           315-3
        200       10580         1*580        3210           32 10
        300       1-0579        10589        329-5          329-8
        400       1-0595        1-0596       330-0          330-0
        500       1-0004.       10602        341-2          341-1
        600       1-0009        1-0600       345-55         345-45
        700       10619         10610        3494           34925
        800       10618         1-0614       352-8          352-65
        900       10024         10617        355 8          3556
       1000       10626         10620        358 6          ar>8-4
       1500       1-0633        10632        3698           369-8
       2000       10648         10641        378-25         3780
       3000       1-0663        1-0655       390-9          390-6
       5000       1-0675        10673        408-4          408-3
      10000       10687         10701        43515          435-7
      15000       10701         10720        452-7          4535
      20000       1-0715        1-0735       466-2          467-1
   The only noticeable differences between the observed and
recalculated temperatures are at the three highest pressures
and at 10 millim. With regard to the error at the low pres
sure, it may be mentioned that a number of careful determi
nations of the vapour-pressure of alcohol at low temperatures
were made by Ramsay and Young by the still method (see ncte
at end of paper), and that their results differed slightly from
those of Regnault. At a pressure of 50 millim. the difference
was only 0 -05, but at 10 millim. the absolute temperature
found by them was 270o-25, which is practically the same as
that recalculated by means of the equation
                          R' = R + c(<'-0.

                  some Thermodynamical Relations.                           37
                                                      C2H60
   3. Ethyl Alcohol and Methyl Alcohol. ,L6 .                       Tempera
tures of etlivl alcohol taken as correct.            c= -0001603.
                                                 Absolute temperatures
                           Ratios.                  of Methyl Alcohol.
   Pressures.
              .From observed                  Recalculated.       Observed. 1
               tetnperat ures.    Smoothed.
      millim.
         101    a 10372 1           10475         256-51
         10 ]                       1C473         257-9/            2590
                b 10428]
         50        1-0424           10433         282-8             2830
        100        10424            1-0414        295-3             2951
        150        10406            1-0400        303-2             3030
        200        10392            1-0392        308-9             3089
       300         1-0384           1-0379        31775             317-6
       400         10371            10368         3241              3240
       500         1-0358           10359         329-3             329-3
       600         1-0346           1-0351        333-75            333-9
       700         10335            1-0346        3374              337-8
       800         1-0339           1-0340        341-05            3411
       900         10334            1-0336        344-05            344-1
      1000                          10331         3469
      1500         1-0304           1-0314        358-5             35S-9
      2000         1-0297           103O0         3670              3671
      3000         10276            1-0280        3800              380-1   |
      5000         1-0256           10251         398-3             398 1
   Two values are given for 10 millim.:— («) the ratio calcu
lated from Regnault's values, and {b) the ratio ohtained hy em
ploying the recalculated temperature of ethyl alcohol. The only
noticeable difference between the observed and recalculated
temperatures is at a pressure of 10 millim.; and by taking the
recalculated temperature of ethyl alcohol it is greatly reduced.
  4. Carbon Bisulphide and Ethyl Oxide.                 , ., „ 2. .    m
ratures of carbon bisulphide taken as correct.               c = ,0001G21.
                          Ratios.           Absolute temp, of Ethyl Oxide.
  Pressures.
              From observed                                       Observed.
              temperatures.       Smoothed.  Recalculated.
     millim.
       100        10284             10283         260-3             260-3
       150        1-0298            1-0298        268-5             268-5
       200        10306             10307         274-8             274-8
       300        1-0324            1-0325        2840              2840
       400        10335             1-0337        290-95            291-0
       500        10344             1 0346        296-65            296-7
       600        1-0353            1-0355        301-45            301-5
       700        10361             10361         305-7             305-7
       800        10372             10369         309-4             309-3
       900        10371             10375         312-8             312-9
      1000        10380             1-0380        3160              3160
      1500        10408             10402         328-7             328-5
     2000         10423             10420        838-1              3380
     3000         1-0451            1-0446       352-95             352-8
     5000         10490             10484        373-6              373-4

38                  Drs. Ramsay and Young on
   In this series the greatest difference between the observed
and recalculated temperatures is only 0°2.
   5. Carbon Bisulphide and Ethyl Bromide.
                                                         cs8        Tem
                                                      C2HRBr"
peratures of carbon bisulphide taken as correct. c= '0001185.
                                             Absolute temperatures
                                                of Ethyl Bromide.
   Pressures.
              From obserTed               Becalculated.     Observed.
              temperatures.     Smoothed.
     millim.
        50        10162           10172       249-75          2500
       100        1-0186          1-0188      262-8           262-8
       150        10203           1-0199      2711            2710
       200        1-0224          1-0206      2775            2770
       300        1-0223          10218       286-9           286-8
       400        10233           1-0228      29405           293-9
       500        10237           10234       2999            299-8
       600        10244           1-0241      304-8           304-7
       700        10251           10247       309-1           309-0
       800        10249           1-0251      312-9           3130
       900        10259           10256       316-4           3163
      1000        10263           1-0260      319-7           319-6
      1500        10274           10276       332-7           332-8
     2000         10280           10289       342-4           342-7
     3000         1-0299          1-0308      3577            3580
     5000         10327           10335       3790            379-3
                                                         CS2
   6. Carbon Bisulphide and Ethyl Chloride.                         Tern-
                                                       CjHjCl
peratures of carbon bisulphide taken as correct, c = "0001050.
                                             Absolute temperatures
                         Ratios.               of Ethyl Chloride.
   Pressures.
              From observed     Smoothed. Becalculated.
               temperatures.                                Observed.
     millim.
       150        11118           11135       248-3           2487
       200        11136           11142       254-2           254-3
       300        11152           11152       2629            2629
       400        11 164          M160        269-5           269-4
       500        11164           11166       274-9           274-9
       600        11174           1-1172      279-4           2793
       700        1-1181          11177       283-4           283-3
       800        1-1178          1-1181      286-9           287-0
       900        1-1186          1-1185      2901            2901
      1000        11194           1-1189      293-15          293-0
     1500         11210           11203       305-2           3050
     2000         11209           11215       3141            3143
     3000         11224           1-1232      328-25          328-5
     5000         1 1253          11256       348 0           3481

                 some Thermodynamical Relations.                           39
                                            C6H6C1
  7. Chlorobenzene and Water                             Temp, of water
                                             H2U
taken as correct. c= "000598.
                                                 Absolute temperatures
                          Ratios.                   of Chlorobenzene.
  Pressures.
              From observed      Smoothed.    Recalculated.     Observed.
              temperatures.
     millim.
       100        10579            10573          343-3           343-5
       150        10625            10623          35385           353-9
       200        1-0654           10660          362-0           361-8
       300        1-0711           10716          373-9           373-7
       400        1-0753           10760          38305           382-8
       500        10788            10791          390-3           390-2
       600        10819            10820          396-55          396-5
       700        1-0845           10845          4020            4020
                                            CjHjBr
   8. Bromobemene and Water.                              Temp, of water
                                              H20
taken as correct. c = "000609.
                                                 Absolute temperatures
                          Ratios.                   of Bromobenzene.
   Pressures.
              From observed       Smoothed.    Recalculated.    Observed.
               temperatures.
      millim.
         60       11156             11124          3463           3473
       100        11220             1-1206         363-9          364-3
       150        11255             1-1258         3750           374-9
       200        11284             1-1297         383-65         3832
       300        1-1344            1-1353         396-1          395-8
       400        11388             11396          405-7          405-4
       600        11427             11431          413-45         413-3
       600        1-1460            11460          420-0          4200
       700        1-1489            1-1486         425-8           425-9
       800        11516             11509          430-95          431-2
                                   Cg^Ha.         Temp, of water taken
   9. Aniline and Water.
 as correct. c= "000345.
                          Ratios.               Absolute temp. of Aniline.
   Pressures. From observed
                                  Smoothed.    Recalculated.     Observed.
               temperatures.
     millim.                                         o               o
        60         1-2046           1-2048        37505           3750
      100          1-2100           1-2094        392-7           392-9
      150          1-2129           1-2124        403-85          4040
      200          1-2144           1-2145        412-45          412-4
      300          1-2174           1-2176        424-8           424-75
      400          1-2197           1-2201        434-4           434-2
      500          1-2217           1-2221        4421            441-9
      600          1-2237           1-2239        44855           448-5
      700          1-2254           1-2253        454-2           464-25
      800          1-2269           1-2266        459-3           459-4

40                   Drs. Ramsay and Young on
   10. Methyl Salicylate and Water.              C<,H4(OH)CO Q(CH8)
                                                             xigU
Temperatures of water taken as correct.               c = "000459.
                                                  Absolute temperatures
                             1                     of Methyl .Salicylate.
             From observed                     Recalculated.    Observed.
               temperatures.      Smoothed.
                                                              1
     millim.
        50        1-3026            1-3008        404-9           405-5
       100        1-3067            1-3069        424-35          4243
       150        1-3101            1-3107        436-6           436-4
      200         1-3118            1-3136        4461            445-5
      300         1-3170            1-3179        459-8           459-5
      400         1-3204            1-3212        470-35          47005
      600         1-3235            1-3239        4789            478-7
      600         1-8261            1-3260        4860            4860
      700         1-3283            1-3280        492-3           492-4
      800         1-3302            1-3298        497-95          4981
  11. Bromonaphthalene and Water.                      'fl 7. —      Tempe
ratures of water taken as correct.          c = "00061 2.
                         Ratios.                 Absolute temperatures
                                                 of Bromonaphthalene.
  Pressures.
             From observed                    Recalculated.
              temperatures.      Smoothed.                      Observed.
    millim.
      150        1-4587            1-4592        486-05           485-9
     200         1-4623            1-4631        496-9            4966
     300         1-4689            1-4690        512-5            5)2-5
     400         1-4733            1-4732        524-45           524-5
     500         1-4766            1-4769        534-2            5341
     600         1-4797            1-4798        5423             542-3
     700         1-4823            1-4821        549-4            549-5
     800         1-4846            1-4847        655-95           655-9

                  some Thermodynamical Relations.                         41
                                                      S
   12. Sulphur and Carbon Bisulphide,               t^,-.    Temperatures
of carbon bisulphide taken as correct,             c— —'0006845.
                                                 Absolute temperatures
                          Batiog.                      of Sulphur.
   Pressures.
              From observed
               temperatures.      Smoothed.   Recalculated.     Observed.
     millim.
       300        2-2783           2-2779        667-9            6680
       400        22733            2-2727        683-5            683-7
       500        2-2681           2-2685        6962             6961
       600        2-2650           2-2649        707 0            707 0
       700        2-2607           2-2617        716-4            7161
       800        2-2588           2-2588        724-6            724-6
       900        2-2558           22563         7322             7320
      1000        2-2530           2-2540        739-3            739-0
      1500                         2-2444        767-4
      2000        2-2373           2-2372        788-15           788-2
      3000        2-2262           2-2262 •      820-8            820-8
   The close agreement between the observed and recalculated
temperatures of such a high-boiling substance as sulphur is
very striking.
   13. Carbon Bisulphide and Ethylene.                            Tempera
tures of carbon bisulphide taken as correct.               c= "000274.
                                                 Absolute temperatures
                          Ratios.                     of Ethyhme.
   Pressures.
              From observed                                     Observed.
               temperatures.      Smoothed.   Recalculated.
     millim.
       60         1-8212            1-8208       139-5            139-5
      100          1-8242           1-8244       146-8            146-75
      150         1-8263           1-8268         151-35           151-4
      200         1-8283           1-8287        154-9             154 9
      300          1-8325          1-8315        1601              1600
      400         1-8339           1-8386        1640              164-0
   Here again the agreement is very remarkable, considering
the difficulty of measuring very low temperatures accurately.
   14. Water and Oxygen.                  4 .  Temperatures of water
taken as correct. c= — "0003932.
   Vapour-pressures of oxygen have been determined by

42                   Drs. Ramsay and Young on
Olszewski and by Wroblewski, but their results do not agree
well together. Olszewski measured his temperatures by means
of a hydrogen-thermometer; Wroblewski by a thermopile.
It was found that the curve showing the relation of tempe
rature to pressure was very fairly regular when constructed
from Olszewski's numbers, and the temperatures correspond
ing to definite pressures were therefore read from this curve.
The temperature corresponding to a pressure of 9 millim. is
a single observation by Olszewski. The temperatures corre
sponding to 50, 100, and 150 millim. are taken from Wro-
blewski's results.
                         Ratios.              Absolute temperatures
                                                    of Oxygen.
   Pressures.
              From observed      Smoothed. Recalculated.     Observed.
               temperatures.
                                   •
    millim.                                      o               0
         9        4-5967          4-454        63-5             61-5
        50        40534           4-349        71-6             76-8
       100        3-9353          4-2845        75-8            82-5
       150        4-0132          4-253        78-6             830
       300                        4191          83-2
       400                        4-182        851
       500                        4-1405       87-4
       600                        4120         89-0
       700                        4-1025       90-4
       800        40701           4090         91-6             920
      1000        40732           4064         93-7             935
      1500        4-0536          40175        97-9             970
      2000        40520           3-980       1011             1000
      3000        39478           3924        1061             105-5
      5000        3-8267          3-849       1132             1139
     10000        3-7044          3-733       124-7            1257
     15000        36489           3656        132-7            1330
    20000         3-6242          3-5975      139-1            1381
   It is hardly to be expected that the measurement of such
extremely low temperatures could be very exact, and the
difference of 2o-0 at an absolute temperature of about 60°, is
not more than might be expected. It will be seen that the
three temperatures given by Wroblewski differ considerably
from those calculated from Olszewski's results.
   The vapour-pressures of oxygen are given up to the critical
point, at which the pressure is 38,600 millim., but those of
water have only been determined up to 20,000 millim. The
absolute temperatures of oxygen were therefore compared
with those of alcohol, in order to find whether the value of c
remains constant up to the critical point.

                  some Thermodynamical Relations.                          43
                                     fi nn
   15. Alcohol and Oxygen.             2()6 . Temperatures of alcohol
taken as correct.       c=— -00040075.
                                                 Absolute temperatures
                           Ratios.                      of Oxygen.
    Pressures.
               From observed      Smoothed.    Recalculated.     Observed.
                temperatures.
      millim.
        300                         3-940          83-7
        400                         3-913          85-9
        500                         3-894          876
        600                         3-879          89-1
        700                         3-861          90-4
        800        3-8331           3-848          91-6             920
       1000        3-8332           3824           93-7             93-5
       1500        3-8123           3-780          97-8             970
       2000        3-7800           37485         100-8            1000
       3000        37024            3-694         105-7            105-5
       5000        3-5848           3-6:21        112-8            1139
      10000         34662           3-514         1240             125-7
      loOOO         34098           3-441         131-8            1330
      20000         33824           3-388         137-9            138-1
      30000         3-3189          3-300         147-9            147-1
      40000         3-2698          3-240         155-6           •154-2
    The absolute temperatures          of oxygen recalculated from the
 smoothed ratios with alcohol          agree well with those calculated
 from the ratios with water.           It was thought worth while to
 compare these temperatures             with those of sulphur, oxygen
 being the most and sulphur             the least volatile of all the sub
 stances examined.
    * The last pressure, 40,000 millim., is a little above the critical point,
 but sufficiently near to allow of the continuation of the vapour-pressure
 curve without sensible error. This was done instead of calculating the
 absolute temperature of alcohol corresponding to 38600 millim., the
 critical pressure of oxygen. It is to be remarked that the last two or
 three points representing the experimentally determined vapour-pressures
 of oxygen at the highest temperatures lie a little above the curve which
 was drawn. If more weight had been given to these points, the agree
 ment between the observed and recalculated numbers would: have been
 much closer. Thus Olszewski gives 154°-2 as the absolute temperature at
 the critical pressure 38600 millim., whereas from the curve this would be
 the temperature at 40000 millim. If the curve were raised so as to pass
 through the point representing the observed critical pressure and tempe
 rature, the exterpolatcd temperature would become 1550-3, or only0°-3
 lower than that recalculated from the smoothed ratio.
     In any case, the agreement seems to be close enough to show that the
  equation R'=R+c {t'—t) holds good up to the critical point.

£
                                                              Observed.
                                                                                                                              9*0    93-5   970    1000  105-5
                                                                                                               .
                                                            8From=r.
                                                                                              83-45 85-7         8905   90-4  91-6  93-7    97-9  1010   105-9
                                                                                                           87-5
                               Oxygen.
  taken
  of
  TOxygen.
   c16.
    0and
     eomr0c=—asp1e6rc5^
 "Sulphur             at2.ures
                                of
                               TAebmspoelruatueres
                                                                      Menn
                                                                     of
                                                                                 b&a.         8345               8905                       9785  100-95
                                                         c.                                         85-9
                                                                                                    85-5   87-5
                                                                                                           87-6         90-4  91-6  937                  105-9
                                                                                                                                                         105-7
                                                                            oFrom.
                                                                      C.,H60-¦i_6
                                                      b.                                      83-7               891    90-4  91-6   93-7   978   100-8
                                                                                            o
                                                                              —fr-.0
                                                                             From
                                                         a.                                   83-2   851   87-4  89-0   90-4  91-6   937    97
                                                                                                                                            9      1011  1061
                                                                                            o
                                                              Smo thed.                                          7-9395 79245        7-8875       7-8055 77525
                                                                                              8005  7-980  7-957              7910          7-840
                                                     Frommean
                                                     of
                                                              recalculated temperatures.
                                                                                              8005  7-9965       7-9395 7-921 7-910  7-887  7-847  7-808 7-750
                                Ratios.                                                                    7955
                                                                           temperatures.
                                                              observed                                                                      79155
                                                     From                                                                     7876  97 04          7-882 7-780
                                                   Pres ures.
                                                                                         mil
                                                                                         Inn.        400   500   600    700   800    1000    1500  2000  3000
                                                                                              3U0

                  some Thennodi/namical Relations.                          45
   It will be seen that the temperatures of oxygen recalculated
from those of sulphur, when c = —"0001(552, agree remark
ably well with the mean of the temperatures recalculated from
the ratios with water and alcohol.
                                            nirn
    17. Acetic Acid and Water.              ~lrj^-        Temperatures of
water taken as correct. For liquid acetic acid c= "0003186 ;
for solid acetic acid c= — "000852.
    In the 'Philosophical Transactions,' Part 2 > 1884, it was
shown experimentally by Ramsay and Young that the vapour-
pressures of solid acutic acid were lower than those of the
liquid acid at the same temperature, and curves were con
structed showing the relation of temperature to pressure for
both the solid and the liquid acid. The absolute temperatures
corresponding to definite pressures were read from thesecurves.
For pressures below 5 millim. the vapour-pressures of water
adopted by Regnault were not employed, the values calculated
from his empirical formula representing the relation of tem
perature to pressure of water between 0 and 100° being pro
 bably more correct.
                 a. Liquid Acetic Acid and Water.
                                                 Absolute temperatures
                           Ratios.                     of Acetic Acid.
     Pressures.
                From observed     Smoothed.    Recalculated.
                temperatures.                                     Observed.
       millim.                                       o                o
           5        10175           10188         27935            27901
           6        10193           10195         282-2            28214
           7        1-0202          10202         284-6            284-64
           8        10212           1-0209        286-8            286-91
           9        10219           1-0215        288-8            288-88
          10        10222           10220         290-55           290-6
          60        10311           10305         320-8            321-0
         100        10345           10347         3360             335-9
        150         10309           10375         3456             3454
        200         10392           10395         353-0            352-9
        300         10426           10424         363-7            363-75
        400         1-0447          10447         3719              3719
        500         1-0455          10465         378-5             37815
        600         10478           10480         384-1             3840
        700         10506           10495         389 05            389-45
                   b. Solid Acetic Acid and Water.
           2        104231          1-0422         2729             272-89
           8        1-0372,         1-0374         27715            27710
           4        10335           10335          28015            28014
   !       5        1O306           10307          282-6            28260
           n        10284           1-0284         284-7            284-67
           7        1-0264           10261         286-3            286-37
           8        1-0244          10244          287-8            287-8
           9        1-0226           1-0220        2891             289 08

46                 Drs. Ramsay and Young on
   The differences between the recalculated and observed
absolute temperatures of solid acetic acid are extremely
minute. If the vapour-pressures of water given by Regnault
were employed, the value of c would be slightly altered, and
in that case the agreement would not be quite so close, the
greatest difference amounting to 0o-15.
   The results for both the solid and the liquid acid are shown
in the diagram (fig. 2).
                               Fig. 2.
    1-01S  1-020  I-Oifi 1-030    1-036 1-040 1043   1050    1-056

                 some Tliermodynamical Relations.                      47
                       Dissociating Substances.
    Five of these bodies have been examined, three liquid and
two solid. In all of them the value of c is constant, while in
the case of nitrogen peroxide, when compared with water it
is=0, or at any rate it is a very small number.
   18. Nitrogen Peroxide and Water.                        Water taken
                                                H20'
as correct.    c = 0.
                          Ratios.             Absolute temperatures
                                                     of N2Ov
   Pressures.
              From observed
              temperatures.      Smoothed. Recalculated.     Observed.
      millim.
        100      0-7884            0-790      2565            2560
        150      0-7899                       26315           2631
        200      0-7895              M        268-3           2681
        303      0-7908                       275-6           275-9
        400      0-7904                       28125           281-4
        600      07904                        28575           285-9
   Considering the nature of the substance, these differences
may probably be considered within the limits of experimental
error.
                                                    CCUCH         OH
    1 9. Chloral Ethyl-alcoholate and Water.                   {  0C,HS.
                                                              H20
Temperatures of water taken as correct.           c= —•0005119.
                         Ratios.            Absolute temperatures of
                                             Chloral Ethyl-alcoholate.
   Pressures.
              Ftoin observed
              temperatures.      Smoothed. Recalculated.     Observed.
      millim.
         50       1-0729           10728       3340            3340
        100       10669            10659       3461            3461
        150       10619            10615       353-6           3537
        200       10545            10582       359-4           3581
        300       10530            10535       3676            367-4
        400       10600            10499       373-8           373-8
        500       1O470            1-0470      3787            3787

48                   Drs. Ramsay and Young on
                                                                       OH
                                                          CCLCH- OCHs.
   20. Chloral Methyl-alcoholate and Water.
Temperatures of water taken as correct,               c— —•0005392.
                          ¦d ..                 Absolute temperatures of
                          ¦Katl0s-           |  Chloral Methyl-alcobolat*. 1
   Pressures.
              From observed
                                  Smoothed.    Recalculated.     Observed.
              temperatures.
    millim.
        50        10639            10641        • 331-25           331-2
       100        10573            10570           343-2           343-3
       150        1-0532           1-0546          351-3           350-8
       200        1-0486           1-0489          356-2           3561
       300        1-0439           1-0439          364-2           364-2
       400        1-0402           1-0400          3702            3703
   The last two substances examined are solid throughout, and,
at the higher temperatures at any rate, dissociate completely
on being converted into vapour.
   21. Ammonium Chloride and Water.                     „ *    .    Tempera-
                                                        ±i2U
tures of water taken as correct             c= — '00066G7.
                                                Absolute temperatures of
                          Ratios.                         NH4C1.
   Pressures.
              From observed       Smoothed.    Recalculated. |   Observed.
               temperatures.
     millim.
         50        1-6855           1-6809         523-3           5247
        100        1-6717           1-6720         542-9           542-8
        150        1-6650           1-6664         5551            554-6
       200         1-6587           1-6620         5644            563-3
       300         1-6546           1-6560         5778            5773
       400         1-6514           1-6511          587-8          587-9
       500         1-6478           1-6475          5959           5960
       600         1-6453           1-6441         602-6           6030
   The determinations of the vapour-pressures and tempera
 tures of volatilization of ammonium chloride were attended
 with great difficulties, and the agreement between the cal
 culated and observed temperatures is as near as could be
 expected. The volatilizing-point at the atmospheric pressure,
calculated from the equation H' = R + c(t'—t), would be
 338°-6 C, which agrees well enough with the temperature found
 by experiment.

                 some Theitnodynamical Relations.                  49
                                                      NIL
   22. Ammonium Carbamate and Water. CO (.ONH4. Tem-
peratures of water taken as correct.     c= — "000696.
                         Ratios.         Absolute temperatures of
                                          Ammonium Carbamate.
    Pressures.
               From observed
               temperatures. Smoothed.  Recalculated.   Observed.
     millim.
        10        09529          0-9510    2704           270-9
        50        0-9313         0-9321    290-2          289-9
       100        09221          0-9230    299-7          299-4
       150        09159          0-9170    305-45         305-1
       200        0-9122         0-9126    3099           309-8
       300        0-9060         09061     31615          3161
       400        0-9017         0-9011    320-8          3210
   It is thought that these twenty-two examples, including
twenty-one different bodies—solid, liquid, stable, and dissoci
able—are sufficient to prove that the equation R' = R + c(0 — t)
is applicable to all classes of bodies, and that by the de
termination of the constant c, which involves only a small
amount of experimental work, it becomes possible to calculate
the vapour-pressures of any substance, assuming those of water
or some other body to be accurately known, within the limits
of pressure included in the experimental determinations of the
standard substance.
   It should be pointed out that those dissociable substances
which have been investigated, are either, as in the case of am
monium carbamate and chloride and the compounds of chloral,
wholly or almost wholly dissociated on their passage into the
gaseous state at the temperatures of observation, or the
amount of dissociation is very small, as with nitric peroxide.
Until reliable data are obtained, it is perhaps premature to
make any complete statement in reference to the behaviour of
dissociable bodies.
               On the Vapour-Pressures of Mercury.
  It will have been observed in the tables in Part I. of this series
of papers that mercury appears to differ from all the other
substances examined, inasmuch as the values of -£ • t, when
                                                       at '
compared with either water or carbon bisulphide, are not even
approximately constant at different pressures, but rise steadily
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 128. Jan. 1886.              E

50             On some Theitnodynamical Relation*.
and somewhat rapidly. Again, the absolute temperatures of
mercury cannot bo calculated from those of water by means
of the equation li'=H + c(t' — t), for if Regnault's data are
correct, c is not a constant. There appeared, however, to be
good reason to believe that Regnault's values were not reliable,
and he himself admits that great difficulties were experienced
in the investigation of this substance.
   It was, therefore, considered desirable to attempt a re
determination of the vapour-pressures of mercury with tho
greatest possible accuracy at a few temperatures. This has
been accomplished, and the results are fully described in
Trans. Chem. Soc. Jan. 1886. It will be sufficient here to
mention that new determinations were made at the boiling-
points of methyl salicylate and of sulphur under atmospheric
pressure (220° and 450° approximately). Two other determi
nations at the boiling-point of bromonaphthalene under atmo
spheric and reduced pressure (280° and 270°), described in
the Trans. Chem. Soc. xlvii. p. G40, and four determinations of
the boiling-point of mercury under atmospheric pressure by
Regnault (Mimmres de I' Acad&nie, xxi. p. 230), were also
made use of in the calculations.
   On comparing the absolute temperatures of water with
those of mercury at these five pressures, it was found that the
value of c in the equation R' = R+e(/'— t) was constant, and
that mercury did not form an exception to the law, which
has been proved to hold good for all the other substances
examined.
   By making the absolute temperatures of mercury ordinates,
and the ratios of the absolute temperatures of mercury to
those of water at the same pressures abscissae, and drawing
a straight line through the five experimentally-determined
points, the value of c was ascertained, and vapour-pressures of
mercury were calculated for each 5°, from 270° to 520° C.
It should be mentioned that slightly different results were
obtained when the absolute temperatures of water were made
the ordinates; but within the limits of temperature just men
tioned, the difference was unimportant.
   With the absolute temperatures of mercury as ordinates,
the value of c is -0004788.
   The values of -J- . t for mercury were then determined; for
the most part by the method of tangents, but between 150
and 700 mm. from the vapour-pressures calculated for each
degree of temperature, and were compared with those of water
and of carbon bisulphide. The results are given in the
following table :—

   On the Seat of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell.     51
                                                           Carbon bi
               dp                       * *    Water made   sulphide
Pressure.                   t.
               d7'                               = 1000     made =
                                                             1000
 milliiii.                o
     10        0350      4573           160       0-866
     50        1-405     508 5          714       0-850       1 057
    100        2-506     534-2         1339       0-833       11)46
    150        3-54      55097         1950       0843       1-061
    200        447       563-44        2519       0835       1-061
    300        6-25      58221         3639       0-&34      1-061
    400        7-85      596-44        4682       0-827      1055
    500        9-40      608-03        5715       0827       1-055
    600       1091       61787         6741       0-829      1060
    700       12-34      626 48        7731       0-824      1-057
    800       1375       6340          8717       0829       1059
    900       1501       641-0         9621       0-814      1037
  1000        10 37      6472         10595       0-818      1049
  1500        22-38      6731         15064       0-811      1-038
  2000        28-33      6930         19633       0-816      1064
  3000        3861       7231         27919       0-804      1071
  5000        56-90      7656         43562       0-800      1059
     It will be seen that the agreement with carbon bisulphide is
 extremely close throughout, and that with water the variation
 is not greater than with some of the other substances examined.
 The variations from constancy in the reduced values of -£¦ . t
 will be considered in Part III.                              dt
     Note.— Reference has been made to the vapour-pressures of
 alcohol at high and low temperatures determined by ourselves.
 The data are contained in a paper presented to the Hoyal
  Society in May 1885. The vapour-pressures of dissociable
 substances are given in a paper read before the Royal Society
 in November 1885.             Neither of these papers is as yet
 published.
 VIII. Some Notes by Professors Ayrton, F.R.S., and John
      Perry, F.R.S., on Dr. Lodge's Paper on The Seat of the
     Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell *.
  rj^HE value of the historical part of Dr. Lodge's paper can
  -*- hardly be overrated. A fair share of credit has been
  given in it to all experimenters on Contact Forces, and his
  description of the different kinds of apparatus used by the
  various investigators is very clear and very helpful, but we cer
  tainly object to the unproved assumption running all through
                     * Cummunicated by the Authors.
                                   E 2

52           Professors Ayrton and Perry on the Seat
his paper, that there is a prima* facie absurdity in acknow
ledging a considerable difference of potentials between two
metals such as zinc and copper in contact with one another.
    He says that all the apparent differences of potential which
 have been measured in air are due to an air-effect; and when
 these same differences of potentials are obtained by measure
 ments in gases quite different from air, he still says that
 they are due to an air-effect, and even that when they are
 obtained from measurements made in a fairly good vacuum,
 they are still due to air-effects. In fact, he considers that
 he has such good reason for concluding that the existence of
 a large contact-potential difference between metals is absurd,
 and he boldly puts forward the view that if measurements
 were made in the most perfect vacuum hitherto obtained
 in the laboratory, and if the results were still the same (as
 they probably would be) they would still be due to air-effects.
 Now, when it is borne in mind that all the experimental
 evidence is in favour of the existence of a real large contact-
 potential difference between metals, it is quite evident that
 our most important duty is to examine the basis of the strong
 reason which has caused Dr. Lodge to discard direct experi
 mental results, for it is this strong reason which has caused
him to enter into elaborate explanations as to the attraction
between gases and metals.
   We will first dispose of that part of Dr. Lodge's paper
which is not debatable, viz. the seat of the E.M.F. in a
voltaic circuit. So far from differing from Dr. Lodge on this
point, we believe that we are in agreement; and we hope to
prove that this seat of the E.M.F. in a voltaic circuit has really
nothing whatever to do with the potential-difference between
zinc and copper in contact. In fact, Dr. Lodge's paper has
not got quite its proper title. The subject to which the greater
part of his paper is devoted is a debatable one, but it is quite
a different subject from that of the seat of the E.M.F. in a
voltaic cell. In considering this latter subject we shall, for
brevity's sake, regard the small Peltier effect as non-existent.
Formerly, any cause of flow of electricity was called an
E.M.F., and hence in stating Ohm's law, E.M.F. and potential-
difference were used indifferently. But when we adopt, as
everybody does nowadays, the exact definition of Clerk Max
well, we must be more careful ; and when we adopt the much
more guarded definition of E.M.F. of Dr. Lodge, we must be
particularly careful. This definition of Dr. Lodge is given
in two quotations from Clerk Maxwell ; and the definition is
not merely the definition of E.M.F., but is the definition of
the seat of the E.M.F. The scat of the E.M.F. in any circuit

          of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell.        53
is the place at tcltich the circuit receives or gives up energy as
distinct from heat due to resistance, and the amount of the
E.M.F. is measured as the amount of energy which enters the
circuit per unit of electricity passing that place. Now it is not
possible with such a definition of E.M.F. as this, to give any
answer to Dr. Lodge's question different from the one he has
himself given. The seat of the E.M.F. is practically defined
to be the place where the chemical action goes on. It follows,
therefore, that the place where the chemical action goes on
is the seat of the E.M.F. The answer is given in the defi
nition, and the definition is merely a partial statement of Sir
William Thomson's result—that the E.M.F. of a voltaic cir
cuit can be calculated from the chemical action going on.
   The important subject, however, taken up in Dr. Lodge's
paper is, as we have already stated, quite a different one. He
finds strong reasons for believing that there cannot be a con
siderable difference of potential between zinc and copper
in contact. In fact, a large difference of potential is to him
logically absurd, and he devotes the paper to speculations as to
how experiments could have misled Sir William Thomson and
others into believing such an absurdity. The absurdity is
so obvious to Dr. Lodge, that it might have struck him, per
haps, that Sir William Thomson might also have seen it.
However, as Dr. Lodge has the opinions of Clerk Maxwell
and many others on his side, the question is a fair subject
for debate, and we shall endeavour to show that our notions on
the subject do not lead to any absurdity. With his definition
of E.M.F. we have never stated that there is such an E.M.F.
due to contact between zinc and copper. We deny that
there is such contact E.M.F., but we do say there is contact-
difference of potential. We do not say that what has been mea
sured may not be to some, even to a large extent, due to air-
effect: indeed, in our third paper on the Contact Theory of
Voltaic Action, in Part I. of the Phil. Trans, for 1880, we
drew especial attention to the possibility of air-effects, and
 we showed, exactly as Dr. Lodge now shows, that our measure
 ments gave no indication as to whether there is or is not
 an air-effect. But we contend that no such air-effect has
 ever been observed, and until it is observed we cannot admit
 that there is strong reason for believing in its existence,
 especially since we shall prove that all the phenomena of con
 tact-action can be rigorously explained without the necessity
 of resorting to any air-action.
    Dr. Lodge says that if electricity rises in potential from
 copper to zinc, there must be a supply of energy from some
 outside source at the place of contact. We ask him why

54          Professors Ayrton and Perry on the Seat
 he should make such an assumption. Putting on one side
 the question as to what is exactly meant by electricity rising
 in potential at a point, or by the potential inside a wire
 through which a current is flowing, we are willing for the
 sake of his argument to assume that in taking a unit of
 electricity from a point in a section of the wire to the outside
 and from that through the dielectric, and from that into the
 wire to a point in another section, the work that must be
 done is the same for any points in the sections as Dr. Lodge
 assumes, and to take that work as the measure of the difference
 of potential between these two sections; and still we a.«k
 him why we must assume that, when electricity rises in
  potential suddenly at a place in a circuit, energy must come
  in from the outside to enable the electricity to rise in poten
  tial ? Suppose we grant that electricity gains in potential-
  energy in flowing from copper to zinc, do we know so much
  of an electric current as to assert that when the electricity
  gains potential-energy it does not lose an equivalent quantity
  of some other kind of energy ? Why may we not assume,
  for example, that electricity loses tension-energy in passing
  from copper to zinc, so that if it gains potential-energy it
  loses tension-energy. From that point of view, part of the
  function of the liquid in the cell would be taking electricity
  from the zinc to the copper inside the cell, giving it tension -
  energy, and this tension-energy is converted into potential-
  energy when the electricity passes in the outer part of the
  circuit from copper to zinc.
     But, indeed, there is no need to assume the existence of a
  tension-energy. Why should we assume that work must be
  done by outside agents at a place in raising electricity from
  potential A to potential B ? By definition work will be done
  if we take electricity through the dielectric from A to B, but
  it does not follow that an outside source must do work in
  carrying electricity from A to B through the wire itself.
  We know so little of what is really meant by the electric
  current, and the mechanical analogies which have been put
  forward from time to time are so imperfect, not even excluding
  the beautiful form that Prof. Poynting has given to Clerk
  Maxwell's analogy, that we like to fall back upon the oldest
  and simplest one, which is that, when electricity is flowing in
  a wire, at one end it is being continually thrust in, and at the
  other end it is in consequence continually being thrust out, just
  for the same reason that electricity tries to come to the out
  side of bodies—repulsion of electricity by electricity. Henco
  in the case of a copper wire one end of which is joined to the
  copper plate of a battery and the other to the zinc plute,

          of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell.       55
electricity is being pushed into the copper wire at the end
where it is connected with the copper plate, and at the other
end is pushed out of the wire into the zinc plate. If at the zinc
end, electricity can only get away by rising in potential, then
it rises in potential, but the energy, which there becomes
potential-energy, comes from the battery, and it is not
 necessary to get a supply of energy from any outside source.
   Of course this is only an analogy, but when we speak of
electricity flowing in a wire, we aro using an analogy which
is derived from electrostatic and hydraulic phenomena to
explain a phenomenon of an electrokinetic kind. The idea
of a tension-energy in electricity as distinct from a potential-
energy may be objected to as being new and un necessary,
but in spite of our very exact knowledge of mechanics we
have the same sort of difficulty in many mechanical ar
rangements unless we assume the existence of a tension-
energy. For example, suppose you have a winding-engine
and a long endless inextensible rope passing over pulleys,
horizontal in places, vertical in places, and coming back to
the engine again, and at one place there is a weight being
lifted. Now work is being done on that weight in lifting it.
But energy does not come from the outside into the circuit
there ; it comes from the winding-engine ; it comes somehow
through the rope. Energy disappears at the winding-engine
and appears as work done in the weight being lifted. In
what form is it before it is converted into potential-energy ?
The energy is conveyed. In what form is it when it is in
the rope ? We really do not know, or, rather, we have not
given a name to it. But if we must give a name to it, it is
tension-energy. We know that there is a difference in the
tension of the rope above and below the weight which is
being lifted. Difficulties of this kind are really due to the
fact that the notion of conveyance of energy from one point
to another has not yet been co-ordinated with the ordinary
exact definition of energy. The energy which we usually speak
of as being possessed by a portion of matter, or as existing
at a particular place, is really possessed by a much larger
system.
   The analogy, however, which Dr. Lodge has used for
showing, as he considers, the absurdity of our position, is the
hydraulic one, but even with the analogy, when properly in
terpreted, no such absurdity is found to exist. In fact the
explanation mentioned by Dr. Lodge in his paper as having
come through one of us from Sir William Thomson, but
which must really be regarded as having come from our
selves, as we think that ISir William has probably his own

56          Professors Ayrton and Perry on tlie Seat
distinct method of looking at the matter, has been misappre
hended by Dr. Lodge.
    Suppose we have a circuit of pipes, G A B D D' E' E G,
 whose development is shown in the figure, the two ends of
 the figure G and G being the same point in the real circuit. ;
 the pipes to be of uniform section, and to rise suddenly in
 level from A to B and from D to D', and to fall from E' to
 E, and there being a uniform rate of fall from B to D, D' to
 E', and from E through G to A. HI may be any datum-
 level. Let us suppose that there is a continuously acting
 pump in the part D' E', causing incompressible fluid, such
 as water, filling the pipes to flow continuously. Mechanical
 energy is given to the pump from some outside source, and
 the energy reappears at various places in the circuit. Thus,
 for example, between A and B the water rises in level. A
 pound of water at B has more energy than a pound of water
 at A, and its increase of energy is h foot-pounds, if the dif
 ference of level is h feet between B and A. It has really
 gained energy. What has it lost ? Pressure, certainly ; but
 pressure is not a form of energy. We know that in a steady
 frictionless stream
 remains constant, if o is the velocity in feet per second, and
 p the pressure in pounds per square inch, and h height in feet
 above datum-level.      As =- is the kinetic energy of a pound
 of water in foot pounds, and h is its potential-energy, one is
 tempted to call 2'3 p also a form of energy—pressure-energy ;
 but we have just as much and no more right to call it so,
 than to speak, as we did, of tension-energy in electricity. We
  can see that pressure conditions are not in themselves a
 source of energy, by imagining incompressible fluid, like
  water, filling a closed vessel at great pressure, and then
 imagining an orifice to be made, when, of course, the water

          of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell.      57
is no longer subjected to great pressure. But 2*3 p enters
into the expression and is familiarly spoken of as a form of
energy when the stream is steady—when there is a con
tinuously acting pump somewhere in the circuit. In fact,
then, we see that when a pound of water rises in level from
A to B it receives h foot-pounds of energy if h is the dif
ference in level, and it receives no energy from an outside
source at A B ; energy disappears in the pump, and work is
done between A and B. Now just as difference of potential
in electrical things is measured as the work which must be
done, on unit of electricity, in taking it from one point A to
another B through the dielectric, so the difference of level
between A and B represents the work done on a pound of
water in taking it from A to B through the air. And just as
the water in being raised from D to D' gains energy without
any work being done on it from an outside source, so we
 may consider that electricity in passing from copper to zinc
may gain potential-energy without there being any external
 source of energy at the junction.
    The preceding is even more than an analogy. There is a
 tendency for electricity to leave copper and enter zinc at the
junction, which we are now prevented from calling the E.M.F.
 of contact, but which we may call contact-force. It is
 measured as the difference of potential established between
 two metals which are in contact. There is no contact-force
 in a piece of copper or in a piece of zinc. The contact-force
 is analogous with pressure in water. There is a sudden rise
 in level in the pipe from A to B which corresponds with a
 sudden rise of potential from copper to zinc. There is a con
 sequent diminution of pressure from A to B which corresponds
 with the contact-force at the junction. There is no contact-
 force in a copper wire ; and hence it is necessary to give to
 the pipe such an inclination that the potential-energy lost by
 the water in flowing along the pipe shall be equal to the
 energy given out in friction. In the voltaic circuit, similarly,
 the fall of potential-energy is known to be equal to the heat
 produced in overcoming resistance.
    The analogy may be carried still further, for we may obtain
 the representation of thermoelectric effects. Suppose the
 water to be slightly compressible, then maintaining any ver
 tical parts of the pipe at different constant temperatures will
 help or oppose the action of the pump in the circuit. Thus,
 not using a pump, let there be an endless pipe, rising sud
 denly from A to B, horizontal from B to C, falling suddenly
 from C to D, and horizontal from D to A. Imagine this
 filled with a slightly compressible fluid, and that the limb

58           Professors Ayrton and Perry on the Seat
C D is permanently kept at a higher temperature than A B,
there will be a steady flow maintained in the direction
A D C B A. If the limb A B is the higher in temperature,
the flow will be in the direction A B C D A. Strictly speak
ing, we ought to consider the fluid in the endless tube to be
one which changes the law connecting its density and tem
perature at a critical point, like water at 4° C.
   To be quite correct, let what we have called " tension " in
a metal a, at the absolute temperature t, be denoted by (P„ ;
and the increase of potential from a to a metal b, as measured
inductively, by tYat, then the E.M.F. of a thermoelectric
circuit of two metals, a and b, whose junctions are at tem
peratures tl and t3) is
                           E= V — V
   The Peltier effect at a junction is
                        n =p—p —v
where
                ?«=&-&{?+-& +Gt-C„
and
ka and C0 are constants peculiar to the metal a, and T^ is a
constant peculiar to the two metals a and b.
   Hence
or the Peltier effect is proportional to the product of the absolute
temperature into the rate of change of contact-potential difference
with temperature. Consequently, although the amount of heat
generated when a unit current is sent through a junction for a
second is the measure of the coefficient of the Pettier effect, this
coefficient is in no sense a measure of the contact-potential dif
ference existing at the junction.
   This really disposes of Dr. Lodge's fundamental argument
—the argument, in fact, on which his whole objection to the
large contact-potential difference at the junction of metals is
based ; for he assumes that in all cases where there is a con
siderable difference of potential at a junction, heat or cold
must be developed when a current flows across that junction.
 He states, what is quite true and well known, that practically
no heat is developed when a current flows from zinc to copper
across the junction; therefore he concludes that there can be no
contact-potential difference at this junction like three-quarters

          of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell.           59
of a volt. But if, as we have proved, the coefficient of the
Peltier effect is not a measure of the contact- potential difference,
but of the product of the absolute temperature into the rate of
variation with temperature of the contact^potential difference,
it follows that the smallness of the Peltier effect does not
require that the contact-potential difference must be also
small.
    We have endeavoured to experiment on this rate of variation
of the contact-potential difference with temperature ; and in
the discussion on Dr. Lodge's paper before the Society of
Telegraph Engineers and Electricians, we gave a number of
hitherto unpublished results which we had obtained on this sub
ject. The apparatus we employed was the same as that which
 Dr. Lodge described as being used by us in our former expe
riments on contact-potential difference, and with it we mea
 sured the contact-potential difference of hot and cold mercury
 and of hot mercury and cold iron, hot mercury and cold
 copper, also for hot mercury and cold platinum, in each case
 for various differences of temperature. The results obtained
 were large (amounting in the case of mercury and iron to as
 much as 3 volts for about 1G'J C. difference of temperature),
 and not small, as might have been expected from the preceding
 equation and the smallness of the coefficient of the Peltier
 effect. We explained, however, that the very large potential-
 differences we obtained were probably due to invisible films of
 oxide on the surface of the warm mercury, which probably
 existed in spite of the fact that every effort was made to
 remove this oxide by distilling the mercury between every
 two sets of experiments ; and we showed that in such cases
 the summation law does not hold true—that is to say, the
 E.M.F. of a combination is not equal to the algebraical sum
 of the various potential-differences at the contacts, measured
 inductively, and which we have always found to be true in
 other cases when the experiments were conducted with as
 much care as was devoted to those made with hot mercury.
 For example, we found that
       Copper at 16° C, with clean mercury at 16° C, had a
         contact-difference of 0308 volt ;
       Mercury at 16° C, with mercury at 26° C, had a
         contact-difference of 0*75 volt ;
       Mercury at 26° C, with copper at 16° C, had a contact-
         difference of —1*5 volt.
 Therefore, if these numbers represented the true contact-
 potential differences, a thermopile consisting of two pieces of
 cold copper at 16° G., dipping into two vessels of mercury,

60          Professors Ayrton and Perry on the Seat
one of which was warmed up to 26° C, and which were
joined together by a syphon-tube containing mercury, ought
to have an E.M.F. of half a volt. But, as was to be anti
cipated, we found experimentally that no such E.M.F. could
be obtained with such a thermopile, unless there were an
oxide present at the hot junction separating two of the metals,
and thereby introducing a high resistance.
    Contrasting these results with those given in our papers
read before the Royal Society (and which prove conclusively
that when a cell is formed of a number of substances, solid or
liquid, at the same temperature, its E.M.F. is equal to the
algebraical sum of the various contact-potential differences,
measured inductively, in air, of each of the pairs of substances
in contact in the cell), we are justified in concluding that
when layers of oxides or their salts are formed on the surfaces
 of the substances employed, as in Mr. Brown's experiments,
the measured potential-differences do not represent the true
contact-potential differences of the substances employed.
    We are not disposed to think that Dr. Lodge has discovered
any striking coincidence between measured chemical heats of
 combination and those heats as calculated on his theory.
 Such coincidence as he has discovered is not more wonderful
than that the electro-positivity of the metals should bo in the
order of their tendencies to combine with oxygen ; there can
be no doubt that an exceedingly important advance in the
sciences of Chemistry and Electricity will be made by the
philosopher who explains this and the twenty other coin
cidences of a like nature which have been discovered. We
are quite sure, too, he would regard the seeming coincidences
which he has discovered as trivial, had he not at the beginning
made up his mind that the existence of contact-difference of
 potential was absurd, and that what we and many others have
measured are due to air-effects.
    We are in the habit of using the expression " difference of
 potentials between two points " as meaning, in Electro
kinetics, the Electrostatic difference of potentials between two
 copper wires, coming from the points. This practice is very
 convenient; and there can be no objection to it, so long as
 we do not imply that it is always the same as the Electrostatic
 difference of potentials between the points. Now it seems to
 us that Dr. Lodge, in following this convenient custom, has
 fallen into the error of imagining that what he has been in
 the habit of calling " difference of potential " is really the
 same as " Electrostatic difference of potential." Indeed, we
believe that the root of the whole difficulty which prevented
Clerk Maxwell, and which now prevents Dr. Lodge, from

            of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell.        61
seeing the position of the contact theorists, lies in their
defining potential in a new way not recognized in Electro
statics. Clerk Maxwell's electromagnetic theory is so perfect
in itself that no one thinks of attacking it ; and we very much
wish that we had the leisure to show, what we feel might pro
bably be shown, that throughout his mathematical work, when
he speaks of difference of potentials it is not necessary to
assume that he speaks of electrostatic difference of potential.
    Dr. Lodge, in his reply to remarks made during the dis
cussion at the Society of Telegraph Engineers and Electricians,
was kind enough to mention the fact that we had drawn Prof.
 Poynting's equipotential surfaces and lines of flow of energy
 as they must be drawn in practice, most of them lying like
 successive sleeves in an infinitely shallow space round all the
 conductors in a voltaic circuit, if we are to follow Maxwell in
assuming a considerable difference of potential between air
 and metals. As Dr. Lodge has stated, we have also drawn
 these surfaces and flow-of-energy lines on our own assumption
 of no air-effect and considerable contact-differences of potential.
 Dr. Lodge did not, however, refer to the very much more
 interesting curves which we have drawn as the energy-lines
 from a primary voltaic or thermoelectric circuit whose current
 is altering just in such a way as to keep the current in a
 secondary circuit constant. Suppose it is the E.M.F. of the
primary which is altering, it is very interesting to see how
 the lines of flow of energy sweep over the primary circuit,
their parts which cut the secondary remaining unaltered.
 But now, suppose the total E.M.F. of the primary to be less
than 1 volt, and imagine that Prof. C. Maxwell and Prof.
 Poynting and Dr. Lodge were right in their idea of a consi
derable difference of potential between air and metals, it will
be found that, no line of flow of energy can connect the
primary and secondary circuits, since all the equipotential
surlaces of the primary will lie infinitely close to the conductors
of which it is composed, and yet it cannot be doubted that the
secondary circuit receives energy from the primary.
    For the purpose of evading all difficulties which might be
due to our taking different numbers to represent possible
contact-differences between the parts of a voltaic circuit and
air,let us test Prof. Poynting's deduction from Maxwell's theory
in another way. Assume that there is a voltaic circuit com-
t)letely enclosed in a hermetically- sealed metallic case ; and
 et us suppose that, just before sealing-up, we set up differences
of potentials of many thousands of volts between the voltaic
circuit and its case, and that it is in our power at any instant
to cause any regular change of current in the voltaic circuit

62    On the Seat of the Electromotive Forces in a Voltaic Cell.
by means of mechanism enclosed by the case. Now let there
be, outside the case, a secondary circuit, and let the primary
enclosed circuit have its current diminished at such a rate that
a constant current is maintained for a short length of time in
the secondary by induction. We know quite well that such
an inductive effect might take place, and that the energy of
the secondary circuit must somehow come from the primarj- ;
and it must be remembered that it need not have been by a
diminution of the primary current, but an increase of the
primary current, that this induction takes place. We cannot
see how it is possible that Prof. Poynting's electro- potential
surfaces can proceed from the primary so as to pass through
the secondary circuit ; we can, however, imagine that, instead
of equipotential surfaces, such as we speak of in Electrostatics,
if we speak of a series of surfaces cutting the lines of electrical
displacement at right angles, then an explanation becomes
quite possible. In fact, it seems to us that if Prof. Poynting's
views are logically deducible from Maxwell's theory, it is
necessary to assume that Maxwell's differences of potential are
essentially different from electrostatic difference of potentials.
  September 3, 1885.
                Note added December 14, 1885.
   Since these notes of our remarks made in the discussion on
Dr. Lodge's paper were sent to the Editors at the beginning
of September, a paper on Contact Electricity has been read
by Dr. Hopkinson before the British Association, and has
appeared in the Philosophical Magazine. We are glad to see
that Dr. Hopkinson, who has entered so fully into the energy
equations, not only for Sir William Thomson's view, but also
for that of Prof. Maxwell and Dr. Lodge, has come to the same
conclusions as ourselves.
   We leave our formulas on page 58 of these Notes as they
were written in April last, following Prof. Maxwell's lettering ;
but for the sake of those who may have studied that part of
Dr. Hopkinson's paper which refers to Sir William Thomson's
theory, it is well to state that
                he uses/(<) where we use tY„i,
          •         j» F(<)      „      „ in„4,
                    >»  0(0       v     »   <*«
                    „ v(0        »      »   tkf

                            [   63   ]
IX. On the Integration of Partial Differential Equations of
   the Third and Higher Orders. By Robert Moon, M.A.,
   Honorary Fellow of Queens' College, Cambridge*.
THE following method of deriving the first integrals, where
       such integrals exist, of the equation
             RS+S^+T^+U|3=V. . (1)
(R, S, T, U, V being functions of x and y only), and of deve
loping the conditions under which alone the equation will
a Imit of such integrals, is capable of being extended to Partial
Differential Equations of the higher orders involving two
independent variables.
   Assume (1) to be satisfied by
                      f(xyrst) = 0,                             (2)
where r, s, t respectively have their usual values.
   Differentiating (2) with respect to x and y, we get
             d*z __fif) _d\ f(t) jPz _f(x)
         •'• d?      f'{r)da?dy f'(r)dxdy* f'(r)'
             d*z=    f(r) d'z        f'(s) d>z      /'(y)
             df      f(t) dx*dy      f'(t) dxdf     f'(t) ;
the substitution of which in (1) gives
      o      R/M    _^_ _n.m _fo_ -/'(*)
               f'(r)da?dy af(r) dxdf VW'
          _TTf(r) dh^           f'(s) gg         f(y)
             Vf>(t)dx*dy       Vf'(t)dxdf      V(0'
                    dx1 dy             dx dy2     '
                                                              d»z
in order to which we must have the coefficients of
                                                            dx*dy>
                   Communicated by the Author.

64         Mr. R. Moon on the Integration of Partial
  dh
      - separately =0; therefore
dx dy
                0-B^+U^-I                                    (4)
                0-r^+dt¥+v                                   <5>
Eliminating /'(*) between (3) and (4), we have
                        BA0-V(0
                                       fir) 1
          . &7U)' RT/qp
         •• U /'(r,
                                         tt/'M o.
                             U/'(r)~U/'(0 &'
or, putting -7tj-t = a> snd arranging,
                0=RV-RT«'+USa-IP, .... (6)
an equation the adoption of each of the three roots of which
gives us
                      o=/'(O-«/'00,                          (7)
where a is a function of x and y only.
   The auxiliary equations for the solution of (7) by Lagrange's
method are
            0=dr + adt, 0 = ds, 0 = dx, 0 = dy;
the integration of which gives
              c=r + ctt, Ci = e, Cz = x, cs=y.
Hence we have
        f(xyrst)=fa{.vys(r + at)}=/a(xysu) suppose,
where u=r + at: and /„ is an .arbitrary function.
   Substituting in (3) the value of/ thus derived ; since
                        =/„'(*),    since — = 0,
and                              (iu
                   fix) =/.'00£-/.'00i

   Differential Equations of the Third and Higlw Orders.      65
we shall get
                            /a(/*)     «
which is a linear equation between the partial differential
coefficients of the first order of the function /„(.ry»/i).
   The auxiliary equations for the solution, by Lagrange's
method, of this last equation are
             0=dfi        p— ds,    Q=da;     0=dy,
whence we get
 /=/«(*y«^)=/4 { *y\P- -jj£~ ') } =/*{^/*i> suppose,
where
                       u-s«
             "1="—Er'ssr+-sr-+"''    , s*-u
and/j is an arbitrary function.
   Observing tbat the equation
gives
                              eft
the substitution in (5) of the above value of/ gives us
   PAi/. ^%. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 128. Jim. 1886.             F

   66           Mr. R. Moon on */<« Integration of Partial
            0 = H«yi'(*) + U/»'(y) + V^/O-i),
               , (-o d So-U          ,, d 8a—JJ\
              +*•
      But s and < can only appear in this last equation as parte of
   the symbol /*x or rH       g— s + ctt : hence the coefficients ol
   s and t in the last equation must separately =0 : or we must
   have
                  0=B.£+u£,
                          ax     ay
                         flte  Mi        (fy   l«a
   which are the conditions to bo satisfied in order that the given
• equation may admit of a first integral : and which being
   satisfied, we shall have for the final and complete determina
   tion of/ the equation
                   0 = B«/,'0) + U/,'(y) + V«/4>,).
   We may take as the auxiliary equations for the solution of
  this last,
                  0=B*dy-TJdx : 0 = dfil- ^*dy;
   from the first of which we may always derive
                         F(x, y)=c, a constant.
      By means of this last equation we may always eliminate a;
  from ^j .      Let Fj(y, c) be the result of such elimination ;
  then the second auxiliary equation will stand
                          0=d^-F1{t/)c)dy,
  whence we derive
                      const. =A*i-j,F1(y,cjrfy,
  c having to be regarded as constant in the integration. Hence
  we get finally for the first integral of (1),
 or
                  s«-u            r

   Differential Equations of the Third and Higher Orders.      67
where <j> is an arbitrary, and F, F! are definite functions ; and
where F(xy) is to be substituted for c after the integration
indicated in the last equation has been effected.
   If it is proposed to integrate the equation
    r£+^-^+t^+u^+vS=w'
    Upda,
                                                               w
putting
            d*z_        d*z         dh _, dh_
            da?~r' dx>dy~S' dxdf            ' df~Ui
and assuming (8) to bo satisfied hjf(xy r s t «) = 0, proceeding
in the same manner we shall find the conditions to be satisfied
in order that (8) may have a first integral will be the three
equations
                „   -r, d*    tTdoi
                        dx      dy
                n   p d S«-V         -d S.-V
                        dx It          dy a
                n   „ rf R«-U        „ rf R«-U
where a= ,\ ' is one of the roots of the equation
              /'(*)
         0=E3. «4-R2U . «3 + RTV . «2-SV2. « + V3 ;
and the first integral, when these conditions are satisfied,
will be
r+      ^     .<+ -^.— .«( + «m=J F1(y,c)dy + </> {F(*,y)},
where F(«y) = c is the integral of the equation
                         0 = R«cfy-Vd*;
and Fi(#, c) denotes the result of the elimination of x from
               Wa
the quantity -=s- by means of the equation ¥(xy) = c ; c being
treated as constant, or as F(.ry), in the manner indicated in
the preceding case.
   If the equation to be integrated is
 R5? +SdxTdy'+TdxJdy ^dxJdf +Ydx~dy~i~WdyJ=Z- ^
   Putting r, s, &c., for the differential coefficients-^? , . , -,
                                 F2                   d*^V

68          Mr. R. Moon on the Integration of Partial
&c., and assuming (9) to be satisfied by f(xyrstuv) = 0, we
shall find the conditions of (9) having a first integral to be the
four following equations, viz. :—
           ax        ay
    .,  „ d RT«2-SW*+W2 , w d RTa2-SW« + W2
           rf.r         fr              dy            R-       '
              /v(i>)
 where a= ... ; is one of the roots of the equation
    0= RV - R3V. a4 + R2UW. a3 - RTW2. a* + W3S . « - W ;
and the solution, when such exists, will be
   , Sa-W B           RT.a2-SW.« + W2              V-R«
           ^F^dy+^F^y)};
 where F(,ri/) = o is the integral of
                         0 = Ra<fy-Wrf.r;
 and Fj(«/, c) is the result of eliminating x from the quantity
 ™r by means of the equation F(iPy) = c.
    Pursuing the same method, I have already (in effect) shown
 in the pages of the Philosophical Magazine that the condition
 of the equation
                     »£+Bs*+*-$-* • • • <«»
 admitting of a first integral, in other words of its being inte
 grate by Monge's method, is that we have
                         0=R«^+T^;
                               ax     dy
 where a satisfies the equation
                         0=R«s-S*+T;
 and when this holds, the first integral of (10) will be
                  p + aq=j F,(yc)dy + <f> { F(xy) } ,

   Differential Equations of the Third and Higher Orders.      69
where F(xy) = c is the integral of 0 = Rady — Tdx ; and
Fi(yc) is the result of elimination of x from the quantity -~-
by means of F(xy) = c.
   The adoption, in the case of equations of the second order,
of the method of this paper not merely gives us the first inte
grals resulting by Monge's method, where such exist, but
develops explicitly the conditions of their existence. It does
more : for to the carrying out of Monge's method it is essen
tial that the coefficients R, S, T, V should either be functions
 of x and y only, or of p and q only ; whereas the method
above set forth equally gives the first integrals where they
 exist, and the conditions of their existence, when R, S, &c.
 are functions of x, y, p, q ; the only advantage of the restric
 tion of the coefficients to being functions of x and y only,
 being that it enables us to carry further the development of
 the results -when the coefficients B, S, &c. are expressed by
 general symbols.
    The same remarks hold when the method is applied to equa
 tions of a higher order than the second ; when R, S, &c. may
 involve, in addition to x and y, any differential coefficients of
 an order lower than that of the equation to be integrated ;
 although when R, S, &c. are so made up, the cases in which
 first integrals exist will probably be very rare.
    6 New Square, Lincoln's Inn,
          July 20, 18a5.
     P.S.—The law of formation of the equations in a will be
  seen by considering the case of equation (9), in which R and
  W are the initial and terminal coefficients of the left side of
  the equation. Here the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th coefficients of
  the equation in « will be multiplied by R4, R3, R2, R ; and
  the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th by W. W2, W3, W4 respectively.
  Each of the terms from the 2nd to the 5th, both inclusive,
  will involve one other factor, viz. V, U, T, S respectively, i. e.
  the coefficients of (9) intermediate to R and W taken in
  reverse order.
     The late Mr. Boole showed that the fact of the general
  equation of the second order admitting of a first integral of
  the form u = <p(v), where u and v are definite functions, and
  $ is arbitrary, is conditional : but his method fails to develop
  the conditions.

                                  [   70   ]
  X. Saturation of Salt-solutions.—Part II. By W. W. J.
    NlCOL, M.A., D.Sc, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Chemistry,
     Mason College, Birmingham*
                                 Section I.
 IN my paper t, of which this is a continuation, I endeavoured
        to show that the solubility of a salt in water is dependent
 on the difference between the molecular volume of the salt in
 dilute solution and that in the saturated solution, compared
 with the difference between this last volume and that in the solid
 state. Thus, the greater the cohesion of the salt the less its
 solubility, and vice versa. The adhesion of the water to the
 salt is also a factor in solution ; the greater the adhesion the
 more soluble the salt. In very dilute solutions, when once the
 salt is dissolved the cohesion of the salt is practically nil ; for
 the molecules encounter one another so rarely that no appre
 ciable number are in collision at any one time. As the con
 centration of the solution increases the collisions of salt mole
 cules become more frequent, and their cohesion asserts itself
 more and more, as shown by the gradual increase of the mean
 molecular volume of the salt in solution. Finally, when the
 cohesion of the salt and the adhesion of the water to the salt
 are in equilibrium the solution is saturated.
    It is this gradual increase of the mean molecular volume %,
from that in the most dilute solutions to that at the point of
saturation, that forms the subject of the present paper.
    In the course of the work connected with the other papers
that I have published on solution, I had accumulated a great
number of data dealing with the density and molecular volume
of various solutions of numerous salts, and in the instances
   t Communicated by the Author.
      Phil. Mag. June (Suppl.), 1884.
   X By mean molecular volume is meant the apparent volume of any
one molecule of salt present in the solution, the volume of water being
assumed constant. It is Thomsen's — ; thus
                 Mol. vol. of solution =        -£—¦—'J- ;
                 ra1800+n(M.W.)
                              o
                 - = mean molecular volume ;
          (M.W.) = molecular weight of the salt in grammes.

               On the Saturation of Salt-Solutions.             71
where the lists were complete was struck by the regular iu-
crease of the mean molecular volume with the concentration,
and that this increase was a gradually decreasing quantity.
In order to study this point more closely I tried to find inter
polation formulae that would express with satisfactory accuracy
the molecular volumes of solutions containing various amounts
of different salts.
   The most satisfactory form of formula I found to be
                   M.V. = 1800 + na+n*P-n*y,
where a, /3, and y are constants depending on the salt ;
therefore
                         r = na + ri'/3 + nay,
                         n                  '
   The following tables I., II., III., and IV. contain the found
and calculated values for NaCl, KC1, NaN03, and KN03, in
solutions of strengths varying from 1 molecule up to the
saturated solution. The last column in each table contains
the molecular volume with which each successive molecule
enters into solution, a point to which I shall return later.
   The agreement between the found and calculated results
is on the whole good except in two cases, the saturated solu
tions of NaCl and KC1, where the difference reaches 0*15 per
cent, and 0*2 per cent, respectively. That this is the case will
not surprise any one, for density determinations of saturated
solutions are carried out only with the greatest difficulty, and
are apt to be too low, thus rendering the molecular volume
too high.
                           Table I. NaCl.
                   M.V.       M.V.                   r
           ».     found.   calculated.
                                          d.
                                                     ri
            1     1817-5      1817-4    -0-1        17-4
            2     18363       18361     -0-2        180  . 18-7
            3     18660       1855-9    -01         18(1   19-8
            4     1876-2      1876-6    +04         19-2   20-7
            5     1897-4      18981     +0-7        19-6   21-5
            6     1918-8      19200     + 1-2       20-0   21-9
            7     19409       1942-2    +1-3        20-3   22-2
            8     196.36      1964-5    4-0-9       20-6   22-3
            9     19861       1986-6    4-0-5       20-7   221
           10     2009-2      2008-4    4-0-8       20-8   21-8
           11     2032-7      2029-6    +31         20-9   21-2
           12                 20500                 20-8   20-4
                    ,=16634. /3 = 0-"711.     r =0-0351.

   72                   Dr.W.W. J. Kicol on the
                                Table II.        KCI.
                     M.V.            M.V.                   r
                    found.       calculated.      A.
                                                            ri
            1       1827-7          1827-8      +01       27-8
           2        1857-1          1856-8      -0-3      28-4       29-0
           3                       1886-8                 28-9       300
           4        1917-8         1917-6       -0-2      29-4       30-8
           5        1949-8         1948-8       -1-0      298        31-2
           6                       1980-3                 301        31-5
           7        20109          2011-8      +0-9       30-3       31-5
           8                       20431                  30-4    ] 31-3
           8-38    2058-7          2054-7      -41
           9
                            1      2073-8                30-4      ' 307
                       «=27-103. 0=0-738. y=0-041.
    On the supposition that the general formula
                              -r =a + nfi— na7
 accurately expresses the mean molecular volume of the salt
 in a solution containing n molecules, it follows that the form
 of the corresponding curve is that of a parabola. There is
therefore, this relation between the constants /S and y, namely
that ^ expresses the apex of the parabola.                    But, as will be
seen from Table V., ^- also expresses the solubility of the salt
in molecules per 100 water-molecules. Only the first half of
the parabola is met with in nature; a further addition of salt
were it possible, would produce contraction.
                        Table III.           NaNO..
                  M.V.           M.V.                   r
                found.     calculated.         A.
                                                        ri
         1                      1828-9                28-9
        2        1868-9         1850-0       +0-1      29-5      301
        2-5      1874-4        1874-5        +01      29-8
        5       19550          1955-5        +0-5     31-6
       17                      2380-6                 34-2
       18                      24151                  34-2       34-5
       18-45    2430-2         2430-5        +03      34-2
       19                     2448-9
                                                   J  34-2       33-8
                     «=28-3. (3=0-65. r=0-018.

                    Saturation of Salt-Solutions.                                 73
                            Table IV.           KNO,
                     M.V.          M.V.                        r
          ft.       found.     calculated.         A.
                                                               n
          1          18391        18390         -01           390
          2          1879-6       1879-8         +0-2         39-9     40-8
          3                       1921-7                      40-6     41-9
          4          1963-5       1964-2         +0-7         41-1     42-5
          5          2006-7       2006-2         -0-5         41-2     420
          5-63       2032-9       2032-4         -0-5         41-3
          6                       2047-4                      41-2     41-2
                         «=37-82.     /3=l-254.     r=0114.
                                   Table V.
                                                               (3
              Salt.                 P-            r-                  Solubility.
                                                               2/
    NaCl                         0-771          0035          11-0      10-99
    KOI                          0-738          0041            9U        8-38
    NaN03                        0-650          0018          181       1845
    KN03                          1-254         0114            5-5       5-63
   The above relationship of the two constants 0 and 7 appeared
to me most singular and at the same time most interesting
if it proved to be of universal occurrence. In order to test
this point to some extent, I prepared solutions of BaCl2 and
Sr(N03)s each of three different strengths—one m=05, an
other nearly saturated, and the third intermediate in strength,
and determined their densities at 20° C. The results thus
obtained are given in Table VI. along with the values of 0
and 7 for BaCl2, LiCl, and CaCl3 calculated from the data
given by Gerlach*.
                                    Table VI.
                     BaClr       Sr(NOa), 1 Ba012t.            LiClt.     Oadljt.
   0                  1-515                      1-0465       0-1768      0-5243
                     0-1275                      0-0739       00028       00116
   £                  5-95         130G          7-08        310         22-5
   2y
   Solubility ...     6-19         1206          6-07        32-0        22-3
                         t Gerlach (loc. cit.).   t° = lb° 0.
   In these cases, too, the agreement between the found and
                      * Spec. Oew. d. Saklosungen, 1859.

74                  Dr. W. W. J. Nicol on the
calculated solubility is satisfactory ; I need hardly add that
but a slight alteration in the value of y would largely affect
 a
5- that is the calculated solubility, while it would have little
influence on the value of
                  M.V. = 1800 + na + n2/3 -Tify
   The theoretical bearing of the above is still more interesting.
Saturation ensues at the apex of the parabola when the value
of a + n8— n2y is practically the same for any two values of n
which lie closely together ; that is, at a point at which the
further addition of a small quantity of salt would be unattended
by change in the mean molecular volume ; but as a positive
change is produced by cohesion, and a negative change by
adhesion, it is evident that at this point the cohesion and adhe
sion are in equilibrium, as I pointed out three years ago.
   The point at which saturation would theoretically take place
can be calculated as follows :—
   On the supposition that the molecular volume with which
the last molecule enters into solution is the same as the mean
molecular volume of the molecules already present, then
   (na + n2/S-n37)-[(n-l)a + (n-l)2/9-(«-l)s7]
                                                 = a + n/3—niy,
 when                       .         8+y
                        n = l, or n=—7~.
                                        27
The value n=l is of course beside the question, but the other
solution shows that saturation is complete when n = ,. ' .
Experiment gives n =¦ =- 8 approximately.
   The last columns in Tables I., II., III., and IV. contain the
values for the first half of the above equation and will make
this clearer.
                           Section II.
         Saturation in a. Solution containing two Salts.
   In the former paper I described experiments on the mole
cular volumes of saturated solutions of two salts containing
the same base or the same salt radical. I showed that in
three cases out of the four examined, the resulting solution
possessed a volume equal to that calculated on the supposition

                   Saturation of Salt-Solutions.                 75
that each salt possessed the molecular volume it possesses in
a saturated solution of itself alone ; and I concluded from this
that each salt dissolved in the solution independently of the
other. I also showed that the water was not shared between
the two salts equally, nor in the ratio of their solubilities
when separate, but that, as a general rule, the more soluble salt
had its solubility increased to a greater extent than that of
the less soluble salt. At that time I was not in a position
to enter more fully into this subject, but a recent paper by
Riidorff* has furnished data by means of which I hope to be
able to advance one step further towards the solution of this
difficult question.
   The results obtained by Riidorff are as follows :—
   (a) Double salts (well defined).—When one or other of the
constituents of a double salt is added to a saturated solution
of such a salt, it is found that precipitation of the double salt
ensues, and if excess be added the whole of the double salt is
precipitated, the merest trace only remaining in solution.
   The salts experimented with were :—Ammonium alum, cad
mium ammonium sulphate, nickel ammonium sulphate.
   (yS) Double salts (ill defined).—By this I mean salts which,
being isomorphous, are able to crystallize out from solution,
forming mixed salts the constituents of which bear no definite
relation to one another, or else crystallize together in definite
proportions : the distinguishing character between this class
and those in class (a) being their isomorphism.
   In this case also either of the salts is able to expel the other
from its saturated solution, prepared by treating a mixture of
the two salts with water insufficient to dissolve the whole
quantity of either salt present ; but this precipitation is only
partial, never complete as in class (a).
   Ammonium alum and ferric ammonium alum ; cadmium
ammonium sulphate and copper ammonium sulphate; ammo
nium and lithium sulphates; ammonium and lithium chlorides;
sodium and cadmium sulphates; sodium and zinc sulphates; po
tassium and silver nitrates ; sodium and silver nitrates; nitrate
and sulphate of sodium ; sodium and ammonium sulphates.
   This complete or partial driving out of solution of the one
salt by the other is readily explained by the theory of solution
proposed by me some years ago. It has been concluded from
the experiments of Berthelot and othersf that, in the majority
of cases, double salts do not exist, as such, in solution ; but
that it is only at the moment of crystallization that the union
                * Wiedemann's dnnalen, xxv. p. 026.
                t Xauniaim, Thermocliemi1. p. •'!".').

76              On the Saturation of Salt-Solutions.
of the constituents forming the double salt takes place. A
saturated solution of a double salt is therefore not necessarily-
saturated to either of its constituents, but may be able to dis
solve more of one or other of the salts. As the amount, however,
of this salt increases, there arrives a point at which the solution
has become so rich in this salt (B), that any one molecule of
the other salt (A) may be regarded as being in contact with
a molecule of B. Aggregation or combination to form the
double salt (AB) is then possible, and the solution is then satu
rated for the double salt, and crystallization ensues, proceeding
pari passu with the addition of B, and resulting in the complete
expulsion from the solution of A in cases where the attraction
between A and B exceeds the cohesion of either A or B; while,
on the other hand, if this be not the case, the expulsion is only
partial. This is strongly supported by the definite character
and stability of the salts which are completely expelled, and
the instability of those which arc only partially driven out of
solution. The question is, however, complicated by our total
ignorance of the nature and amount of the attraction of the
various salts for water, which, as I have previously pointed
out (loc. cit.), plays an important part in determining the pro
portions in which the various salts dissolve.
   Rudorff makes the following generalizations from the results
of his experiments :—
   Salts divide themselves into three groups according to their
behaviour when dissolved in pairs (no double decomposition
being possible).
   First.—Salts which form with one another definite (tcokl-
geformten) double salts. Total expulsion of the double salt
by one or other of the constituents.
   Second.—Salts which are isomorphous in pairs, which either
form double salts or crystallize together in mixtures. Partial
expulsion by excess of either salt.
   Third.—Salts which neither form double salts nor are iso
morphous. The saturated solutions of pairs of these salts are
stable and unaffected by excess of either.
   By keeping these three groups of salts fully in view it will
be possible to arrive at a satisfactory knowledge of the laws
governing the behaviour of salts belonging to the third group,
for in this case alone is the problem one relating purely to
solution.

                               L   77    ]
               XI. Proceedings of Learned Soeieties.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                    [Continued from vol. xx. p. 212.]
   December 2, 1885.—Prof. T. G. Bonney, D.Sc, LL.D., F.K.S.,
                       President, in the Chair.
rPBIE following communications were read :—
 -*• 1 . " On some Borings in Kent.—A Contribution to the Deep-
seated Geology of the London Basin." By W. Whitaker, B.A.,
F.G.S., Assoc. Inst. C.E.
    Seven deep borings in the eastern part of Kent were described,
all of them reaching to the Gault. The chief one is at Chatham
Dockyard, where, after passing through the whole thickness of the
Chalk, the Gault was found to be 193 feet thick ; whilst the Lower
Greensand was only 41 feet, and was underlain by Oxford Clay, a
formation not before known in Kent.
    These facts involve the thinning of the Lower Greensand from
200 feet at the outcrop a few miles to the south, and the entire loss
of the whole of the Wealden Series, which, further south, exists in
great force, the Weald Clay being 600 feet thick, or perhaps more,
and the Hastings Bods 700 feet or more.
    Still further south, in the central part of the Wealden district,
 there are outcrops of the Purbeck Beds, whilst the Subwealden
boring continues the series downwards. We have thus an addition
 to the beds wanting at Chatham of some 400 feet of Purbeck and
 Portlandian, of over 1100 feet of Kimeridgian, and of nearly 500
 feet of Corallian &c. In a section of 32 miles, therefore (the distance
 between the Subwealden and the Chatham borings), we have a
 thinning of beds to the extent of over 3400 feet, or at the average
 rate of about 100 feet in a mile.
     This northerly thinning agrees with the facte that have been
 brought before us from other deep borings in and near London ; but
 the Chatham boring is the first in the London Basin in which a
  Middle Jurassic formation has been found. The teaching of the
 deep borings, as a whole, is that north of the Thames older rocks
  rise up beneath the Cretaceous beds, whilst on the south newer
 rocks come in between the two.
     The question of the finding of the Coal-measures beneath parte of
  the London Basin seems to admit of a hopeful answer, whilst the
 lesson of the deep borings as regards water-supply is that there is
 small chance of getting water from the Lower Greensand at great
 depths underground.
     It would be well if underground exploration could be conducted
  on a systematic plan, with proper regard to both topographical and
  geological considerations, and not left any longer to the chance work
  of people in search of water.

 78             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
     2. " Note on some recent openings in the Liassic and Oolitic
 Rocks of Fawler in Oxfordshire, and on the arrangement of those
 rocks near Charlbury." By F. A. Bather, Esq.
     The river Evenlode rises in the Lower Lias of the Vale of Moreton,
 traverses the range of Oolites, and joins tho Isis opposite Wytham
 Mill. Lias is exposed to about three quarters of a mile below
 Fawler, where Great Oolite is brought down by a fault ; and in the
Geological Survey map Lower Lias is brought down the valley to
 within half a milo of Charlbury Railway Station.
     In this paper the author gives reasons for believing that the dis
 tribution of the different beds constituting the Lias in the Evenlode
 Valley do not agree with the Geological Survey map, nor with Prof.
 Hull's description, recent sections and borings made for clay, used in
brick- and pottory-making, having exposed Lower-Lias clay in a
brick-yard at Fawler, marlstone and Upper-Lias clay in a neigh
 bouring coombe, and in a long section 100 yards north of the
brick-yard Inferior Oolite comes in upon the Upper-Lias clay. On
examining the banks of the Evenlode, north of Charlbury, it was
found that clays referred in the Survey map to Lower Lias are
really Upper Liassic, being above the Marlstone, sections of which
are exposed near Culsham Bridge.
    It was Bhown how these corrections in the mapping of the ground
are explained by the section along the line of the Evenlode and by
tho dips of the beds.
            XII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
EXPERIMENTAL PROOF OF THE LAW THAT BOTH ELECTRICITIES
     ARE DEVELOPED AT THE SAME TIME AND IN THE SAMB
    QUANTITIES, FOR PYROELECTRICITY. BY E. DORN.
'TTHAT both electricities are produced in equal quantities in all
  *• cases of electrical excitation is a principle generally admitted,
though the experimental proofs are not numerous.
    It appeared to me desirable therefore to prove the above prin
ciple for Pyroelectricity, particularly as here an apparently para
doxical case occurs.
    If a crystal of tourmaline is warmed at one end and then rapidly
passed through the flame, it is first found to be almost entirely
unelectrical. As it cools somewhat, considerable disengagements of
electricity occur which are occasionally of the same hitul at both ends.
    The above principle requires that the same kind of electricity occur
in equal quantity on the lateral faces, or in the interior of the crystal.
    A test is furnished by the principle, that a quantity of + elec
tricity in the interior of a shell-shaped conductor would induce
— electricity on its inner, and + electricity on its outer side,
whatever was the distribution of the original + electricity.
    If the tourmaline, after being heated, is brought inside a con
ducting but insulated hollow body, an electrometer connected with
the latter should show no signs of electricity as the crystal cools.
    The arrangement of the experiment was as follows : —A brass

                 Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            7JI
cylinder, 4 centim. in height and 2 centim. in diameter, was sup
ported on a rod of shellac, and had a lid which could be lifted off by
means of an insulating rod of shellac. A third rod of shellac was
fixed to the under surface of the lid, and in it was fused a thin brass
wire which was wrapped round the tourmaline.
    The tourmaline used was of a green colour, very transparent,
fractured on both sides, and for a length of 2-05 centim. weighed
 1*59 grni.
    One pair of quadrants of the electrometer was put to earth. A
 volt was represented by a deflection of about 2-5 centim. on the
 scale, at a distance of 130 centim., which was sufficient for the
 present purpose. It was more important that the insulation of
 the one pair of quadrants should be good, and that it should not
 receive a charge from the movable part of the electrometer, or
 from the air in the room, than that the electrometer should be very
 sensitive. These conditions were more than sufficiently satisfied.
 For when electricity was imparted to the insulated pair of quadrants,
 the deflection only sank in forty minutes from 14'0 to 13-3 ; and,
 further, after insulation for three quarters of an hour without charge,
 there was a deflection of 0*4 centim.
     The shellac rod which supported the cylinder also insulated well ;
 for after being connected with the insulated pair of quadrants, the
 deflection sank in eleven minutes from 32-2 to 30"4.
     The capacity of the insulated pair of quadrants was found in
 several experiments to be about seven times as great as that of the
 cylinder.
     In the experiments the second pair of quadrants, from which a
  wire passed to the cylinder, was connected with that to earth.
     The lid with the crystal was raised, the latter heated in one end
  of the flame of a Bupsen burner or spirit-lamp, again brought into
 its place, and the connection with the two pairs of quadrants
 rapidly broken.
       However the heating was arramjed, no deflection was ever obtained
  which exceeded the uncertainty of the instrument, although tlie quan
  tities of electricity developed were often considerable, and were fre
  quently of the same kind at both ends.
     From a long series of experiments I select the following.
     "When the crystal was heated at one end, and after a minute
  removed from the cylinder, the proof plane applied to the crystal
  and then to the insulated pair of quadrants showed negativo elec
  tricity at both ends, the deflections at the top and bottom being
  3-0 and 7'50 centim. respectively.
     In another case there was no apparent electricity at one end,
  while that of the lower sent the image out of the field.
     If the duration of heating was somewhat greater, and the crystal
  remained longer in the cylinder, there was on the top positive, and
  on the bottom negative, and of such strength that often, on raising
  the lid with the crystal, the luminous image disappeared from the
  scale, which is simply explained by the fact that part of the
  electricity induced on the cylinder is removed with the lid.—
  Wiedemann's Annalen, November 10, 1885.

80             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                 A NEW FORM OF ABSORPTION-CELL.
                      BY ARTHUR E. BOSTWICK.
   The writer has devised and used the cell described below for the
purpose of obtaining the absorption-spectra of liquids which have
but little selective absorption, and which would therefore have to
be used ordinarily in large quantities.
   The cell is a rectangular box about six inches long by three broad
and three in height. The bottom and the two ends are of pine
wood, covered with shellac, and the two sides are of ordinary
looking-glass, cemented to the wood, so that the box is water-tight.
The reflecting surface of the looking-glass is turned inward, and at
each of two diagonally opposite corners the amalgam is scraped
away so as to make a vertical slit about two millimetres iu width.
One of these is placed close to the spectroscope-slit, and through
the other a parallel beam of light is admitted. It is evident that
the box may be so placed that the beam will be internally reflected
in it a number of times, depending upon the angle between the two,
and will finally pass through the second slit into the spectroscope.
The length of its path through the cell may therefore be varied
indefinitely by turning the latter, and is limited only by the decrease
in intensity caused by general absorption—not only in the liquid,
but also at each reflection.
   A solution of bichromate of potash, so weak that a test-tube
full of it was of a barely perceptible yellow colour and showed no
absorption at all when held before the spectroscope-slit, when placed
in this cell, absorbed the whole upper end of the spectrum, the F
line being scarcely visible. In this case sunlight was used, the
beam being reflected six times, and having a path whose length
inside the cell was about two feet. With mirrors of polished
metal the result might be even better, since the absorption in the
glass would be eliminated. In this case however the number of
liquids which could be used in the cell would be somewhat limited.
—Silliman's American Journal, December 1885.
  ON THE COOLING OF A WIRE WHEN STRETCHED.                BY E. DORN.
   A steel wire about 0-7 millim. in diameter is clamped at the top,
while to the lower end is fixed a scale-pan in which weights can be
placed. Bound two adjacent places of the principal wire a thin
German silver and a steel wire are wound, the ends of which are
connected with the galvanometer in such a way that a thermo
element (steel-argentan) is formed. When weights are placed in
the pan the galvanometer shows a cooling, and a warming when
they are removed. With a Wiedemann's galvanometer, which was
almost dead-beat, arranged for objective representation, with lamp,
lens, and scale, I got a deflection of several centimetres. The
places of contact of the heterogeneous metals must be protected
from air-currents by means of felt.—Wiedemann's Annalen,
vol. xxvi. p. 334.

                                   THE
         LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                   AND
       JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                       FEBRUARY 1886.
          XIII. Bars and Wires of varying Elasticity.
       By C. Chbee, B.A., King's College, Cambridge*.
IF m and n denote the elastic constants as used in Thomson
      and Tait's ' Natural Philosophy,' and no bodily forces act
on the mass, then the equations of motion or of equilibrium
of an elastic isotropic solid referred to cylindrical coordinates
may be written in the form t
            ,        , dS      d€ , drU              d?u                „.
            (m + n)r__B_r + n_- =pr_ . . . (l,
                  dM , m + ndS , d€                (Pv                   ...
             -ndF+—T0+nTr=Pd?> •••¦(*)
                  drU .       dn ,,      .  . dS        <Pw             ,,.
The displacements being as usual denoted by «, r, ic, the
symbols used above are given by
                     s du u . 1 dv dw                                    ...
                    8=s + ? + ;j»+,7f                                   <4>
                   •-;»-!                                               <5>
                   ¦-»-£                                                »
                    _ _ 1 rf. w       1 cZm                              ._
                       ~ r dr         r dd                              * '
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t Cf. Lam6, Lemons d'Elaitieitt, p. 184, noticing change of notation, and
of sign in (5), (6), and (7).
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 129. Feb. 1886.                   G

82                  Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
   In considering the strains, stresses, and surface-conditions
we may employ Thomson and Tait's notation and results,
looking upon the radius vector through any point as the axis
of * at that point. Thus the strains are
     _ du         u       1 dv      _dw                       *\
    e~fo' •f~r+ rd6;              9~dz"'
                                                 ,v
                                                d-      . _ r       (8)
     _ dv 1 dw          , _ dw du           _     r     1 du j
    a~dl+rd6''               dr~+dz''      C~rdV + rd0- J
These present no difficulty if it be noticed that the axes of x,
as above defined, at adjacent points are inclined at an angle dO.
   The corresponding stresses are
Y=(tn-n)8+2ne; Q=(m-n)8 + 2n/; R=(m-n)8 + 2ng ;
        S=na; T = nb; U = nc                                        (9)
   For the surface-conditions, denoting by X, ft, v the cosines
of the inclination of the normal at the point to the radius
vector, to the perpendicular to the radius vector in the cross
section, and to the axis of z respectively, we have*
   XP + /*U + vT= component of surface-force along^
                       radius vector,
  \U + /u.Q + vS = component perpendicular to above > . (10)
                       in cross section,
   \T + ftS + vE,= component parallel to axis of z.
For a right circular cylinder, whose axis is axis of z, we have
on the curved surface,
                         fi=0 = v, X=l ;
on the flat end,
                         \ = 0=/4, v=l.
Thus for a right circular cylinder exposed to no surface-forces
we must have
             P = U = T=U on the curved surface,
             T = S = R=0 on the flat ends.               } • Ul)
   Let us consider first the case of a right circular isotropic
cylinder, whose axis is taken as axis of z, fixed at the end z=0,
and exposed to tensions or pressures on its other end symme
trically distributed about the axis. Then obviously v = 0
throughout, and u and w are independent of 6 ; thus (2) is
identically satisfied, and (1) and (3) much simplified. Sup
posing these terminal forces independent of the time, the
    « See Thomson and Tait's ' Natural Philosophy,' §§ 062 and 734.

                    Wires of varying Elasticity.               83
cylinder will remain at rest if originally so. Differentiate (1)
with respect to r, and (3) with respect to z ; then using the
above simplifications we get
                      S+JS+S-                               ™
Substituting in (1 ) the value of IS from (6), we find
                 cPu       d dw _ m + n dS
                 dz2      dr dz         n    dr
Substituting for ¦=- from (4), this becomes
                cPu 1 du u dPu _ mdS
                dP+rdr~^^dYi~~ndr''                  '  '   (   '
By a similar method we obtain from (3),
                  d?w , 1 dw      <Pw      mdh              ., ..
                   dr     r dr    dz*      n dz             K '
   If A, B, C denote constants, obvious solutions of (12), (13),
(14) agreeing with the identity (4) are
                        8=2A
                        O       + B,-\
                          =Zil-|-i3,
                        u =Ar,        V                    (15)
                        w=Bz + C.)
   Referring to (8) and (9), we see that the corresponding
stresses are
                  >=2wiA + (?n—
                 P=2mA        (w»— n)B,       -j
                  t=2(m— n)A + (m + n)B, J-
                 R=5                              . . . (16)
                  ) = S=T=U=0.
                 Q=S=T=U=(                   )
If the cylindrical surface be free from forces, we see from
(11) that P is zero, and therefore from (16),
and therefore
                        R=-(3m-n)B                         (18)
                             in
   If, then, — (dm — w) = M, and -=— =<r, and it'F denote the
             m                      Zm
traction, or negative pressure, exerted over the end section of
the cylinder per square unit of surface, corresponding to the
above solution, we see from (10) that
                             F=MB,
                                               G2

84                     Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
whence
                       B=H; A=~WF                                19>
    Thus this is the solution for a uniform normal tension or
pressure. M is Young's modulus, and a the ratio of lateral
contraction to longitudinal expansion.
     Suppose, now, that the cylinder consists of successive por
tions, or layers, of different isotropic materials, all of the same
circular cross section when undisturbed, the planes of separa
tion being all perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder. Let
one end 2=0 be fixed, and a uniform tension or pressure be
applied over the other.
     Then obviously the internal equations of equilibrium for
any one layer, whose elastic constants are m and n, are given
by (12), (13), and (14), and thus will be satisfied by a solu
 tion of the form (15). Also, in order that the cylindrical
 surface be free from forces, a relation of the form (17) must
 exist between the A and the B of each layer.
     Now suppose that, starting from the fixed end, the suffixes
 1, 2, 3, . . . i refer to the successive layers, and that zu zt . . .
 denote the undisturbed distances from that end of the succes
 sive surfaces of separation. It is clear that at a surface of
separation the values of w and of R, cf. (10) , for the adjacent
 layers must be equal. The latter consideration gives
                    M1B1 = M2BS=.., = M,B,= F;        .  ¦  .   (20)
the former,
                         B^t + C^Bsei + Cj,,^
                         B2zt + C2 = B^ + C3, f                 .„..
              B,_, Zi- , + C,_, = B^,_ , + 0,. )
     Further, if we suppose the initial end of the first layer held,
 w>! = 0 when z=0, .'. ^ = 0. Thus if s denote the suffix of a
typical layer, we get
                                B'=M?                           (22)
 Or, if l„l2,... denote the lengths, when undisturbed, of the
 successive layers,
                    C«=Fte + -+M-.-E-J                           (23)

                    Wires of varying Elasticity.                  85
Thus
                 —F[k+-+k-'Z]-                         ¦  ¦  ¦ (24)
The total extension of the cylinder is thus
                 »=f2::;(m;)                                    <25>
                            du
    In any given layer,     — is = — ^ = a, and depends only on
                            dz
the elastic properties of the layer considered.
    No assumption has been made as to the thickness of the
 layers or the law of variation in the elastic properties ; thus
 the previous results will be true when we suppose the layers
 to become indefinitely thin, and the difference between the
 elastic constants of consecutive layers to be indefinitely
 diminished. Proceeding to the limit, we can deduce the
 solution for a cylinder whose constitution varies gradually
 from one end to the other, so that the elastic constants are
 continuous functions of z the distance from the fixed end.
 Thus, in such a cylinder at a distance z from the fixed end,
                          «=-JJFr>l
                          —FJ§ W )
  where <r and M are supposed to be known functions of z.          In
  the most general case ^ might be expanded in a series of
  sines and cosines by Fourier's method, and the above integra
  tion effected. If the variation bo such that, expanded in a
  convergent series of ascending powers of z,
               M = i(1+7i^+y^ + ----)                            (27)
  we get
               — 5{1+i^+i^+-} • • • m
     It is to be remarked that, if a now denote the radius of the
   cylinder, the increase in radius — ^ Fa is different for the
   different materials, or for different sections of the continuously
   varying material. Since, however, a is a proper fraction, and

86                  Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
M a very large number in ordinary units (e. g. for steel about
21 x 108 C.G.S. units), this will not cause any appreciable
variation in radius unless for cylinders of very large cross
section. However, in a cylinder of very large cross section
formed of layers of widely different materials exposed to a
severe tension or pressure, this tendency to a separation at
the edges at the junction of successive layers would become
noticeable.
   We shall next consider the torsion of a right circular
cylinder.    Considering it first as uniform and isotropic,
regard u and w as vanishing, and v as independent of 6.
Then, for equilibrium, (1) and (3) are identically satisfied,
and (2) becomes
                  £+?*-?<U+2666>£-•                              <29>
a solution of which is
                   v = Dr + Erz,                          (30)
where D and E are constants.
   This contributes no term to 8, and the consequent stresses
are
                    T=0 = U, and S = wEr.
This gives over every cross section the couple
                       Jf2^8dr=^,     2
denoting by a the radius of the cross section.
   Thus if G denote the couple of torsion applied at the one
end, the other being held, we get
                         G=-2—                            (31)
From (11) we see that the above solution satisfies the con
ditions over the cylindrical surface.
   Suppose, now, the cylinder composed, as before, of a series
of layers of different isotropic materials. The internal equa
tions for the equilibrium of each layer will be satisfied by a
solution of the form (30). From the equations (10), applied
at the surface separating two adjacent materials, we get the
value of S the same for both ; and supposing the surfaces of
these materials not to slip over one another, the values of v
must also agree there. Employing the same notation as in
the previous case, putting D^O, as the one end is supposed
fixed, we get
                  «iBi=«A-...=           -«               (32)

                     Wires of varying Elasticity.                87
                    Ej£3 + D,=E3?2 + D3,             (         (33\
                    E    *_. + D<_, =E,^_, +D,. I
 where G denotes the couple of torsion about the axis applied
  at the second end of the cylinder.
     We thence get for a typical layer of suffix s,
                       ira* n,
                 ft_»{A+...+
                       tra* I nl
                                         fc_sl,
                                         n,   n, )
 and the solution,
                                           I. z.-z~)
                       2Gr i U-+...+ -f-fl—fl.
                   f= —rl                                .  .(34)
 Thus, at the second end the displacement is
                   .-^(M                                      (35)
    These results are also obviously true when we pass to the case
 when the material of the cylinder varies continuously after the
 fashion already considered ; for this case, at a distance z from
 the fixed end,
                               2Gr C dz
                           f=
                               wo4     :-.                    <»«)
 while the stress is given by
                          B    2Gr
                          8=^?                                (37)
    The vibrations of an elastic cylinder of the kind whose
equilibrium we have already considered may be treated in the
same method.
    As regards the torsional vibrations, the ordinarily accepted
equations are perfectly satisfactory, as they satisfy the surface-
conditions without making any assumption as to the cross
section of the bar being small compared to the length ; thus,
in applying them to a bar formed by successive layers, no
error can possibly be introduced by regarding the layers as
thin. Thus, the results afterwards obtained for the torsional
vibrations are more to be relied on than those obtained for the
longitudinal, which, however, as being best known, we shall
first consider.
   For the longitudinal vibrations of a uniform bar, we shall

 88                  Mr. C. Chree on Bam and
 assume the ordinarily accepted equation*
                          a^w _ p d?w,
                                                                      (38)
                          dz1 ~ M df
 the axis of the bar being taken for axis of z. This equation is
 obtained on the hypothesis that the cross section is very small
 compared to the length, though it is generally supposed to
 apply to bars of moderate cross section. The consequent
 solution satisfies the conditions over a free or fixed end of the
 bar, but not those over the cylindrical surface. The results
 we shall obtain for a bar of two or three materials, each layer
 being of a length great compared to the diameter of the cross
 section, are thus just as satisfactory as those ordinarily ac
 cepted. We do not think either that, in extending the results
 to a continuously varying bar, we introduce any appreciable
 error, as the principle that the lateral displacements are very
 small compared to the longitudinal at distances from a fixed
 end, great compared to the diameter of the bar, is not affected.
 Assuming in (38) w x cos kt, we get
                         £+3-0'                                       w
                                                             k2p
whence, if A and B be constants, and a? stand for -^-, we get
                 w= coskt(Aco3az + 'Bsmaz).                .  .   .   (40)
If we neglect u, we thus have
                *! + $£ =0, and therefore T=0.
                dz dr
Thus the only stresses existent in the solid are
K=(m + n) t— = (m + n)a( — A sin a.z + BeOS az) COS kt, . (41)
P = (m— n) j— =(m— n)«( — A sin etz + B cos az) cos it. . (42)
   The surface-conditions over the cylindrical surface, whether
circular or not, would require P to be zero, which, save for
the altogether exceptional case m=n, it is not in general.
This is the defect we referred to above ; but it will not modify
the following results to a greater extent than those ordinarily
accepted for a bar of one material.
   At a fixed end of the bar wo have w=0, at a free R=0
and so -j- = 0 ; thus the natural periods of vibration of a free-
     * See Lord Rayleigh's 'Sound,' vol. i. 5 1"><), putting M for g.

                         Wires of varying Elasticity.                       89
free bar, of a fixed-free bar, or of a fixed-fixed bar are at once
deducible. They are respectively given by the equations
smal=0, cosaZ=0, sin«Z=0.
   Suppose, now, that the bar consists of two different iso
tropic elastic solids, the surface of separation being the plane
z = li, and the whole length li-\-l%. Let the suffix 1 refer to
the first material, 2 to the second. Then, from previous
remarks on a similar case in the equilibrium problem, it is
obvious that for the first material we may take the solution
                 tr1 = (A1 cos a^ + Bi sin axz) cos kt,
where
                                 1     M, '
and for the second,
                 w2= (A2 cos «22 + B2 sin a2z) cos kt,
where
                                 .   ... f>3
for it is clear that if the bar is not to break up, the two
portions must have the same frequency of vibration.
   At the surface of separation, the normal to which is Oz, we
must have ?o1 = w2, and R^Bo, cf. (10) ;
   .'. Ax cos aJi + Bj sin ad^ = A2 cos adx + B2 sin ocdi,
(»ij + «!)«!( —A! sin ad^ + Bjcosa!^) = (m» -I- n2)«2( —A2sin ad^
whence we get
                                                              + B2 cos eifli)  5   (43)
 A2=Ai-< cos ad, cos aJ.\ H                   ' — sin adi sin ad, >
            I                        ma + n2 «2                      J
      + Bi ) sin ad, cos ad,             ^—- — COS a,l, sin ad, > ;
            (          '             wi.+n. a3                   !1J
                                                                               (44)
  d      \ $         i    ¦    7     »»! + ni   a,  .     ,          ~\
  D2=A1< cosoi/i»ina2(i — ——                       sin adx cos adi \
      , t, / •       7      •  7   . mi + tli «l          ;        7 )
      + Ui -J Sin aili sin a2(! -|          -    ! cos Bj/j cos a3li } .
            K.                       m2 + «2 a2                      J -*
   If there are normal forces applied uniformly over the ends,
forcing the vibration whose frequency is «—, we can determine
A! and B, by equating R to the applied forces at either end.
For the various kinds of free vibration we can eliminate Aj : B,
and get a resulting equation giving the frequency.

 90                   Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
    Thus, for a free-free bar, R=0 when 2=0 and when
e = Jj+4, .". Bi=0, and
             — As sin *j(^ + It) + B2 cos ^(/j + /2) = 0 ;
whence, after a simple reduction, we get
       (mj + TiiJaj tan (*&) + {m^ + w2) «2 tan (a2/2) = 0. . (45)
For a fixed-free bar, w=0 when j=0, and R=0 when
z = li + Z2, and we get
               tan (mJA tan (ad,) - Vh+JOl *1 - 0. . . (46)
   For a fixed-fixed bar, w> = 0 when 2 = 0 and when 2 = ^ + £,,
whence we get
          (jnj + ^ajtan (a^i) +(m1 + ni)a1tan (oj^g) =0. . (47)
   Remembering that *i = ^a/ ^ and ni = ky/ J??, we see
these are the equations giving the frequency in the three
standard forms of longitudinal vibration. Putting mx = mt
&c, we deduce the ordinary results for a uniform bar.
    We would specially remark that from (45) and (47) it
follows that the frequency of the corresponding vibrations in
the free-free and fixed-fixed conditions are no longer the
same ; while from (46) it follows that the frequency of the
fixed-free vibrations depends on which end is fixed. Thus, if
a fixed-free bar be reversed, the pitch is altered. This might
prove a delicate test of the uniformity of material in a bar of
strictly uniform cross section.
   From (46) we see that if {ml+n{]a.i< (w*j + n2)*2, then
   cos («£ + «£) >0, and .-. *[k\/£ +'V'gj < f I
while if (?>ti + «i)«i > {m2 + ns)a,t, then
   Thus the arrangement giving the highest pitch consists in
fixing that end for which (m + n)\/ ^ is greatest.          Thus, if
the materials differ only in density, the pitch is highest when
the densest material is at the fixed end. Since M^ — (3m— n),
                                                         m        "
we may infer, as a general rule, that if the two materials have
the same density, the highest pitch is obtained when the
material which possesses the largest elastic constants, or
greatest elasticity, is at the fixed end.

                   Wires of varying Elasticity.                   91
    By the same method, we find for the frequency of vibration
 in three materials forming portions of a bar of lengths lu /2, l3,
 writing (m + n)*= N for shortness,
 Free-free,
    j^OoKaA) cot (o2?2) + ~ cot (a2/2) cot (a3l3)
                             "3
 Fixed-free,                          V
                                  + N^Nj cot (fltl/l) cot ("3'3) " 1 ;
    ^ tan (a^i) tan («,y + j^ tan («^) tan (a3?3)
                                                                       V(48)
                                     N3
 Fixed-fixed,                      + NJ tan Ms) tan (*»^ = h>
   jj1 cot (a^) cot (a2Z2) + ^-s cot (a,/,) cot (atls)
                                     NN
                                  + "|pr cot (a^) cot («,£,) = 1.
   There is no difficulty, except the length of the expressions,
in extending the method to four or more materials. The
 resulting frequency-equations obviously will follow each a law
 which might be established inductively, so that the form for
each of the three types for any number i of materials might
be at once written down. Any difficulty would be purely
trigonometrical, and in the free-free and fixed-fixed types
wonld be much lessened by the interchangeability of the ends.
   The relations (43) or (44) may clearly be regarded as rela
tions between the constants of any two successive materials.
They were established independently of any assumption as to
the difference in constitution of consecutive layers. We may
therefore, remembering our previous hypothesis, regard them
as in the limit applicable to a continuously varying material.
Thus, writing z for / &c, and putting ai=a1+ -j-dz &c,
                                                         QZ
when we proceed to the limit we easily find
   (m + n)a, -- = — - (1 — cos 2az) + -sin 2ar              l
                                                             dz
                                   -a{m + n)BzC~,  da    . . (49)
                                                  'dz'
and
      . + .). f = [j sin 2az+ | (1 - cos 2«)] '^±^
                                                   da
                                  + a(m + n)Az~.        .     . (50)

92                    Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
Combining these two we should get, to determine A or B, a
differential equation of the second order. To solve this in all
its generality might be a very difficult process ; but when the
variation in the bar is small, an approximate solution is easily
obtained. We should only have to regard A and B as con
stants when multiplied by -5- and —^^,i.e. on the right-
hand side of the above equations, and (m + n)» as constant
on the left-hand side. The variables m, n, &c. being ex
panded in Fourier's series, there would be only simple
integrations to carry out.
    As a special and 'very interesting case, we may suppose the
 constitution of the bar to vary regularly from one end to the
 other. Thus, let us assume
                            p =PoO- + <*'*),¦)
                            m=m0(l+pz), y                     (51)
                            n =no(l + qz); >
 where p0, mo, n0 are the values at the end z—0, while a1, p, q
 are constants so small that terms in (a'l)2 &c. may be neglected.
    Thus,
     M= mv  » (B»-«)-M.{
                       '                     1**'**)? -»} ,
                                I 1 + ,"*>+3r»0—no
 and
                                                                   MM)
     (to + n) a = (to0 + «o) «o [l + 2 { ^
                         p(6TO02--3mono— «o2)— ?Wo(3w0 — 5n0) \ 1
                                     (mo + «o)(3ro0— n0)       J J
     For shortness write these in the form
                         « = ao(l+K>),             J
                 (m + n)*=(mi> + n0)a0(l + H.z), J
  where the values of K and H are those of the last expressions.
  Employing these values in (49) and (50), with the simplifica
  tions obtained by writing A) for A &c. in the coefficients of
  small terms, we get
     ih- = ~ \ - A0(l - cos 2*0z) f B0 sin (2«0c) } - KB^-
     4?. = ^ A0 sin 2«o2 + B0(l - cos 2*,»?) } + K Aoooz.

                  Wires of varying Elasticity.                 93
Introducing the proper constants, we find
   a    a    Sf      /     sin2«c»2\   B (1— cos2oos) )
                                         -fBo-o^, . .        (54)
                                         + -A0«0z2.      . . (55)
For a free-free bar, R = 0 when 2=0 and when z = l ;
therefore
              B0=0, and — Asin*Z + Bcos al = 0.
   Neglecting smaller terms as usual and putting B0=0, the
latter equation may be written
              A sin a0l + AjKaj,/2 cos »0l — B cos a.0l.
Introducing the above values of A and B, putting B0=0, we
get
         shw{ i- f.(i- ^)}+w«^
 Remembering that the terms in H and K are very small, we
get as a first approximation,
                     sin«o£=0, or a0£=Z7r.
                                                 ITT
 As a second approximation, substituting -j for «0 in the
 smaller terms, we get
                  sina0/+ » m( — 1)'=?D.
 If we suppose a.Ql=iir—e, where e is very small, we thus have
                         KZ
                  e=wr-2
                  --t(  ^i-IO.                               (56)
 and
 The frequency of the fundamental tone of the bar corresponds
 to t=l, and the overtones to the consecutive integral values
 of t. Thus, to the present degree of approximation, the over

94                  Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
tones of a free-free bar of the kind here considered are strictly
harmonics of the fundamental tone.
   Referring to (53) for the law of variation of a or of \ / £
                                                           V M
we see that
                          *=7\/f.                           (TO
                                                               /
where M' and p' are the values of these quantities when z= -^,
i. e. at the middle point of the bar. Thus, the whole series of
tones is the same as for a uniform bar whose material is the
same as that of the given bar at its central cross section.
   If we suppose the material of the bar at the end z=0
known, and from this knowledge the pitch calculated, then
the real pitch will be higher or lower than the calculated
according as K ie negative or positive, i. e. according as
noP
 -¦—o+ (^mo~^no)9
         —             _/ is
                  ' — <r  • positive
                                -i- or negative.
                                            a-
      &m0—n0
   Thus, if the density increase from that end while the elastic
properties remain constant, the calculated pitch is certainly
too high. Since m0— nn is positive for any known material,
if we suppose p and q to be of one sign, the calculated pitch
is too low if the density be uniform, while the elasticity
increases from the known end. If the density and elasticity
both increase or both diminish from the known end, the result
depends on the relative amounts of variation, and also on the
relation between p and q. If we suppose q=p (•". e. all elastic
properties to alter at the same rate and in the same direction),
the calculated pitch is too low if p— </ be positive. In this
case we may say :—
   " If the elasticity afld the density of a free-free bar vary
both directly with the distance from one end, the tones pro
duced by the bar are harmonics of the fundamental, and the
pitch of each is higher or lower than the pitch as calculated
from the material at that end according as the ratio of the
elasticity to the density increases or decreases."
    For a fixed-fixed bar we get, pursuing similar methods,
exactly the same result as above in (56) for the free-free bar.
Thus the overtones in this case also are harmonics of the
fundamental, and are identically the same as those of the free-
free bar ; and the results as to the variation of density and
elasticity obtained above apply without modification.
   For a fixed-free bar,
              Ao=0, and — Asina£+Beosa/=0 ;

                   Wires of varying Elasticity.                95
whence, following the same method as for the free-free bar,
we get as a first approximation,
                            cos«0£=0 ;
and as a second,
                        .   .    ,/ H    Ka/\ .
                 cos a0f = sin V^cjT + ~2 / '
or, putting *0l— (2i+ 1) g m ^ sma11 terms,
                       a0l=(2i+l)?-v,
where
                     ,a. ,.,ir(Kl         2KI     -)
   The overtones are thus in this case not strictly harmonics
of the fundamental. In the higher overtones this defect
becomes very small, but in the lower it is very noticeable.
Consequently in a fixed-free bar of the nature here considered
the musical character of the note will be decidedly inferior.
This fact might prove a good criterion of the isotropic nature
of a bar of strictly uniform cross section, especially when taken
along with the absence of this defect in the same bar in the
free-free or fixed-fixed vibrations. Noticing that, if the suffix
/refer to the end z = l of the bar,
                          «,=«o(l + K/),
 we find that if the bar be reversed, the equation for the
 frequency is
        *-    21      V^l             2 +Tr\2i+\yy         • ^y)
    Thus, if the fixed end become the free, the pitch of every
 tone, especially the lower tones, is altered. This, again, would
 supply a delicate test of the isotropic nature of the bar. From
 the value of H we see that, if the elastic properties be con
 stant throughout the bar, the pitch is highest when the densest
 end is fixed ; while if the density be constant, the effect of
 reversing the bar depends on the values of p : q and of m0 : n0.
 Since m0—n0 is positive for any substance that can properly
 be termed an elastic solid, the coefficient of p in H is always
 positive, and algebraically much greater than that of q, which
 may be positive or negative. Thus, as a general rule, the
 pitch will be highest when the most elastic end is fixed. If,

96                  Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
                                                              5
however, the rigidity n alone vary, and m0 be greater than „ «o
(t. e. —| a > v), the pitch is highest when the least rigid
end is fixed. For the special case q=p we have 2H=<r/ + p ;
this signifies that, to get the highest pitch, we must fix that
end for which the product of the elasticity into the density is
greatest.
   Again, the pitch of the fundamental tone is higher or lower
than that calculated from the material at the fixed end ac
cording as 7r2K + 4H is negative or positive. When q=p, it
is easily seen that
              2(tt2K + 4H) = (tV + 4) -^(7^-4) ;
so in this case the calculated pitch is too low or too high
according as^(ir2— 4)— c/(7rs + 4) is positive or negative.
    The torsional vibrations of aright circular isotropic cylinder
are obtained by putting m=0= w, and assuming v independent
of 6. Thus (1) and (3) are identically satisfied, and (2)
becomes         ^ i ^^ „            d?v_p <Pv
                dri + rdr r1 + dz2~ndt?" ' ' '                {b°>
If we assume v x r, this becomes
                         d?v_P cPv
                         d?-nd?>                              <61)
while the accompanying stresses all vanish except S=n-=-.
Thus the conditions over the cylindrical surface are identically
                             dv
satisfied, while by taking -3- = 0 over a free terminal section
we leave no stresses there. In this case, then, the conditions
in the interior and at the surface may be simultaneously
 satisfied, and the theory of the vibrations so deduced is per
 fectly satisfactory.
    If we suppose n substituted for M, the internal equations
 for the torsional vibrations are identical with those we assumed
 for the longitudinal, while the conditions at a fixed or a free
 end are exactly the same, interchanging v and w. Again, at
 a surface z = l, separating two different materials, the surface-
 conditions are V\ = va and wi-j-5 =w$-r-^     Thus the methods
 to be employed in the corresponding cases are identical ; while
 the occurrence of only one elastic constant n, the rigidity,
 simplifies the case 01 the torsional vibrations. We shall
 therefore merely state the results for the several problems
 analogous to those of the longitudinal vibrations.

                    Wires of varying Elasticity.                 97
    Let /35= — ; then for the vibration-frequency 5— in the
              ft                                          2tt
 following cases we have
                       Bar of two materials.
 Free-free,
              Wlft ten (ft/^ + n2ft tan(ft/2) = 0;
 Fixed-free,                               a
              ten(M)tan(M)-T|i=0;                              (62)
 Fixed-fixed,                           "2P2
              «jft ten (fiilt) + BjjSj tan (ft/2) = 0. ,
                      i?ar of three materials.
 Free-free,
    n-^cot (fty cot (ft/2) + jgjcot (ft/,) cot ft/,)
 Fixed-free,
                                  + £^C°t(M)COt(W=1;
   gjten (ft/,) tan (ft/2) + ^ tan (ft/,) tan (ft/,)
                                     n«ft                           r> (63)
                                  + ^tan0Wan(ft/,) = lj
 Fixed-fixed,
   g;cot wo cot (ft/s) + g-3 ^ ^ cot Wj)
                                 + ^y cot (ft/a) cot (ft/,) = 1.
 Bar varying continuously but slowly after the law
where terms of order {a,T)i, (?/)"2 may be neglected.
   [Here we have merely to write a1 + q for 2H and a' — q for
2K in the corresponding previous problems.]
   Free-free,
         4=T\/f('-^')'
Fixed-free,
                                                               W
                 2/    V p0lA             4        w»(2i+l)»/,tM)
Fixed-fixed, same as fixed-free.
   Thus in the fixed-fixed and free-free bars the overtones
are harmonics of the fundamental, and the frequency is the
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 129. Feb. 1886.             H

98                  Mr. C. Chree on Bars and
same as for a uniform bar whose material is identical with
that at the central cross section of the bar. In both cases the
pitch is higher or lower than that calculated from the material
at one end, according as the ratio of the rigidity to the density
increases or diminishes with the distance from that end.
    In the fixed-free bar the overtones are not in general har
monics of the fundamental, though the defect becomes very
small in the higher overtones. The actual pitch of any tone
is higher or lower than that calculated from the material at
the faxed end, according as
             ?{7r2(2t + 1)»-4} -a* {**(?{+ 1)8 + 4}
is positive or negative, i denoting the number of the overtone.
Thus the pitch is always higher if the density diminish and
the rigidity do not decrease ; it is always lower if the rigidity
diminish and the density do not also diminish. If both den
sity and rigidity increase, the pitch is higher or lower than
the calculated, according as the proportional variation in
rigidity to that in density is greater or less than   »/a- ¦ ivi_4 »
the reverse being the case if both diminish.        For the funda-
                                    . .  TT2 + 4
 mental tone the determining ratio is      »_/•
    If the bar were reversed,
 so the pitch is altered by reversion.
    To get the highest pitch, fix the end for whose material the
 product of the density into the rigidity is the greater. _
    There are several practical applications which might be
 made of the preceding results. Several of these have been
 suggested in passing, so we stiall only briefly consider them.
 It is obvious that from (25) and (35) we can deduce the
 mean values of Young's modulus, and of the rigidity between
 the fixed end and any determinate cross section of a wire
 by observing the displacements w or v at that cross section.
 This may be done at a whole series of cross sections, while the
 wire is subjected to the same forces of tension or of torsion
 throughout its entire length, applied as in the ordinary
 experiments. We should thus be able to determine the law
 of variation of the modulus of elasticity, or of the rigidity to
 any required degree of accuracy throughout a considerable
 length of one and the same wire. The results might be em
  ployed to determine the degree of uniformity in the structure
 of the wire, or they might be used to determine the effect on

                     Wires of varying Elasticity.               99
 the elastic properties of certain modifications in the nature of
 the wire. Thus one definite length of the wire might be
 heated to any required temperature, while adjacent portions
 were by cold water or ice kept at a low temperature, .then
 (24) or (34) would indicate the effect either on the modulus
 of elasticity or on the rigidity, allowance being made for
 direct expansion by heat. So, again, observations made after
 part of a wire exposed for some time to a definite high
 temperature had cooled, would indicate the consequent modi
 fication of the elastic structure. Or, again, an electric current
 might be run through a definite portion of the wire, while
 the rest was exposed to no such influence, any heating-effect
 being avoided by surrounding the whole wire with cold water
 if necessary. By clamping the wire at different points, select
 portions might be subjected to severe strain, while the rest
 was free from strain ; then removing this strain and observing
 the values of w or » at different points in the wire, now
 exposed to one and the same force of tension or torsion, the
 modification by strain of the elastic properties might be
 deduced. Other applications will suggest themselves.
    The advantage of this method is that in every case the
 Same wire is dealt with and the uniformity of its original
 structure may previously have been tested. Further, mere
 is no comparison of results deduced from experiments in
 which any variation of the mode of application of the forces
 of tension or of torsion may have occurred. In two sets of
 experiments, even with the same wire, there is always risk
 of error through variation in the suddenness with which the
 stresses are applied. Again, if, as usual, the whole of the wire
 experimented on has been subjected to certain modifications,
 it can seldom, if ever, be restored exactly to its original
 condition, so that one experimental comparison cannot be
repeated with accuracy, and in considering the effect of
other physical changes a continually increasing modification
in structure is introduced ; whereas in the single wire locally
and definitely modified, a comparison may be instituted
between any given portion and an unmodified portion sub
jected to the same stress, neglecting or allowing for the
weight of the intermediate portion in the case of tension. In
many cases also it would be much easier to modify only a
comparatively short portion of a long wire; and from the
preceding results the difference between the observations
made, on a given length of the wire, before and after the
modification, would accurately disclose the change of state in
the small modified portion.
   The results obtained from the consideration of the torsional
                                   H2

100               Professors Ayrton and Perry on
vibrations are applicable to circular bars of any cross section,
but tbose from the longitudinal only to bars of small cross
section. From a separate consideration of the torsional and
longitudinal fixed-free vibrations of a thin circular bar, a
discrimination might be made between the effects on the
modulus of elasticity and on the rigidity due to definite
physical changes.
     By heating up the bar at one end, making that the fixed or
free end, and employing (58) and (59) or (65) and (66), con
 siderable insight might be gained into the structure. Then
 allowing the bar to cool and repeating similar observations,
the residual effect after any interval might be determined.
 As to the advantages of determining modification of physical
 properties by observations on a single bar, remarks similar to
 those already made will apply.
     By the test of reversion we can also select for our experi
 ments a bar originally of great isotropy.
 XIV. The Winding of Voltmeters. By Professors W. B.
             Ayrton, F.R.S., and John Perky, F.R.S.*
 I. rTlHE use of voltmeters for measuring the potential-
       JL difference existing between the mains in electric
 light circuits, and for enabling us to maintain this potential-
 difference constant, is so wide in its possible application, that it
 is unnecessary to dwell on the importance of voltmeters giving
 accurate indications. Indeed, the sensibility of an incandes
 cent lamp is so great (the light, as we have shown in a pre
 vious communication to this Society!, being in many cases
 proportional to the cube of the potential-difference minus a
 constant), that it is necessary that voltmeters should record
 with great accuracy the potential-difference, as well as quickly
 indicate any changes that from time to time take place in this
 potential-difference.
     It is therefore desirable to consider what are the most
  important errors in commercial voltmeters as at present con
  structed, and how these errors may be practically diminished
  or altogether removed. They are :—
      1. An error arising from the sensibility of the voltmeter
  varying with its resistance, and therefore with its temperature.
  This change of temperature is due partly to the variation of
  the temperature of the room and partly to the coils of the
     • Communicated by the Physical Society : rend June 18, 1885.
     f " The most Economical Potential-Difference to employ with Incan
  descent Lamps," Proc. Phys. Soc. vol. vii. p. 40 [Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xix.
  p. 304 (April 1885)].

                       t/ie Winding of Voltmeters.                       101
  instrument becoming heated by the passage of the current
  through them.
     2. An error arising from the sensibility of the instrument
  being temporarily varied by external magnetic disturbance.
     3. An error arising from certain types of voltmeters altering
  in sensibility so that their constants vary from time to time.
     4. An error arising from the volt standards employed by
 different makers of voltmeters differing several per cent, from
 one another.
     The variation in the resistance of a voltmeter produced by
 changes of temperature of the room can of course be made
 very small by winding the instrument with German-silver
 wire, or better with platinum-silver, or, best of all, with wire
 made of platenoid, or it may be made absolutely nought by
 use of an outside resistance of carbon ; or, lastly, if the volt
 meter be simply wound with copper wire, this error, although
 large, can be accurately allowed for if the temperature of the
 voltmeter be known. But the error arising from the heating
 of the voltmeter by the passage of the current through it is
 much more difficult to allow for, as this rise of temperature
 of the instrument will be unknown. Hence it is important to
 reduce this error to a minimum, and it does not at all follow
 that the employment of German-silver wire or even platenoid
 wire will effect this result; indeed we have already given, in
 a previous communication made to this Society*, general
 reasons showing that German silver is undesirable to be used
 in the winding of voltmeters. When, however, the diameter
 of the coil of the instrument exceeds a certain limit, it would
 appear that German-silver wire might be better for the outer
 coils: hence the following investigation has been made for the
 purpose of ascertaining whether in an instrument of the size
 of our Solenoid, or Long- Range Voltmeter, any portion of the
coil should be wound with German-silver wire, and if so, how
large a portion, also what should be the law of variation of
 sectional area of the copper and German-silver wire with the
diameter of the convolution in which it is wound, so that the
heating-error produced by the passage of the current through
the voltmeter shall be a minimum.
    Although the dimensions of the instrument adopted in the
following investigation are those of this special form of volt
meter, the mode of considering the problem will apply equally
well to any other galvanometer used as a voltmeter, or to the
   • " Direct-reading Electro-Measuring Instruments, and a Non-Spark
ing Key," Proc. Phys. Soc. vol. vi. p. 69 [Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xvii. p. 304
(April 1884)].

102             Professors Ayrton and Perry on
fine wire coil of an Ohm-meter, Powermeter, and Ergmeter,
or indeed in any case where it is desired to produce a given
magnetic effect with a minimum error due to heating. It is
only necessary to consider the case of a cylindrical coil of
internal radius r0 and external rt and length /, as it is easy
to exlend our reasoning to a coil of any other shape and
dimensions.
   II. At a place in the coil at a distance r from the axis let
the cross section of the wire be x, let p be the specific resis
tance of the material, and 7 the rate at which p increases with
temperature; x, p, and 7 being functions of r. For simplicity
of calculation we shall neglect the volume of the insulating
material. Let one. spire of radius r produce a magnetic
effect of the amount          -vri                                , , -.
                              KCrj,                               (1)
C being the current, and d having in almost all instruments
a value which lies between the limits — 1 and 0. Also let
                          x=x0ra                                  (2)
                          P=Por"                                  (3)
                         py^/JoYo''*                              (4)
                                                     / Br
   In a layer of wire of thickness Br there are             spires of
wire, and the resistance of the la}-er is
so that the whole resistance of the coil is evidently
             B=?^ (rtm-r0") if m=2 + 6-2a. . .                    (5)
                   mjo
The magnetic effect of the spires in the thickness Br is
                  KG-7^        or   ^r^-Br,
                         X           Xq
bo that the whole magnetic effect of the coil is
                    TCP/
               M=— (iV-ro-) if n = d-a + l.               .   .   (6)
We shall now assume that we can, by introducing thin strips
of copper among the windings, give the same ease of cooling
to unit volume of the wire everywhere ; that is, after the cur
rent has flowed for some time, that the increase of temperature
at any point is proportional to the rate at which current heat
is produced per unit volume. Now
          C2^r>+»-*» IBr         or C2 Q r»-?" . 2-jrrlBr

                    the Winding of Voltmeters.               103
is the rate at which heat is produced in a layer of thickness
or.
   This rate is ^ r6-2" times the volume of the layer. There
                to
fore the rate at which heat is produced per unit volume is
C1 S rd-2°: therefore, by hypothesis, the increase of tempera-
tare is proportional to C2 p\rb-2a.
   The increase of resistance of this layer is the resistance of
the layer multiplied by 7 times the increase of temperature,
and is therefore proportional to
or to
                            ^    Po -1+26 -4a
                                ~4            '
where iy=7„rc~*, and the whole increase of resistance is pro
portional to
                       r'7oC2 ?? r1+4+«-4° dr,
or
                      r
             yo^° (ri'-r/),if p=2 + 6-4a + c; . . (7)
                 par*
so that the fractional change of resistance is proportional to
                        &«*-">                               (8)
   Now regarding M as constant, and substituting for C and
R from (6) (5) and (8) we observe that the fractional change
of resistance due to heating is proportional to
                         n2           m         rf—rf         Q.
               7oPo-(P|»_ro»)«-ri«_l.0»-          p   • • • W
and it is required to find the values of a, b, and c for which
this expression is a minimum.
   III. It. may be seen that the error (9) is less as y0p0 be
comes less, therefore yop0 should be made as small as possible
so that when wires of two metals, as for example copper and
 German silver, are employed, the wire for which yp has the least
value, that is the copper, should be used for the inner winding.
It is, however, when we consider the waste of electric energy

104              Professors Ayrton and Perry on
in the coil, that the great objection to the use of German silver
for the internal winding becomes still more striking. For
the rate of production of heat in the coil is proportional to
(PR, which, from (6) and (5), equals
                    a»n»M»          2-nyV (rim-r0").
                K2/2(»y— TV)         mx0
Hence to produce the same magnetic effect M in a coil of
given length I, the rate of production of heat is proportional
to
                     W^^f X -^n—p»                           (10)
Consequently when a given angular deflection is produced,
the rate of wasting electrical energy in heat will be thirteen
times as great if German-silver wire be used as it will be if
 copper is used, no matter what be the gauge of wire employed,
that is, whether the voltmeter be wound to measure a maxi
 mum potential-difference of 50 or of 500 volts.
    Eliminating r from (3) and (4) it follows that
                           -^>L=^V,                         (id
                          \7oPo/       VV
 where b may have any arbitrary value. Hence if there is a
 regular change possible in the value of yp such as given in
 (4), we must have
                                c=Vb,
 where P is some constant. Equation (11), therefore, be
 comes
                             7P =(L\, ,                     <12)
                           VoPo \Po/
                           YoPo
 If, therefore, our wire in the inside of the coil is of copper
 and on the outside of German silver,
                                  13
                           yp--§yop<»
 or                         p = 13 p0.
 Hence from (11)
                            T=13P'
 or                          P=0-143,
  and                        c = 0-143 b                     (13)
    It is certain that generally the relationship between y and

                     the Winding of Voltmeters.                  105
p cannot be of the simple character here assumed; but inas
much as our results are only applied in cases where the wind
ings are either of German silver or of copper, or of the two
together, and in these cases the expressions used are quite
correct, there is no practical objection to the use of such a
law. The law is very nearly the same as the assumption that
a wire of any material, lying electrically between German
silver and copper, is made up of wires of German silver and
copper.
     Since from (7),
                          p=2+b— 4a + e,
 it follows, using (13), that
                          p=2 + l-1436-4a,                       (14)
 and the values of m and n are given respectively in terms of
  a, b, and d in (5) and (6), and are
                           m=2 + b-2a                            (14)
                          n=d-a + l                              (14)
     In our Solenoid Voltmeter, r0 equals 1, r, equals 8, and d
  equals — 1 ; and since the greatest value of p is 13/?0, it follows
  that r* cannot be greater than ] 3, but b is a constant, and
  the greatest value of r is 8, therefore b must be less than
   2. From (14), since b is always small, we see, after a has
   reached a certain large value, that p, m, and n increase
   numerically as a increases, and are positive when a is nega
   tive, and vice versa ; also that, finally, p equals 2m or 4n.
      Substituting the values for r0and r„ the error (9) may be
  written
   and it may bo seen by inspection that each of the factors of
    which it is composed is always positive, whether m, n, and p
   he positive or negative. Therefore the error is always positive.
    For large values of rn, n, and p, the error may be written
                          /  n V       2n \
                                       2«
                          V8"-lA»2n-l/
                                  ¦In
                               8^^1

 106            Professors Ayrton and Perry on
which equals
                               Un-l)
                                   2     '
                                82» + l
or
                               «*(*• + 1)
                         g2» + 1-2x8"
   This expression is always greater than r? whether n be
positive or negative, and is therefore very great since n is
great. Consequently for large positive or negative values of
m, n, and p, the error (9) becomes very great, and therefore
it can have no maximum. The values of a and b, therefore,
found from equating to nought its differential coefficients
with respect to a and to b, will give a minimum value of
this error. And the error will he a minimum when its
logarithm is a minimum. Now taking its logarithm, putting
r0 equal to 1, and rT equal to 8, differentiating with regard
to a and b respectively, and equating to zero, we arrive at
the equations
               <f>(n) -0-857 </>(p)=0,                     (15)
               4>(m) - 1-1430 (p)=0,           . .  . . .  (16)
where
                                 ,, x    log, 8    1
                                                      • •  (17)
To assist in the solution of these simultaneous equations we
calculated the following Table :—
                               Table I.
                        a.                 *(«)•
                       - 3               03293
                       - 2               O-4670
                       - 1               07029
                           0             1-0397
                           1             1-3764
                           2             1-6124
                           3             1-7502
                           4-5           18474
                         10              1-9794
                        100              20694
And in order to solve these equations we used the following
artifice:—A curve was first plotted on squared paper with <£(a)

                      tlie Winding of Voltmeters.                     107
as ordinate and a as abscissa, and by means of this curve for
any value of <f>(a) given we could at once find a approximately.
    Table II. was then arrived at in the following way:—A
value of p was chosen, and <f>(p) written down. Then since
0 857 <f>(p) is equal to $(n) by (15), n was known from this
by the curve for <f>(a); m was next found in the same way
from (16). Thus columns 1 and 4 in Table II. contain
values of p and n which satisfy (15), and which were ob
tained in this way, while in columns 1 and 6 we have values
ot'p and m which satisfy (16).
                                   Table II.
         p-      <Kp)-      0-857 *(P),   n.    1143 tip).      w.
                             or f(n).            or ^(»»).
          2     1-6124        1-381       1-03    1-842         4-35
          1     1-3764        118         0-39    1-572         1-78
          0     1-0397        0-8913    -0-425    1189          0-425
        -1      0-70295       0-6026    -1-370    08035       -0-69
        -2      0407          0-4002    -2-38     0-5337      -1-69
                         1
    Now first using the pair of columns 1 and 4, we chose
corresponding values of p and n, say 2 and 1*03 ; then, since
from (14)
                            2 = 2 + M436-4a,
and                         103 = d-a + l,
we could calculate a pair of values for a and b which satisfy
(14) and (15), since d was assumed to be known. Next
taking another pair of values of p and n from Table II.,
another pair of values of a and b was calculated, and so on.
Plotting these values of a and b as coordinates of points on
squared paper we obtained the curve sss, fig. 1 *, the coordi
nates of every point of which are the values of a and b that
satisfy (15) . In the same way we drew the curve 1 1 1 for (16),
and the coordinates of the point of intersection Z are the
values of a and b which satisfy (15) and (16), and therefore
make the error (9) a minimum.
    Thus for example, taking d= —1, as seems to be the case
in our solenoid instrument, we find that, with some approxi
mation to accuracy,
                           a=0-19 and b= -0-82
    • This and the two succeeding figures are only about one twelfth of the
 riie each way of the figures actually employed in the calculations.

 108             Professors Ayrton and Perry on
                                Fig. 1.
                                Values of a.
for minimum error. But if we have used our material of
least resistance for the inner winding, b cannot in practice be
less than 0, for p cannot be less than p0, and since r is never
less than 1, p would be some fraction of p0 if b were less than
0. Hence in practice we find that b must equal 0, that is, a
less heating-error isproduced when all the wire is of copper than
when we use German-silver windings on the outside of the coil.
   IV. Making b equal to nought as the least value of b
attainable, we can now find the value of a to make the error
a minimum. To do this we must put b equal to nought, take
d equal to — 1 in (9) , differentiate with respect to a, and equate
the result to 0.
   ThuS        <p{m)+<b(n)-2<p(p)-0,                           (18)
where <f>(a) has the signification given to it in (17).
Since                       6=0
and                         d=—l,
it follows from (14) that
                           tn=z—
                           wi=2— za 2a -\
                            n= — a        >                    (19)
                           p=2-ia,)
therefore, from (17)
              £(2-2a) + <K- • a) -2<f>(2- 4a) = 0.

                      the Winding of Voltmetert.           109
   This equation cannot be solved generally, but by giving
various values to a we can find which of these values makes
the expression on the left-hand side most nearly equal to
nought, and to ascertain the value of the function for each of
the values of a we can conveniently use the curve connecting
(/>(<*) and a. previously employed.
    For a =0*5 we have
        <f>{l) + <f>(-0-5)-2<f>{0) = 1-375 + 0-865-2 x 104
                                       = +0-16;
for a =0*4 we have
       <£(l-2) +^,(-0-4) -2^.(0-4) = 1-43 + 0-9-2 x 1-182
                                       = -0-034;
for a=0-3 we have
       «£(l-4) + <£(-0-3)-2<£(0-8) = 1-48 + 0-936-2 x 1-311
                                      = -0-206;
for a=0*2 we have
        4.(l-6) + </>(-0'2)-2<Xl-2) = l-53 + 0-97-2xl-43
                                       = -0-36.
                                  Values of a.
     Plotting these points, we find (fig. 2) that the curve for

110             Professors Ayrton and Perry on
the differential coefficient cuts the axis along which a is
measured at a point 0, for which a has the value 0'42 ; or, in
other words, a equal to 0"42 makes the differential coefficient
equal to nought, and hence it the value of a that makes the
heating-error a* minimum. As a check on this we have drawn
the curve for the values of the heating-error for different
values of a (fig. 3), and from this also it is seen that the
                          0-3 U'»S   U-4
                                 Values of o.
heating-error has a minimum when a equals 0'42. Hence it
 follows that the law of increase of the sectional area of the
wire with the radius of the convolutions should in our Sole
noid Voltmeter follow the law
in order that the error due to heating may be a minimum.
    Fig. 3 not only gives the value of a that makes the heating-
error a minimum, but it shows by how much the heating-
error is increased if a has a value greater or less than 0"42.
For example, if a equals 0, that is to say if the voltmeter be
all wound with wire of the same gauge, then, continuing the
curve backwards, we find that the heating-error is increased
by about one third.
   V. One plan of diminishing the heating-error with volt
meters, and one that we have frequently employed, is to place
in the same circuit with the instrument a coil wound with

                   the Winding of Voltmeters.                Ill
German-silver wire, and having a resistance far greater than
that of the voltmeter itself. By using wire of large gauge,
¦wound on a bobbin of large volume, and with as efficient an
arrangement for cooling as can be conveniently employed, the
heating-error can be rendered extremely small. Such a
bobbin, however, is both costly and bulky, and the employ
ment of such an outside resistance-coil wastes energy, and
can only be used with voltmeters in electric light and power
installations where such a waste of energy is unimportant.
The following investigation has thereforo been made for the
purpose of determining what must be the volume of this out
side resistance-coil, and what must be its resistance relatively
to that of the voltmeter-coil, so that the heating-error may not
exceed any given value.
   Let R be the resistance of the coil of copper wire wound
on a voltmeter, let H be the rate of production of heat when
the maximum deflection is obtained ; then, as already shown,
H will be constant for a voltmeter of a given size wound ac
cording to a definite law, whether it be wound with fine wire
for a 500-volt instrument or with thicker wire for a 50-volt
one. Let 0 be the current passing round it when this
maximum deflection is being produced ; then
                       C2E = H, a constant.
Xet the increase of resistance produced by the passage of the
current for some time be r ; then 5 is proportional to the pro
duct of 7, the coefficient of increase of the resistance of
copper per degree of temperature, into H, since, as already
explained, the voltmeter is so wound that the rate of pro
duction of heat is proportional to the increase of tempera
ture. Hence
                     R
                     — =a constant, A say.
   Now let there be a resistance-coil of German-silver wire of
uniform cross section, of volume V in series with the instru
ment, and let us suppose that for any coils thus added the
rise of temperature is proportional to the energy wasted per
second per unit volume, that is to say proportional to the rate
of production of heat per unit volume.
                                                         C2Ri
   Let Ri be the resistance of this added coil, then v is
proportional to its rise of temperature ; hence, if rt be the

112             Professors Ayrton and Perry on
increase of resistance and y^ the coefficient of increase of re
sistance of German silver per degree,
 or                            „C2R2
                          ri = B-y- say,
where B is a constant. Hence, if e is the error due to the
proportional change of resistance,
                          _ r + ri
                         '"r+rV
                                    B02R,
                             AR +
                          ~ R + Rj •
Let                    R,
                       R=^
then                         A+2V
                         •--ThT                             (20)
To determine the value of the constants A and B we may
proceed as follows :—Wind a voltmeter according to the law
which is to be adopted with any or no resistance-coil outside ;
 find the potential-differences P\ and P2 required to produce
 the maximum reading of the instrument,
    1st, immediately on making connection ;
    2nd, after connection has been made for some time ;
then
                            e-     p]
Let e be experimentally determined in two cases,—one where
there is no resistance-coil outside, and the other where there
is such an auxiliary resistance-coil, obtaining values ex and et
respectively. Measure y, that is the ratio of Rx to R, and
also V. Then from the equations
                            «i = A,
                                      B
                                 A+try'
the values of the constants A and B can be determined ; and
when determined, the error arising with the employment of

                    the Winding of Voltmeters.                113
an outside resistance-coil of any resistance and of any volume
can be calculated from (20).
    It is obvious that as V becomes greater the error becomes
less and less, but there is a practical inconvenience in largely
adding to the weight of the instrument.
    VI. To determine the best resistance to give to tlie outside
coil ofgiven volume.— When V is fixed, e is a maximum or
minimum, when
                          dy
Now                              5       2
                          dy          (l+y)»   '
                         dtf- (1+y)3 '
y must be positive, therefore (1 +y)3 is positive, also A and
                                    dPe
B are both positive, therefore -y-j is positive, and therefore e
is a minimum, when
                                 de
                                 dy
that is, when
                      *y> + 2?y-A=0,
 or
                              i_x    A     AV
 but y cannot be negative, therefore only the positive sign can
 be used, or
                      y=\/ii          ,f-i.    .....         (2i)
 makes e a minimum.
                       'V'+T?-'
     Substituting this value of y in (20), we find that
                          A+
                    e=2        :      v           ....       (22)
                               7'
     VII. To determine the best volume, and the best resistance to
 give to the outside coil for a given permissible error.—From the
     Phil, Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 129. Feb. 1886.         I

114              Professors Ayrton and Perry on
preceding it is easy to see that if the maximum allowable
value of e is given, the minimum value of the volume that can
be employed is given from (22), and for this va ue of the
volume, the best value of y, that is the best ratio of the re
sistance of the outside coil to that of the magnetizing coil of
the voltmeter, can be calculated from (21).
    VIII. To determine the sectional area to be given to the
inner wire of a voltmeter in terms of the maximum potential
difference so as to make the heating-error a minimum.—By ex
periment ascertain the potential difference that is necessary
to produce the maximum deflection with any voltmeter of the
 shape and size to be employed and wound according to the
law
                               ,v=x0ra,
 where a has the value that makes the heating-error a mini
 mum, and which value will depend on the shape and size of
 the instrument, and may be calculated for any special type
 of voltmeter in the same way as it has been calculated in
 what precedes for the Long-Eange Magnifying Spring-
 instrument. Then if it is desired to wind another instru
 ment, of the same volume and shape, so that it will have
 its maximum deflection given by Ps volts, it follows, since
 the heating will, as already proved, be the same in the two
 instruments for their maximum deflections, that their re
 sistances must be proportional to the squares of Pi and Ps,
 and hence, from (5), since the same law of winding is followed,
 that the cross section of the innermost layer of wire in the
 two instruments must be inversely proportional to Pi and P2.
    To have the same heating-error in the two cases, with out
 side resistance-coils of the same shape and size, it follows
 from (21) that it is necessary to use the same ratio between
 the resistance of the outside coil and the resistance of the
 magnetizing coil. To have a less or greater heating-error
 in the second than in the first case for the maximum deflec
 tion, it is only necessary to determine from (22) (the constants
 of which have been deduced by experiment with the first
 instrument) the greater or less volume V of the outside re
 sistance-coil needed with the second instrument, and calculate
 the ratio y of the resistance of the outside coil to that of the
 magnetizing coil by (21).
    IX. As to the second error, arising from the sensibility of
 the instrument being temporarily varied by external magnetic
 disturbance referred to in § I. This can be overcome in three
 distinct ways : by

                   the Winding of Voltmeters.                115
   1. Shielding the instrument by putting it in an iron case
with very thick walls.
    2. Using a very powerful controlling field.
   3. Using a motion of translation, and not of rotation, for
 the body in the instrument that is deflected by the current.
   The first method to be successful requires that the iron
case should be heavy and cumbersome, and makes it unsuitable
for portable instruments.
   A very powerful controlling field necessitates a very
powerful deflecting force, and so either makes the instru
ment unsensitive or necessitates a considerable expenditure
of electric energy in the instrument. The third method,
consisting in giving the deflected body a motion of translation,
is the best, since, no matter how strong the disturbing
magnetic field may be, provided it is uniform throughout
the small space traversed by the deflected body on its motion,
no increase nor diminution of the deflection will be caused
by the outside magnetic field. For this reason wo have
adopted this third method in our Magnifying Spring-instru
ments, and experiment shows that the shielding produced in
this way is even better than in our older form of instruments
provided with a powerful permanent magnet.
   X. As to the third error, arising from certain types of volt
meters altering in sensibility so that their constants vary
from time to time. This error arises from two causes. In
some voltmeters, such as those in which a controlling per
manent magnet is employed, there is an error which gradually
comes on from the demagnetization of this magnet, an error
which is greatly increased by a mistaken careful regnlar em
ployment of a keeper for the magnet when the instrument is
not in use. This error can be avoided by dispensing with a
permanent magnet, and using a spring or a weight, or an
electromagnet which is magnetized by the current to be
measured. A second time-error arises from the employment
of iron in the neighbourhood, and has the effect of making
the indications of the instrument depend not merely on the
current passing at the time of measurement, but also on the
currents that have lately passed through the instrument.
This error is especially marked in those instruments in which
the controlling force, or the force tending to bring the needle
back to zero in opposition to the deflecting force, is produced
by the attraction of an electromagnet containing a core of
soft iron wire, and which it is assumed is magnetized to
saturation by the current which it is our object to measure.
With small currents, however, which produce deflections in
                               12

 116              Professors Ayrton and Perry on
 the lower part of the scale, this iron core is not saturated, and
 differences in the values of the readings of as much as 30
 to 40 per cent, are obtained, depending on whether it is an
 increasing or a decreasing current that is being measured with
 such an electromagnetic instrument.
    XI. The fourth error, arising from the volt standards em
 ployed by various people differing several per cent, from
 one another, has been hitherto a very serious matter. The
 standards employed have usually been—
    1. The E.M.F. of a Daniell's cell.
    2. The E.M.F. of a Latimer Clark's cell.
    3. A standard depending on the electrochemical equivalent
 of silver and the value of the legal ohm.
    4. The indication of a voltmeter graduated by some well-
 known maker, but probably graduated in a way quite unknown
to the user.
    Standard 1 is vague unless the details of the method
employed in setting up the Daniell's cell are more carefully
specified than heretofore ; for example, Carpart, in some
 recent tests of the E.M.F of a Daniell's cell, made out of a
 U-tube, with a contraction in the lower part, found it to vary
from 1*111 legal volts when the zinc-sulphate solution had
25 per cent, of ZnS04, to 1*142 legal volts when the solution
had only 3 per cent, of ZnS04. His method of testing is
based on the electrochemical equivalent of silver and the
legal ohm, and as a proof of its accuracy he finds that the
E.M.F. of a Latimer Clark's cell is 1*434 volts. If, however,
 we compare his results for a Daniell's cell with 1*072 volts
as found by Sir W. Thomson when the zinc-sulphate solution
had a specific gravity of 1*2, we see how Daniell's cells differ
among one another*.
    The E.M.F. of a Latimer Clark's coll has also some vague
ness attached to it, unless the temperature-coefficient of varia
tion of E.M.F. of the particular Latimer Clark's cell is known
and taken account of. Generally the users of these cells are
oontented to say that the E.M.F. of a Latimer Clark's cell,
as determined by Lord Rayleigb, is 1*435 true volts, or
1*438 legal volts, and they neglect the temperature variation
altogether, which amounts to about 1 per cent, diminution
per 12° C. elevation of temperature with certain Latimer
Clark's cells.
   * Since the reading of this paper this subject has been very fully
treated by Dr. Fleming, in a paper " On the Use of Daniell's Cell as a
Standard of Electromotive Force,'' read before the Physical S ociety on
June 27, 1885 [Phil. Mag. [6] vol. xx. p. 126 (August 1885)].

                   the Winding of Voltmeters.               117
    Standard No. 3 is the one that we have used for some
time j and as we have obtained very satisfactory results with
it, it may be well to describe our mode of using it a little in
detail. First, by means of a large number of direct com
parisons with a copper voltameter, we determine the most
probable value in amperes of the indications in different parts
of the scale of an ammeter fixed permanently in position by
being screwed to the table. A current is now sent through
this ammeter in series with a long thick copper wire having
about 6 ohms resistance and wound in a large open coil.
This coil has attached to its two ends the standard voltmeter,
which is also fixed permanently in position. Simultaneous
readings of the ammeter and voltmeter are now taken by two
observers, when a signal is given and the bridge-piece of a
mercury commutator is moved so as to cut off the current
and connect the copper wire together with the voltmeter,
which is joined with it in parallel, to a differential galvano
meter. Then time measurements, for about ten minutes, are
taken by a third observer of the parallel resistance of the
thick copper wire and the attached voltmeter. Next a curve
is drawn connecting the resistance of the cooling coil with
the time, and on completing the curve backwards we ascertain
with great accuracy, by interpolation, the resistance at the
moment of stopping the current, that is at the moment of
making the simultaneous observations on the ammeter and
voltmeter. Our copper wire is sufficiently thick that for a
current of some 15 amperes passing through it, corresponding
with about 80 volts maintained at its ends, the time-curve of
its resistance, obtained after stopping the main current, is
nearly a straight line with hardly any inclination to the axis
along which the time is measured ; or, in other words, the
change of resistance due to cooling while the measurements
of resistance are being made is very small and easily allowed
for. And this resistance, in legal ohms, multiplied by the
current passing in amperes, gives of course the potential
difference in legal volts.
    In using the copper voltameter to calibrate the ammeter it
is of course necessary, in order that a firmly adherent deposit
should be obtained, that the area of the immersed surfaces of
the anode and cathode opposed to one another should exceed
the limit given by Dr. Hammerl, viz. one square decimetre
per 7 amperes, or rather more than two square inches per
 ampere ; and in our experiments we have taken care to use a
 larger area in proportion to the current. Our negative plates
 consisted of a number of separate sheets of very thin hard
 copper, so that the weight of the deposit could be accurately

118             On the Winding of Voltmeters.
measured ; the current was supplied by accumulators and in
creased or diminished by a carbon resistance worked with a
screw. By watching the ammeter and slightly turning this
screw one way or the other, the current could be kept very
constant for a long time. The value of the electrochemical
equivalent employed for copper was 0*3295 milligrammes per
coulomb, which is deduced from the mean of the electro
chemical equivalents of silver, 1*118 milligrammes per coulomb
as given by Lord Eayleigh, and 1*1183 by F. and W. Kohl-
rausch, and by using 63*47, 107*56, 3207, and 16 as the
atomic weights of copper, silver, sulphur, and oxygen re
spectively. The solution of copper sulphate employed was a
saturated one, the crystals of copper sulphate used in making
it being chemically pure.
   To avoid errors being introduced by oxidation of the copper
that had just been deposited on the copper plates, they were,
on being taken out of. the sulphate of copper bath, on the
stoppage of the current, immediately and quickly washed,
first in water, secondly in alcohol, thirdly with ether poured
over them, and then dried.
   The currents that a given set of accumulators will send
through a copper voltameter depends of course partly on the
distance between the alternate positive and negative plates,
and partly on the depths to which they are immersed in the
saturated solution of copper sulphate. The proper arrange
ments of the plates to allow any particular current to pass
cannot conveniently be determined with the plates that are
going to be used for the experiment, as an unknown weight
of copper would be deposited on them during the process of
adjustment, and great delay would be introduced if the plates
had to be dried and weighed after the adjustment and before
making the final experiment. Hence after the proper plates
to be used as the anodes had been very carefully cleaned and
¦weighed, a spare set of exactly the same size and shape were
put into the bath, and their distance, as well as the carbon
resistance, adjusted until the desired current was passing;
then the spare set was removed and the weighed set substituted
for them, and the experiment carried out.
   Having determined our volt-standard in the way above
explained, we tested various voltmeters of different makers,
and we found that whereas the indications of some of them
agreed very well with our standard, the indications of others
differed by several per cent.

                             [  119   ]
         XV. On the Tlieory of Fractional Precipitation.
                   By John J. Hood, jD.Sc*
THERE are at the present time several elements known
        belonging to the group of earths, analogous in some
respects both to alumina and to lime, resembling each other
so closely in their chemical properties that their separation
seems to be one of the most tedious operations in mineral
chemistry. So similar, indeed, are these elements in their
chemical behaviour, that many, if not all, of the recent additions
that have been made to the list of earths have passed through
the hands of several eminent chemists without raising a sus
picion that the material whose chemical properties they were
examining was in reality a complex body. For instance,
what was up till about the year 1877 termed erbia, an oxide
found in gadolinite and a few other minerals, is now known
to be a mixture of no less than five oxides—viz. scandia,
ytterbia, holmia, thulia, and the true erbia.
    The investigations that resulted in these discoveries may be
 considered as extensions of the work of Mosander, who in
 1843 showed that the gadolinite earth, then termed yttria,
was a mixture of three oxides—yttria and other two which ho
named terbia and erbia, separable from each other by frac
tional precipitation as oxalates.
    A similar history belongs to the earths extracted from the
 mineral cerite ; the latest discovery in this directionf being
 that the didyinia from this mineral contains a considerable
 proportion of samaria, an earth first discovered in the mineral
samarskite in 1878 by Delafontaine.
    The methods that are employed for the separation of these
 earths from each other depend for success upon differences
 existing in the basic strengths of the several oxides ; that is
 to say, if a mixture of salts, particularly the nitrates of two
 or more of these oxides be heated, there will be a tendency
 for the nitrates of some of the oxides, the less basic, to decom
 pose first or in relatively greater quantity than the nitrates of
 the more basic oxides : or, if to a dilute solution of those salts
 a precipitant be added such as amnionic hydrate, less in
 amount than is requisite to precipitate all the salts, some of the
 hydrates or oxides will tend to accumulate more rapidly in the
 frecipitates than others by many repetitions of the process,
   f differences do exist in the basic strengths of the materials,
    * Communicated by the Author.
    t According to Welsbach, didymium is a mixture of two elements
  which he names neodvmium and praseodymium (Journ. Chem. Soc. Nov.
  1885).

120                   Dr. J. J. Hood on the
then, by fractional decomposition of the nitrates by heat or by
fractional precipitation, the tendency of one constituent to be
decomposed or precipitated before another will be so much
the greater as the difference in their basicities is greater, and
their separation by either process consequently so much the
easier.
   Supposing, however, that two such oxides were of the same
basic strength in relation to all acids and precipitants, and at
all temperatures at which the experiments could be conducted,
then it is evident that in such a case no separation could be
effected, however many times the operations were repeated on
the fractions obtained. If the ratios of the basic strengths
vjiry with the temperature, which is probable, and with the
nature of the precipitant, which may not be true, then it is
quite possible that, in the separation of some of the rare earths
by fractional precipitation, the temperature at which the
experiments are made and the precipitant employed may be
the very worst possible that could be selected.
   From a theoretical point of view, the problems presented by
fractional precipitation would seem to be of considerable im
portance, and the process offers a wide and doubtless a fertile
field for experimental study. Viewed in a practical light, or
as regards the application of the process to the separation of
bodies differing in basic strength, the problem to be solved is:
Given a mixture of two or more such substances, what is the
best method of conducting the operations so that a given mass
of material may yield a maximum of one or other of the pure
oxides with the least amount of labour or the smallest number
of precipitations ? Evidently, for an answer to this question
to be of value, the theoretical side of the problem must first
be studied experimentally for the commoner elements to
decide whether or no the ratios of the basic strengths of the
materials vary with the temperature and in what manner,
decreasing or increasing as the temperature is increased ;
whether these ratios vary with the nature of the precipitant
or of the acid combined with the base, and whether retarding
the precipitation by introducing extraneous bodies into the
chemical system affects the ratio of the materials in the pre
cipitate. In other words, under what conditions can the ratio
of the less basic to the more basic material in the precipitate
be made the greatest possible bjr adding a fraction of the total
precipitant to a solution containing two salts ?
   In such a chemical change as is expressed by the equation
NiS04+Na,COs = NiCOs + NajS04, if the chemical affinities
operating among the constituents be considered, it is evident
that, however simple the final result of the change may be

                Theory of Fractional Precipitation.              121
these affinities or attractions constitute a very complex system
of forces. There is a set of forces tending to change the
system from the state represented by the left-hand member of
the equation to the state represented by the right-hand one,
and another set of forces tending to bring the system back to
its initial state. If, instead of one, two or more precipitable
salts be present, then the system of forces at work becomes
much more complex ; and to attempt to introduce all these
attractions or affinities into formulae relating to fractional
precipitation would lead to complicated results ; the equations
would be as complex as those proposed by Guldberg and
 Waage in their theory of limited chemical actions. It is here
assumed, however, that one of the products of the change of
each particular constituent is practically insoluble ; and that
the inverse action does not take place, at least to any extent
compared with that producing the precipitate.
   If a number of solutions, each containing an equal mass of
a single sulphate, as NiS04,CoS04, MnS04, &c, be considered,
to which a common precipitant is added, the experimental
conditions being the same in each case, the changes occurring
in the several solutions will be brought about by forces ana
logous in kind, but the intensity of the action of the precipi
tant may differ in degree with the nature of the sulphate : this
may be expressed by saying that each system exhibits a re
sistance to undergoing change, differing in degree according to
the sulphate employed. This resistance is here looked upon
as being exhibited by the sulphate, nitrate, or other salt that
is submitted to the action of the precipitant, and the relative
values of which may be determined by the simultaneous action
of the precipitant on mixtures of two or more such salts.
Representing the resistance of a particular salt to the action
of a precipitant by the symbol e, it becomes a measure of the
stability of the salt, or of the intensity of the affinities holding
the structure together, and is probably of a complex character,
a function of the conditions to which the chemical system may
be subjected. If a hydrate, such as NaHO, be the precipi
tant, e measures the intensity of the attraction of the metallic
base for the acid with which it may be united : the greater the
value of e, the greater the attraction between the base and acid.
    The symbol e might be defined as the coefficient of resist
ance to change for a particular chemical system, or as the
 basic power of a particular base with relation to a particular
 acid ; but the phrase " coefficient of affinity," however appro
 priate it may -seem, is objectionable, as there has been already
 sufficient confusion introduced into science by the use of this
 term ; besides, as this value e is interpreted above, it has the

122                  Dr. J. J. Hood on the
inverse meaning to that attached to coefficient of affinity by
Guldberg and Waage in their tract Sur les AJinites chimigiies.
For convenience it will be termed the basic power, or strength
of a particular base, a relative magnitude to be determined by
the process of precipitation ; but it will remain for future
experiments to give it a more definite meaning.
   Suppose, then, that to a solution of sulphates or other salts
of two metals a precipitant is added less in amount than requi
site for complete precipitation ; the salt which offers the greater
resistance to the action of the precipitant, and for which the
magnitude e is the greater, will suffer less change than the
second salt in the solution. If the element time be introduced,
the rates of change or of formation of the precipitates vary
inversely as the basic strengths, for the greater the value of e
the slower the rate of precipitation.
   No account is taken of the precipitation of so-called basic
salts, but simply the total action of the precipitant on the
salt-solution, whatever may be the nature of the material pre
cipitated. The secondary actions that might possibly occur
between the products of the change are also neglected ; such,
for instance, as the action of the precipitate a. obtained from
the salt A reacting on B to precipitate £ and re-form A; and,
conversely, /3 acting on A to form « and change into B.
    Let the masses of the two salts in the solution be A and B,
to which a precipitant C is added, insufficient for complete
 precipitation. The rates of formation of the precipitates may
 be formulated on the usual assumption that they are propor
 tional to the products of the active materials existing in the
 system at any time. The amounts of A and B that remain
 unchanged being A— a and B—y, and since for the forma
 tion of x a quantity of the precipitant p has been utilized, and
 for y a quantity q, the amount of C that still remains capable
 of effecting further precipitation is C—p — q, the rates of
 change are
                   d£ = \{K-*){C-p-q),
                   ^(B-jrXCHp-fl,
 where e and e' are the basic powers.
    Since p = ouc and q=fty, and the total mass of the preci
 pitant necessary for complete precipitation A« + B/8, if the
 fraction C be            , these equations become

               Theory of Fractional Precipitation.            123
         f = ?(B-,)[(t-«).+ (?>], • • (2,
by the integration of which the amounts of the precipitates x
and y formed at any time could be determined ; results, how
ever, which would be of little practical value.
   Comparing the rates of formation of the precipitates
               £<f=>->>-»>                                    m
or
                     (A-*)« = F(B-y)«';
but as A*=FB'', the equation becomes
or
                     (>-!)'=('- 1)'                            <*>
which gives the quantities of the precipitates formed, x, y
(calculated in terms of the original salts A and B), in terms
of the basic powers. Hence by a single experiment it is pos-
sible to calculate the ratio -7, A being the more basic material,
and consequently e > e'.
   If e = ne/, then the greater the value of n the greater will
be the tendency of B to accumulate in the precipitate ; and
considering that fractional precipitation is the only method
yet discovered for effecting the separation of several of the
rare earths, for pairs of which the value of n evidently does
not differ much from unity, the experimental study of the
process, employing the commoner metals, with regard to tem
perature in particular, might indicate in which direction to
work so as to increase « and render the operations less tedious.
If n increases with the temperature, then fractional precipita
tion would be more effectual at high than at low temperatures,
and vice versa.
   It is customary, in the separation of the rare earths, to
employ the nitrates and ammouia as the precipitant, the solu
tions being made so dilute that no precipitate is perceptible

124                    Dr. J. J. Hood on the
for some minutes after mixing ; indeed the precipitate may be
delayed for a considerable time by using solutions sufficiently
dilute. But it would seem from the above equations that the
ratio of the materials in the precipitate is independent of the
time taken to form, and whether the precipitant is added all
at once, or in small successive quantities.
   If the fraction of the total material in solution that is pre-
              A+B
cipitated be —-— =x+y, and the ratio of the two salts in
                 A.
solution be v, and in the precipitate fi, or A = vB, and ar=/ty,
then equation (4) may be written
             (1-vX(TT^)=(1-x<n^)) ; • • • (5)
from which it may be seen that the ratio of the less to the
more basic material increases the smaller the fraction preci-
pitated, and that the maximum value of this ratio will be —p
for an infinitesimal precipitate (\=ao ).                       'l
   If the ratio -j differ but little from unity, the separation of
 two such bodies by many repetitions of the process on each
precipitate obtained would be very tedious ; in the extreme
case of e = e', then p = v, or the ratio of the two materials in
 the precipitate will be the same as in the original solution,
 and no separation of the two constituents could be effected.
 Consequently the complex nature of a body might never be
 detected, at least by the application of such a process of sepa
 ration ; nor can the negative results obtained by Marignac*
 for some of the commoner elements be looked upon as deciding
 their homogeneous character.
   The following experiments by Mills and Bicketf are of
 interest as showing the validity and application of the equation
                      (l- «)'-(»- 0-
 In each experiment the volume of the solution was 100 cubic
centimetres, the same quantity of precipitant (Na2C03) being
 added to each.
                       * Ann. Ch. et. Phys. 1884.
                       t Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xiii.

                 Theory of Fractional Precipitation.            125
              Solution.          Precipitate.
                                                   Temp.    61'
          NiSO..    MnS04.     NiSO,.   MnS04.
            B.         A.        y-        X.
           grm.       grm.
            •1          ¦9      •0953     •6850     l§-9   2-91
            •2          •8      •1852     •4616     13-6   303
            •3          •7      •2799     •3766     12-5   3-50
            •4          •6      •3688     •2976     13     3-31
            •5          •5      •4305     •2450     13-6   2-93
            •6          •4      •4788     •1536     12-8   3-30
            •7          •3      •4991     •1089     17     2-76
            •8          ¦2      •5584      0722     17     2-68
            •9           1      •6841     •0363     15-2   2-32
                                            e
                        Mean value of r     «' ••'       = 2-97
   These experiments are not all made at the same temperature,
and it is seen that generally -p decreases with increase in the
temperature.
   Taking the mean value of p as being nearest the truth, it
would appear that MnS04 resists the decomposing action of
sodic carbonate with a force 2-97 times greater than does
NiS04, when both salts are simultaneously subjected to the
action of this reagent. If a solution bad been employed con
taining these salts in the ratio MnS04 : NiS04 = 2*97 : 1, and
an extremely small fraction precipitated, the ratio of the two in
the precipitate would have been 1:1; or, if the solution had
contained equal weights of the two sulphates, the small preci
pitate would have consisted of MnS04 : NiS04 = l : 2-97; the
larger the precipitate in this latter case, the more nearly would
this ratio equal unity. In the experiment in the foregoing
table, in which equal masses ('5 grm.) were employed, the
fraction precipitated being large, the NiS04is a little less than
twice the amount of MnS04 precipitated.
   Another interesting series of experiments by Mills and
Smith* relating to fractional precipitation, in which sulphates
of nickel and cobalt were employed, sodic hydrate being the
precipitant, are given in the following table. In applying
these results to the formulae, the total amount of cobalt preci
pitated is taken, it being for this purpose immaterial whether
or no the precipitate consists of a basic salt.
                         * Proc. Roy. Hoc. vol. x\ix.

 126          On the Theory of Fractional Precipitation.
                Solution.       Precipitate.
                                               Temp.
            NiS04.    OoSCV NiSO«.     CoS04.              •'"
              A.         B.    X.        y-
             grin.     grm.                      o
               1         •9   ¦1050     •8105   7-8        0
              •2         •8  •1980      •6687   6-7        0
              ¦3         •7  •2766      •6215   7-8          •86
              •4         •6  •3510      •5140   7-8          •92
              •o         •5  •4465      ¦4420   7-8          •96
               0         •4  •5295      •3340   7-7 5        •84
              7          •3  ¦5825      •2615   7-75        1-15
              ¦8         •2  •7080       1760   8-8-5        •98
              •9         •1  •7865      •0900   7-7-5      111
                                                       -     -97
                                          «'
    The value -7 ='97 indicates a very near equality possessed
 by C0SO4 and NiS04 to be decomposed by sodic hydrate. A
 simple inspection of the experimental results shows this fact,
 for it is seen that the ratios of the materials in the precipitates
 are almost the same as the salts in the solutions. It is evident
 therefore that if fractional precipitation were to be employed
 for the separation of nickel and cobalt, the process would be
 found as tedious (at least as sulphates and with sodic hydrate)
 as that of the separation, say, of samaria from didymia.
   This near equality in precipitability is an interesting result
 when it is remembered that the atomic weights of nickel and
 cobalt are almost equal ; but, judging by other experiments
on precipitation, it does not seem that the precipitability or
basic power is related to the atomic weight. For instance,
the atomic weights of the three elements Sm, Di, and La are
150, 142*3, and 138-5 ; yet the separation of samaria from
didymia is a much more tedious operation than that of didymia
from lanthana, the precipitability of the first two oxides or
their basicities being more nearly equal than the second two,
didymia and lanthana. Another illustration of this fact is
shown by the six earths scandia, ytterbia, holmia, thulia,
erbia, and yttria, whoso atomic weights are(E203), Sc=44'5,
Yb=173,Ho=162(?),Tm = 169-5(?),Er = 166,andY = 89-5;
but their separation from each other is a very tedious opera
tion, indicating only slight differences in basic strength, Sc
and Yb being the least basic of the group, and Y the most
basic.
   Debus*, in his experiments on the fractional precipitation of
           * Ann. Ch. Pharm. vols, lxxxv., lxxxvi., lxxxvii.

        Mr. W. A. Dixon on the Constitution of Acids.         127
mixtures of baryta and lime by carbonic acid, found that if
the ratio of the two oxides in solution be « and in the preci
pitate /9, then a=/cj3, and that within certain limits of a the
value of k was nearly constant. By equation (5) it is seen
that if only a very small fraction of the material be preci
pitated, v=-?/4, or a = -jfi; so that the values obtained by
Debus for k represent approximately the ratio p for this
particular case.
   Chizynski* employed solutions of MgCls and CaCl2, to
which ne added an insufficiency of phosphoric acid for com-
Elete precipitation, and to the clear acid solution ammonic
  ydrate, determining the amounts of CaO and MgO in the
precipitates with variable quantities of CaClj and MgCl2.
These experiments, however, do not seem to exhibit fractional
precipitation in the true light ; for before the addition of the
ammonia the phosphoric acid has probably divided itself
between the two bases in a determinate manner, and on neutra
lizing the acid solution the mixed phosphates are precipitated.
XVI. On the Constitution of Acids. By W. A. Dixon,
   F.l.C, F.C.S., Instructor in Chemistry, Sydney Technical
    College, N. S. Wales}.
IN lecturing on Chemistry the question arose in my mind,
       Why do some acids form with the alkali metals alkaline
hydrogen salts, whilst the similar salts of other acids are acid ?
And I wish to bring forward the answer to the question which
seems to me probable.
   We know that in organic compounds there are two cases in
which hydrogen is readily replaceable by metals. The first is
when the hydrogen is in combination with oxygen as hydroxyl,
as in alcohols, phenols, &c, and that this hydrogen is more
difficult to replace than in tho second case, which is when the
hydrogen is in combination with two oxygen atoms as oxyhy-
droxyl. The latter is the mode in which the readily replace
able hydrogen of all the organic acids exists. It seems to me
that hydrogen in both these states of combination exists in
 inorganic acids, and that where both exist in the same acid
 the hydrogen of the oxyhydroxyl is invariably replaced first.
 It therefore happens that the principal acid function is in
 connection with oxyhydroxyl ; and it is somewhat doubtful
 whether an acid which contains hydroxyl only is not more
                • Ann. Ch. Pharm. Suppl. vol. iv. 1866.
                t Communicated by Prof. Mills, F.R.S.

128      Mr. W. A. Dixon on the Constitution of Acids.
nearly allied to alcohols and phenols than to the true acids.
Hydrogen also enters directly into combination; but when it
does so the compound generally exhibits acid properties of
the feeblest description except when in combination with the
extremely chlorous analogues, and when in combination in
complex acids it is not replaceable by metals.
   I give a few examples from the common acids to explain
my meaning ; and it will be observed that as a rule the lower,
and what is generally to be regarded as the most stable, ato
micity of the elements only is required. The exception to
this is the halogen group, which must be regarded as entering
into oxacid combination as triads. This is scarcely extraordi
nary, as we know that iodine forms a trichloride, and that
therefore it at least must be a triad, or develops triadic func
tions by reason of its juxtaposition to chlorine. If iodine
does so, why may not the other members of this closely allied
group of halogens ? It appears to me that the metals are
more elemental in character, so to speak, and therefore less
liable to atomic changes than the non-metals, and that most
of the supposed variation in metallic atomicities would dis
appear if the halogens were triads in certain combinations. If
iodine only of the group could assume triatomicity, there is
no reason why the monatomic chlorine in iodine trichloride
should not be replaceable by monatomic hydrogen ; but there is
little reason to expect such a substitution if by the combina
tion of these elements triatomic functions were developed in
both, so that the compound was not
                       /CI            /OK
                    Ad, but / 1 \ •
                      \C1           CI—CI
   To come to examples, let us first take the phosphorous acids.
                                                 /OOH
The orthoacid has probably the composition P—OH , because
                                                 X0H
the acid itself has strong acid properties ; but these are imme
diately lost or neutralized by the replacement of the hydrogen
of the oxyhydroxyl group by sodium, whilst the replacement
of the hydrogen of one hydroxyl group gives a salt having an
alkaline reaction.
                                                           OOH
   Phosphorous acid has probably the constitution P^-OH ,
                                                           H
and is therefore dibasic, the hydrogen atom being only re-
Slaceable by compound radicals resembling itself; but this acid
 oes not form a true acid salt with the alkali metals.

        Mr. W. A. Dixon on the Constitution of Acids.         129
                                /OOH
   Hypophosphorous acid is P—H          , and is therefore mono
basic.                            H
   Pyrophosphoric acid is probably
                              .OOH
                            P\OOH
                            k/OOH'
                              X)H
as the dipotassic and disodic salts are acid in reaction, whilst
the dipotassic ammonium hydrogen salt is alkaline, showing
the feeble acidity of the OH group; and a tripotassic or tri-
sodic pyrophosphate should also be alkaline.
   Orthosilicic acid is usually supposed to be tetrabasic, and
could then have only four hydroxyl atoms and no oxyhydroxyl,
and should therefore possess scarcely acid properties. The
acid obtained by diffusion when perfectly free from chlorine
has a very faint acid reaction; but as this solution evaporated
in vacuo leaves a residue having the composition H3Si03, the
acid in solution may be
                               /OOH
                             Si<OH
                             &'/OH '
                             >NOOH
and hence give an acid reaction.
   Of the sulphur acids we have sulphuric, S^QOH' an(*
sulphurous, S<^tt j the first forming acid and the second
alkaline hydrogen salts with the alkaline metals.    There is also
hyposulphurous acid, S<(tt       , which should be monobasic,
and actually only forms one sodium salt. The substitution of
sulphur for oxygen in sulphuric acid renders this sulphuric
acid too unstable to form acid salts with the alkali metals.
There are some monobasic acids, as nitric, metaphosphoric,
and chloric, which may have the same or different constitu
tions. They may be
                 m/OOH        p/OOH n/OOH
                 ^SO      '    ^0     ' WM)        '
                   N OH         P OH       CI OH
                 0Q>       > <A       ' d-b        •
    Chloric acid may have the latter constitution ; but it seems
 most probable that nitric acid, from its strongly acid character,
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 129. Feb. 1886.          K

130                Dr. G. Gore on the Reality of
has the former, and also metaphosphoric from analogy and
from its formation of dimetaphosphates,
                             O-P-OOH
                             0-P-OOH
the acid of which is unknown ; and more complex compounds
of similar type.
    Of the lower oxacids of chlorine and nitrogen, chlorous and
             att            /OrT
nitrous, N^q        and C1xq , are feeble acids, though forming
stable metallic compounds ; whilst hyponitrous and hypochlo-
rous may be N^.q and CI^q, and so are scarcely acids at all.
The latter may however contain univalent chlorine, and be
Cl-OH.
  XVII. Evidence respecting the Reality of " Transfer-resist
  ance " in Electrolytic Cells. By G. Gore, LL.D., F.R.S.*
IN a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal
      Society,' 1885, no. 236, vol. xxxviii. p. 209, 1 have stated
that "a species of electric-resistance, distinct from that of
polarization and ordinary conduction-resistance, varying
greatly in amount in different cases, exists at the surfaces
of mutual contact of metals and liquids in electrolytic and
voltaic cells," and " this resistance varies largely in amount
with different metals in the same solution, and with the same
metal in different solutions."
    As conduction-resistance is attended by evolution of heat,
I took advantage of this fact to search for a difference of
temperature produced by " transfer-resistance " at the sur
faces of different metals in the same solution, and I now
employ the same fact in a somewhat different way to search
for difference of heat evolved at the surface of the same
metal in different liquids. I use an air-thermometer instead
of mercurial ones, and make an experiment like that of
 Peltier's, but employing a metal and electrolyte instead of
two metals.
    I took a thin platinum bottle, of a conical shape, of 100 cm.
total height, 50 cm. in diameter at the bottom, and 1'25 cm.
diameter at a height of 8"5 cm., at the bottom of the neck.
   * Communicated by the Author : read before the Birmingham Philo
sophical Society, January 21st, 1886.

           "Transfer-resistance" in Electrolytic Cells.      131
 It had a slightly concave bottom, and was placed in a flat-
 bottomed glass basin 12-0cm. in diameter. It was closed
 air-tight by a perforated indiarubber bung, having a narrow
 horizontal glass tube, open at both ends, fixed in it. The
 tube had an internal diameter of about 2*0 mm.; it was pro
 vided with a small divided scale, and contained a minute drop
 of water to act as an index of the expansion or contraction of
 the enclosed air (see sketch).
   After ballasting the bottle by means of a heavy ring of
glass encircling its neck, the electrolyte was poured into the
glass basin up to a height of 3"0 cm. A sheet of platinum
B-0 cm. x 15-5 cm., with its largest dimension horizontal, was
placed vertically in the liquid to act as an anode. Under
these circumstances the amount of external surface of the
platinum bottle in contact with the liquid, excluding that of
the bottom, was about 4O0 square centimetres, whilst that of
the front side of the sheet of metal was about 46-5 sq. cm.
These several conditions, and the distance of the sheet from
the bottle, were kept the same in each experiment.
    In some preliminary trials, using a current from a battery
of six pairs of zinc and platinum in dilute sulphuric acid, in
single series, and a large anode of zinc instead of the platinum
one,—on passing the current through a mixture of one volume
of sulphuric acid and one hundred of water, into the bottle,
whilst much hydrogen was evolved at the cathode, a small
expansion of the air in the bottle at once occurred, and moved
the index forward l'Omm. in about two or three seconds.
The current was then stopped, and the index returned to its
former position in about one minute. The piece of zinc was
then replaced by a platinum wire which was brought into
contact with the bottom of the bottle, and the circuit again
closed. The current now circulating was about the same in
                              K2

132              Dr. G. Gore on the Reality of
strength as before, and none of it appeared to pass through
the liquid ; but notwithstanding no cooling influence by
evolution of hydrogen now operated, there was no visible
movement of the index or expansion of air in the bottle.
This experiment of passing the current alternately through
 the liquid and through the bottle was repeated a number of
 times, and the same results respectively obtained. With
 nitric acid diluted in the same proportion, instead of the
 sulphuric acid, the effects were similar but a little more con
 spicuous, probably because the resistance was greater, and a
 portion of the hydrogen was oxidized.
    As when the current passed through the liquid, certain
 amounts of heat must have been absorbed by the liberation of
 hydrogen, and by that substance assuming the gaseous state,
 each result ensuing at the surface of the bottle, and notwith
 standing these cooling influences, the temperature of the bottle
 rose, an amount of heat more than sufficient to compensate for
 these losses must have been produced by the current. What
 was the source of this heat? Was it due to ordinary conduc
 tion-resistance in the mass of the electrodes or liquid, or to
 some action at the surface of the bottle ? As the index did not
 suddenly advance when the current was passed through the
 bottle only, the heat was not due to ordinary conduction-
 resistance of that vessel; and whatever the amount of heat
 produced by such resistance was, it must have been very
 small in comparison with that which produced the expansion.
 As the expansion was sudden, it could not have been due to
 resistance of any kind at the anode. And as the temperature
 of the bottle rose suddenly and fell quickly, and the mass and
 specific heat of the liquid were each considerable, it could not
 have been produced by heat of conduction-resistance of the
 liquid. The sudden expansion was therefore probably due to
 some influence, other than that of chemical change, acting at
 the surfaces of mutual contact of the liquid and bottle.
    The influence of difference of liquid with currents of equal
 strength was also tried, the electrolytes consisting of (1st) a
 mixture of one volume of strong sulphuric acid and ten of
 water, and (2nd) of ordinary concentrated nitric acid for the
 purpose of preventing the evolution of free hydrogen. The
 current was from six Grove's cells in single series, and its
  strength in each case was = "454 ampere ; it was stopped in
  each instance after a few seconds (whilst the expansion was
  increasing, though at a diminished rate), in order to exclude
 as much as possible the influence of heat of conduction-
 resistance of the liquid. The anode of sheet platinum was
 used in each case.

            "Transfer-resistance" in Electrolytic Cells.      133
    With the dilute sulphuric acid the expansion was = 30 mm.
 in two seconds, and on then stopping the current the contrac
 tion was 1*0 mm. in three seconds. Hydrogen was freely
 evolved. Increasing the density of the current by raising
 the bottle partly out of the liquid, increased the rate of ex
pansion and decreased that of contraction.
    With the strong nitric acid the expansion was 1*0 mm. in
three seconds, and on then stopping the current a contraction
 occurred of about '2 mm. in three seconds. No gas was
 evolved at the cathode. Increasing the density of the current
 in the above manner had but little effect. By passing the
 same strength of current up through the flask, by means of
a platinum wire in contact with the bottom of the bottle, an
 expansion of only '5 mm. was produced in ten seconds.
    The larger expansion with the dilute sulphuric acid than
 with the strong nitric acid, notwithstanding the cooling in
fluence of the evolved and gaseous hydrogen in the former
case, was probably due to greater resistance of some kind at
the surface of the bottle in the former than in the latter liquid.
 If this conclusion is correct the heat produced by such re
sistance at the platinum cathode in dilute sulphuric acid was
greater than that absorbed by the liberation and assumption
of the gaseous state of the hydrogen in that liquid, and also
greater than that evolved by such resistance in strong nitric
acid. The small amount and slowness of expansion occurring
when the current was passed up the flask, showed that the
sudden expansion was not due to heat of conduction-resistance
of that vessel.
    In another experiment with dilute sulphuric acid one volume
of strong acid to ten of water, and a current of "336 ampere,
the expansion was 3 mm. in two seconds ; and on then stop
ping the current the contraction was 1"0 mm. in thirty seconds.
And with nearly concentrated nitric acid, and a current of
•084 ampere, the expansion was 1*0 mm. in three seconds,
and by then stopping the current, a trace of contraction in
thirty seconds. Of course, in every one of the experiments,
the amount of expansion shown by the index was less than
the total, because the bottle itself expanded as well as the
air in it.
    If the sudden expansion in these cases was really due to
some " resistance " at the surface of the bottle, it ought to
vary directly with it. In order to test this point the amounts
of such " resistance " at the surface of the bottle when used
as a cathode were carefully measured whilst a current of *454
ampere was passing. That in the dilute sulphuric acid (one
to ten) equalled 3*41 ohms ; whilst that in the strong nitric

 134 Reality of " Transfer-resistance " in Electrolytic Cells.
acid was "17 ohm, or 30 the former amount. The amount
of " resistance," therefore, at the surface of the bottle in the
two liquids varied directly as the heat evolved and expansion
produced. As the liquids were uot stirred, the " resistances "
 measured included that due to polarization and its counter
electromotive force. As I had already in many cases found
largo differences of " resistance " at the surfaces of the same
metal in different electrolytes, whilst the latter was being
rapidly stirred in order to prevent polarization, I did not
repeat these experiments under the additional condition of
stirring.
   Separate experiments were carefully made to measure any
alterations of temperature occurring in the mass of the liquids
during the passage of the current of "454 ampere through
them, under exactly the above conditions ; the thermometer
employed being capable of indicating one fiftieth of a Centi
grade degree. With the dilute sulphuric acid (1 to 10), and
with the strong nitric acid, no perceptible alteration of tem
perature took place, even by continuing the current during
three minutes. This fact agrees with the circumstance ob
served, that in each of these liquids, on stopping the current,
the bottle cooled quickly ; but had its heat been derived from
the mass of the liquid this would not have htippened. The
absence of change of temperature in the dilute sulphuric acid
is consistent with the inference that the heat produced by the
resistance of the liquid, and that produced by surface " re
sistance " at the anode and cathode, and imparted to the
liquid, was exactly neutralized by that absorbed by the chemical
changes at the electrodes. In strong nitric acid the cir
cumstances were somewhat different, although the final result
was similar. In that case both the amount of heat of con
duction-resistance of the liquid, and that of " resistance " at
the electrodes were comparatively small, and the portion of
heat absorbed by chemical action was also small, and these
two quantities neutralized each other.
   The surface " resistances " were measured by means of a
Wheatstone's slide-wire bridge, one terminal of a low-resistance
galvanometer being connected with the slider, and the other
connected first to the cathode and then to a platinum wire
(idle electrode) close to the cathode, but not touching it, in
the liquid ; a balance being obtained in each case by moving
the slider.

                             [  135    ]
   XVIII. Some Thermodynamical Relations.—Part III.
 By William Ramsay, Ph.D., a-nd- Sydney Young, D.Sc*
IN the first of this series of papers (Phil. Mag. Dec. 1885)
     two relations between the vapour-pressures of different
substances were described: — 1. The product of the rate of
increase of pressure per unit rise of temperature (-— J into
the absolute temperature (/) is approximately the same for all
bodies at the same pressure, but the differences are real, and
are not due to errors of experiment or of calculation. 2. The
rate of increase of this value -#¦ . t with rise of pressure is
very nearly the same for all bodies.      This was shown in the
tables by making the product -4- . t for one substance equal
to unity at each pressure, and reducing the values for other
substances at the same pressure in the same ratio. It was
pointed out that, at pressures between 150 or 200 millim. and
1500 or 2000 millim., the variations from constancy are very
small, but that they are frequently greater at lower and at
higher pressures ; and it was suggested that these variations
might possibly be due either to errors of experiment or of
calculation.
   In the second paper a relation was proved to exist between
the absolute temperature of any two bodies corresponding
to equal vapour-pressures, •which may be expressed by the
equation
                         R'=R + c (t'-t),
where R' is the ratio of the absolute temperatures of any two
bodies at a given pressure, R the ratio at another given pres
sure, t' and t are the temperatures of one of the two bodies
corresponding to those vapour-pressures, and c is a constant.
The value of c may be determined graphically by making the
temperatures (absolute or Centigrade) of one of the bodies
(A) ordinates and the ratios of the absolute temperatures of
the two bodies (A and B) at pressures corresponding to the
temperatures of (A) abscissae, when the points representing
this relation fall in a straight line.
   In the case of nearly related bodies such as chlorobenzene
and bromobenzene, c=0 and R'=R at all pressures, and in
those cases the ratios of the products -^- . t are also equal at
  ' Communicated by the Physical Society : read December 12, 1885.

136                   Drs. Ramsay and Young on
all pressures ; and it appeared likely that if the variations
from constancy of the reduced values of -fo . t for other sub
stances were real, they would be related in some way to the
variations from constancy of the ratios of the absolute tem
perature. This is indeed the case; for if we compare the
values of -jj . t for any two substances, and make the tempe
ratures of one of them ordinates, and the ratios of the products
¦¥¦ . t abscissae, we again find that the points representing the
 relation of the ratios of the product -~ . t at definite pressures
to the temperatures of one of the bodies corresponding to
 those pressures, fall in a straight line. We therefore obtain
 a similar equation,
 R' and R in this case representing the ratios of the products
 -£ . t.    The cause of the apparently greater deviation from
 constancy at low and at high pressures is simply this—that
 at low pressures a small change of pressure corresponds to a
 large change of temperature, while at high pressures the
 intervals of pressure taken are very great, and therefore the
 intervals of temperature are also great. This is clearly seen
 by referring to the table of absolute temperatures corre
 sponding to the pressures taken. Taking water as an instance,
 we have the following numbers:—
                              Interval
           P.     t absolute.
                               of t.     P.    t absolute. Interval
                                                            of t.
         millim.                 o     millim.                o
             10      284-3     270       600      366-5
            50       311-3               700      370-7       4-2
                     324-7     13-4      800      374-45      3-75
           100                  8-4                           335
           150       3331       6-5      900      3778        3-05
           200       339-6      9-3     1000      380-85
                     3489               1500      393-2      1235
           300                  71                            9-3
           400       3560       57      2000      402-5
                     361-7              3000      416-5      14-0
           500                  4-8                          19-35
           600       3665               5000      435-85
   The determinations of the products -~ . t are, however,
necessarily less accurate than those of the temperatures, espe
cially at low pressures, for the sources of error are more
numerous and have greater influences on the results ; yet the

                  same Thermodynamical Relations.                      137
values calculated directly from the vapour-pressure curves
generally agree very well with those recalculated from the
equation
                            R'=R + c(r'-*),
as will be seen in the following table. With the exception of
chlorobenzene and bromobenzene, the comparison is only
made for those substances which have been investigated
through a large range of pressure, for otherwise it is impos
sible to determine the value of c with sufficient certainty.
    1. Water and Carbon Bisulphide. Ratios of the products
~- . t for CSS to those of water at the same pressures taken
as abscissa?, and the temperatures of water corresponding to
those pressures taken as ordinates. c= — O000399.
            Reduced        Reduced
                           ratios of     Products  jf. t for OS,,
             ratios of
    Pres                                            recalc. from
   sures.               -£ . t, recalc.
           ^ . t, calc. at
                                        calc. from   values for per cent.
           from curves. from     equa
                              tion.       curves.    water and
                                                   recalc. ratios.
   millim.
       50      •804           •8042          6757         675-9    +003
      100      •796           •7989        1280-0       12840      +031
      150      •794           •7955        1839         1842       +016
      200      787            •7929        2373         2391       +075
      300      •787           •7892        3430         3442       +0-35
      400      ¦784           •78(>4       4436         4451       +0-34
      500      •784           •7841        5417         5417         o-o
      600      •782           ¦7822        6361         6364       +005
      700      ¦780           •7805        7317         7320       +0O4
      800      •783           •7790        8235         8197       -0-46
      900      ¦7a5           ¦7777        9281         9196       -0-92
     1000      •780           •7764       10102        10054       -0-48
     1500      •'81           ¦7715       14507        14325       -1-27
    2000       •767           •7678       18460        18481       +011
    3000        •750          •7622       26056        26476       + 1-59
     5000       •755          7545        41128        41106       -005
    There are only two cases in which the difference between
 the calculated and recalculated values amounts to 1 per
 cent., and these two cases occur close together and are in
 opposite directions.         Generally the differences are much
 smaller than 1 per cent., while the differences between the
    ghest and lowest of the reduced values of •=*- . t (calculated
 or recalculated) exceeds 6 per cent.
     2. Uromo- benzene and Cldoro-benzene. The values for
 these substances appeared to be identical. They were there
 fore t!'ken together and compared both with carbon bisulphide

 138                  Drs. Bamsay and Yonng on
and with water, to find whether the recalculated values would
be the same in the two comparisons. This is shown by the
table opposite to be the case.
    3. Carbon Tetrachloride and Water.            Values of ~ t for
                                                                 at
H20 taken as unity at each pressure, Temperatures of
water as ordinates. C= —0-0006945.
                 I Leduced ratios of , . t.
                                                    d2.t!or CC1..
                                     at             at
   Pressures.
              Cal ciliated.   Recalculated. Calculated.    Recalculated.;
     millim.
          60       869            ¦8455          722              710-6
         100       830            •8362         1333             1344
         150       827            ¦8304         1915             1922
        200        832            •8258         2510             2491
        300        811            •8194         &537             3573
        400        809            •8145         4580             4610
        500        823            ¦8105         5684             5599
        600        819            •8072         6669             6567
        700        794            •8042         7446             7543
        800        799            •8016         8403             8435
        900        789            •7993         9330             9452
       1000        785            •7972        10170           10323
       1500        779            ¦7886        14470           14642
      2000         780            •7822        18783           18828
      3000         765            ¦7724        26064           2(5830
      5000         759            •7590        41344           41351
  4. Ether and Water.           Values of ~ . t for H30 taken as
unity at each pressure.         Temperatures of water as ordinates.
c= -0-0003194.
                Reduced ratios of - - . t.      * . t for (0Mu).0.
   Pressures.                       dt          dt
              Calculated.     Recalculated. Calculated.   Recalculated.
     millim.
        100       •811            •8305        1304             1335
        150       •833            ¦8278        1928             1916
        200       •839            •8257        2531            2490
        300       •825            •8228        3598            3588
        400       •840            •8205        4752            4644
        500       •812            •8187        5612            5655
        600       ¦826            •8171        6723            6648
        700       •818            •8158        7673            7651
        800       •811            .8146        8530            8571
        900       •808            •81 35       9509            9620
      1000        •812            •8126       10513           10523
      1500        •798            •8086       14819           15013
      2000        •822            •8057       19787          19393
      3000        ¦798            ¦8012       27730          27a30
      5000        ¦795            ¦7950       43314          43313

                                   51                 sO          e                  3                                                                                                                              CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tunity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pCS2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eCSa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -j^rmeof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        taken
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        asopat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fValues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a.redruiaor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     neta.uerse.s
 800   700    600     500    400                   150    100            mil i u.                                                                sures. Pres
                                     300    200
                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                dt of                  ratios
                                                                                                                                                       duced                                             ofast
                                                                                                                                                                                                        mC=
                                                                                                                                                                                                      unity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TeH20  red-ri—ora¦ntuerse.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                            taken
                                                                                                                                                                                                           pof
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Values
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .b.
                                                                                  Calculated.                      bromo-
                                                                                                                   and                                          Mean
                                                                                                                                                                reof
                                                                                                  benzene.                               chloro-
                                                                                                                                        f.t—or
 1045  1-050   1055   1057   10625   1-068  1071   1068   1-086    1095
                                                                                                                                                                                                 cs.
                                                                                                         bromo-benzene.                                                                                                    dp
                                                                                         Recalculated.                  and f.t
                                                                                                                        chloro-               of ratios
                                                                                                                                              for          Reduced                                  =
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.
10465  10496   1-0531 1-0571 10018   1-0675 1-0752 10803  1-0870  1-0974                                                             dt
                                                                                                                                dc                     duced
                                                                                                                                                       ratios
                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                   Calculated.                      and
                                                                                                                    bromo-                                      re
                                                                                                                                                                Mean
                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                   benzene.                             t™or
                                                                                                                                      f.chloro-
0-818  08195   0-8245 0-829  0-833   08405  0-8425 0-848  0-8645   0-880
                                                                                                                                                                                                 H2C
                                                                                                         bromo-benzene.
             •                                                                           Recalculated.                  and otf.ttor Reduced
                                                                                                                        chloro-                            ratios                                   =
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.
0-8163 08200   0-8241 0-8289 08345   08415  0-8506 0-8570         0-8785                                                             at
                                                          0-8653•
                                                                                                                         Calculated.
                                                                                                                                     benzene. chloro-
       7678    6740   5728   4724    3070    2558  1982   1384
                                                                                                                         Calculated.
                                                                                                                                     benzene. bromo- dt
8002   7688           5724   4703    3657   2525    1946  1395
               6C78                                               740
                                                                                                                                                              ^.Ufor
                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                             chloro-                          values
                                                                                                                                                                              Mean
                                                                                                                                                                              ol
                                                                                                                   benzene. bromo-
 8602  7683   6709    5726   4714    3664   2542   1964   1390
                                                                  740
                                                                                                       CSa=l.                                                                               dtJ-        •0-0 09850.
 8618  7680    6699   5726   4710    3662    2551  1987   1391                                                                                                                                chloro-
                                                                                                                                                                                               for
                                                                                                                                                                                              .t
                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                       -0-0 07026.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C=
                                                                   741-5                                                                                                     bromo-benzene.
                                                                                                                                                               Recalculated.
                                                                                                       11,0=1.
8580   7091   6705    5726   4723    3070   2565   1984   1391
                                                                  738-4

140            On some Thermodynamical Relations.
   5. Chloroform and Water.            Values of -£¦. t for water taken
as unity at each pressure.          Temperatures of water as ordi-
nates. c= -0-0006701.
                 Eeduced ratios of J- . t.           dP . t for CCLH.
   Pressures.                       dt               dt             3
               Calculated.    Recalculated.    Calculated.     Recalculated.
     millirn.
        200        •854           ¦8545            2575             2577
        300        •836           •8183            3646             3699
        400        •843           •8436            4772             4775
        500        •844           •8307            5829             5801
        600        •842           •8365            6850             6806
        700        •838           •8337            7862             7819
        800        ¦838           •8311            8812             8745
        900        •821           •8289            9709             9802
       1000        ¦838           •8269           10846            10708
       1500        •818           •8186           15191            15199
       2000        •805           •8123           19364            19552
       3000        •801           •8030          27813             27893
       5000        •777           •7900          42320             43041
    6. Ethyl Bromide and Ethyl Chloride with Water.                      Values
 of -P.t for water taken as unity at each pressure, and
    dt
 compared with mean values of dp             -J- . t for ethyl bromide
 and ethyl chloride.          Temperatures of water as ordinates.
 c= -0-0006335.
                 Mean of reduced ratios of       Mean values of -L . t for
                           *P.t.                                  dt
    Pressures.             dt                       OaH„Br a nd C2H„C1.
                Calculated.    Recalculated.    Calculated.     Recalculated.
                   ¦851            •8449             715              7101
          50                       •8364
         100       •849                             1364             1344
         150       ¦829            •8311            1919             1924
                   •823            •8271            2483             2495
         200                       •8211
         300       •8085                            3525             3581
                    ¦8045          •8166            4555             4622
         400                       •8130
         500       •8085                            5587             5616
                   •817            •8099            6647             6589
         600                       •8073
         700       •8085                            7580             7572
                    ¦8045          •8049            8463             8469
         800                       •8028
         900        •7955                           9407             9493
                    •798           •8008           10330            10370
        1000                       •7930
        1500        •793                           14721            14723
                    •790           ¦7871           18994            18946
        2000                       •7783
        3000        •7835                          27207            27035
                    •7015          •76i>0          41504            41733
        5000

 Mechanical Integration of the Product of two Functions.                 141
   7. Mercury and Water. From determinations of vapour-
pressures of mercury by Bamsay and Young *. If Regnault's
values are correct, the equation R' = R + c(<' — t) does not
hold good.       Values of -£-t for water taken as unity at
each pressure.          Temperatures       of    water       as ordinates.
c= -0-0004236.
                Seduced ratios of -f- . t.        -£ . t for Mercury.
    Pressure*.                    dt             dt
               Calculated.  Recalculated.    Calculated.     Recalculated.
     millim.
         10        •866         •8600             160              158-9
         50        •850         •8486            714               7132
        100        •833         •8429           1339              1355
        150        •843         •8393           1950              1943
        200        •835         •8366           2519              2523
        300        •834         •8326           3639              3631
        400        •827         •8296           4682              4696
        500        •827         •8272           5715              5714
        600        •829         ¦8252           6741              6714
        700        •824         •8234           7731              7723
        800        •829         •8218           8717              8647
        900        •814         •8204           9621              9701
       1000        ¦818         •8101          10595             10607
       1500        •811          ¦8139         15064             15112
       2000        •816          •8099         19633             19494
       3000        •804          •8040         27919            27928
       5000        •800          •7958         43562            43356
    8. Mercury and Carbon Bisulphide. Employing the values
 of -~ . t for mercury and carbon bisulphide, hoth recalculated
 from their ratios with those of water, these values bear an
almost constant ratio to each other at all pressures, or c = 0.
The calculated ratios vary only between 1*0547 and 1*0552.
  XIX. Mechanical Integration ofthe Product oftwo Functions.
     To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
 IN connection with my paper (Phil. Mag. August 1885) on
      the mechanical integration of the product of two functions,
 Professor Nanson, of the Melbourne University, has sent me
 the following suggestion by which the necessity for the special
 piece of mechanism there described is obviated.
           C"2
    Let I <f>(6)yjr(d)d6 be required; plot the two curves
   • The data for these determinations are to be found in the ' Journal
 of the Chemical Society,' January 1880.

 142    Mechanical Integration of the Product of two Functions.
then the area of the figure enclosed by these two curves and
 the straight lines 0=ai} 6=0? is
                               =2\''<i>(d)f(6)de.
    Hence all that is necessary for finding the value of the
integral is to measure the above area by means of a planimeter.
At first sight it might appear as if, in the practical application
of the above method, to analyze the arbitrary curve traced by
a piece of self-recording physical apparatus into its harmonic
constituents, the construction of the curves r = <f>(6)±yfr(^d)
with any accuracy would be very tedious ; but if it is remem
bered that in all cases the curves actually traced are traced
with Cartesian coordinates, it will be seen that to pass from
the curves y=$(x), y = yfr(x) to the above sum and difference-
curves is about as easy as to pass to the curves r=^>(0),
r = yfr(6).
   Wind the two curves y = <f>(x), y=yfr(x) on a circular
cylinder so that the axis of x is at right angles to the gene
rating lines, and arrange two pointers for following the curves
so that they are free to move parallel to the generating lines
and therefore to the axis of y ; attach them to the ends of a
string which passes over two fixed pulleys at the level of the
top of the cylinder and round a movable pulley, which, as the
pointers move, the cylinder remaining at rest, describes a
diameter of the top of the cylinder : to enable it to move
both backwards and forwards it must be provided with a
counterpoise or spring. If the length of the string is so ad
justed that, when the pointers are on the axis of j1, the movable
pulley is at the centre of the top of the cylinder, then the dis
tance r of the pulley from the centre will always be the mean
of the distances <j>(x) and ^(#) of the pointers from the axis
of x. As the cylinder is caused to rotate round its axis and
the pointers are kept on the two curves, a pencil attached
to the movable pulley will trace on a sheet of paper on the
top of the cylinder the curve r=^{<p(a0) + y^(aO)}, where a
is the radius of the cylinder.
   By drawing the reflection of the curve yfr(x) with respect to
the axis o( x and using it with <f>(x) in the above manner, the
curver=£{<£(a0)— i/r(a#)} can be obtained; or by replacing
the fixed pulleys with an obvious arrangement of strings and
axles and using the two original curves, the difference-curve

              On the Differential Equation of a Conic.            143
 can be traced.     Then
       I '<f>(x)f(x)dx = \",(j)(ae)yf,(ae)d(ae) = 2ax area
            between the two curves and the lines 0=*i, 9=at.
                                     I am, vours &c,
   Melbourne, December 11, 1885.            *WlLLlAM SUTHERLAND.
            XX. The Differential Equation of a Conic.
                     By Thomas Muir, LL.D.*
 1. rl"'HE differential equation of a conic,
           \dar) dx*       40 d? dP dxl + 4U \d?)          °'
 which Boole attributes to Monge, and to which Sylvester in
 this week's 'Nature' (vol. xxxiii. p. 224) so fully directs
 attention, can be very readily obtained as follows.
    2. Let the equation of the conic be
                a© + b0x + % + Cox3 + cixy + cgf = 0 ;
and let us denote the successive differential coefficients of y
with respect to x by yu y2, y3, .... Then taking the third,
 fourth, and fifth differential coefficients of both sides of the
equation, we have
      (2c2y + CiX + b1)y3 + (2ctyl + c1)3y3                = 0, .
       (2ciy + exx + b1)yi + (2c,yl + cv)iyl + 2ci.Zy\ =0, (
      (2cjy + cvx + b{)ys + (2^ + Cl)5y4 + 2c, . lOy^ = 0; i
whence at once, by elimination,
                      2/s  3y2
or
                   #,(40^-45^^ + %^) =0,
as was required. (Cf. Jordan's Cours d'Analyse, i. p. 53.)
   3. The method is perfectly general. To be seen at its best,
however, it requires that for y3, y3, yt)... we write 2!a, 3!#,
4!y, .... Thus, if the equation of any cubic be
do + b^x + biy + CgZ* + ctxy + cjy1 + d^x3 -f dlx'y + d^xy* + <%3 = 0,
                  * Communicated by the Author.

            144         On the Differential Equation of a Conic.
            we take the 4 th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th differential coeffi
            cients, and find
My + N/9+P« + Qa2                                                                =0 •
M8 + N7 + P/9+Q.2a/9                     + Ra2                                   = 0,
Me +NS + P-y+Q(2«y + /32)                + R.2«/3                                =0,
M£ + Ne + P8 + Q(2aS + 2/3y)             + R(2«7+y8»)           + S.3«'/8        =o,
MV + N? + Pe + Q(2ae + 2/8S + y2) + R(2«S + 2y87)                                =0
M 0 + Nt? + P? + Q(2af+ 2/9e + 2y8) + R(2ae + 2/9S + t2) + S(3a2S + 6*/3y + /8s) = 0; >
            where
                     M = bx + cxx + Ic^i + d,#* + 2rf,^ + 3djy2,
                     N= Cj + 2c2iy1 + 2^* + ^d2xyx + 2*% + §d$y\,
                     P=d1 + 2(/2y1 + 3rfay2,
                     Q = c3 + rf2.r + 3rf3y,
                     R=d» + 3dJy1,
                     S =d3;
            and where consequently, as it is most important to observe
            for the purpose of deducing any one equation from the pre
            ceding,
                     '/M=N,            ^=2P + 2Qya=2P + 4Q«,
                     dx                dx
                     dF    AT,         dQ            dR
                                             = R,        = 6Sa
                                       dx            dx
               Eliminating M, N, P, Q, R, S, we have the required differ
            ential equation
             7 (3 a a2
             S 7 /3 2«/3                 «2
             eSy    2«7 + /32            2«/3            a
                                                                            = 0.
             ?e S   2«8 + 2£y           2^ + ^
             V ? e  2«e + 2/9S + y2     2«8 + 2/9y
             0 17 ? 2«?+2/Se + 2yS       2a6 + 2/9S + 72 3a2o- + 6«£y + /9»
               4. The equation of the conic, written with like symbols, is
                                    /3    «
                                    7     /9   «2    =0.
                                    8    7     2«/9
               In both we note as part of the law of formation of the
            elements, that when one non-zero element of a column has

                  On Surface- resistance at Electrodes.                  145
 been obtained, the next is got from it by the nsual " rules of
 derivation " modified from those of Arbogast to suit the case
 where, as here, each differential coefficient is replaced by its
 appropriate submultiple.           ( Vid. De Morgan's ' Calculus/
 p. 330.)
    5. In the ' Proceedings of the Edinb. Math. Soc' 1884-85,
 pp. 95-100, Professor Chrystal has a note on "A Method for
 obtaining the Differential Equation of an Algebraical Curve."
 In the case of the cubic he gets for the non-zero side of the
 equation a determinant of the 6th order which he says can be
 simplified further. I find that when this simplification is
 made, and y2, j/3, . . . . are expressed in terms of a, y9, . . . , the
 result agrees perfectly with the above*.
   Bishopton, Glasgow, January 0, 1886.
 XXI. Relations of Surface-resistance at Electrodes to various
      Electrical Phenomena. By G. GoRE, LL.D., F.R.Sj
 IN some experiments described in a paper on " Evidence
        respecting the Reality of ' Transfer-resistanco ' in Elec
trolytic Cells," read before the Birmingham Philosophical
Society, January 21, 1886 %, I found that when a current of
voltaic electricity was passed from dilute nitric or sulphuric
acid, or strong nitric acid, into the surface of a thin platinum
bottle used as a cathode, the temperature of the bottle sud
denly rose, notwithstanding that certain amounts of- heat
must have been absorbed by the copious liberation of hydro
gen which occurred, and by that substance assuming the
gaseous state, each at the surface of the bottle ; and I further
found that this rise of temperature was not due to heat pro
duced by ordinary conduction-resistance of the bottle or of
the liquid, nor to resistance of any kind at the anode, and
that it was due to some influence other than that of chemical
change, at the surfaces of mutual contact of the liquid and
bottle ; and further, that it varied in quantity directly as the
amount of " resistance " to the passage of the current into
the surface of the bottle. I also found similar thermal effects
of " resistance " at the surface of the bottle, when the latter
was used as an anode.
   * The differential equation of the cubic appears to have been first given
by Mr. Samuel Roberts in the ' Educational Times.' The question and
solution are reprinted in 'Math, from Educ. Times,' x. pp. 47, 48. The
date of the first publication of the question, which unfortunately can in no
case be got with certainty from the Reprint, should probably be 1868.—
T. M. (January 18).
   + Communicated by the Author : read before the Birmingham Philo
sophical Society, January 21st, 1886.
   X See p. 13lfof the present Number.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 129. Feb. 1886.                    L

146     Dr. G. Gore on the Relations of Surface-resistance
   In a previous investigation on "transfer-resistance" (Proc.
Royal Boo. vol. xxxviii. p. 209) I also found " that a species
of electric resistance distinct from that of polarization and of
ordinary conduction-resistance, varying greatly in amount in
different cases, exists at the surfaces of mutual contact of
metals and liquids in electrolytic and voltaic cells. That this
resistance varies largely in amount with different metals in
the same solution, and with the same metal in different solu
tions," " and is usually small with easily corrodible metals
which form readily soluble salts, and large with those which
are not corroded ;" and " that the same voltaic current was
resisted in different degrees by every different metal when
employed as an anode, and when used as a cathode ;" " and
that the resistance at the anode was usually smaller than
that at the cathode;" and "that by rise of temperature
' transfer-resistance ' was usually and considerably reduced."
This " transfer-resistance " differs essentially from electric
potential, because it is incapable of producing a current.
   The present experiments were made for the purpose of
examining some relations of this " surface-resistance " to
various electrical phenomena. I call it " surface-resistance "
in the present case, because, in consequence of omission of
stirring, it includes other forms of resistance besides that of
" transfer " at the surfaces of mutual contact of the metals
and liquids employed.
   First.—In cases of thermoelectric currents produced by
heating the junction of a metal and electrolyte. We know
that when heat is applied to one of the two ends of a piece
of non-corrodible metal in contact with opposite parts of an
electrolyte, an electric current is usually produced, and we
infer from the principle of conservation of energy that when
such a current occurs heat is absorbed and disappears at or
near the heated junction, and is converted into and produces
the current.
   In order to determine whether the relative amounts of
" surface-resistance " at the junctions of such a thermo-couple
vary with temperature, and also whether the direction of
current produced by such a couple is influenced by the rela
tive total amounts of such " resistance " in the two directions
in the circuit, I made the following experiments :—
   The liquids employed were dilute sulphuric and nitric acids,
each being composed of one volume of strong acid and ten
volumes of water; and the electrodes were two perfectly
similar sheets of platinum, each having a total immersed area
of surface of about 24-0 sq. cm.
   The thermoelectric apparatus consisted of a vertical glass

         at Electrodes to various Electrical Phenomena.      147
tube, open at its upper end,
 190 cm. high, and 30 cm.
internal diameter (see sketch).
One of the platinum plates was
suspended vertically in the
upper end of the tube by
means of a platinum wire ;
and the other, welded to a
stont platinum wire, was sup
ported vertically in the lower
end by passing the wire
through a cork fixed in a hole
in a vulcanized indiarubber
bung which closed the end of
the tube. The two plates were
9-0 cm. apart. The glass tube
was nearly filled with the acid
liquid ; its upper end was sur
rounded by a water-bath, the
water in which was heated by
applying a flame to a projecting arm of the bath. The bulb
of a thermometer was immersed in the acid liquid near the
upper plate ; and the wires from the plates were attached to
a dead-beat D'Arsonval galvanometer. The liquids were not
stirred during the experiments.
   With the lower plate at 14° C, and the upper one at 05° C,
in the dilute nitric acid, a thermoelectric current of about
"00004 ampere was produced. At the same temperature, in
the dilute sulphuric acid, the strength of current produced
was about -00001 amp6re. The current flowed from the cold
plate through the liquid to the hot one in each case. As
platinum is a thermoelectro-positive substance, though in a
feeble degree, in metallic couples, these results indicate that
both these liquids were thermoelectro-positive, and much
more strongly so than platinum.
   The electromotive forces of these couples during a state
of balanced current were measured by means of a modified
form of PoggendorfFs method ; and the values found were as
follows :—With the plates at 14° and 95° C. in the dilute
nitric acid, -418 volt; in the dilute sulphuric acid, "282 volt;
and in a mixture of one volume of hydrochloric acid and ten
of water, "208 volt.
   The amounts of " surface-resistance " were also measured
by using a rheostat as a slide-wire bridge ; the same elec
trodes, with the same amounts of immersed surface, being
employed as were used in the thermoelectric experiments.
                                L 2

148     Dr. G. Gore on the Relations of Surface-resistance
The electrodes faced each other at about 5*0 cm. apart in the
respective liquids in a glass cup, the one which was positive
in the thermo-couple being used as the anode ; and the
strengths of current employed were the same as the thermo
electric ones, because I have found that an alteration of strength
of current affects the amount of •" transfer-resistance." One
terminal of a Thomson's reflect ing-galvanometer of 3040 ohms
resistance was connected with the slider ; and the other con
nected, first to the anode (or cathode), and then to a vertical
platinum wire (or idle electrode) immersed in the liquid close
to the anode (or cathode) but not touching it ; a balance being
obtained in each case by moving the slider.
   In the dilute nitric acid, with a current of "00004 ampere,
the amounts of " surface-resistance " were :—
                             At 14° C.           At 05° C.
     At the anode . . 49266 ohms.               531 ohms.
     At the cathode . 29784            „       494 „
   By a rise of temperature, therefore, of one of the pieces of
platinum of the thermoelectric couple 81 Centigrade degrees,
the amount of " surface-resistance " of that piece was reduced,
as a cathode or in the direction of the thermoelectric current,
98"34 per cent., and in the opposite direction, or as an anode,
98*92 per cent.; and the total "surface-resistance" in the
circuit was also reduced 37-05 per cent, in the direction of
that current, and 6 1 "65 per cent, in the opposite one.
   The results also show that the cold platinum offered 39'55
per cent., and the hot platinum 6-97 per cent., less amount
of " surface-resistance " as a cathode than as an anode ; also
that the total amount of such " resistance " in the two
directions in the circuit, when one of the junctions was heated
to 94° C, was 64"14 per cent, greater in the direction of the
thermoelectric current produced than in the opposite one.
   In the dilute sulphuric acid, with a current of "00001
ampere, the amounts of " surface-resistance " were :—
                            At 14° C.             At 95° C.
     At the anode . . . 63500 ohms.              3848 ohms.
     At the cathode . . 18350 „                  2152      „
   By a rise of temperature, therefore, of one of the pieces of
platinum of the thermoelectric couple 81 C. degrees, the
amount of " surface-resistance " of that piece was reduced in
the direction of the thermoelectric current, or as a cathode,
88"27 per cent., and in the opposite direction, or as an anode,
93"94 per cent.; and the total "surface-resistance" in the
circuit was also reduced 19"79 per cent, in the direction of
that current, and 72'88 per cent, in the opposite one.

        at Electrodes to various Electrical Phenomena.       149
   The results also show that the cold platinum had 71*10 per
cent, and the hot platinum 44"08 per cent, less amount of
" surface-resistance " as a cathode than as an anode ; also
that the total amount of such " resistance " in the two
directions in the circuit, when one of the junctions was heated
to 94" C, was 195"75 per cent, greater in the direction of
the thermoelectric current than in the opposite one.
   The results obtained with these two liquids show that
the amount of " surface-resistance " at each junction of such
thermoelectric couples varies very greatly with temperature ;
and that the amount of such " resistance " to the passage of
a current in either direction was more largely decreased by
rise of temperature with the dilute nitric than with the sul
phuric acid. I had previously found with thermoelectric
couples composed of metals and electrolytes, " that by rise of
temperature ' transfer-resistance ' was usually and considerably
reduced." (Proc. Roy. Soc, 1885, No. 236, p. 210.)
   The direction of thermoelectric current produced in each
of these two cases was the same as that indicated by the
relative amounts of" surface-resistance " in opposite directions
at the heated junction, but the reverse of that indicated by
the relative total amounts of such " resistance " in opposite
directions in the entire circuit.
   As in each of the two couples, the total amount of " surface-
resistance" in the circuit, when one of the junctions was
heated, was very much greater in the direction of the thermo
electric current produced than in the opposite one, I conclude
that the direction of that current was not chiefly determined
by the alteration of such " resistance " by rise of temperature.
The thermoelectric action and the " surface- resistance "
therefore appear to be largely distinct phenomena ; and as
both liquid and metal in those couples were thermoelectro-
positive substances, the direction of the current was probably
caused chiefly by the thermoelectro-positive potential of the
liquid increasing more rapidly than that of the metal by rise
of temperature. We may also infer that the strength of the
thermoelectric current in those couples was very largely
increased by the great diminution of " surface-resistance."
   In a paper on " Some Relations of Heat to Voltaic and
Thermoelectric Action of Metals in Electrolytes " (Proc.
Royal Soc. 1884, No. 233, pp. 251-290), I have shown by
numerous experiments that " when metals in electrolytes
were heated they were more frequently rendered electro
positive than negative, in the proportion of about 2"8 to 1*0 ;
the proportion in strong solutions was about 3*27 to 1."
   Second.—With regard to voltaic couples. As heat affects

150              On Surface-resistance at Electrodes.
largely the amount of " surface-resistance," and the strength
of current, in a thermoelectric couple composed of a metal
and an electrolyte, we may infer that it would also, chiefly
by altering that " resistance," affect the strength of current
in a voltaic cell.
   In order to experimentally examine this, the lower platinum
plate in the thermoelectric apparatus, already described, was
replaced by a rod of amalgamated zinc 8'0 mm. long and
2'0 mm. thick ; the upper platinum plate being retained in
its place. The tube was then filled with the cold mixture of
one volume of sulphuric acid and ten of water.        •
   With the entire apparatus and liquid at 14° C, the electro
motive force (determined by the above-named method) was
•704 volt, and the strength of current without additional
resistance in the circuit was -022 ampere.
   With the platinum plate and upper portion only of the
liquid at 95° C, and the zinc electrode and liquid around it
at 14° C, the electromotive force was -763 volt, and the
strength of current -0705 ampere.
   These results show that the electromotive force was in
creased about 8"38 per cent., and the strength of current 220
per cent., or to 3-2 times its original amount, by raising
the temperature of the platinum negative plate 81 0. degrees.
This increase of strength of current was about 24 per cent,
greater than when the lower plate was composed of platinum.
This great increase of current was, I consider, largely due to
decrease of " surface-resistance " at the negative plate, and
in some measure also to the increase of electromotive force
attending increased thermoelectro-positive potential of the
liquid ; also to several other manifest but minor circumstances,
such as diminished conduction-resistance of the liquid, &c.
   Third.—With regard to the thermoelectric phenomena of
metals. Some experiments were made to try and detect any
special degree of resistance at the junctions of ordinary
metallic thermoelectric couples, in the following manner :—
   The first couple consisted of a smooth horizontal bar of
bismuth, and one of antimony, soldered end to end ; each bar
being 2"0 cm. long, "7 cm. wide, and "5 cm. thick. Whilst a
current of "2 ampere was being passed from one end of the
bar to the other, the ends of two thin copper wires, about
1*0 cm. apart, forming the terminals of a Thomson's reflecting-
galvanometer of 3040 ohms resistance, were slid very slowly
at right angles to and in a horizontal direction, from one end
to the other, to and fro, along the upper surface of the couple ;
the direction of voltaic current being occasionally reversed.
Under these conditions, a small portion of the current passed

                      On the Numerics of the Elements.                      151
through the galvanometer. There was no sudden change in
the deflection of the needles at any time when the wires
crossed the junction of the two bars. A similar negative
result occurred when a thermo-couple formed of iron and
German-silver wires 1*5 mm. diameter was employed ; and
also when a pair composed of platinum wire and mercury-
was used.
     Had there existed a difference of resistance equal to "001
ohm at the junction in either case, it would probably have
been detected. I conclude, therefore, that if " surface-resis
tance " of any kind exists at the junctions of metallic thermo
electric couples, it must be exceedingly small in amount, and
that it does not sensibly affect the direction or strength of the
currents produced by them.
     Some attempts were made to ascertain whether the amount
of " transfer-resistance " at an electrode formed of a loop of
platinum wire was affected by passing a separate current of
electricity through it simply as a conductor, but the results
were not satisfactory.
     Several of the results of experiments described in this
paper agree with the conclusion that differences of " transfer-
resistance" are incapable of producing a current, and are
essentiallj' unlike differences of electric potential ; also, that
heat decreases " transfer-resistance " whilst increasing contact-
potential in metal-electrolyte thermoelectric couples.
        XXII. On the Numerics of the Elements.—Part II.
                 By Edmund J. Mills, D.Sc, F.R.S.*
   irerrtpaoSal rt to wav Kai tva tlvai ic6<rp.oV ytvvao-Oal t( airruv ix irvpbe
<cni TTtiXtu fK7rvpov<r0tu Kara Tivat 7Tfpt6bovs iva\\a£ tov avfLTTiiirra alava'
touto Si yivfuOat naff tipappivrfv.—IJlOG. LAEBT. ix. 8.
Contents.—Introduction.—New Data and Verifications.—Genesis of
    the Elements. —Scale of Celestial Temperature. —Variable Stars.—
    Classification of the Elements.—Polymers.—Periodicity.—Evenness.
   —Frequency.— Table of the Elements.
IN Part I.t I have shown that the Numerics of the Elements,
        so far as they have been accurately determined, may all
be expressed by the equation
                            y=/m_„(.Jl_),
          • Communicated by the Author.
          t For Part I. see Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xviii. p. 393 (1884).

152                   Dr. E. J. Mills on the
where n=15, p is the periodic or group number (t. e. 1, 2,
3, &c., as the case may be), and x is an ordinal integer. A
fair example of the accuracy of the theory occurs in Group II.,
for which the equation is
                       y=2x 15- 15(H)",
                         = 30     -15(-9375)1.
       Element.          i.             y.       V calculated,
          0 .     .      1           15-96          15-94
          F .     .      5           18-98          19-14
          Na      .     12           23-00          23-09
          Mg      .     15           24-28          24-30
          AT.     .    25            27-01          27-01
          Si .    .    32            28-20          28-10
    On examining the above numbers, it will be seen that the
 agreement between calculation and experiment is very striking.
 The first, third, fourth, and fifth numerics are certainly known
 to the first place of decimals ; and here the coincidence is
 closest: the second and sixth are not known so accurately;
 and here the coincidence is less close. Similar comments
 might be made on nearly all the sixteen groups.
    As the differences between consecutive values ofy diminish
 with the increase of x, the verification of the theory is neces
 sarily dependent in the main upon low values of x. In about
 46 cases the value of x is 20 or less, and the corresponding
 values of y (having been well determined) agree well with
 theory: but beyond the limit of x = 20, there are at least 15
 cases of good determinations which also exhibit a very satis
 factory agreement.
    The difference yi —ys in any group is equal to -88 ;
                    .yio-yu=*49; yao-y8i=-26.
 All these differences are greater than are found in ac
 curate determinations of numeric. Even the difference
 y^2— y43 = -06 is perfectly accessible to refined experiment.
 When, then, the theory agrees very closely with a long range
 of experimental numbers which might apparently have had
 any other values whatever, it may be regarded as having a
 reasonable foundation.
    The following corrections, partly based on new data, enable
 me to adduce additional evidence of the general correctness
 of the theory.

                    Numerics of the Elements.               153
   Lanthanum.—Cleve's result (confirming Brauner's) becomes
La= 137-58, if we take the calculated numerics 0 = 15*94,
S = 31*82. The third member of Group X. has the numeric
137-64.
    Cerium.—Brauner has most exhaustively confirmed Robin
son's long series of results. We may therefore take moan
experimental Ce as finally settled at 139-89. Hence Ce is
the sixth member of Group X., its calculated numeric being
139-82.
    Didymium.—According to Cleve, didymium free from
samarium has the numeric 141-70 (recalculated as for La).
It is accordingly the ninth member of Group X., for which
y= 141-61.
    [The above three numerics constitute an exact triad as
regards their order in this group, the values of x being 3, 6, 9
respectively.]
    Samarium.—Cleve's new result is (recalculated as previ
ously) !3m = 149-36. This agrees exactly with #=49 in
 Group X.
    Erbium.—The balance of evidence is, on the whole, favour
able to Er = 165, nearly. This is the value of y when x=0 '
in Group XII.
    Ytterbium.—The most trustworthy results, on recalculation,
make Yb= 172-22. The tenth member of Group XII. has
the numeric 172-13.
    Tantalum.—Mnrignac's best number is undoubtedly the
one which depends on the ratio 2K2S04 : Ta20s, because the
method of calculation necessarily diminishes the effect of
experimental errors. Putting K = 38-92, and otherwise re
 calculating as before, Ta= 181*84. The agreement with y3 (in
 Group XIII.) =181-82 is still closer than indicated in Part I.
    lliorinum.—Nilsson's experiments (1883) are perhaps more
 valuable than those of his predecessors. His mean numeric
 (also recalculated) is Th = 230-47. The seventh member of
 Group XVI. has the numeric 230-45.
     Uranium.—In Part I., U = 239-70, on the basis of Peligot's
 results. If the calculated values of C and 0 be taken, fj =
 239*64, corresponding to the fifty-ninth numeric (239*67)
 in Group XVI. A glance at the Table (infra) shows that
 position to be quite anomalous, and that the numeric has
 been much over-estimated.
    Scandium, Yttrium, and Platinum have been examined
 afresh. The numerics assigned to them in Part I. are con
 firmed.
     [Note.—I have observed that the earlier values of numerics
 are apt to be too high.]

154                    Dr. E. J. Mills on the
                    Genesis of the Elements.
   The equations in Part I. were obtained empirically by trial
amongst the numerics. The sixteen groups to which they
correspond represent the well-known phenomenon of perio
dicity, which probably accompanies all kinds of seriated
chemical change. But the nature of the operator x in the
expression
                         y-P"-"(^i)"
was not at that time discussed. I now propose to interpret
the equations, and therefore to account for the genesis of the
elements, on simple suppositions derived from the existing
phenomena of experimental chemistry.
    All investigators who have discussed the formation of
stellar or elementary matter agree that at one time it was in
an intensely heated condition ; and that it has arrived at its
present state by a process of cooling. The process of cooling
may be assumed to have been practically a free process,
C 1 ) liecause it could not have been affected by elements not
yet existing, and (2) because space may be regarded as in
finite and vacuous as regards nebular matter.
    Chemical substances in the process of cooling naturally
acquire an increase of density ; and if the increase of density
be measured as a function of time or temperature, we not
unfrequently observe that there are critical points, corre
sponding to the formation of new and well-defined substances.
Thus, by cooling or loss of heat, common phosphorus becomes
red phosphorus, the substance I furnishes I3, S4 yields Se,
and N02, N304 ; styrol is transformed into inetastyrol, alde
hyde into paraldehyde, cyanates into cyanurates, turpentine
into metaterebentbene ; &c, &c. At the critical points heat
is evolved in marked abundance, and the bodies then formed
are termed " polymers ;" the changes themselves admit, as a
rule, of reversal. If it were possible for us to cool down
chemical substances through a vast range of temperature,
there would, doubtless, be a much greater, number of critical
points, or points of multiple proportion, discovered than are
at present experimentally known to us.
   The process, then, of cooling the primitive matter may be
regarded, from a chemical point of view, as resulting in the
formation of a succession of polymers (1, 2, 3, . . ,)n,
n being the primitive density. But on account of the
evolution of heat when a polymer is formed, there will ensue,

                        Numerics of the Elements.                 155
as a physical consequence, the inversion of more or less of
the cooling, and therefore of the polymerization.
     The law of free cooling is known to us by the researches
of Dulong and Petit.* Its simplest expression is
                                  v—ma*,
where v is the number of Centigrade degrees lost per minute,
t is the temperature, m is a constant of condition, and
a = 1-0075 is a constant f uniformly the same for all matter.
The law of heating will of course be the inverse of this, and
take the form
                      v=m(lW5)'=w('"256)''
     Inasmuch, however, as we are now dealing with tempera
ture on some celestial scale, a modification will be required
 in the numerical value of the universal geometrical factor.
 This factor and m should be deducible from experiment. On
 the whole, if the numerics of the elements depend on poly
 merization, more or less inverted by heat necessarily developed
 at the critical points, they must correspond to the equation
                     y=(l,2, 3, . . .)n-ma*.
     The induction given in Part I. (where x is written for t)
 shows that this is actually and very exactly the case. The
 values of n and tn are the same (15); and there is a universal
 factor «="9375 for all elements within the common system.
 This system may be typically represented as
                  t/=(l, 2, 3,     .   . >-«(^i) •
 an equation which not improbably includes other systems of
 elementary bodies.
     Scale of Celestial Temperature.—The universal constant a
 of Dulong and Petit has an average value of 1'16143 for
 20° C, or v'l-16143 = 1-0075 for 1° C. Now tho reciprocal
 of -9375 is TOG ; which, when raised to the power 23173, is
 equal to 1-16143. Twenty Centigrade degrees, therefore,
 correspond to 2*3173 degrees on the celestial scale, one degree
 of which is, consequently, equal to 8o,6307 C. The equation
 y=— ]5("9375)' represents a rate of heating when the con
 ditions are supposed to be constant in the unit of time.
      Variable Stars.—When the process of polymerization above
    • Ann. Ch. Phys. vii. 2.52 (1817).
    t Dulong and Petit give 1-0077. The above value is calculated from
 all their determinations.

156                   (Dr. E. J. Mills on the
referred to takes place on a sufficiently large scale, there will
not only be cooling down attended by periodic evolution of
heat, but, if the heat be sufficiently intense, light will be
emitted, and the site of these operations will vary periodically
in brightness. Hence the star will have what is called a
" variable " character ; and a star of this kind may be regarded
as in the process of forming its elements. It is probable that
all stars are, or have been, " variable " stars.
                Classification of the Elements.
   An element may be defined as one of a list of comparatively
simple substances whose numerics are of the form
               y = (l, 2, 3       ) 15-15 (-9375)'.
   The position of any numeric in a classification will depend
upon the periodic, polymeric, or group number p=l, 2, 3 . .
. . . ., and upon t. I have calculated these positions for all
known numerics, and give them in the accompanying Table.
    The classification of the elements according to the genetic
method of the Table leads to some results of considerable
interest :—
    1. Polymers.—The only known polymers of the primitive
matter are As, Sb, probably Er, and perhaps Os. I have
placed these under < = 0 in a later, rather than under t= oc in
an earlier group, because they appear to me to belong natu
rally to the places assigned to them. Their respective numerics
are 74'92, 119-96, and 165 ; all obviously multiples of 15.
Zr, Ru, Sm, and Pt closely approach the positions of other
polymers.
    2. Periodicity.—The polymers whose numerics are multiples
of 15 are the first or prime indications of periodicity. Other
periodicity must be sought within the groups, as a function
of t ; or from group to group, as a function of p ; or as a
 function of p and t conjointly.
    Of periodicity within the group there is a beautiful instance
in Groups II. and IV. ; the numerics of 0, F, Na, Mg in the
 former group being exactly imitated, five divisions further to
 the right in the latter, by Ti, Cr, Mn, Fe. [It is difficult to
 resist the impression that Ni = 57*84 (< = 30), and that it cor
 responds to Al in the same imitation ; we can also see that,
 when Si or Co is exactly known, Co or Si will be fairly within
 our reach.]
    A similar example occurs in Groups I., II., III., VI., where
 the respective values of < = J0, 12, 14, 18 correspond to the
 analogous elements Li, Na, K, and Rb. Again, F, Na, Mg

                      Numerics of the Elements.              157
in II. are equidistantly imitated by CI, K, Ca, analogous
elements in Group III.
   Of periodicity with regard to p only, we have the interesting
set of instances :—
                   p = 3            6           y
                          CI       Br          i
                          K        Rb         Cs
                          S        So         Te
    Of diagonal periodicity (p + < = const.) several instances
may be observed by a glance at the table. Other periodic
relations may he worked out, or suggested, with the help of
this table.
    Evenness.—The physical relations of seriated carbon com
pounds are differently expressed according to evenness ; i. e.
according as the coefficient of C in their formula is even or
 odd. I have thought it worth while to examine the numerics
 of the elements with respect to the evenness of p and t. As
 regards the evenness of p, 42 numerics occur in evenly num
 bered groups, !ind only 26 in the odd groups ; here the even
 ness is significant. As regards the evenness of t, there are 32
 odd and 32 even occurrences, exclusive of 3 zero values ; here
nothing depends upon evenness.
    Frequency.—In addition to the remarks in the last paragraph
 it may be observed that 45 numerics have their positions in
 the first eight groups, the remaining 23 occurring in the last
 eight groups. Thus it is about two to one that a numeric
 will occur in an early and in an even group.
     It follows from the equations given in this memoir, that the
 number of the elements may be infinite. The genetic method
 of classification is the only one hitherto adduced that includes
 this possibility, and comprises, without exception, all known
 elements. But the number of experimental methods is not
 infinite ; and the history of past discovery has convinced me
 that few, if any, elements are now likely to be discovered,
 unless by a new method or by a new combination of existing
 methods.
     According to the Herakleitic seer, the All surceased and
the world is One ; it was born from fire and will again be
 burned up—period after period, in alternate phases, through
 all duration ; and this takes place in terms of a rigorous law.
 The fundamental view of this memoir has an antiquity of at
 least two thousand three hundred years.
    Glasgow, Jan. 13, 1886.

                               [  158   ]
             XXIII. Notices respecting New Books.
Theoretiselu Optik : gegriindet auf das Bessel-Sellmeiersche Princip.
   Von Dr. E. Kettelee, Professor an <ler Universitdt in Bonn.
   Large 8vo. (Pp. 652.) Viewig und Sohn : Braunschweig.
PBOFESSOK KETTELEE has done a useful service in thus
      issuing in a collected form the results of his numerous and
important optical papers which have appeared from time to time in
Wiedemann's Annalen, and in enabling the reader to grasp, as a
whole, the theory which he has put forward. The book treats of the
propagation of light in isotropic and crystalline media, of dispersion
and absorption, and of the conditions which are satisfied at the
surface of two separate media. The theory is based on the mutual
reaction between the aether and the particles of the transparent
medium through which the light is being propagated.
   Various suggestions as to the form of this reaction have been
made by Sellmeier, Helmholtz, Lommel, and Voigt, and the equa
tions of motion to which they lead may be summed up in the
forms
                           (PI
                                                                    (i)
                       m       =X'-F(W),
                          de
where m and ml are the densities of the aether and matter, £, £ their
displacements, X and X' the forces on the aether and matter, so
far as they do not depend on the mutual action between the two,
while F(£, £') expresses this action. The main difference in their
theories arises from variations in the form assigned to the function
F. Ketteler holds that it is impossible, with our present know
ledge, to determine with certainty the form of F, and endeavours
to eliminate it from the equations. This he does by considering the
system of sather and matter as a whole, and equating the increase
of kinetic energy of an element of volume to the work done on the
element by the action of the aether and matter external to it.
   This leads him to the equation
             m^-2m'^~C=«v3£+ 2Bm'(M'+B'<y^,                         (2)
C being a constant, and the symbol 2 being supposed to include
all the different kinds of matter elements possible. This expresses
what is called by Ketteler Selluieier's principle.
   But a second equation is required to solve the problem, and in
some of his earlier papers the author endeavoured to extiact this
out of the energy equation. In the book before us he realizes the
impossibility of this endeavour, and (p. 88) " combines with the
above a second, expressing the special form of action of the matter

                  Notices respecting New Books.                1 59
particles which can be no other than* the renowned fundamental
equation of Bcssel's theory of the pendulum " ! !
   This equation is
                    0g+£~(*+*£)                                  (3)
   These two equations form the basis of this new theory of Optics ;
and it is difficult to see that it obtains from them any firmer
support than the other theories which have been put forward do
from the special form of reaction assumed in each of them. In
fact, as Ketteler has shown himself, the theory is, except in one
point which seems hardly essential, identical in its results with
that which follows from supposing that
Helmholtz puts
                       E&O-jS'ff-O,
and Loin me 1
    The equations are integrated (on pages 98 and following) and
lead to a formula connecting the refractive index and the period
which has been verified by careful experiments by Ketteler, and is
undoubtedly an exceedingly close approximation to the truth.
   Ketteler's own equations (VII ) (p. 98), with his interpretation
of the constants, seem to contradict the third law of motion com
pletely, though a slight alteration in the meaning of the con
stants will remove this fatal difficulty.
   The foundations of the theory of double refraction appear to be
even less secure. The quantity denoted by B in equation (2) is
supposed to be a function of the direction—for a transparent
medium g;' vanishes. The displacements are shown not to be in
the wave-front, and while in the term v2£ the whole displacement
is introduced, in the other terms, it is only the component of the
displacement resolved in the wave-front with which we have to
deal. It is assumed that aether and matter-particles vibrate in
parallel directions, and from this it follows that C is a constant
independent of the direction. The complete equations are given
on p. 309.
    The surface conditions developed by Ketteler are not those
which hold between two elastic solids. His fundamental prin
ciples are given correctly on p. 130, but in applying (1), " the
 principle of continuity," he neglects the resolved part of the dis
placement normal to the iuterface, and hence avoids the dif
 ficulty of dealing with the pressural wave of Green's theory, which
 he considers (p. 275) has played " eine ominose Bolle" in theore
 tical optics.
                          * The italics are ours

1G0                     Geological Society: —
   He also attempts to show that his third principle, " the conserva
tion of energy," implies the continuity of the molpcular rotations
across the interface ; but in his proof of this (p. 148) he omits, in
calculating the stresses, the terms involving the dilatation. Now
though this vanishes, its coefficient in the expression for the stress
is infinite, and the product of the two, as Green showed, must be
retained.
   A chapter at the end of the theoretical part is devoted to the
Electromagnetic theory of Light, and there is some confusion between
the periodic changes in the ajther which constitute light, and those
to which electric and magnetic displacement are due. According to
Maxwell's theory, the electric displacement is normal to the plane
of polarization, the magnetic displacement is in that plane, and
both are in the wave-front; but Maxwell nowhere states that the
displacement which constitutes light coincides with the electric or
magnetic displacement, and either view is open to his supporters.
              XXIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 78.]
      December 16, 1885.—W. Carruthcrs, Esq., Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
 THE following communications were read :—
       1. " Old Sea-beaches at Teignmouth, Devon." By G. Wareing
 Ormerod, Esq., MA., F.G.S.
    The author stated that while old records show that no important
 changes have taken place in the level of the Teignmouth district
 during the historical period, the excavations made in recent drainage-
 operations in the present year showed the existence of at least two
 series of beaches. The oldest sea-beach, which is a few feet above
 the present sea-level, was partly washed away and then covered up
 by later deposits exhibiting evidence, in a number of delicate bivalve
 shells in an unbroken condition, of having been deposited in a calm
 sea.
    2. " On the Gabbros, Dolerites, and Basalts of Tertiary Age in
 Scotland and Ireland." By Prof. John W. Judd, F.B.S., Sec. G.S.
    In previous papers, published in 1874 and 1876, it has been
 demonstrated by the author that there exist in Scotland and in
 Hungary igneous rock-masses presenting the most perfectly crystal
 line characters and belonging to the Tertiary period. It was further
 shown that such highly crystalline, plutonic rocks are scon passing
 insensibly into volcanic rocks of the same chemical composition—
 gabbros into basalts, diorites and quartz-diorites into andesites, and
 quartz-andesites and granites into rhyolites—the lavas in turn gra
 duating into the perfectly vitreous types known as taehylytes and
 obsidians.
    The present paper deals with the basic rocks of "Western Scotland

  On the Gabbros, Dole-rites, and Basalts of Tertiary Age.          16 1
and Northern Ireland, which are shown to exhibit the most marked
analogies with rocks of the same age in the Faroe Isles and Iceland ;
these facts lend strong support to the doctrine of the existence of
petrographical provinces. The Tertiary age of the Scotch and Irish
rocks is placed beyond dispute by the fact that they overlie uncon-
formably the youngest members of the Cretaceous system, and are
interbedded with stratified deposits of Lower Tertiary age.
   With regard to the nomenclature of these rocks, the identification
of the more crystalline forms with the gabbros, which was made by
Zirkel and Von Lasaulx, is supported; while the use of the term
" dolerite " as a convenient one for the connecting links between the
gabbros and basalts is advocated.
   Of the original minerals contained in these rocks, plagioclase
felspar (ranging in composition from anorthite to labradorite),
augite, olivine, and magnetite are regarded as the essential ones ;
while enstatite, biotite, chromite, picotite, and titanoferrite are
among the most frequently occurring accessories. It is shown,
however, that these original minerals may belong to different
periods of consolidation. The Secondary minerals are very numerous,
including quartz, epidote, zoisite, hornblende, serpentine, and
zeolites, with many other crystallized and uncrystallized substances.
There are remarkable variations in the relative proportions of the
original minerals in different examples of the rock ; and by the com
plete disappearance of one or other of the constituents, the gabbros
are sometimes found passing into picrites, eucrites, or troctolltes.
    In their microscopic structure these rocks present many inter
esting features. From the highly crystalline gabbros there are
two lines of descent to the vitreous tachylytcs : one through the
ojjhitic dolerites and basalts, and the magma-basalts with skeleton-
crystals ; and the other through the granulitie dolerites and basalts,
and the magma-basalts with granular microliths. The former are
shown to result from the cooling down of molten masses which
•were in a state of perfect internal equilibrium ; while the latter
¦were formed when the mass was subject to movement and internal
strain.
    It is shown that in the most deeply seated of these rocks (gab
bros) the whole of the iron-oxides combino with silica ; but, as we
approach the surface, the quantity of these oxides separating as
magnetite increases, until it attains its maximum in the tachylytes.
In all the varieties the order of separation of the different minerals
is shown not to depend solely on chemical causes, but to be in
fluenced by the conditions under which the rocks have cooled down.
    Although these rocks are not highly altered ones, yet they afford
admirable opportunities of studying the incipient changes in their
constituent minerals. The nature of these changes is discussed,
and they are referred to the following causes :—(1) the corrosive
action of the surrounding magma on the crystals ; (2) the changes
produced by solvents acting under pressure in the deep-seated
masses (these have been already described under the name of
•' schilleri/ation ") 5 (3) the action of heated water and gas escaping
    PhiL Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 129. Feb. 1886.                M

162            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
at the surface ; (4) the action of atmospheric agents on the rocks
when exposed by denudation ; and (5) the changes induced by
pressure during the great movements to which rock-masses are
subjected.
          XXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,
A SIMPLE WAT OF EXPLAINING CLERK MAXWELL'S ELECTRO
     MAGNETIC THEORY OF LIGHT.            BY MISS J. M. CHAMBERS,
     B.SC*
 THE following is how I have supposed the " series of oppositely
        directed magnetizations and electromotive forces " of C.
 Maxwell's theory to arise. I do not in the smallest degree pretend
 to comprehend his mathematics, and it is only from his verbal ex
 planation that 1 have formed the following conception of what his
 meaning is.
     Suppose we have a straight linear conductor A B in which from
  some cause or another a quantity of electricity is continually
 bobbing up and down. "We know that the lines of magnetic force,
  arising from these alternate up and down currents, will be circles
  having the linear conductor for axis. Suppose we have a row of
  these conductors parallel to one another.
      When the magnetic force-lines cut the next conductor ha, an
  electromotive force of opposite sign to that in A B will be en
  gendered, in accordance with Lenz's law, and a current will ensue
   which will in its turn be surrounded by magnetic force-lines.
  When the current in A B is reversed, the induced one in ah will
  be so too.
      The action of a 6 on a' V will be the same as that of A B on a 4;
   and the same effects will be propagated along the whole line of
   molecules.     We have here the electromotive forces and the
   magnetic forces acting in directions perpendicular both to one
   another and to the direction of propagation, O X, as the theory
   requires.    Of course this explanation would be for a plane-
   polarized ray.
      It seems to me that this explanation presents to the non-mathe
   matical mind, in a tangible form and in accordance with well-known
   electrical phenomena, what may be the manner of production of
   the " series of oppositely directed magnetizations and electromotive
   forces."
      It is not necessary that the conductors should be linear ; we may
    suppose them globular and touching one another, without inter-
                       * Communicated by the Author.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            163
  fering with the idea of the action above explained. We may in
  fact suppose them merely portions of the sother.
     Perhaps it may be objected that my conductors are not circuits ;
  but a current which keeps passing backwards and forwards from
  a condenser acts in precisely the same manner as a true current
  (see art. 776 Maxwell &c.), and why not also without the con
  denser?
    Note.—Perhaps this idea is nothing new, and has occurred to
 others as well as to me. I have been told, however, that C. Maxwell
 himself would never precisely define the action by which he sup
 posed light and electromagnetic induction propagated.
 ON A NEW APPARATUS FOR MEASURING ELECTRIC CURRENTS.
                         BY M. DE LALANDE.
    The apparatus for measuring electrical currents based on the uso
 of magnetic needles or of permanent magnets are known to be
 largely influenced by the variations in the terrestrial magnetism, as
 well as by variations in the magnetic conditions of the magnets
themselves. The data furnished by instruments of this kind which
are provided with a fixed graduation in amperes or volts, can only
be guaranteed when their standard is verified at close intervals.
This is a serious inconvenience, especially for industrial applica
tion, for which these instruments have the great advantage of
 giving direct and continuous indications.
    The amperemeters and voltmeters which I have the honour to
 exhibit to the Academy have no permanent magnets in their con
struction, and therefore are free from the source of errors just
 mentioned. They depend on the actions exerted by a solenoid on
 a bundle of soft iron wires movable in the interior, and kept by an
 antagonistic force. They belong to the type of M. Becquerel's
electromagnetic balance, and like this instrument enable us, so to
 speak, to weigh the electrical action of currents.
    The apparatus, which might be called an electrical areometer,
consists of a bundle of soft iron wires placed inside a metal
areometer which is immersed in a glass cylinder full of water, and
round which is coiled the wire through which passes the current to
be measured. The original position of the areometer (regulated by
the level of the liquid, which is kept constant) is always the same ;
it will be seen that it will take a position of equilibrium by sinking
to a certain depth, which varies with the strength of different
currents which traverse the bobbin, but which is constant for the
same strength. The top of the stem of the areometer is flat, and
forms the index, which runs along a vertical scale graduated experi
mentally. An important peculiarity is the guiding of the stem of the
areometer, which passes through a metal eye in the interior of the
li<piid. This arrangement suppresses friction against the sides of
the cylinder and does not alter the sensitiveness of the instrument.
    By varying the dimensions of the bobbin, and those of the
bundle of soft iron wires or of the stem of the areometer, we can

  164           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 for a given strength obtain as great a displacement as desirable. In
 the models constructed by M. J. Carpentier, who has studied all the
 details with the greatest care, a displacement of about 10 centim.
 corresponds to a strength of 10 to 25 amperes according to the
 apparatus, or to a difference of potential of 100 volts.
    The coils of the amperemeters consist of one or two layers of very
 thick wires ; they need only have a resistance of 0-01 to 0-02 of an
 ohm, and thus the apparatus may without inconvenience be
 introduced into ordinary electric circuits. The coil of the volt
 meter is of fine wire, and offers a resistance of about 1700 ohms.
    The curves which represent the displacement of the areometer as
 a function of the intensity or of the electromotive force of the
 currents show a bend, in the vicinity of which they do not differ
 much from a straight line ; the variables have been determined in
 such a manner as to more particularly utilize this portion of the
 curve *.
    The apparatus is aperiodic ; it is not sensibly influenced by
 variations of temperature ; its indications are not altered by the
vicinity of masses of metal, or of even very powerful magnets ; its
 sensitiveness is very great. These various advantages will, we are
 sure, enable it to perform real services.— Comptes Hendus, Oct. 19,
 1885.
       ON A NEW SECONDARY ELEMENT.                 BY M. KALISCHEB.
    The element consists of iron and lead in a concentrated solution
 of lead nitrate. The iron acting as anode becomes passive, and when
the currents are not too strong it becomes coated with coherent
thick layers of black peroxide of lead, which protect the iron from
 contact with the liquid and from decomposition. The change
 is complete when there is a strong disengagement of gas at the
anode, and the solution gives only a slight precipitate with
sulphuric acid. In order to prevent a growth of the lead from the
kathode to the anode, amalgamated lead in contact with mercury
is used. In discharging, the peroxide becomes brown, and
ultimately changes into monoxide, to become again changed into
peroxide of dark black colour. The electromotive force rises to 2
or even 2-5 volte, and when the current is open it sinks to 1*8 volt.
When the elements have been discharged for some time, in which
the electromotive force has sunk to about 1-7 volt, it rises
gradually on opening to l-76 volt, as in the lead accumulators, and
the resistance decreases.
    From its solubility in nitric acid the lead kathode must be
occasionally replaced. Carbon can be used instead of iron.—
Be&latter der Physik, No. 7, 1885.
   * The apparatus might be modified in several ways according to the object
   oposed. I may mention especially the arrangement in which the solenoid and
pro]
the areometer are brought to a constant relative position. This is easily
effected by loading the areometer, or by displacing the coil. In this case the
law of the action is simpler, and the graduation of the apparatus is reduced to
knowing a single coefficient instead of determining a curve.

                             THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                             AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                     [FIFTH SERIES.]
                      M A RCII 1886.
XXVI. On the Theory of Explosions.              By Richard
   Threlfall, B.A., Assistant Demonstrator of Physics in the
   Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge*.
IN his papers on the action of Detonators, Sir Frederick
     Abel described some curious experiments, which he; strove
to account for by a hypothesis of " synchronous vibrations."
This hypothesis has been treated at considerable length by
Berthelot in his work Sur la Force des Matures Explosives ;
and although much light, both experimental and theoretical,
has been thrown on the matter by Vieille and Berthelot,
the explanations offered by the latter do not seem altogether
satisfactory. I have therefore been led to imagine that
perhaps something of interest might be gathered from a study
of the behaviour of the products of explosion, especially as
regards the manner in which they escape from the centre at
which the explosion takes place.
   Much might possibly be learned from a measurement of
the velocity of transmission of a shock to points at small
distances from the centre of explosion. This would be merely
a question of apparatus. Lord Rayleigh has suggested to me
the use of a sensitive flame and revolving mirror, which
would at all events give some idea of the sort of disturbance
experienced. But the best method of all seems to me to
begin by examining cases where the results of explosion can
be seen; and for this purpose I carried out the following
series of experiments during last autumn.
                 • Communicated, by the Author.
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.       N

166                    Mr. R. Threlfall on the
    A tank, measuring a yard each way, was constructed and
filled with windows of strong plate glass about a foot square
in each of two of its adjacent sides. This tank was filled
with water. It was at first intended to introduce small
charges of fulminate of mercury contained in glass bulbs of
£ inch in diameter, and capable of being fired electrically.
The bulbs were to be surrounded by water coloured bv some
dye-stuff, and the distribution of this after the explosion was
to be observed. However, this was soon found to be un
necessary, for the debris of explosion afforded sufficient
 guide. One observer (Mr. William Walker) was generally
 stationed at one of the windows ; I fired the charge by
 means of a contact-key in connection with a small coil, and
 looked in from the top, or side, as seemed most desirable.
 We soon found that the general effects were pretty regular
 in some ways, and irregular in others. When a small glass
 globe one half-inch in diameter had been rilled with pure
 fulminate of mercury shaken well down, but not pressed, the
 ends of a pair of insulated wires twisted together were passed
 in and pushed down to measurement till the points were as
 nearly as possible about the middle of the globe.            A
 little melted paraffin was run round the neck of the bulb to
 make it water-tight, and the whole was lowered by means of
 the wires to a constant depth of about 18 inches. At first
 we were astonished to find that the debris of explosion had
 the appearance of being shot down to the bottom; not in a
jet, but with exactly the rolling motion that smoke has in
 coming out of a chimney,—as if, in fact, there was vortex
 motion of some sort. I was anxious to try instantaneous
 illumination, but found I had not the apparatus to produce a
 bright enough spark. I shall hope, however, to be enabled
 to do this at some future time. Noticing the constancy of
 the downward action of the explosion, it occurred to me
 that it was produced bj' the want of symmetry introduced
 by the neck and wires of the cartridge. In order to test
 this I turned the next bulb on its side, and then the debris
 seemed to move with its peculiar rolling motion away from
 the neck. In fact, the appearance presented to the unaided
 eye was that of a more or less definite column of rolling
 white smoke shot out with great velocity, and coming to rest
 very rapidly when about five iuches from the centre, as if
 acted on by an irresistible force. I also made some ex
 periments by exploding a charge in the centre of a Florence
  oil-flask filled with red dye and immersed in the water. The
 dye was shot out with the debris, and the flash appeared to
 be suddenly stopped some two or three inches outside where

                      Theory of Explosions.                  167
the flask would have been if it had not disappeared. There
were so many sources of misinterpretation to be feared in this
method that I did not continue it, but noted the peculiar
rolling, and the dead-beat motion, of the dye as it was shot out.
   Unfortunately, just as I had reached the conclusion of
these observations, one of the windows gave way, and I
decided to board them both up, and take some observations
with an impact gauge or gauges, which I had meanwhile con
structed. Each gauge consisted of a short hollow cylinder of
brass, about 3 inches in diameter and an inch deep. One
end was made of stout brass, and the other had a sheet of
india-rubber stretched tambourine-fashion over it. A brass
tube, £ inch in diameter and 18 inches long, was fastened
into the cylinder in such a way that when the plane of the
india-rubber was vertical, the tube was also vertical. Into
this brass tube there projected and was cemented a tube of
glass projecting upwards about a meter, and having an
internal diameter of about -A in. Two such gauges were
made, and carefully fastened into, and backed by, wooden
supports, on which we>e carried the graduated scales by whose
aid any rise or fall of liquid in the glass tube could be mea
sured. These supports were then firmly fastened to the two
adjacent sides of the tank. The centres of the india-rubber
faces were as nearly as possible in the same horizontal plane,
and about 18 inches below water-level when the tank was
full. The gauges themselves were filled with water (coloured
with rosaniline) to such a point that the coloured liquid stood
about an inch above water-level when the tank was full.
 Precautions were of course taken to prevent any air being
entrapped in the gauges. The explosions were caused en
 tirely by fulminate of mercury enclosed in glass bulbs of
 about \ inch in diameter, and blown as carefully as I was
able. The covered wires projected their bare ends pretty
 accurately to the middle of the bulbs, and these latter were
 rendered water-tight by passing round the joints a little
 melted paraffin.
    A wooden rod laid across the top of the tank had an iron
rod projecting from it vertically downwards to a depth of
about 16 inches. The wires carrying the charge were tied to
this rod, and allowed to project beyond its end sufficiently far
to place the bulb in the horizontal plane of the centre of the
two gauges.
    By means of marks on the sides of the tank and of the
 wooden rod, the latter could easily be adjusted so as to place
 the bulb at a point equidistant from the two gauges. This
 distance was varied in different experiments by shifting the
                               N2

168                   Mr. R. Threlfall on the
gauges and the wooden bar supporting the charge. The
gauges were always equidistant from the explosion centre.
   A key placed in a convenient position enabled rne to fire
the charge whenever I desired, without distracting my atten
tion from the reading of one of the gauges. The other gauge
was read by Mr. Walker, who soon learned the way of it and
became an accurate observer. The results were at first sur
prising. It will be noticed that extreme precautions were
taken to make the distribution of effect about the vertical axis
through the point of ignition as symmetrical as possible.
In spite of these precautions I found that the gauges by no
 means kept pace with each other. First one would give a
large reading, and then tbe other. The average reading was
about 3 inches of coloured water. I finally traced this out
 to the almost unavoidable unevenness in the glass of the bulbs.
 A new set of bulbs were therefore blown of thinner glass, and
 carefully examined as to uniformity before being used. The
 readings now became more consistent, though not so much so
 as I should like to have seen them. While considering how
 to make certain of a more perfect symmetry, I discovered a
 peculiar action which finally caused me to abandon this form
 of gauge entirely, as 1 could not be sure about its theory. I
 had imagined that the energy of explosion would be trans
 mitted by the almost unstrained layer of thin india-rubber
 without appreciable loss to the interior of the gauge, and
 that the result of the impact would be a rise of the liquid in
 the tube, much as if the gauge had been struck on its face
 by a hammer. Now the tambourine-shaped end of the gauge
 and about (5 inches of the connecting-tube projected freely
 into the water below the wooden support, so that the dis
 tance from the back of the gauge to the side of the tank
 was about 4 inches.
    After several shots had been fired, I noticed that both the
 tubes of the gauges were bent towai-ds the centre of the ex
 plosion, not away from it. A wedge placed behind the tam
 bourine and between it and the side of the tank, and pressed
 tight in, increased this effect. How it came about, I was at
 a loss to discover ; but the result was that I decided I knew
 too little about the motion of the water to trust to the proper
 deformation of the india-rubber. The rapidity with which the
 coloured liquid rose and fell was also a drawback. The gauges
 were troublesome to set besides, so that I finally determined
 to make two new ones. In these I adopted a pendulum method.
 The two ends of a bit of brass tube, one inch in diameter
 and four inches long, were closed by caps. Through the
 centre of these caps 1 bored holes three eighths of an inch in
 diameter and immediately opposite one another. The tube

                    Theory of Explosions.                   169
was fastened horizontally to a wooden support, and a brass rod
moved piston-wise through the holes in the ends ; the rod was
about six inches long. Inside the tube was coiled a spiral
spring of hard-brass wire ; one end of the spring rested
against the inner surface of one of the caps, and the other
was pinned to the brass rod. The result was, that the rod
was always held by the spring in one position. One end of
the rod was furnished with a brass disk about three inches in
diameter, the other end abutted on the bob of a lever pendu
lum so suspended as always to press slightly on it. The
pendulum was supported by a small shaft passing through it
and through holes in two brass brackets. The distance from
the bob (which weighed about six ounces) to the fulcrum was
one inch, and the pendulum was extended upwards about 20
inches by a pointer of sheet zinc; the end of this pointer
moved over a paper scale. When properly supported in the
tank the ganges occupied much the same position as the ones
previously employed. The flat disks of the gauges were
placed so as to face towards the centre of explosion. These
gauges seemed to leave little to be desired either as to con
venience of reading or otherwise, and, both being exactly alike,
gave tolerably consistent readings.
   By firing some dozen charges, arranged as symmetrically
as possible, I managed to find out that the indications of the
gauges were proportional, in about the ratio of 1*3 to 1. I
did not require to be very accurate, because all I was looking
for was to find whether the streams of debris formerly observed
through the window were also streams of explosive effect.
   To decide this I made the explosion cartridges purposely
unsymmetrical, either by having the glass too thick on one
side, or by turning up the ends of the covered wires so that
they entered the bulb horizontally and facing one of the
gauges. The effects now became more puzzling, but on the
whole there can be no question that the gauge towards which
the bulb was turned suffered most. In fact the direction taken
by the streams of explosive energy appeared to coincide with
the directions of projection of debris, and with the direction
foretold from the initial conditions.
   The experiments were repeated at various distances and in
various manners with more or less compressed charges, and
with variations in the position of the firing-point. The pen
dulum readings were on the whole certainly proportional to
the direction of explosion as foretold from the initial condi
tions. Of course, in some few cases, there were unexpected
actions on the gauges ; but this was hardly avoidable, since I
had seen by the previous experiments how small a change in

170                  Mr. R. Threlfall on the
initial conditions could lead to great variations in the result.
The position of the firing-point was the least satisfactory part
of the experiments ; and it seems probable that when the
gauges did not go as they were expected to go, the change
of effect was to be traced to imperfect centering of the firing-
point; about 10 per cent, of experiments would decline to
travel on the paths laid out for them.
    Some considerable difficulty was experienced in making the
tank water-tight. Tbe continual sliock of explosion stended to
produce leaks, and for some time this was very tiresome.
 Mr. Walker, however, recollected that the introduction of a
little horse-manure into the tank was a method sometimes
employed for stopping leaks, and on trying it we found it
 succeeded in absolutely stopping each leak as it was caused
 within a very few minutes ; the fine particles having about
 the same density as water remain suspended for a long time
and get carried into the holes as soon as a leak appears.
    These experiments leave very little doubt in my own mind
 that thedirection in which the maximum explosive effect is trans
 mitted will, inagreat measure, depend on the initial arrangement
 of surrounding obstacles ; at all events, when the explosion is
 caused by fulminate of mercury and small charges are used.
    The shock of an explosion must be transmitted in one or
 more of three different ways :—
    I. By actual bodily motion of the products of explosion
 through the surrounding medium, either alone or becoming
 gradually more and more mixed up with the medium itself,
 which is thereby also set in motion.
    II. By an undulatory motion set up in the medium.
    III. By a vortex-ring motion.
    In the explosion of gunpowder, and other slow explosives,
 the energy is doubtless transmitted chiefly by I. and II.
    The distance to which a considerable quantity of the energy
 may be conveyed by means of waves of comparatively great
 amplitude is in some cases remarkably great. This is evi
 denced by the effects produced by the explosion of powder
 magazines. In the case of the fulminates of mercury and
silver, gun-cotton and nitro-glyeerine, that is explosives of the
 class examined under water, the effect falls off' very rapidly
 with the distance, and in water, at all events, is of a directed
 character.
    This would point to the third mode of transmission being
in these cases of some importance; and if we consider \\\g
 way in which the products of explosion escape, we shall find
 that the conditions for the production of vortex motion do in
fact exist. Let there be a sphere of fulminate of mercury

                     Theory of Explosions.                     171
 fired from its geometrical centre. Then by Vieille's experi
 ments (Comptes Rendus, 1882 and 1883) on the time of ex
 plosion, it seems likely that the outer portions of fulminate
 will bo decomposed before they are removed to any appreci
 able distance from their original positions. We shall there
 fore have a sudden expansion in all directions, caused by the
 increase in volume of the explosive substance during the
explosion. There seems no reason under perfectly symmetri
cal conditions why the expansion should not go on as it began,
until the cooling of the sphere of hot gases becomes so
marked as to prevent further expansion.
    If the conditions, however, are not such as to allow of
symmetrical expansion—as always occurs in practice—then
we shall have the bounding surface of the explosion-gases
more curved in some places than in others—that is, the strain
will be greater at some parts than at others, and in fact may
become so great at points of great curvature as to lead to
what I venture to call a state of " break-down." In other
words, the compressed gases will in this case escape, not by
gradual expansion but by jets, from points whose position is
fixed by the conditions of explosion. In these jets we should
have the necessary and sufficient conditions for the establish
ment of vortex motion. If vortex motion were set up, then
it seems likely that much greater effects might be transmitted
in some directions than in others, though at considerable
distances the effects would tend to become uniform in all
directions. This view of the actions of explosions will, I
think, enable us to explain several difficulties which I men
tioned as occurring in the interpretation of Abel's experiments.
These experiments are fully described by Abel in various papers
in the ' Philosophical Transactions,' and in the Annates de
 Chimie et de Physiqiie, vol. 1G5. They have been discussed
at some length by M. Berthelot in his work on Explosives,
and though much light has been thrown on many points, I
ventureto think that the complete elucidation of others is still to
be sought. Among these I would place the three following :—
   The want of correspondence between the explosive actions,
as measured by the effect produced on copper plates, and the
effects produced in causing other explosions. The apparent
capriciousness of explosions of the moro violent kinds ; and
the production of explosions by influence.
   "With respect to the explosion of gunpowder, M. Berthelot
has nothing new to add to the generally received theory that
it differs in nothing from ordinary combustion, except that it
is more rapid.
    The theory of detonation, however, is more fully treated,

172                   Mr. E. Threlfall on the
and is summed np by M. Berthelot somewhat as follows :—
The kinetic energy of the shock of the explosion (by the
detonator) is transformed into heat at the point struck ; the
temperature of this point is thus raised to the temperature of
explosion ; a new shock is produced which raises the tempera
ture of the neighbouring portions to the same degree; they
then explode and the action is thus propagated with an ever-
increasing velocity.
   Many experiments tend to show the justness of this view.
To begin with, Abel found that almost any variety of effect
could be obtained by burning explosives under diminished
pressure. For the lower the pressure the more easily do the
products of decomposition escape, and carry with them the
energy due to their liberation. By this means the tempera
ture of explosion is constantly kept down, and the chemical
 character of the products modified in such a way that they
correspond to the temperature. In other words, the com
pounds liberated are as a rule more complex than those which
 would be set free at a higher temperature, and therefore the
energy run down is less.
   Again, it will come to the same thing, so far as the propa
gation of an explosion is concerned, whether the products of
decomposition are facilitated in their escape by conducting
the experiment in a partial vacuum, or whether the decompo
sition is itself so slow that the products are enabled to escape
without marked hindrance under ordinary pressure. Now
the resistance of the air to the escape of the products of com
bustion will depend on the rate at which they are liberated.
And the shock given to neighbouring portions of the explo
 sive will be proportional to the pressure of the explosion
gases at these points ; and, therefore, ultimately to the re
sistance of the air, and hence to some function of the velocity
of decomposition. But, in order to convert an explosion by
combustion into an explosion by detonation, what is required
is, that the temperature of any point shall be raised suffi
ciently to determine its complete, as distinguished from its
incomplete, decomposition. The raising of the temperature
of any point, however, will depend on the violence of the
shock to which it is subjected ; and this, as before stated,
will be proportional to some function of the velocity of the
decomposition producing it If the necessary temperature is
anywhere attained, we shall have detonation thereafter; if
not, an explosion by combustion will result. It appears,
vnereiore, that in order to produce a detonation, we require
the initial velocity of decomposition to rise above a certain
minimum value ; that there is in fact a " critical velocity " of

                      Theory of Explosions. .                173
initial decomposition determining the kind of reaction which
ultimately takes place. If the temperature of the whole mass
be previously raised, then the "critical" velocity will be
come less. Berthelot considers that a specific change takes
place in the stability of an explosive as its temperature is
raised. This is doubtless true ; but if a minimum tempera
ture of any part be the necessary and sufficient condition for
the production of a detonation, then the ease with which it
can be obtained, when the mass starts with a high tempera
ture, will cwteris paribus be greater than if the original
temperature is low. If, therefore, we find that nitro-glyce-
rine is more liable to detonation the higher its initial tempe
rature, we shall not be required to make any assumption as
to " increased sensitiveness," since we see that the minimum
temperature will be more easily reached, and that therefore
the "critical" velocity of initial decomposition may be
smaller. In other words, supposing we try to detonato
nitro-glycerine by an explosive which just fails at ordinary
temperatures, we should expect its chances of success to in
crease as the temperature rises ; and this does in fact occur.
    The sensitiveness of an explosive to detonation will also, as
Berthelot points out, depend on its state 'of mechanical aggre
gation. The critical velocity required to produce detonation
will coeteris paribus depend on the nature and value of the
elastic constants of the explosive as well as of the medium in
which it is to be exploded. We should, in fact, expect a
change in the critical velocity of detonation if we exchanged
 the viscous resistance of liquid nitro-glycerine for the elastic
resistance of the same substance when frozen. Again, it
seems possible, as a result of this theory, that less powerful
detonation might be required to explode a given substance in
water than in air ; I am not, however, aware of any experi
ments on this point. And so in other cases, though the
critical velocity of detonation must necessarily be a very
complex function, and difficult to predict, I see no reason on
that account to minimise its importance. On the other hand,
 it seems to me to be in complete harmony with Abel's experi
 ments, and substantially embodies the view set forth by Dixon
 in his paper " On Conditions of Chemical Change in Gases,"
 Phil. Trans. 1884. As far as I know, there is not a single
 experiment which offers any evidence against it. What is
 required by the theory for the formation of a detonation is
 that a small part of the mass should be raised above a given
 temperature, and not that a large portion should be raised to
 a temperature below it.
     This leads at once to the consideration of the second point,

174                  Mr. R. Threlfall on the
viz. the action of detonators. The apparently anomalous
effects discovered by Abel may be summed up by taking the
most extreme case. Gun-cotton could be detonated by a
charge of fulminate of mercury, whereas ten times as much
nitro-glycerine was required to cause a similar sample of gun-
cotton to detonate. By firing the detonating charges on
copper plates, Abel naturally observed that the destruction
produced by the nitro-glycerine was much the greater, and
honce concluded that some other factor, besides the " explo
sive violence," must come into play. This is undoubtedly
true, but the mistake arises in looking at the experiments from
one point of view alone, viz. that of the copper plate. There
will be no effect produced on the plate at all till the resistance
of the air becomes greater than that of the plate ; and this will
never be the case, however great the volume of gas liberated,
unless the time of explosion is sufficiently short. The re
sistance of the air varies at least as the square of the velocity
of attack ; and therefore this will be the conditioning factor of
the destructive effect producible by explosions in free air.
 For a given increment of volume occurring in an explosion
till the time of explosion diminishes to a certain value de
pending on the strength of the plate, no effect will be ob
served ; directly this limit is passed, the destructive effects
 will depend, in the usual manner, on the quantity of energy
liberated. There is in fact a critical velocity of explosion,
below which the plate will not be attacked. But in a deto
nation the case is different. We do not requiro any great
destructive effects, we only require that the time should be
so short that a portion, no matter how small, of the substance
to be detonated shall be raised to the appropriate temperature.
If the detonator has a time of explosion too great, then,
although the air may be the stronger obstacle and the ex
plosive be destroyed, no detonation will be produced. This
is precisely what happened in Abel's experiments, where the
gun-cotton was blown to pieces by the nitro-glycerine. The
instantaneous rise of pressure is not so great for nitro-glyce
rine as for fulminate of mercury, though the energy run
down is much greater. This point has been satisfactorily
proved by Vieille in his experiments with the crusher-gauge.
Moreover the density of mercury fulminate is three times
that of nitro-glycerine, which allows a given mass to be on
tho whole much nearer its work if it consist of fulminate of
mercury than if it consists of nitro-glycerine.
   We ought not therefore to be surprised that the detonation
of gun-cotton is easily accomplished by fulminate of mer
cury, and hardly accomplished at all by nitro-glycerine. If

                     Theory of Explosions.                   175
there is any surprise, it would seem more fitting that it
should be exhibited at the detonation which large charges of
nitro-glycerine seem able to effect.
    This fact would tend to show merely that nitro-glycerine
has a velocity very near the critical point for gun-cotton, so
much so, that when large charges are employed the accele
ration in the explosion of the nitro-glycerine is sufficient to
pass the limit. We know from Dixon's work on gases that
at first the explosion gains in velocity till the steady velocity
of detonation is obtained ; and there seems no reason against,
but, on the other hand, every probability in favour of, the
same thing taking place in nitro-glycerine.
    Above and beyond this the difference in the mode of appli
cation of the two detonators must be taken into account. In
Abel's experiment the fulminate was enclosed in a tube of
 copper or tin plate, while the nitro-glycerine was merely
applied in a capsule whose diameter was large compared with
 its depth. The upper end of the fulminate tube was probably
 closed by the electric firing apparatus; and this, as was shown
 by the experiments in water, already described, together with
the fact that the fulminate was fired at the top, would give it
 an enormous advantage. For there is considerable proba
 bility that in explosions of high velocity in air, the final
 mode of " break-down " of the gas liberated is very depen
 dent on the initial conditions, just as I found it to be in
 water. The nitro-glycerine was deprived by Abel of these
 advantages ; and for these and the reasons above mentioned,
 though it was able to blow blocks of compressed gun-cotton into
 powder, and even to cause some of this powder to penetrate
 the hard wood of the support, it failed to cause detonation.
    The other apparently anomalous facts observed by Abel
 require further treatment, and most of all those explosions by
 influence which seem, at first sight, only explicable by some
theory such as that of synchronous vibrations suggested by
Abel himself.
          On the Hypothesis of Synchronous Vibrations.
    The difference in the behaviour of nitro-glycerine and
 fulminate of mercury regarded as detonators, led Abel to
 suggest that there might be some synchronism between the
vibrations caused in air or ether by the latter explosive, and
the natural period of vibration of a gun-cotton molecule. At
all events, the supposition is made that fulminate of mercury
when exploded can produce vibrations which are not pro
duced by explosions of nitro-glycerine ; and that the superior
detonating power of fulminate of mercury may be due to the

176                  Mr. R. Threlfall on the
presence of these vibrations. The first set of experiments
bearing on this point have been already discussed, with the
result that the hypothesis is perhaps unnecessary. There are,
however, a great number of other experiments, some of
which cannot be so easily explained. In one case an explo
sion was induced, in a charge of fulminate of silver placed at
the end of a tube, by the explosion of a similar charge at the
other end. This effect was not interfered with by placing
diaphragms across the tube ; but the state of the internal
surface of the tube seemed to exercise considerable influence.
Experiments were also made on the action of fulminate of
mercury on gun-cotton through tubes (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1874,
vol. xxii. p. 160). The great influence exerted on the deto
nating power by the smoothness or roughness of the walls of
the tube seems a strong argument against the supposed
synchronism having much to do with the effect in these
cases. On the other hand, it is just what we should expect if
there was a bodily motion of air down the tube, or even if, as
in the case where diaphragms were inserted, the motion was
transmitted from layer to layer without any great amount of
displacement in each individual particle. It seems possible
that some of the vortex motion caused by the " break-down "
might be transmitted through the tube, and that the dia
phragms merely served to change the portions of air of which
the rings were actually composed. I admit that this is not
very satisfactory ; but if the roughening of the internal sur
face of the tubes actually exerted the effect attributed to it,
wo are, I think, justified in supposing that the explosions were
not caused by the transmission of vibrations through the
material of the pipe itself. Again, vibrations, to be of any
effect in producing chemical change, must be comparable, as
to period, with the molecular vibrations. If such vibrations
are transmitted through ether, it is difficult to see where the
influence of chalking the inside of the tubes can come in,
and if through air, their wave-length would be too small (as
will be shown) to be likely to be much influenced by particles
of the size of chalk-dust.
   The similar experiments of Campion and Pellet (Comptes
Rendus, Ixxv.) are sufficiently explained by their statement that
they used iodide of nitrogen. Unless any one likes to suppose
that the period of a fiddle-string may be comparable with the
period of an iodide of nitrogen molecule, the further experi
ments of Campion and Pellet cannot be held to have much
bearing on the subject. One can only wonder that they
found a string that would vibrate slowly enough not to fire
their iodide. As to their experiments with mirrors, black

                     Theory of Explosiont.                  177
ened or otherwise, the results obtained might be anticipated
on almost any theory except that of " synchronous vibration."
For the vibrations supposed on this theory to be most active,
would be precisely those absorbable by lampblack. This
point has been investigated by Berthelot, in volume i. of the
Treatise, in a manner which leaves little doubt that he mis
understood Abel's theory. In order to show the importance
of vibrations in producing chemical change, Berthelot experi
mented on various chemicals by swinging them on tuning-
forks. No effect was produced, nor indeed was it to be
expected, unless the reagents were of such a nature that they
required intense shaking to keep them mixed. Berthelot also
experimented on ozone at much higher frequencies of vibra
tion by causing a tube filled with the gas, mixed with oxygen,
to be set into violent longitudinal vibration. No change in
the ordinary rate of decomposition of ozone was observed.
This is very interesting, but does not, as far as I can see,
touch Abel's theory. In order to disprove the theory, Ber
thelot ought to have made his tube vibrate till it got luminous,
and observed the effect on the ozone all the way up.
   There are many well-established cases of torpedoes ex
ploding one another by influence, and the same thing occurs
in firing dynamite shots in mines. The former alone possess
any interest for our present purpose. If the effects due to
fulminate of mercury when fired under water are in any way
similar to those which may be supposed to take place on the
detonation of large charges of gun-cotton, then, by the expe
riments described above, it would be likely that quite extra
ordinary effects might be propagated in some cases. There
ought, however, to be a capriciousness in the observed action
of torpedoes on one another ; but whether this has been
observed or not, I am unfortunately unable to state. How
ever, I will assume that it has not, and that here we have a
case where the effect is largely due to " synchronous vibra
tion."     We will therefore consider the ways in which
vibrations of sufficiently small period could be transmitted. I
assume that no vibrations can have any influence unless they
are of such a period as to be comparable with the natural
period of vibration of the molecules of the substance to be
  xploded.
   Let a body be gradually heated and its temperature mea
sured as soon as light comes from it having the same refran-
gibility as the line A in the solar spectrum. Let the
temperature be, say, of the order of 1500 Centigrade. Then
the molecules of the body will be vibrating in some way
comparable with the period of the A line ; that is, about
4x 1014 times per second.

178                   Mr. R. Threlfall on the
    Suppose gun-cotton could be heated red-hot without de
composition, then its molecular period Mould be of this order.
 We are quite unable to say how the period varies with the
temperature in solid bodies at low temperatures. But the
spectroscope shows that it does not change much at high
temperatures.
    The only possible way of obtaining an idea would be to
extend the spectroscopic investigation even further than it
has been done by Abney ; either photographically, or by
means of a thermopile. We will assume, however, that as the
bodies cool, their molecular vibrations, if altering at all as to
period, tend to become slower, as well as of smaller amplitude.
Let us consider the limiting condition of propagation of
waves of longitudinal displacement. There seems no reason
for supposing that the velocity of propagation would fall off
till we come to waves of wave-length comparable with mole
cular distances ; for instance, with the mean free path. Now
by experiments on diffusion it seems that the mean free path
in oxygen is of the order of 5'6 x 10-6 centimetres ; in sugar
solution it is 10~5 of this, or 5*6 x 10-11 centimetres ; while in
solids it is probably much less. The size of a molecule, how
ever, seems to be of the order 5*8 x 10-8 centim., so this will
give our superior limit in liquids and solids.
    Suppose that the smallest possible wave-length is the
diameter of a molecule, and that the velocity of propagation
is the same as that of sound, down to this limit. Then if V
be the velocity of propagation, or the number of vibrations
per second, and \ the wave-length in water, we have
                     V 1-4 x 10s rtJ ,„„
But it is unlikely that we could get a wave-length anything
like so small as this ; so lot us take as our limiting value the
wave-length equal to a thousand molecular diameters. This
gives us for the limiting frequency
                           re = 2"4xl09.
Comparing this with the n for the A line, which is 4 x 10u,
we see that it is about a million times too slow to produce auv
effect on molecules vibrating so as to emit red light. But
bodies at the ordinary temperature might possibly vibrate
slowly enough to be influenced directly, though this is
unlikely. I must confess to being rather surprised that
the numbers are as comparable as they seem to be. If we
perform the same operation for gases, putting \ = 1000 meau

                      Theory of Explosions.                 179
free paths, we get for oxygen n = 5 X 106. Here the discre
pancy is a thousand times as great ; so that if longitudinal
vibrations are to be considered as likely to produce any
effect, they will certainly be considerably more likely to do so
if transmitted through solids or liquids than through gases.
   We have still, however, got the ether to fall back on, and
there we are safe, for there is no reason why vibration of the
right period should not be transmitted through it.
   The experiments with tubes, however, seem to point exclu
sively to the air as the medium through which vibrations are
to be transmitted, and that may, I fancy, be fairly regarded
as unlikely. If the theory of synchronous vibration can be
disproved at all by experiment, then Abel has, at all events,
made the most telling experiment against it ; there may of
course be other experiments with which I am unacquainted,
though not for want of endeavour on my part to discover
them ; and these may point in the opposite direction. Still,
in the light of what has been published on the subject, there
is little doubt that our natural hesitation to accept a theory
of vibrations is justified by a consideration of the facts. On
the other hand, if we allow that vortex motion may exist, it
will account for some of the effects observed in the neighbour
hood of violent explosions. The most important effect to be
accounted for is the capriciousness of explosions. Instances
are so numerous that it is hardly worth while to dwell on
them in detail ; I happen, however, to have an account of
the famous explosion at Bremer Haven from an eye-witness,
and was especially struck by the way in which the bystanders
 seemed actually selected for injury, and that not always from
 flying debris. Such effects as these are difficult to account
 for, on any theory of uniform propagation of wave-motion.
 Again, any of the observed phenomena of propagation of
 explosion are as well explained by vortex propagation as by
 wave-motion. There is no reason why the two states of pro
 pagation should not exist together, varying in their relative
 importance according as the explosion is of long or short
 duration. In ordinary cases of detonation I imagine the
 shocks are given chiefly by the explosion-gases before any
 considerable break-down has taken place. In conclusion, I
 wish to say that, though I have given prominence to the
 vortex-ring method of propagation, I do not intend to offer
 it as necessarily the most important of the phenomena in all
 cases, but only to point out that in some circumstances,
 chiefly those which have been inadequately explained, a con
 sideration of its possible influence helps us to understand the
 facte.

                               [ 180 ]
XXVII. Hotes on the Calibration and Standardising of Mercu
   rial Thermometers. By Spencer Umfreville Pickering,
   M.A., Professor of Chemistry at Bedford College *.
HAVING had occasion to calibrate a considerable number
         of delicate mercurial thermometers, a short notice of
the general results, in their bearing on the accuracy attainable
in calibration, may not be without interest to those who may
have occasion to study this question.
   Although several slightly more accurate methods of cali
bration exist, Gay-Lussac's step-by-step method will no doubt
be the one generally employed, owing to its simplicity and
the comparative shortness of the calculations involved by it.
It is the method which is recommended in a Report made to
the British Association (1882) by a Committee, consisting of
Professors Balfour Stewart, Rticker, and Thorpe, appointed
for the purpose of investigating the several methods existing.
This method, which is the one which the author has in
variably adopted, will alone be referred to in the present
communication.
   The instruments calibrated were all made by Casella, and
were etched with arbitrary scales, each division in the first
six instruments mentioned being 1*2 millim., and in the
remaining two, 1 millim. The other details respecting their
construction are as follows :—
       Instrument.                    Weight of      Length
                         Range.     mercury in bulb. of scale.
                           °0.          grams.       centim.
          55080          10-25           13-6           47
          55081          10-25           135            47
          55083           1-16           143            46
          55084           0-27           143            45
          66117         -5-102                          62
          56916           5-21           15-4           50
          62839        x-(:r+3-3)        36-2           57
          63616        x-(jt+38)         305            60
The average length of the scales, being thus about 51 centim.,
is somewhat greater than that of the instrument studied by
the above-mentioned Committee, the length of which was
49 centim.
   On theso thermometers twenty-seven calibrations were
performed, sixteen with the aid of the calibrating instrument
devised by F. D. Brown (Phil. Mag. [5] xiv. p. 59), and the
remaining eleven with a lens only. In every case Gay-
                    * Communicated by the Author.

               Calibration of Mercurial Thermometers.                      181
 Lussac's method was used purely as a step-by-step method,
 and not as a principal-point one (see the Report referred to
 above).
    The following table contains the maximum difference ob
 served at any point when a pair of calibration-curves are
 compared :—
                                                               Variation
     Instrument.         With lens.              With             of the
                                             Brown's instr. two mean ciures.
                     i        millim.               millim.     millim.
        55080                               A and B=0 18
                 t¦    A and B=0 24
                       A and 0=0 40
                    ' A and  I) =0 29 •
        55081   \                        j.AandB=0-OiM)           0126
                  ! B and    0=0-35
                       B and D =018
                  ( 0 and
                       A and
                             D =021
                             B=018
                                        J
        65083          A and 0=0-27         A and B=0 19          0114
                       Band  0=012
        55084                               A and B=017
        66117          A and B=019          A and B =0096         0156
                  ( A and B=040
                       A and 0=0 23
        66916   - A      and D =0 20
                       Baud 0=0-44
                                          • AandB=0-19            0108
                       B and D=0-51
                       C and D=0 42 >
        62839                               A and 13 = 000
        63616                               AandB=011
                                 0-29                  0-14       0126
    It will be seen that when a lens only is employed the
average maximum divergence is 029 millim.*; while the
substitution of Brown's instrument for the lens reduces the
error to one half of this amount, 0*14 millim. This average
maximum difference corresponds very nearly indeed to that
observed by the Committee in the two Gay-Lussac's curves
which they obtained, the quantity there being 0-157 millim. t
   • Omitting calibration B of thermometer 66916, this average is
reduced to 0-252 millim.
   t This number is taken from the curves given in the Report (plate i.
fig. 1), and is somewhat higher than that given in the text (p. 16), where
it is stated that the " two curves nowhere differ by more than 0-12 millim.,
except at the point 135° ;" whereas it would appear, from a study of the
curves themselves, that there is a difference of 0-145 millim. at and near
123°, the difference at 135° amounting to 0-157 millim., as given above.
I have taken this maximum difference, inasmuch as the differences quoted
in the above table were measured in the same manner.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.                      0

182      Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on the Calibration
It would seem, therefore, that this must represent very nearly
the limits of accuracy of which the method is capable—a
limit which gives, for the maximum probable error of any
point in the mean curve deduced from two'such calibrations,
a quantity corresponding to about 0"08 millim. of the mercurial
column. It would, however, seem difficult to reduce this
error much further by increasing the number of calibrations
performed ; for the numbers given in the third column of the
table show that the mean curve deduced from those obtained
with a lens still differs from the mean deduced from those
with Brown's instrument by as much as 0*126 millim.
   A possible error of 0'08 millim. represents in the first three
and the fifth thermometers 0o,0029 C, while in the last two
it represents only 0°'0005 C.
   In their Report the Committee recommend a means of
separating for calibration- purposes a thread of mercury of
any required length, consisting in applying a very small
flame to the point at which the separation of the column
is desired. I find, however, that it is most undesirable to
apply such heat to a portion of the divided scale itself.
Some .alteration in the bore and in the nature of the glass
appears to be effected at the point heated ; in five or six
cases it was found that the thread of mercury when travelling
in one direction would not pass the point which had been thus
heated, whereas when travelling in the opposite direction it
rushed past it at an ungovernable rate. In one case a very
noticeable alteration in the size of the bore was observed to
have occurred at the heated part. One of Mr. Casella's
assistants, a man on whose powers of observation I can rely,
assures me that he can at once tell the point at which a fine
thermometer- tube has been heated in this manner, by means
of the peculiar jerky motion of the mercurial column when
passing it. All the tubes to which the present remarks apply
were very flat and fine in the bore, probably much more so than
in the instrument examined by the Committee, and this no
doubt accounts for their not having observed any injurious
effects produced by heating. Separation of a thread by means
of the so-called vacuum bubble is not possible in these very fine
tubes, so the flame method must be adopted, taking care,
however, that it be applied to a point either above or below
the graduated portion of the stem. Another, but less con
venient, method consists in passing some of the mercury into
the top chamber of the instrument, and distilling a certain
quantity of it back into the tube.
   Great difficulty is sometimes experienced in passing a short
thread of mercury past certain points in a very fine tube, even

           and Standardizing of Mercurial Thermometers.        183
  where no sudden alteration in the bore sufficient to affect the
  calibration-curve can be detected. It will often, though not
  always, be found that the obstacle may be passed by wrapping
 round thp tube a rag soaked in ether which is evaporating
 rapidly. This same method of cooling is of great service in
 helping the mercury to become detached from the bulb, when
 it is required to run it into the upper chamber of the in
 strument.
    The thermometers here mentioned were intended for calori-
 metric purposes, and therefore an accurate knowledge of the
 exact temperatures which they registered was not of so much
 importance as a knowledge of the value of any given interval
 on them, and that they should all be strictly concordant
 among themselves. Instead, therefore, of being standardized
 by a direct comparison with the natural standard 56117, they
 were all compared with 55084, which embraced the ranges of
 all of them, and which had previously been standardized by
 means of the natural standard itself. Inasmuch as the scale
 of 55084 was three and a half times as open as that of the
 natural standard, a proportionate gain in concordance of the
 instruments compared with it was in this manner obtained.
    The comparison was effected by suspending the two instru
 ments in a large bath of water which had been brought to the
 required temperature, the surrounding atmosphere being like
 wise heated as nearly as possible (within 0o-2 C.) to this same
 temperature. After thorough agitation of the water, the
 upper ends of the thermometers were tapped, and the height
 of the columns in each read by means of a lens ; immediately
 afterwards they were read again, reversing the order in which
 they were taken. After tapping them again, they were again
 read twice over as before : the water was then stirred, and a
 second series of four readings of each instrument obtained in
 the same way. The operation was repeated a second time; and
 thus the readings at the points of comparison consisted in
 reality of twelve separate readings of each instrument. The
 points of comparison were the highest and lowest available
 ones in the thermometer being standardized. During every
comparison the temperature of the bath was falling appreciably,
though very slightly.
    In the case of the two most delicate instruments, 62839 and
63616, three and two such comparisons were made respec
tively, using different portions of the standard 55084 for each,
t. e. at different temperatures ; this being effected by removing
by heat some of the mercury in the thermometers to be stan
dardized into the upper chamber. In the three comparisons
of 62839, the lowest point in the scale was thus made to
                                 02

184           Standardizing of Mercurial Thermometer*.
register about 7°-7, 12°-5, and 17°*7 C. respectively; and in
the two comparisons of 63616, 5°-5 and 17°- 3 C. These
repeated standardizations give tho means of ascertaining the
experimental error involved in the process.
    The results obtained were as follows :—
    With 62839, d(,p                                dt%
 A. An interval of 53 2811* = an interval of 4-5362 of 55084,
 B.      „        „       519524 =         „    „    4-4260 „ „
 0.      „        „       53-7366 =        „    „    4-5819 „ „
 From which was deduced,          that iho average value of 1 degree
 (i.e. 10 millim.) of 62839       is
                       A. . .      . 0°O6O1967C.
                       B. . .      . ()°06024H0r.
                       (.'. . .    . O0-0o03o6(; C.
    With 63616,           deR                      deg
 A. An interval of 55l059=an interval of 5 003!) of 55081,
 B.      „        „        53-1093=      „     „    4-8184 „ „
 From which, 1 degree of this thermometer represents
                       A. . . . 0°-0641605C.
                       B. . . . 0°-0()41059C.
     Now the extreme difference in these numbers in the case
 of the first instrument is 0°-0001099 C, while the average
 difference between any pair of observations is 0°"0000733 C.;
 in the case of the second instrument this difference is some
  what less, namely 0~"0000546 C. This latter number I take
  to represent more nearly the error which would be likely to
  bo obtained with any ordinary thermometer ; for, owing to
  tho large size of the bulb of No. 62839, the readings were
  subject to a source of error which was not thoroughly under
  stood and guarded against at the time when the comparisons
  were made.
     This difference of 0°-0000546 C. in the results would be
  caused by a total error in the readings of 55084 of 0*0043 deg.,
  or in those of 63616 of 0'056 deg., or by an error in those of
  both thermometers of 0'004 deg. each. As any such pair of
  comparisons involves four readings of each instrument, it
  follows that any temperature can be read with an error
  of 0*001 deg., or 0 01 millim. (remembering that each
  such reading is really the mean of twelve observations).
     • One of these arbitrary degrees, with thermometers 02839 and C3616
  measures 10 millim., with 55084 12 millim. All the numbers given here
  are fully corrected.

               Prof. 0. Reynolds on the Flow of Gases.                  185
 With delicate thermometers, such as those described, this
 qnantity is negligible (amounting to 0o-00006 C.*) ; it is of
 importance in the standard instrument only. The natural
 standard No. 56117 is nearly as long as such a thermometer
 can be made with due regard to convenience ; and the distance
 between the freezing- and boiling-points of water on it being
 480 millim., this error of O'Ol millim.t at each point of com
 parison represents 0°-()02 C. The value of the total scale of
 any very delicate thermometer can thus be determined in a
 single comparison with an error of + 0O-004 C. If the thor-
 ¦nometer is not very much more delicate than the standard
 itself, the error in reading it will become appreciable, and the
 probable error in the determination of the value of the dis
tance between its extreme points will be (,004h                      )° 0.,
 where x represents the ratio between the ranges of the standard
and the instrument compared with it.
                   XXVIII. On the Flow of Gases.
       By Professor Osborne Reynolds, LL.D., F.R.S.%
 1.    A MONGST the results of Mr. Wilde's experiments on
     -£*- the flow of gas, one, to which attention is particularly
called, is that when gas is flowing from a discharging vessel
through an orifice into a receiving vessel, the rate at which
the pressure falls in the discharging vessel is independent of
the pressure in the receiving vessel until this becomes greater
 than about five tenths the pressure in the discharging vessel.
 This fact is shown in tables iv. and v. in Mr. Wilde's paper :
thus, the fall of pressure from 135 lbs. (9 atmospheres) in the
discharging vessel is 5 lbs. in 7"5 seconds for pressures in the
 receiving vessel, ranging from one half-pound to nearly 5 or
 6 atmospheres.
    • With the majority of the instruments mentioned in the previous
 tables this 0-001 deg., or 001 millim., would correspond to 0°-0004 C.
 These differences include all errors due to imperfections in the cali
bration-corrections applied.
    t I shall show elsewhere that the average error of reading, as deduced
from a large number of calorimetric determinations, is +0'0ll millim. It
 will also he shown that the error at any point due to imperfections in
calibration and standardization amount to +0O14 millim.; but this had
been deduced from simultaneous observations on two different instruments,
 and by far the greater portion of this error I believe to be due to an im
perfection, hitherto uninvestigated, which renders concordance between
two such instruments throughout their scales impossible, unless, perhaps,
the height of the column of mercury iB the same in each.
    t Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Man
chester Literary and Philosophical Society, November 17, 1885.

 186                   Prof. Osborne Reynolds on
    With smaller pressures in the discharging vessel the times
 occupied by the pressure in falling a proportional distance
 are nearly the same until the pressure in the receiving vessel
 reaches about the same relative height.
    What the exact relation between the two pressures is when
 the change in rate of flow occurs is not determined in these
 experiments. For as the change comes on slowly, it is at first
 too small to be appreciable in such short intervals as 7-5 and
  8 seconds. But an examination of Mr. Wilde's table vi.
 shows that it lies between *5 and "53.
     This very remarkable fact, to which Mr. Wilde has recalled
 attention, excited considerable interest fifteen or twenty years
 ago. Graham does not appear to have noticed it, although
 on reference to Graham's experiments it appears that these
 also show it in the most conclusive manner (see table iv.,
 Phil. Trans. 1846, vol. iv. pp. 573-632; also Reprint, p. 106).
 These experiments also show that the change comes on -when
 the ratio of the pressures is between "483 and -531.
    R. D. Napier appears to have been the first to make the
discovery*. He found, by his own experiments on steam, that
the change came on when the ratio of pressures fell to -5
 (see Encyc. Brit. vol. xii. p. 481). Zenner, Fliegner, and Him
 have also investigated the subject.
    At the time when Graham wrote, a theory of gaseous
 motion did not exist. But after the discovery of the mecha
nical equivalent of heat and thermodynamics, a theor}' became
possible, and was given with apparent mathematical com
pleteness in 1856. This theory appeared to agree well with
experiments until the particular fact under discussion was dis
 covered. This fact, however, directly controverts the theory.
 For on applying the equations giving the rate of flow through
an orifice to such experiments as Mr. Wilde's, it appears that
 there is a marked disagreement between the calculated and
experimental results. The calculated results are even more
 remarkable than the experimental; for while the experiments
only show that diminishing tho pressure in the receiving
vessel below a certain limit does not increase the flow, the
equations show that by such diminution of pressure the flow
is actually reduced and eventually stopped altogether.
    In one important respect, however, the equations agree
   * The account of R. D. Napier's experiments is contained in letters in
the ' Engineer,' 1867, vol. xxiii. January 4 and 25. They were made with
steam generated in the boiler of a small screw-steamer and discharged
into an iron bucket, the results being calculated from the heat imparted
to a constant volume of water in the bucket in which the steam was
condensed.

                        the Flow of Gases.                     187
with the experiments. This is in the limit at which diminu
tion of pres8nre in the receiving vessel ceases to increase the
flow, which limit by the equations is reached when the pressure
in the receiving vessel is "527 of the pressure in the discharging
vessel.
   The equations referred to are based on the laws of thermo
dynamics, or the laws of Boyle, Charles, and that of the
mechanical equivalence of heat. They were investigated by
Thomson and Joule (see Proc. Roy. Soc, May 1856), and by
Prof. Julius Weisbach (see Civilingenieur, 1856); they were
given by Bankine (articles 637, 637a, Applied Mechanics),
and have since been adopted in all works on the theory of
motion of fluids.
   Although discussed by the various writers, the theory
appears to have stood the discussion without having revealed
the cause of its failure; indeed, Hirn, in a late work, has
described the theory as mathematically satisfactory.
   Having passed such an ordeal, it was certain that if there
were a fault, it would not be on the surface. But that by
diminishing the pressure on the receiving side of the orifice
the flow should be reduced and eventually stopped, is a con
clusion too contrary to common sense to be allowed to pass
when once it is realized ; even without the direct experimental
evidence in contradiction, and in consequence of Mr. Wilde's
experiments, the author was lead to reexamine the theory.
   2. On examining the equations, it appears that they con
tain one assumption which is not part of the laws of thermo-
d3'namics or of tho general theory of fluid motion. And
although commonly made and found to agree with experiments
in applying the laws of hydrodvnamics, it has no foundation
as generally true. To avoid this assumption, it is necessary
to perform for gases integrations of the fundamental equations
of fluid motion which have already been accomplished for
liquids. These integrations being effected, it appears that the
assumption above referred to h:is been the cause of the discre
pancy between the theoretical and experimental results, which
are brought into complete agreement, both as regards the law
of discharge and the actual quantity discharged. The inte
grations also show certain facte of general interest as regards
the motion of gases.
   When gas flows from a reservoir sufficiently large, and
initially (before flow commences) at the same pressure and
temperature, then, gas being a nonconductor of heat when
the flow is steady, a first integration of the equation of motion
 shows that the energy of equal elementary weights of the gas is
 constant. This energy is made up of two parts, the energy of

188                 Prof. Osborne Reynolds on
motion and the intrinsic energy. As the gas acquires energy
of motion, it loses intrinsic energy to exactly the same extent.
Hence we have an equation between the energy of motion,
t. e. the velocity of the gas, and its intrinsic energy. The
laws of thermodynamics afford relations between the pressure,
temperature, density, and intrinsic energy of the gas at any
point. Substituting in the equation of energy, we obtain
equations between the velocity and either pressure,temperature,
or density of the gas.
    The equation thus obtained between the velocity and pres
sure is that given by Thomson and Joule ; this equation holds
at all points in the vessel or the effluent stream. If, then,
the pressure at the orifice is known, as well as the pressure
well within the vessel where the gas has no energy of motion,
we have the velocity of gas at the orifice ; and obtaining the
density at the orifice from the thermodynamic relation between
density and pressure, we have the weight discharged per
second by multiplying the product of velocity with density by
the effective area of the orifice. This is Thomson and Joule's
equation for the flow through an orifice. And so far the
logic is perfect, and there are no assumptions but those
involved in the general theories of thermodynamics and of
fluid motion.
    But in order to apply this equation, it is necessary to know
the pressure at the orifice ; and here comes the assumption
that has been tacitly made : that the pressure at the orifice
is the pressure in the receiving vessel at a distance from the
orifice.
    3. The origin of this assumption is that it holds, when a
denser liquid like water flows into a light fluid like air, and
approximately when water flows into water.
    Taking no account of friction, the equations of hydrodyna
mics show that this is the only condition under which the
ideal liquid can flow steadily from a drowned orifice. But
they have not been hitherto integrated so far as to show whether
or not this would be the case with an elastic fluid.
    In the case of an elastic fluid, the difficulty of integration is
enhanced. But on examination it appears that there is an
important circumstance connected with the steady motion of
gases which does not exist in the case of liquid. This cir
cumstance, which may be inferred from integrations already
effected, determines the pressure at the orifice irrespective of
the pressure in the receiving vessel when this is below a
certain point.
   4. To understand this circumstance, it is necessary to con
sider a steady narrow stream of fluid in which the pressure
falls and the velocity increases continuously in one direction.

                        the Flow of Oases.                   189
   Since the stream is steady, equal weights of the fluid
 must pass each section in the same time ; or, if « be the
velocity, p the density, and A the area of the stream, the
joint product wpA is constant all along the stream, so that
                                  'ffp«'
where
        w
        —   is the mass of fluid which passes any section per
second.
   In the case of a liquid p is constant, so that the area of the
section of the stream is inversely proportional to the velocity,
and therefore the stream will continuously contract in sec
tion in the direction in which the velocity increases and the
pressure falls, as in fig. 1, also fi£. 2 a.
   In the case of a gas, however, p diminishes as the velocity
increases and the pressure falls : so that the area of the sec
tion will not be inversely proportional to u, but to ux p, and
will contract or increase according to whether u increases
faster or slower than p diminishes.
   As already described, the value of pu may be expressed in
terms of the pressure. Making this substitution, it appears
that pit increases from zero as p diminishes from a definite
value pi until p = '527pi; after this pu diminishes to zero as
p diminishes to zero. A varies inversely as pu, and there
fore diminishes from infinity as p diminishes from pi till
p = '527pl ; then A has a minimum value and increases to
infinity as p diminishes to zero, as in fig. 2.
   The equations contain the definite law of this variation,
which, for a particular fall of pressure, is shown in fig. 2 A.

  190                Prof. Osborne Reynolds on
    For the present argument it is sufficient to notice that
 A has a minimum value when y> = ,o27/»] ; since this fact
 determines the pressure at the orifice when the pressure in the
 receiving vessel is less than *527/>i,thut being the pressure in
 the discharging vessel.
   5. If, instead of an orifice in n thin plate, the fluid escaped
 through a pipe which gradually contracted to a nozle, then
it would follow at once, from what has been already said,-

                        the Flow of Gates.                  191
 that when pa was less than "527/?,, the narrowest portion of
 the stream would be at N, for since the stream converges to
 N the pressure above N can be nowhere less than •&27p1 ;
 and since emerging into the smaller surrounding pressure pa
 the stream would expand laterally, N would be the minimum
breadth of the stream, and hence the pressure at N would be
•527;>i. In a broad view we may in the same way look on
an orifice in the wall of a vessel as the neck of a stream.
But if we begin to look into the argument, it is not so clear,
on account of the curvature of the paths in which some of
the particles approach the orifice.
   Since the motion with which the fluid approaches the
orifice is steady, the whole stream, which is bounded all round
by the wall, may be considered to consist of a number of
elementary streams, each conveying the same quantity of
fluid. Each of these elementary streams is bounded by the
neighbouring streams, but as the boundaries do not change
their position they may be considered as fixed.
   The figure (4) shows approximately the arrangement of
such stream. But for the mathematical difficulty of inte
grating the equations of motion, the exact form of these

1 92                Prof. Osborne Reynolds on
streams might bo drawn. We should then be able to deter
mine exactly the necks of each of these streams. Without
complete integration, however, the process may be carried far
enough to show that the lines bounding the streams are con
tinuous curves which have for asymptotes on the discharging-
vessel side lines radiating from the middle of the orifice at
equal angles, and, further, that these lines all curve round the
nearest edge of the orifice, and that the curvature of the
streams diminishes as the distance of the stream from the
edge increases.
   These conclusions would be definitely deducible from the
theory of fluid motion could the integrations be effected, but
they are also obvious from the figure and easily verified
experimentally by drawing smoky air through a small orifice.
   From the foregoing conclusions it follows, that if a curve
be drawn from A to B, cutting all the streams at right angles,
the streams will all be converging at the points where this
line cuts them, hence the necks of the streams will be on the
outflow side of this curve. The exact position of these necks
is difficult to determine, but they must be nearly as shown in
the figure by cross lines. The sum of the areas of these
necks must be less than the area of the orifice, since,
where they are not in the straight line A B, the breadth
occupied on this line is greater than that of the neck. The
sum of the areas of the necks may be taken as the effective
area of the orifice ; and, since all the streams have the same
velocity at the neck, the ratio which this aggregate area bears
to the area of the orifice may be put equal to K, a coefficient
of contraction."
   If the pressure in the vessel on the outflow side of the
orifice is less than mb27pi, this is the lowest pressure possible
at the necks, as has already been pointed out, and on emerging
the streams will expand again, as shown in the figure, the
pressure falling and the velocity increasing, until the pressure
in the streams is equal to pa, when in all probability the motion
will become unsteady.
   If p3 is greater than •527/>1, the only possible form of
motion requires the pressure in the necks to be pt, at which
point the streams become parallel until they are broken up by
eddying into the surrounding fluid (fig. 5).
   6. There is another way of looking at the problem, which is
the first that presented itself to the author.
   Suppose a parallel stream flowing along a straight tube
with a velocity «, and take a for the velocity with which
sound would travel in the same gas at rest, the velocity with
which a wave of sound or any disturbance would move along

                       the. Flow of Gases.                 193
the tube in an opposite direction to the gas would be a — u.
  \
      \
                  \
                    \
                                 " 1      /
                                           /
                                                    /
                                                      /
                                                        /
                                      J /
                                    (fit
                 -       '
                      QJQJ
                     OcJ QJ
                             1        u
                                     Vobb
                   ddcJ v          VDbbb
      FIC.S.                   1
              cJddcJ d
If tben a = u, no disturbance could flow back along the tube
against the motion of the gas ; so that, however much the
pressure might be suddenly diminished at any point in the
tube, it would not affect the pressure at points on the side
from which the fluid is flowing. Thus, suppose the gas to
be steam and this to be suddenly condensed at one point of
the tube, the fall of pressure would move back against the
motion, increasing the motion till u = a, but not further ;
just as in the Bunsen's burner the flame cannot flow back
into the tube so long as the velocity of the explosive mixture
is greater than the velocity at which the flame travels in the
mixture.
   According to this view, the limit of flow through an orifice
should be the velocity of sound in gas in the condition as

 194                   Prof. Osborne Reynolds on
 regards pressure, density, and temperature of that in the
 orifice; and this is precisely what it is found to be on
 examining the equations.
    7. The following is the definite expression of the foregoing
 argument.
              jetic laws for gas are : p being pressure, p density,
       e adiabetic
 t absolute temperature, and 7 the ratio of specific heat,
                         T0~\pJ y ~ \p0f                         *• '
 The equation of motion, u being the velocity and x the direc
 tion of motion, is
                            du     dp
                         T~.C* +C                               <2)
   Substituting from equations (1),
        r»dp _ 7 />p t
       Jo P      y-l/>oT0'
¦•-=s/m^-m>                                                      <3>
         P£^l(E)T'i                                             (4)
   Hence along a steady stream, since W is constant, equation
(5) gives a relation that must hold between A and p.
                                                         dA
   Differentiating A with respect to p and making j— zero,
it appears
                        2p,5T=(7+l)pT                           (6)
or
                        Pi    \7+l/                             V '
   For air 7=1-408.
                        ^=-527
                    .-. Pi                                     V(8)J

                       the Flow of Gases.                  195
   It thus appears that as long as p falls, the section conti
nuously diminishes to a minimum value when p = 'b27pi, and
then increases again. Substituting this value of p in equa
tion (3),
              u=vQ(7jJTgggT]
                         + l)/W                            (9)
               V<S*)»                                     <*»
               =^/M©V(5)%,• ¦                        •  • <">
Hence by equation (6),
                           7gppT
                                                          (12)
                  "=V
which is the velocity of sound in the gas at the absolute
temperature t.
   It thus appears that the velocity of gas at the point of
minimum area of a stream along which the pressure falls con
tinuously is equal to the velocity of sound in the gas at that
point.
   8. From the equation of flow (5) it appears that for every
value of A other than its minimum value, there are two pos
sible values of the pressure which satisfy the equation, one
being greater Jind the other less than
                             •527/.,.
   It therefore appears that in a channel having two equal
minima values of section A and C, as in fig. 6, the flow from
A to B may take place in either of two ways when the velo
city is such that, the pressure at A and B is '527pu i. e. the
pressure may either be a maximum or a minimum at C. In
this respect gas differs entirely from a liquid, with which the
pressure can only be a maximum at C.

 196               Prof. Osborne Reynolds on
   9. For air through an orifice, since 7 = 1'408, when the
pressure in the receiving vessel is less than •527/>„ the nume
rical value of Un, the velocity in the neck of the orifice, is
               Un=997(feetpersec.)\/-;             .  .  .   (13)
and if the temperature is 57° F., as in Mr. Wilde's experi
ments,
               U„=1022                                       (14)
Reducing this in the ratio of the density at the neck to the
density in the discharging vessel,
               TJ^}                                          <»>
   We have the reduced velocity
              U^ = 650 (feet per sec.)                       (16)
   Therefore the discharge will be given in cubic inches per
second, KO being the effective area of the orifice, by
              PlQ = 12UsPnKO )
                  = 12x650KOJ                                V '
Or, since the actual area in square inches
              0= -000314 sq. inches,
              Q = 2*44K (cubic inches per sec). .     .  .   (18)
   10. In order to compare the experimental discharges with
those calculated, it is necessary to know, besides the size of
an orifice and the pressure and temperature of the discharging
vessel, the coefficient of contraction or the effective area of
the orifice. To obtain this from the equations requires that
the terms depending on viscosity should be introduced, which
renders the integration so far impossible. The only plan is
to obtain this coefficient by comparing the theoretical results
with the experimental. Such comparisons have been made
by Prof. Weisbach for air; and in the case of short cylin
drical orifices such as that used by Mr. Wilde (a cylindrical
hole through a plate having a radius equal to the thickness
of the plate), the value of K, the coefficient of contraction,
given by Weisbach (' The Steam Engine,' p. 324, Rankine)
is from *73 to "833. Whether these are the real coeffi
cients of contraction maj-, however, well be doubted, as it is
extremely difficult to determine the experimental quantities

                         the Flow of Gases.                 197
of gas discharged owing to the great effect of slight varia
tions of temperature on the relations between changes of
pressure and changes of temperature, such changes of tem
perature being almost necessarily incidental on changes of
pressure.
   11. In Mr. Wilde's experiments the pressure was allowed
to fall in the discharging vessel during the discharges ; this
would cause a corresponding fall of temperature, which
would again cause heat to flow from the metal vessel into the
gas within.
    It is difficult therefore to say what the change of tempe
rature was except in the extreme cases. With the experi
ments on the highest pressure, however, the times 7"5
seconds, and the greatest possible falls of temperature 5°"5,
were so smalLthat the communication of heat from the walls
 of the receiver would have been very slight ; and hence we
 might expect that the discharges, calculated on the assump
 tion of no communication of heat, would agree with the
 theoretical discharges multiplied by the real coefficient of
 contraction.      This would be shown by an agreement in
 the successive coefficients obtained from the experiments
 with the higher pressures. On the other hand, with the
 lowest pressures the times were so considerable, 170 seconds,
 and the greatest possible falls of temperature (assuming no
 conduction, 94°) so great, that the communication of heat
 would have been very great and, considering the compara
 tively small mass to be heated (only one thirteenth of what
 it is in the highest experiments), might maintain the tempe
  rature approximately constant after falling some considerable
 amount below the initial temperature. In these last experi
  ments, therefore, it would be expected that the discharge
  might be estimated as taking place at nearly constant
 temperature.
     The intermediate experiments would give intermediate
 results.
     According to this view, for the high pressures, since
                  H9-GT                                     ™
 and              ^=-71^,                                    (20)
                   Pi      Pi
 or putting V for the volume 573 cub. in. of the discharging
 vessel,
                   $-n|*                                     (2D
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.        P

198          Prof. 0. Reynolds on the Flow of Gases.
where t is the time.      Or, since tdp=b lbs.,
                 ~   '835                                             (22)
                      w
                      Pit
              ; the value of p\t Pit in the first six experin ex peri
we have :—
                                            V„
                p.          K.         Velocity           V„£?.
                                       at orifice.           P
               135 ...      825    •*.   1022       ...    650
               130 ...     -826    ...      j>              »
               125 ...     -835    ..*      ?)      ...     „
               120 ...     -820             ?j      ...     „
               115 ...     -810             >)              „
               110 ...     -790    ...      j>              „
   For the first three of these experiments K is nearly con
stant, showing that the conduction of heat could have but
slight if any effect, but the effect is decidedly apparent in the
next three.
   Proceeding now to the other extreme, and assuming that
the temperature, after undergoing some diminution, remains
constant, we have
                                dp_Q.
or, integrating,
                             ¦0**4,
                      log^-logjojnryloge;
from which, taking the last three experiments in Table 2,
                P.         K.           V„.             V„^.
                 4  ... -95     ...    1022      ... 650
                 3  ... '98     ...      ,,      ...      „
                 2  ... -89     ...      „       ...      „
   In these it appears that the values of K are approximating
to the value "825 ; but the great differences show that the
temperature effect is far from having become steady, and
are quite sufficient to explain the discrepancies in the "actual
values of K. There is thus no reason to doubt but that
•825 is about the real value of the coefficient of contraction
for the orifice, and that the experimental results are quanti
tatively in accordance with the theory.

          Effect of Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.                199
            Pipe No. 1.—Water (see fig. 2a, page 190).
                              vb=\A§
                            Pipe No. 2.—Gas.
                                     Air.
             VB = 2-413 (feet persecond)*/ *                      ,
                                                              461
            Vw =      997 ( feet per second)*/"^-
                                                             461"
  XXIX. On the Effect of Temperature on the Viscosity ofAir and
     Carbon Dioxide. By Silas W. Holman, Associate Professor
    of Physics in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology*.
                             [Plates I. & H.]
 THE investigation described in the present paper is a con
        tinuation of the work done on the same subject by the
 author in 1876t. The experimental portion of the work con
 sists of about 250 independent measurements of the viscosity
 of air and 140 of carbon dioxide (carbonic acid), besides some
 what extended incidental researches on thermometry. The
 temperature-ranges for air were from 0° to 124° C. ; for car
 bonic acid, from 0° to 225° C. The plan adopted at the outset
 was to make some study of the method and of the best form
 of apparatus; then to proceed to the study of several gases
 which have been already well investigated, either in regard to
 their viscosity or other properties, making measurements of
 the viscosity at temperature-intervals of about 20° from low
to high temperatures. But the laborious nature of the obser
vations, and the large amount of time demanded by the
observations and their reduction, have rendered the fulfilment
   * Communicated by the Author, being a slight abridgment of a paper
read before the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, May 18, 1885.
   t " On the Effect of Temperature on the Viscosity of Air," Proc. Amer.
Acad. Arts and Sci. xii. (1876) p. 41 ; Phil. Mag. iii. p. 81 (1877) ; Wied.
SeM. i. p. 222.
                                     P2

200         Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
of the plan impossible for one whose available time has been
fully occupied with laboratory instruction. It will be seen
that the last of the observations given were made in April
1880. Since that date it has been wholly inconsistent with
the author's duties and health to continue the work ; and the
incomplete results are now presented in the hope that, despite
their limited range, they may be a contribution of some per
manent value to the subject treated.
   The expenses of the investigation have been mainly defrayed
by an appropriation granted by the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences from the Rumford Fund for researches on
Light and Heat.
   The objects of the investigation were concisely stated in the
paper of 1876. The extension of the work was looked to for
the development of data, which not only should furnish another
experimental check on the deductions of the kinetic theory of
gases, but should provide material of sufficient precision (ap
proximating to that with which the coefficient of expansion
of gases is known) to serve as a part of that experimental
basis on which the complete theory of gases, and indeed of
molecular physics in general, must eventually rest. The cri
tical review of the method, given at p. 204, is intended to
furnish the material for the formation of a judgment as to
how far this object has been fulfilled in the case of the gases
investigated.
                         Apparatus.
   The apparatus used is shown in the schematic section given
by the accompanying diagram. It is in principle the same
as that used in the former measurements. The dried gas is
transpired successively through two glass capillaries of about
30 centim. in length, from a space containing the gas at a
measured pressure to another space from which the gas is
continuously exhausted as fast as it enters, and which is thus
maintained at a constant and measured pressure. The pres
sure of the gas in the intermediate space is also measured.
The capillaries are maintained at known or measured constant
temperatures, A B being usually packed in finely pounded
ice, and D C being in a jacketed double oil-bath, of which the
temperature is maintained nearly constant by regulating the
flame of the gas-burners, and is measured by the thermometer
with its bulb at D, the entrance to the capillary. Both inner
and outer oil-baths are continuously stirred by an agitator
moved to and fro through the troughs by a water motor with
connections, not shown in the sketch. This arrangement
maintained temperatures as high as 225° constant, within

             Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.         201
about 0o,5 in most measurements, and so nearly uniform
throughout the trough that no perceptible difference could be
found at various points along the capillary. A thermometer
at S in the outer bath served to adjust the lamps so that their
heating should bo such as to maintain a nearly constant, tem
perature. Automatic thermo-regulators wore tried, but were
found in general to be quite as much of a disadvantage as
benefit, and were abandoned.
   The details of the apparatus will be described, beginning
at the point where the gas enters. When air was used, the
laboratory air was drawn in through caustic potash to remove
the carbonic acid, and through concentrated sulphuric acid,
fused chloride of calcium, and anhydrous phosphoric acid
in the tubes II and /. When carbonic acid was used,
the gas was formed by the action of hydrochloric acid on
marble, purified by washing in water, dried, and freed
from hydrochloric acid by passing through tubes of pumice
coated with anhydrous copper sulphate. The gas was
then drawn through P into J by withdrawing the con
centrated sulphuric acid from J into K, as about to be
described, and was there held for use. When a measure
ment was in progress, the gas in J, being slowly and uni
formly displaced by the sulphuric acid returning from K,
passed into and through H and /, arranged as already de
scribed. The glass bottles J"and K held each about 10 litres,

202           Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
and one was filled with concentrated sulphuric acid. K was
placed about a metre above J. The two were connected by
two glass tubes, a and b, each containing a stopcock, and had
 other tubes arranged as shown in the sketch. To withdraw
the sulphuric acid from J into K, and to replace this by the
 C02, it was simply necessary to connect P to the gas-holder
or generator, to close e and /, to open c, to exhaust the air
from K by an aspirator, and, opening the cock in b, to allow
the H2S04 to be transferred to any desired extent. This being
accomplished, d and c were closed and the generator discon
nected. When a measurement is in progress, the COs passing
 at a uniform rate from J through H must be replaced by
 sulphuric acid from K through a. This flow is regulated by
a tangent-screw motion on the cock/, until the liquid drops or
runs into J at such a rate as to displace not only the necessary
amount of C02, but slightly more than this, the excess esca
ping slowly through c and a fine orifice at P. This arrange
ment maintains an almost constant pressure in J; and as the
pressure is thus always outward, there can be no inward leak
 age of air either during the measurements or at other times.
 The gas, after passing, always with this slight excess of pres
 sure within, through H, I, enters the glass bulbs gg ; and the
pressure px at entrance is measured by the barometric height
at the time plus the pressure indicated by the gauge at E,
read by the cathetometer. The bulbs gg were spherical enlarge
ments of about three centimetres in diameter of a glass tube of
about half a centimetre in diameter. The contents of these
bulbs would be transpired by the capillaries once in about fifteen
minutes. The tube gg and the capillary were connected into
one piece at A by melting them together, and a similar solid
connection was made at B to an exit-tube. The tubes CD
and h h were similar in all respects to A B and gg, the capil
laries being of very nearly the same length, and cut from the
same piece of tubing, which was one of those used in the
experiments of 1876. The tube connecting B to h h was
of about 3 millim. internal diameter and 50 centim. length,
and at its middle point contained a branch, which extended,
with one joint of the kind described, to the gauge E, which
in connection with the barometer served to measure pt.
The gas at exit from C passed about 50 centim. of 3 millim.
tubing to the point G, where a side branch led to the gauge F,
which gave the pressure p3. Passing by G, the gas moved
forward past iV~ to the aspirator 0* and then escaped. The
   * Kichard's jet-aspirator was used. See Amer. Jour. Sci. [8] viii.
   200 ; Chem. News, xxxiv. p. 141 ; Trans. Amer. Mining Ene. n. p. 492
81878).

               Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.            203
bottle L, of about 10 litres capacity, sometimes two bottles
each of that volume, connected beiween G and N, served to
reduce the rate of pressure-fluctuations arising from irregu
larities in the aspiration. At iVwas connected the pressure-
regulator, which I will describe in detail, as it is, so far as I
know, wholly new, and is available for many purposes.
    The aspirator under a given head of water can exhaust at a
definite rate, maintaining a certain exhaustion j if the head be
increased or lessened, the rate of exhaustion will be increased
or diminished, and thus if the leakage into the exhausted space,
as through the capillaries in this case, be sensibly constant,
the pressure in the exhausted space must diminish or increase.
It is often impracticable, as it was for me, to maintain a con
stant head of water, and some means is therefore necessary to
overcome this irregular action. The arrangement used was
that shown in the sketch. A large glass tube, M, open at
both ends, stands upright in an open mercury-trough of con
siderably larger dimensions. Into its top is inserted a rubber
stopper with two borings, through one of which passes one
arm of a T-joint, whose other two arms are connected respec
tively with the aspirator and the vessel to be exhausted.
Through the other boring passes a tube of 1 to 2 millim. dia
meter bent twice at right angles, and dipping into the mercury
in the trough. Suppose that the vessel to be exhausted is close
 (the apparatus covers cases ranging from this to a leakage of
about half the rate of exhaustion of which the pump is capable),
and the aspirator set in operation. As the exhaustion pro
 ceeds, the mercury rises equally in both large and small tubes
 until the mercury in the trough drops below the point of the
 latter ; whereupon, as soon as the excess of external pressure
 is sufficiently great to overcome the friction of the mercury,
 the column in the fine tube rises rapidly and flows over into
 the upper part of the large tube and upon the mercury surface
 in it. This overflow is of course immediately followed by an
 inrush of air through the open point, and a consequent sudden
 lowering of the mercury in the large tube with a correspond
 ing rise of level in the trough, which closes, or partly closes, D.
 This first sudden action is followed by several of lessening
 violence, and a steady condition is soon reached, in which
 there is a continuous inflow of air and small drops of mercury
 at the point, the proportion between the two depending upon
 the relation between the sizes of the tubes, the capacity of the
 aspirator, and the supply of gas from the vessel to be exhausted.
  If a fluctuation occurs in either the rate of the aspiration or
  the supply of gas to be exhausted, a greater or less proportion
 of air will be taken in, with a corresponding but very small

204          Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
change of the pressure within the apparatus. For the suc
cessful working of the apparatus, a proper proportioning of
parts to the work to be done is of course necessary, and this is
mainly to be accomplished by varying the size of the point to
which the fine tube is drawn out. The sensitiveness of the
apparatus may be increased by using a U-tube, instead of a
vertical straight tube with cistern, and allowing the fine tube
to extend into the open arm of this tube. A stricture at some
point of the U-tube reduces the too sudden fluctuations.
Various other modifications will readily suggest themselves to
persons using the apparatus. The regulator is of course of
service in other ways than merely rendering uniform the
action of the aspirator. It is possible to maintain with it a
constant exhaustion of any desired amount up to the full ex
haustion which the aspirator can produce when working under
the smallest head of wate» likely to occur ; and in the form of
 a U-tube, with various lengths of tube D E, to be inserted at
A and raised or lowered, it affords a very convenient means
 of varying the exhaustion at will.
                    Critique of the Method.
   The quantity deduced as the result of each experiment of
the present investigation is a ratio between the coefficients of
viscosity of a gas at two different measured temperatures. As
I have already shown", this ratio is expressible by the follow
ing equation,
                _V±_ BAi . Pi*-Pj . 1 + 3A< _
              y    Vo    E^Xj 'pi'-pf 1+at '
where
   i]t — coefficient of viscosity of the gas at t° C. ;
   Vo =        »       »         })       n        0° C. ;
   Es=   radius, and X^ = length, of second capillary at <° ;
   Ri=   radius, and Xi = length, of first capillary at 0° ;
   p, =  pressure of gas at entrance to first capillary ;
   pt =       „       „        exit from first capillary, which is
           the same as that at entrance to second ;
   p3 =  pressure at exit from second capillary ;
   t =   temperature of second capillary ;
   0°=       „      „      first        ,,
   A =   coefficient of linear expansion of the glass ;
   a =   mean coefficient of expansion of the gas between 0°
           and t°, and under the pressure p2.
                     * Phil. Mag,iii. p. 81 (1877).

              Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.              205
   Since the variation to be studied in the present investigation
is one of quite small amount, and is determined as the result
of a somewhat complex measurement, any systematic error of
even quite small magnitude might mask the quantity sought.
It is essential therefore to show how far such errors of sensible
magnitude have been avoided or eliminated. A discussion *
of the various possible sources of error, of their influence on
the final result, and of the probable magnitude of the error in
the measurements as actually performed, indicates that it is
quite unlikely that known sources could have introduced
accumulated errors into that result exceeding 05 per cent,
even at the highest temperatures, and the means from which
the equations are deduced are probably less than that amount
in error.
   The cathetometer and barometer used were carefully cor
rected for instrumental errors, and the temperatures are
properly corrected and reduced to the air-thermometer by
tables of errorsf determined by a comparison with the air-
thermometer. For the latter purpose the comparator and
air-thermometer employed by Prof. H. A. Rowland for the
same purpose in his investigation of the Mechanical Equiva
lent of Heat was used between the limits of 0° and 100° C.
The results of the comparison are given in full in his memoir
on that subjectf. The comparisons above 100° were made by
me in his laboratory in another comparator designed by Prof.
Rowland, and described in full in my paper just referred to.
   The advantages of the method arise from its simplicity and
directness. The only measurements of precision required are
the temperature of the second capillary, and of the lengths
of several mercury columns. No measurements of volume
are involved. The two capillaries through which identically
the same mass of gas is successively transpired, are as nearly
as possible alike, and under the same conditions except as to
temperature. The gas is transpired through each under
nearly the same pressure-difference, and at a pressure not far
from one atmosphere. The flow of the gas is perfectly uni
form, except for slight accidental fluctuations, throughout the
whole of a measurement or set of measurements, tending thus
to the elimination of a class of errors possible in such methods
as that of oscillating plates, or of transpiration when the
driving-pressure falls from a given initial to a less final
amount. The disturbing effect of eddies, or other special
   • Holman, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci. xxi. pp. 26-44 (1885).
   t Holman, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci. xxi. pp. 40, 41 (1885).
   \ Rowland, ibid. xv. 117 (June 1879).

206          Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
action, at the entrance to or exit from the tube, would be in
part eliminated in this method, since the measurements give
the ratios of the resistance in two tubes under constant and
nearly identical conditions. No complete discussion of these
effects has been yet given, and their experimental elimination
certainly seems more easy than their mathematical treatment.
It seems quite possible that they are still sensible sources of
deviation from the assumed law of transpiration ; but as the
magnitude of the disturbance is small, and cannot be widely
different in the two tubes used in this apparatus, and since
the determination of the constants of the tubes dependent on
their diameters, lengths, &c. are experimentally made by the
same process and under conditions identical with those of the
subsequent work, the resulting error must be small. It should
be noted also, that the debated question as to the slip of the
gas over the inner surface of the glass tube has an influence
in my results only to the extent by which this slip is affected
by the temperature.
   The freedom of the method from constant error is indicated
by the close accordance of the results on dry air as obtained
by the first, fourth, and fifth series. The first series was
made with an apparatus * totally different from that afterwards
used in all details of disposition of parts and of instruments
used, except that the tube No. I. of that series was the same that
was afterwards cut into three pieces, of which two nearly
equal ones served as the capillaries in the fourth and fifth
series. Observations with other tubes in the preliminary
measurements, however, checked satisfactorily with these.
The instruments and arrangements for measuring the pres
sures in the fourth series were wholly different from those
used in the fifth series. The results at 100° for the three
series are given in the following Table, in which the two
last values are taken from the equation deduced for the
respective series :—
               Series.                              d.
                I               1-270           -0-0017
               IV               1-2672          -0-0046
                V               1-2717            0
              * See Phil. Mag. for February 1877, p. 84.

               Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.         207
                  Procedure in Measurements.
    The first operation is thoroughly to dry the apparatus and
fill it with pure dry gas. This was accomplished by repeated
exhaustion and refilling of all necessary parts of the tubing,
gauges, &c., none but thoroughly dry gas being admitted.
This operation was repeated on each separate day of measure
ment, so that any error from slight leakage or diffusion of
either air or moisture should be avoided. On the first intro
duction of the dry air or carbonic acid, the further precaution
was taken to run the apparatus under quite high exhaustion
for many hours consecutively ; and in all cases, on each day
of measurement, the apparatus was run for an hour or more
before any readings were taken.
    The procedure in measurement was as follows :—The aspi
rator was set in operation, J being full of the gas. The
generator and purifiers were connected at P, and the cock c
opened,/ remaining closed, so that the supply of gas came
from the generator ; the temperature of D C was regulated,
the stirrer being in continuous operation ; the ice-bath was
placed round AB, the regulator at Nadjusted, and the trans
piration allowed to proceed until the gauges E and F were
nearly stationary. Then c was closed, and /opened and ad
justed so that the reading of R slowly increased, whereupon
c was again opened for the slow escape of the gas and the
maintenance of a constant initial pressure pv The transpi
ration was allowed to proceed until E, F, and R were suffi
 ciently near stationary, when readings of the mercury columns
by the cathetometer ¦ and of the thermometers were taken
systematically. After a complete set of readings had been
thus obtained, the apparatus was thoroughly inspected and a
 second set made ; and so on until the number was deemed
 sufficient, whereupon the temperature of D C was changed or
 the pressure modified as desired. The results thus obtained
 furnished, on reduction, the values of px, p2, p3, and t for the
 computation of the ratio of the coefficient of viscosity at the
 higher temperature to that at0° C; the further requirements
                       R 4\
 being the constants *4 * =K for the tubes, Rx and \f Rj and
 Xj being the radius and length respectively of the tubes A B
 and C 3, as shown at page 209. This value of K was found
 from measurements similar in all respects to those just
 described, except that the tubes AB and CD were both
 surrounded with ice at the same time.
    The apparatus was also arranged to place D C in steam.
 "When left at night for subsequent use, an outward pressure
 was created in all parts of the apparatus.

208              Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
                        Experimental Results.
   The results will be here given as they were for convenience
classified during the progress of the work, viz. with dry air in
five series, with carbonic acid in two series. The method of
reduction of the results is given at page 204, and in iny first
paper.
                                     Air.
   First Series.—This consists of the twenty-one measurements
made in 1876, as given at page 49 of the article referred to *,
and gives as a mean result of the ten measurements of —, as
shown in Table I. below, the value y= — = 1"234, with an
average deviation + of 0*044, or about 4 per cent. A glance
at the page referred to will show, however, that of these ten
measurements but six were at the temperatures of 0° and 100°
respectively. These six, as shown in Table II., give the mean
                           ^ioo =1-270+ a.d. 0-005 ;
                            Vo
and this mean I shall use in comparing this series with the
later ones, omitting those results obtained at temperatures
between 0° and 100°, because the want of certainty in the
temperature-measurements would render the labour of the
necessary computations fruitless.
                Table I.                               Table II.
        No.        Si.      d.                 No.        5i.     d.
                   la                                     it
          2 ...   1-083   -•151                 11 ...   1-272
          7 ...   1-212   -•022
                          -•028                 12 ...   1-267  +
                                                                1
          8 ...   1-206
          9 ...   1-215   -•019                 13 ...   1-271
         11 ...   1-272   +•038
                          +•033                 14 ...   1-273.
         12 ...   1-267
         13 ...   1-271   +•037                 18 ...   1-277
         14 ...   1-273   + 039                 21 ...
                  1-277   +•043                          1-259
         18 ...
         21 ...   1-259   -1--025
                                             :           1-270   0-005
                  1-234    0-044
    Second Series. April 1878.—In making a study of the best
 forms of apparatus, a careful trial was given to capillaries in
   * Phil. Mag. iii. p. 85 (1877).
   t Let av a2, a3, ... an be a series of measurements of the same quantity,
and let m be their arithmetical mean; then a1—m=dv aa — m=d.,
a3 — m=d3, &c. will be the deviation of these measurements from their
mean, and 1~l" *+ a"*--""1" " will be the average deviation if, in the
                        n
summation of the numerator, the values of du d„ &c. be taken arithme
tically, without regard to algebraic sign.

              Temperature on the Viscosity of Air.           209
the form of a helix, as these facilitate the maintenance of con
stant and uniform temperatures of the bath, and render the
use of longer and larger tubes possible. The coils were suc
cessfully made by winding the tubing, as it was drawn from
the tube of the glass-worker, upon a wooden drum. The
second series was made with a pair of such coils, and
consisted of only eight measurements. The results in the
measurements of K were so wholly discordant that they were
at once rejected.
    Third Series.—A second pair of smaller coils was mounted
in a manner similar to that just described, and with the same
feneral results, showing the coils to be utterly useless ; pro-
  ably, as was to be anticipated, because of changing curvature
of the coils owing to expansion or change of position. Several
straight capillaries were also studied, varying in size and in
the form of tube employed for heating the gas. These expe
riments covered the whole 126 measurements of this series,
and resulted in the selection of the form and size given in the
general description of the apparatus at page 200. No systematic
 study was made, however, of the effects of the proportions of
 the tube on the law of the transpiration, though the apparatus
 seems well adapted for that purpose.
    Fourth Series. October, November, and December 1878.—
The capillaries used in this series were those described in the
general account of the apparatus at page 200, viz. straight tubes
 of about 30 centim. in length and 0*0110 centiin. in diameter,
and were cut from tube No. I. of the apparatus of 1876. The
 mercury columns were read to 0-l millim. by the reading-
 telescope from steel millimetre-scales placed behind the gauges.
 Corrections were applied to these scales, but the precision of
 reading was much less than in the fifth series ; the tempera
 ture-measurements were also somewhat less precise ; and the
 whole series should have much less weight, owing to the
 conditions under which it was taken, than the fifth series on
 air, or the second series on carbonic acid. The results ob
 tained are given in the original paper.
     The results from No. 49 onwards are of much greater pre
 cision than those preceding, chiefly from the use of greater
  pressures, which increased the precision of measurement.
 Measurements 49 to 99, when combined by the method of
  least squares, give for constants in the empirical equation
                      Vo   Vi
 the values, between the limits t=0° and £=100°,
             A=0-002821, and B= -0-00000149.
  These values, however, I have regarded as entitled to so much

 210          Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
 less weight than those of the fifth series for air, that they are
 given here merely as a satisfactory and important check upon
 the further results of that series. The equation deduced from
 this latter series I regard as best representing my measure
 ments on dry air. It will be noticed, on comparing the two
 series, that the greatest deviation of the two series is at 100°,
 where it amounts to less than 0-4 per cent.
    Measurements 1 and 2 wore taken during preliminary trials
 of the apparatus. In 3 to 8 the first capillary was in boiling
water, the second in ice, this reversal of the usual sequence
of temperature being made in order to test the apparatus.
The mean of these five measurements (the sixth having been
rejected when made as having been taken before the static
condition of the process was reached) gives
                    v= ^52 = 1-267 + a.d. 0-002.
                        Vo          ~
The above equation gives for £=990,94,
                           ^=1-2666;
                           Vo
and the direct observation made, as were all those from which
the equation is derived, with the first capillary at 0°, gives as
the mean at 99°-66         „,
                      '    ^=1-2666.
                           Vo
The close agreement of these numbers seems to indicate a
freedom from constant error of any considerable magnitude
in the value of K, and in the expansion-correction to this value.
    Fifth Series. April 1880.—This series was taken with the
apparatus as described at page 200, immediately after the com
pletion of the second series with carbonic acid. The measure
ments were made under as favourable conditions as any of
this paper, and are of greater weight than all of the others
upon air. The full data for the computation of these results
are given in Table III. in such form that a recomputation, in
so far as relates to those portions subject to possible modifica
tion of such amount as to materially change the result, may at
any time be made. The value of K used was the same as
that used for the second series of carbonic acid.
   These measurements may be divided, according to tempera
tures, into six groups, and are very concordant, except that
the sixth group shows a deviation of about 0-6 per cent, from
the value which the other five groups would indicate at that
temperature. There appears to be in this group some con
siderable constant error, due probably to a mistake in the
reading of the thermometer, which was a different one from
that used in the preceding groups. The deviation is so large

                       Temperature on the Viscosity of Air.             211
                        Table III.—Air.       Fifth Series.
                                                                  Com
No. Pi-Pr      Pi+Pr    Pi-Ps-             s.                2?.   puted
                               Pi+Pt-               h-                        d.
                                                             ii
                                                                     vi
   1.   92-31   1418^23 113-29 1212-63 0036693     1370   1-0374
  2.    92-26   1417-90 113-37 1212-27             13-93  1-0378
  a    9215     1417-71 113-35 1212-21             14-21  1-0378
                                        Means =    13947 10377    10383    -•0006
  4.   83-93   1423-93 12209    121791 •0036694    42-60  1-1180
  5.   83-86   1423-50 122-13  1217-51             4304   1-1178
  6.   83-81   1423-35 122-27  121727              43-30  1-1187
  7.   83-98   1422-78 122-41  1216-39             4317   1-1178
  &    83-98   1422-44 122-25  1216-21            4276    11179
                                        Means =   42-974 1-1180  1-1176   +•0004
  9.
 10.   77-39   1425-25 128-88  1218-98 0036694    67-74   11861
 11.   77-34   142516 12876    1219-06            6774    11859
 12.   77-34   1425-08 128-83  1218-91            67-94   1-1831
                                        Means =   67-81   11850  1-1850     •0000
13.    72-44   1429-96  133-48 1224-04 •0036695   88-67   1-2381
14.    72-29   1430-11  133-59 122423             88-64   1-2419
15.    72-20   143014   13349   224-45            88-85   1-2419
16.    72-20   1429-96  133-59 1224-17            88-92   1-2424
                                       Means =    88-77   1-2411 1-2415   -O004
17.    70-20   1441-48  136-41 1234-87 •0036696   99-69   1-2684
18.    70-28   1441-22  136-35 1234-59            9902    1-2686
19.    70-23   1440-51  136-58 123370             98-93   1-2716
20.    7005    1440-43  13611  1234-27            99-41   1-2695
21.    70-05   144019   13614  1234-00            9903    1-2710
22.    7010    1440-10  13616  123384             99-18   1-2695
                                       Means—     99-21  1-2698  1-2696   +•0002
23.    64-94   1446-20  141-17 1240-09 •0036697 124-61   1-3321
24.    64-86   1446-46  141-21 1240-39           124-36  1-3350
25.    6512    1446-42  140-95 1240-35           124-17  1-3279
26.    64-98   1446-72  14102  1240-70           124-22  1-3314
27.    6512    1446-94  140-96 1240-86           124-69  1-3264
                                       Means= 124-41     1-3306  1-3368   -•0062
       that I have thought it best to reject the sixth group wholly in
      the computation of the empirical equation for this series on
      air. I fully recognize that this rejection may be considered
      somewhat arbitrary, and also that the retention of the sixth
      group would make the accordance between the fourth and
      fifth series greater than now ; but I am so fully satisfied that

212          Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect
there is some mistake in the rejected group that I unhesita
tingly lay it aside. I thus obtain, by the method of least
squares, for measurements 1 to 22 on dry air, fifth series,
                 = 1 + 0-00275K-O00000034«2,
              Vo
between the temperature-limits of 0° and 100° C. The last
column of the table, headed d, gives the deviations of the ob
served means from the values of —, computed for the same
                                    Vo
temperatures t2 by the preceding equation and given in the
ninth column. The average deviation of the means from the
equation is thus only 0"0003, or about 0'03 per cent., for the
first five means, the deviation of the sixth mean being ten
times the next greatest deviation. The average deviation of
the individual observations from their respective means, dis
regarding the correction corresponding to the slight differences
of the observed temperatures for the mean, is 0*0012, or about
0"1 per cent.
                        Carbonic Acid, COj.
   First Series.—Twenty-one measurements were made in
January 1879, after the close of the fourth series on air, and
with the same apparatus, with the addition of the necessary
apparatus for holding the gas. The precision of the results
was less than in the fourth series for air, chiefly because of
the somewhat greater complication of the apparatus for the
supply of the gas. The results are of little value, but are
given as a check on the second series. The pressures were
about the same as in No. 49 to 98 of the fourth series on air.
The temperature t^ of the first capillary was always 0° C.
The following Table IV. gives the mean results. The coeffi
cient of expansion used was 0"003699, a value taken from
Eegnault's work by interpolation for the actual pressure pt,
under which the expansion occurs.
   The column headed n gives the number of measurements
going to make up the corresponding means.
                 Table IV.—COs. First Series.
                                            Computed
             ».           tv         13.       Hi.
                                     1l
                                               1i
             8           290]       1103      1108
             5           4856       1-178     1-175
             8          100-09      1-324     1-351

          Temperature on the Viscosity of Carbonic Acid.    213
    Second Series.—One hundred and twenty measurements
•were made from January to April 1880, with the complete ap
paratus as described at pages 200 and 209. The thermometers
used were Casella 32378, Baudin 7335 up to 180°, and Baudin
7789 above 200°. The first twenty measurements were pre
liminary, being made with various tubes and forms of apparatus
before satisfactory forms were obtained. The remainder are
given in the following table. In all cases ^ = 0°.
               Table V.—C02.      Second Series.
                                                     Mean
      No.       Pr       Pr        Pr         K.       K.
         1.   78408    720-63    05377      1-0422
        2.    786-09   720-17    653 99     10918
        a     787-48   721-58
                       72230
                                 65410
                                 654-54
                                            1-0737
                                            1-0204
        4.    78544
        5.    790-61   724-59    65-1-84    1-0397
        6.    758-59   700-78    64007      1-0364
        7.    758-17   700-30    639-71     1-0038
        8.    757-60   09982     639 23     1-0380
        9.    75715    099-27    83857      1-0381
       10.    773-74   707-56    037-41     10390
       11.    77414    70750     630 92     1-0109
       12.    780-55   718-34    652-49     1-0330
       13.    780-74   718-12    65218      10387
                                                     10440
       14.    748-64   69958     049-47     1-0510
       15.    748-45   699-99    049-37     1-0270
       16.    748-27   099-72    649-27     1-0330
       17.    74852    099-55    648-81     1-0305
       18.    748-37   09934     648-75     1-0408
       19.    748-19   69933     64868      10359
                                                     10375
       20.    771-58   614-35    409-82     10402
       21.    77162    614-36    409-70     10376
       22.    77166    01435     40957      10399
       23.    771-67   614-28    409-22     10394
       24.    77211    614-50    409-16     10397
       25.    772-38   61457     408 98     1-0401
                                                     10395
       20.    770-73   011-24    400-91     10353
       27.    770-55   01007     40083      1-0404
       28.    770 37   010-55    400-81     10404
       29.    771-92   701-15    025-09     10335
       30.    771-71   70074     62408      10300
       31.    771-50   700 54    024-90     1-0419
       32.    707 36   705 39    040 08     10380
       33.    707-46   705-40    640-22     1-0394
       34.    766-90   70513     039-89     1O302
       35.    706-80   70501     03971      10357
       36.    707-31   712-33    65513      1-0406
       37.    707 29   712-39    655-18     1-0383
       38.    766-95   71212     654-91     10370
                                                     10380
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.         Q

214          Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
         Table V.—COa.            Second Series (continued).
                                                                      Com
                                                              Mean puted
                                                       Mean
  No.   Pv      Pr        P>-   100 a.   <,
                                                1i                      !».
   39. 746-72 693-79 63067 0-37047 1702 1-0088
   40. 746-53 69362 630-49              1787 1-0084
   41. 746-18 093-31 63010              18-09 10090
   42. 74593  692 94| 629-77            18-29 10058
   43. 745-64 692-71 629 47             1862 10009
                      1 628-79 037053                  1810   10079 1-0660
   44. 74541  090-50                    41-15 11468
   45. 745-64 090-68    629-03          41-28 11472
   46. 745 97 69701     029 24          4080  11481
   47. 746-41 09732     029 70          40-80 11420
   48. 746-73 097-75    63022           40 87 1-1438
   49. 747-45 698-54    03098           4087  11461
                                                       40-98  1-1458 1-14S5
   50. 769-40 723-90    653-79 0-37071 5902 1-2125
   51. 769-56 724-17    053-75          59-30 1-2197
   52. 769-49 724-18    65404           59-54 1-2104
   53. 769-47 724-20    054-31          59-50 12163
   54. 769-25 723-90    654-43          58-93 1-2004
   55. 769-23 723-89    (554 25         58 72 1-2102
   56. 769-20 72401     654-68          58-90 1-2068
                                                       5914   1-2120 1-2119
   57. 774-14 732-22' 659-65 0-37077 79-56 1-2847
   68. 77407  732-31 1659-96            79-58 1-2860
   59. 773-93 732-35! 660-33            7972 12857
   60. 773-00 732-17 66048              7973 1-2829
                                                       79-65  1-2848 1-2820
   61. 773-71 735-84    662-96 037081 99 07 1-3550
   62. 773-62 735-83    6(13-22        10017 1-3514
   63. 77350  735-77    0(i3-52        100-24 1-3408
   64. 773-78 73013     063-80         10000 1-3490
                                                      10017   1-3500 1-3508
   65. 780-77 745-42    670-80 037087 11911 1-4147
   66. 780-70 745-31    670-68         119 20 1-4129
   67. 780-32 745-04    070 69         119 27 1-4120
   68. 779-81 744-65    670-56         119-37 1-4119
   69. 779-58 744-58    07024          119-55 1-4223
                                                      119-30  1-4148 1-4139
   70. 770-66  738-34   00310 0-37083 141-53 1-4774
   71. 770-52 738-18    002-91         141-89 1-4757
   72. 770-55 738-38    00311          141-90 1-4836
   73. 770-43 738-52    00331          141-87 14948
   74. 770-18 73828     663-31         141-92 1-4919
   75. 76977  737-82    003-10         142-25 1-4824
                                                      141-893 1-4843 l-487o
   76. 76648  734-44    05200 0-37078 158-40 1-5492
   77. 76622  734-20    652-58         158-83 1 -5498
   78. 766 06 734-26    053-19         159-44 1-5446
   79. 765-38 733-54    652 85         159-05 1-5415
   80. 763-89 73212     652-69         157-87 1-5218
   81. 763 60 731-91    65201          157-50 1-5244
   82. 763-28 73103     652-46         157-62 1-5341
   83. 76305  731-56    052-45         157-50 15310
                                                      158-283 I -5371 1-5400

          Temperature on the Viscosity of Carbonic Acid.                     215
                           Table V. {continued).
                                                                          Com
                                                           Mean   Mean puted
  No.     Pi-      Pr     Pr      100 -.    t2.     5s.      t,
                                                    ni              1i
                i                           O
   84.   77383    745-39 666-15 0-37088 181-49, 10141
   85.   7731M1   74570  606-23           180-99 16309
   86.   77397    745(57 666 23           18096, 1-6280
   87.   77414    74504  60021            181-70 16136
   68.   77401    745-49 606-38           181-45: 1-6072     O
                                                         i 181-32 1-6188 1-0135
   89.   77441    74771  66030037090      2230 ! 17284
   90.   774-32   747 94 661-30           225-0 [1-7312
   91.   77399    747 87 06078:           2234 1-7631
   92.   774-33   74838  661-66           2237 1-7069
                                                           224-0 1-7474 1-7488
   93.   77147    722-92 06603 0-37071 16-20      1-0068
   94.   77089    722-21 66519             10-62  10646
   95.   70933    077-80 561-70 0-37036 17- 18    1-0602
   9(i.  70914    67775  56163             1730   10021
   97.   76S-79   67740  561-21            17-47  10620
   98.   76873    677-38 561 12!           17-62, 1-0625
                                                            1707 10630 10628
                                1                                       1
    Measurements 39 to 08 furnish data for computing the.
constants in an empirical equation for carbonic acid ; and tbe
equation thus deduced is
         = 1 + 0003725 1 - 0-00000264 <2 + 0-00000000417 t3,
      Vo
between tbe limits of 0° and 224° C.
    The term containing t3 is necessary on account of the rapid
curvature of the line representing the observations. The last
column of Table V. shows the value of — = - deduced from
this equation for the temperature means of the second column,
showing as close an agreement with the obser ved means of —
as could be expected, except at 100°, where the deviation
amounts to about 2 per cent. The first series is, however, of
much less weight than the second series. The last column of
Table V. shows the values of — computed to correspond with
 tbe means of the preceding column. The average deviation
 of the observed means from those computed from the above
 equation is thus 00020, or about 0-15 percent. The average
 deviation of the individual results from their corresponding
 means, taken as in the fifth series for air, is 0-0052, or about
 0-4 per cent.
                                         Q2

216         Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
                        Effect of Pressure.
   In Series IV. for air, the total driving pressure used, px —p$,
was varied within considerable ranges, to test whether the
value obtained of r\2 : i/lf or of K, was thereby affected except
through errors of observation. In 3, 4, and 5, pi —p3 =
248 mm., and rj2 : 771 = 12b'7 ; in 7 and 8, under the same
conditions otherwise, p1—p3 = 376 mm., and r\2 : tj1 = 1-260,
showing no effect due to increase of the. pressure by one half.
Measurements 9 to 13, made with p1—p3 ranging from 258
to 485 mm., give values of K with an average deviation of
about 0-2 per cent. Measurements 21 to 48 give values of
% : i)x about one per cent, lower than those obtained in the
remainder of the series, made with greater values of />,—p3,
but the precision of these measurements is much less than of
the later ones. The value of K found from 50 to 54 and 60
to 66, with p1—p3 = b30 mm. about, is within 0-5 per cent, of
that found in 9 to 12, under ^j—;>3 = 258 mm., and agrees
precisely with 12, under pi—p3 = 361 mm. And, finally, the
mean of 97 and 98 differs from 99 by less than 025 per cent.,
though the pressures p\—p3 are respectively 540 and 250 mm.
   In the second series for carbonic acid, the effect of pressure
was somewhat tested in measurements 26 to 38, where px —pa
varied from 370 to 111 mm. without producing any trace
able effect in K. This is the best test made, owing to the
greater precision of the measurements. Also in measurements
93 to 98 of the same series, the pressure was changed from
105 to 207 without materially affecting the results.
   In the first series for air, the average value of p}— p3 was
about 740 mm., and the mean value of t}2 'V, at f2=100° is
1-270, while that of the fourth series, under pl—p3 = from
248 to 540, is about 1-267, and that of the fifth series, under
Pi—J»s=225 mm., is 1*272, thus showing no effect traceable
to the difference of the driving pressures used.
                     Deduction from Results.
   The results of my measurements seem to show conclu
sively, that the variation of the viscosity with the temperature
of the gas, in the case at least of dry carbonic acid and of dry
air freed from carbonic acid, which may be taken as typical
gases, is not proportionate either to the square root or to
any numerical power of the absolute temperature reckoned
from — 274° C. They point thus to the inference that all
hypotheses yet advanced to account for the variation of the
viscosity of gases, and hence also for the viscosity itself, are

              Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.              217
incomplete for this phenomenon, in the same general way as
are the analogous hypotheses regarding the compressibility of
gases and other phenomena. The hypothetical deductions
fail to accord completely with the results of quantitative
measurements.
         Discussion of Results of all Researches
                        on Air and C02.
   The experimental results which I have given in the fore
going tables, and the deduced equations, show that, unless
some considerable and regular source of error affects them,
the viscosity of both dry air (freed from C02) and carbonic
acid increases with the rise of temperature according to a
rate which varies with the temperature and is smaller as the
temperature is higher. The ratio i)t : % is therefore not
proportional to the first power (Maxwell) of the absolute
temperature ; it is not expressible by a linear equation of the
first degree, e. g. Vt=Vo (1 +&)> where t = temperature C. and
i=a constant ; nor is it given by the equation i)t=yo (1 +
at)n, or its equivalent r]t-~T)0 = crn, where r=absolute tempe
rature. The last three equations are the only ones thus far
used by observers in discussing their results, although the
work of E. Wiedemann and A. von Obermayer shows a
decided departure from these expressions. The insufficiency of
the latter equations may be shown by discussing the observa
tional data by the logarithmic method which 1 used in my
former paper. Nor could the equation Vt = Vo {i-+al)"be
more than an empirical equation at best, unless possibly when
a were expressed as a function of t and the pressure, a condi
tion which I have not thought worth consideration at present.
For the expression of my own results, I have employed
merely the empirical equation with increasing powers of t, as
I have found no theoretical hypothesis which led to results
corresponding to the observed relation of rj and t.
   The deviation of both air and carbonic acid from the
equation t]t=zVo (1 +bt) is so small, and the difficulties of precise
measurement so considerable, that these deviations may often
be masked by accidental errors of measurement, and by
 "constant errors," arising from imperfect drying or purifi
 cation of the gas, from differences between the thermometer
 indications and the actual temperature of the gas, from faulty
 proportioning of apparatus, and from other sources. This
 discussion of my own method in these regards I give at page
 205 ; that of others, I cannot advantageously attempt. But I
 will proceed to a review of the results obtained by all others
 who have worked in this field ; and shall show that for air and

218          Prof. Silas W. Holraan on the Effect of
 carbonic acid no results are found giving a value of b (rate of
 change of rjt : rj0 with rise of temperature) increasing with the
 temperature ; that some results can give only a constant
 value to b, owing either to the want of sufficient precision,
 or to the insufficient number of temperature intervals era-
 ployed ; that some results show a marked diminution, as do
 my own, of b ; and that many of these last, when carefully
 discussed, afford material for getting at a numerical measure
 of the change in b which is in substantial accordance with my
 own results. These facts indicate, either that all measure
 ments show conclusively that b does diminish with rise of
 temperature, or that the method of transpiration through
 capillary tubes upon which these demonstrations rest (for the
 measurements with oscillating plates are of insufficient pre
 cision for determination of this change) is faulty in either its
 experimental application or its mathematical theory. In the
 consideration of this last proposition the statements which I
 have made at page 205 should be reviewed.
    In the discussion of the results of former observers, I have
adopted the graphical method as best adapted to the purpose ;
but as the point to be considered is one in which changes in
the fourth and sometimes the fifth place of significant figures
must be exhibited, a special device must be resorted to.
 I have therefore assumed for carbonic acid an equation
Vt=Vo[ 1 +r\u\)> ancl for air Vt = Vo( 1 +7y7j)> as convenient
 equations to which to refer the results on these gases re
spectively. I have computed for two or many temperatures
 (usually those of observation) values of i)t : tj0 from these
 equations, and subtracting these from the experimental data
 for the same temperature (or from ratios t\t : tjq deduced by
 myself from the data), I have obtained differences or residuals,
which I have used as ordinates in the lines shown in the plots
on Plates I. and II. These lines or " residual curves "*
easily show the fourth place of decimals in the ratio rjt : rjg,
and develop as a curvature the change of the rate b. As the
 residual curves are plotted, convexity upwards shows a
 diminution of b with rise of t, concavity upwards would show
an increase of b, and no curvature of course indicates a
 constant value of b.       Above and below the 50°, 100°, and
 200° points of my own results will be seen a vertical
row of points marked l°/oi 2%,—-1%, etc., which indicate
differences in r)t : rj0 of 1, 2, &c, per cent, from my results,
and afford a convenient means of comparing the relative con-
   * See Pickering, Physical Manipulation, i. p. 12; Journ. Franklin Inst,
bci. p. 272.

                Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.            219
cordance between the results of various observers. It should
be borne in mind, however, that some of the lines are plotted
from means, some from single observations, and others from
equations deduced either by the observers or by myself.
The individual points, therefore, must not be used without
qualification as a measure of the precision of the results
obtained by any single observer.
                          Carbonic Acid, C02.
   The curve OA on Plate I. is from the equation deduced at
page 215 for my own results. There can be no question as to
the decided curvature shown being far beyond the limits
of variable experimental error. My computations have also
shown that the third power of the temperature in the linear
equation was necessary. The experimental means are marked
along the curve.
    The curve D 0 B is from an equation of the same form
                         V =Vo (l+At + Bt*),
 in which A and B are computed from the results of A. von
 Obermayer * with capillary " I." The term Ct3 was omitted
 because of the smaller number of points and their somewhat
 less precision. That the line represents approximately the
 data will be seen from noting the distribution ahout it of the
 observed points. The curvature is here also undoubted,
 although Obermayer merely remarks that " it follows from
 these experiments with some probability that the increase in
 coefficient of friction with rising temperature is less at higher
 than at lower temperatures." A comparison of this curve
 with mine shows that Obermayer's results and my own are
 in substantial agreement as to the rate of change in b,
 the curvature of the two lines being very nearly the same.
 Indeed, if my results be thrown into the same equation, using
 only the first and second powers of t, the value of B becomes
 O0000O136, while that from Obermayer's data is B =
 O'00t00137. The value of A from my results is, however,
 considerably larger than from Obermayer's, so that his value
 °f Vt '• Vo at 100 is about 0"7 per cent, below mine, and at
 200° about 1 per cent, below. The line 0 C is from the
 equation
               i?,=%(l + 0-003585<-0-00000105<2),
 deduced by me from Obermayer's experiments at the three
 indicated temperatures with the capillary " D." This is in
 still closer agreement with mine in numerical values of i\ : -n^
 but has slightly less curvature (B = 0-00000105). The value
            • A. von Obermayer, Wien. Ber. lxxiii. p. 468 (1876).

220         Prof. Silas W. Holman on the Effect of
for A in my results is 0-003637, with the same terms in the
equation. When methods as different in detail as those of
Obermayer and myself are in so close agreement as these
appear to bo when thus discussed, the chances of large
constant errors other than those inherent in the use of trans
piration methods seem to be much reduced.
   On the line J H are three points showing the results
obtained by Eilhard Wiedemann. The line is drawn from
the equation
              Vl=Vo(l + 0-003727^-0-00000320 P),
which I have deduced from these three points. The curva
ture is much greater than for either of the other lines, the
value of B being more than twice as great as in the lines
0 A and O B, and three times as great as in O C. A reference
to my discussion of the results for air will show that Wiede
mann's results there exhibit similar relative characteristics.
Up to 100° for C02 the results differ numerically by less
than ()-7 per cent, from those of Obermayer and myself, but
at 200° the difference is nearly 3 per cent.
   The results by Puluj, as shown by the line O F, obtained
by oscillating plates, are smaller than all others, a difference
which characterizes his results for air. The range of tempe
rature used is too limited to render the results available in the
present consideration.
   Conclusion.—In the absence of any really satisfactory
means of assigning proper weights to the results of Ober
mayer, Wiedemann, and myself, it seems best to allow the
results to stand in the form above given, without an attempt
to deduce a mean.
                                   Air.
   In Plate II. are shown the residual curves for all available
observations on air. The line IJ, representing Maxwell's
results, doubtless owes its steepness to some large constant
error, for which several explanations have been offered. The
lines for 0. E. Meyer's results from capillary transpiration are
       A B from Eqn. i; = 00001 71(1 +0O024 1) , Range 20 to 9!° ;
       CD       „     >7 = 0 000170(1 +0-0028 0, „ 21 to 100;
       EF       „     7=0000174(1 +0-00300, .. 21 to 100;
and from oscillating plates the line is G H from the mean of
the equations,
             17=0-000186(1 + 0-0030 0,
   and       97 = 0-000189 (1 + 0-0025 1), range 19° to 82°,

               Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.             221
fiven for different methods of computing one series of data,
  t is perhaps worthy of remark, that the mean of Meyer's
results at 100° agrees with the results of my fifth series
within 0'2 per cent. Meyer's observations were made chiefly
at two temperatures, and thus, as well as on account of the
magnitude of the errors of observation, are incapable of indi
cating the small deviation of t]t : 7)0 from the equation of the
first power of t.
    The observations of Puluj are shown by the lines K L,
M N, 0 P, Q It, and S T, of which all but S T are from trans
piration experiments, this being by oscillating plates. From
the data which I have used in plotting the lines, Puluj
deduces the first power equations :—
       KL,   i, =0-000170 (l+0-0024<),        Range 13 0 to 270.
       MN,   ij=0000179(l +0-0023 <),             „ 13-6 to 76-7.
       OP,   , = 0-000181(1 +00022 1),            „ 1-1 to 774.
       QR,   ij = 00C0180 (1+00021 (!),           „ l-oto92-7.
       ST,   ij = constjint (003855+0 00010213 1) „ -3-0 to 25-0.
    Prom the plots on Plate II., and from others which I have
made, it appears to me that the data shown in K L cannot be
represented by a straight line, nor .are they to be relied upon
for giving the rate of change of r)t :tj0 at all, the curvature
of the line K L, which approximately represents the data,
being undoubtedly the result of uncorrected constant error.
 The points of the line M N show an upward convexity of
 slight amount ; those of the line O P are so irregularly distri
buted as to conceal any slight systematic deviation from the
 straight line. The points of Q It are also very irregularly
 distributed, but are unquestionably more nearly represented by
 the line Q R, which I have drawn approximately through them,
 than by the straight line Sit], which correspondsto the equation
 given by Puluj, or by any other straight line. The line Q B
 should certainly be convex upwards.
    The numerous experiments of Obermayer give almost
 unquestionable evidence that even for air the coefficient of
 viscosity increases at a loss rapid rate at higher than at lower
 temperatures. The line a S b c represents the mean of results
 by capillaries "11," "26," and " D." (I was obliged to
 omit " I " from consideration, owing to an apparent error.
  Wien. Ber. lxxiii. p. 440.) The separate results are fairly
 accordant. This line agrees quite closely with my fifth series,
 SY. The results obtained with a brass capillary are indicated
 by the line d e, which is a continuation also of S b, since the
 brass capillary agreed substantially with the others nib. The
 curvature of this line, as well as oi aSb c, is decidedly convex

222      Effect of Temperature on the Viscosity of Gases.
upward, much more so than S Y. Obermayer's further series
with capillary " D " is of much value. It is represented in
the line g h, and the three marked points indicate the points
yielded by the experiments. This line is also decidedly
convex upward, and its curvature seems to be beyond the
range of variable errors of measurement. I have connected
the individual points with each other by a broken line, because,
owing to the small number of points, almost any form of
curve could bo drawn through them, and to select any one
equation would be wholly arbitrary. This remark applies
also to the line U V, representing Wiedemann's results.
This line is still more convex upward than either of the
preceding. The line W X, representing Warburg's results
with oscillating plates, is in substantial accord with the
results by Obermayer, Wiedemann, and myself, as well as
with the mean of Meyer's results ; but as it is derived from
observations including but one temperature interval, it cannot
serve to determine any beyond the first power variation in
the coefficient.
    To show the relation of the several lines to one from an
equation of the exponential form which has been so generally
adopted, I have drawn the line Z from the equation
                          ^ = (l + 0-003670)0'76.
                          Vo
    The fifth series of my own results is shown in the line S Y,
the experimental means being denoted by crosses. The
deviation of S Y from a straight line is very slight, and I am
confident that this is a close approximation to the true
 result, and that the greater curvature of the lines from my
own earlier results and those of other observers is due in
part to impurities in the air, either in the form of carbonic
acid or of vapour of water. I regard those of my measure
 ments on air which precede the fifth series merely as checks
upon the accuracy of the process, and as possessing small
 weight as compared with that series, for reasons assigned in
the Critique of the Method. The same is true of all but the
 last series with carbonic acid.
   Rogers Laboratory of Physics,
    Mass. Institute of Technology,
      Boston, Mass., May 1886. "

                             [  223   J
 XXX. Examination of Dr. Croll'a Hypotheses on Geological
                Climates. By Dr. A. Woeikof *.
THE hypotheses of Dr. Croll have attracted such general
       attention during the last ten years, especially in Great
Britain, but also in the United States and other countries,
that a review of them by a meteorologist is, I think, desirable.
This work is just now particularly opportune, because Dr.
Croll has recently published a new book on these matters! in
which he further explains and extends his views, and replies
to his critics, whilst in the preface he mentions that he wishes
to devote tho coming years to work in a wholly different
direction. Thus we have now before us a system as complete
as it is likely to be made by the author.
   I do not propose to review the whole work of Dr. Croll in
glacial geology and cosmology, but only to consider some
points which are within my line of study.
   In answer, to Prof. Newcomb, Dr. Croll considers the
mean temperature of land and ocean f, and arrives at tho
startling conclusion that " the ocean must stand at a higher
mean temperature than the land." Now, once the mean and
not surface temperature is mentioned, the meaning of the
author is, it seems, clear ; but the result is entirely opposed
to what we know. Not only have tho oceans which receive
cold under-currents from polar seas a much lower mean tem-
perature§ than tho land, but even seas which receive no such
cold water, and are known as exceedingly warm, as the Medi
terranean and Red Seas, have a temperature considerably
lower than the land.
  It might perhaps be remarked, that Dr. Croll's startling state
ment is a simple " lapsus pennce" and that he does not consider
the mean temperature of the whole volume of ocean water,
but the mean annual temperature of the surface ; yet, especially
from p. 33, it is seen that this is not so. Dr. Croll considers
the difficulty of the sea " getting emit of its heat as rapidly as
the land ; " and in this passage, as in the former, he seems
entirely to have forgotten the mobility of the particles of
water, which is so exceedingly important and so essentially
affects the thermal relations of water by the convection-cur
rents which it causes. (A few pages before he mentions the
  • Communicated by the Author,
  f ' Climate and Cosmology/ Edinburgh, 1885.
  t P. 26 and following.
  § I understand the mean temperature as that of the whole column of
water from top to bottom.

  224                Dr. A. WoeikoPs Examination of
  mobility of the particles, but only as causing the removal of
  heat from the tropics by ocean-currents.) Dr. Croll seems to
  think that the high temperature of the surface of the ocean is
  caused by the difficulty with which water gets rid of its heat
  by radiation, as if, here as in the case of land, loss of heat by
  radiation caused a low temperature of the surface.
     Now this is evidently not the case, and the convection-
  currents originating as soon as the surface temperature sinks
  below that of the stratum immediately under it, bring the
  latter to the surface, and thus maintain constantly a lngher
  temperature of the surface than of the other strata", although
  they are rather conducive to a loss of heat by the whole
  mass, as the colder wafer sinks to the bottom, where it is out
  of the reach of the radiant heat of the sun, and receives heat
  only by the slow process of conduction*.
     Dr. Croll does not see that, instead of " the difficulty of the
 water to get rid of its heat," he really considers the cause of
 the high temperature of the surface of the ocean ; and here
 misses the most efficient cause.                    *
     The next point I have to notice is this : " The quantity of
 heat lost by expansion must therefore be trifling in compa
 rison of that lost by radiation ; and although the heat lost by
 expansion is fully restored by compression, yet the air would
 reach the earth nearly entirely deprived of the heat with which
 it left the equator. All that it could possibly give back
 would be the heat of compression; and that would hardlv be
 sufficient to raise the air at -50° F. to the freezing-poiut.J"t
    As before this, Dr. Croll considers the temperature of the
 upper atmosphere, even under the equator, to be 80° F. Mow
freezing-point ; and as this is reached, according to him, at. such
 a height that the air, returning towards the surface of the sea,
 would be warmed to the freezing-point, it is clear that, in his
opinion, the atmosphere is in a state of unstable equilibrium,
because otherwise the temperature at which the upper strata
arrive at sea-level could not be lower than the existing tempera
ture of the lower strata; but in Dr. Croll's opinion it is 48°
lower, as the mean temperature of the equator is about 80° F.,
and the air of the higher regions, in sinking to sea- level, would
br.ng with it a temperature of 32° F. Now if this was really
the case, if there existed an unstable equilibrium, why do not
convection-currents of great magnitude arise in our atmo
sphere and bring a temperature of 32° to the sea-level at the
   * I consider here the case of a body of water having constantly a
higher temperature than that of the maximum density. The oceans are
certainly in that state.
   t Pp. 2"> and 2(5.

         Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.        225
equator ? The reason why such convection-currents do not
arise is. that the normal state of the air is a stable equilibrium,
even a very stable one, so that if, by any cause, the higher
strata be forced down, they would acquire, by compression, a
much higher temperature than the lower have.
    An unstable equilibrium, a few cases excepted*, exists only
in the lower strata up to a few thousand feet, and this only in
the day-time, when the surface of the ground is much heated
by the sun. It disappears about sunset, or even somewhat
earlier. It does not occur in winter in high or oven in
higher middle latitudes (say, from 50° onward). All this has
been established by so many observations in mountain-coun
tries and in balloons that it can scarcely be doubted.
    In any case, if Dr. Croll doubts such well-known facts, i. e.
if he doubts that between the lower strata of air and those
some tens of thousands of feet high there exists a stable equi
librium, the onus probandi rests with him. In fact, a tem
perature of— 50° F. must occur at such a considerable height
above sea-level, that the air, if forced down, would arrive
warmer, and not colder, than the air existing at sea-level.
    Besides, I maintain that the radiation of particles of air is
but a very trifling cause of loss of heat by our globe, and that
by far the principal causes of it are the radiation of the sur
face of the ground (or snow) and that of the surface of the
water. If the lowering of temperature of the surface of land
and of the air be considered, the loss of heat by radiation of
the surface of the ground (and snow) is by far the most im
portant.
    I can much better agree with Dr. Croll in what he remarks
about the conservative character of snow once formed, though,
as will be seen further on, I do not agree as to the import
ance of winter in aphelion during high excentricity. Besides,
 I think Dr. Croll does not well understand the cause of the
 fogs, which have been so often noticed in high latitudes in
 summer. He thinks the fogs are caused directly by the
 melting of the snow, and, interposing a screen between the
 sun and snow, are effectual in lessening the amount melted.
    The melting of the snow by the sun has not the power to
 cause fogs by itself. On extensive continental regions of
Europe, Asia, and America snow lies in winter, and is melted
 from March to June, 3'et fogs are of exceedingly rare occur
 rence during that time, and they are more frequent at night,
 i. e. are rather instrumental in preventing the loss of heat by
 radiation than the heating influence of the sun's rays. In
           * For example, in thunder-storms, hail-storms, &c.

226             Dr. A. Woeikof's Examination of
the same regions fogs are frequent in autumn during anti
cyclones. The cause of these fogs is the same as that of the
London fogs, t. e. the temperature of the river- or lake-water
is much higher than that of the air, and thus the vapour is
soon condensed. Neither are fogs common in summer over
mountain-snow and glaciers, notwithstanding the great amount
of melting. But fogs are experienced on the sea in the
vicinity of melting ice, because here we have two masses of
air, of unequal temperature, both nearly saturated, and their
meeting must produce saturation, i. e. fogs. Thus it is easy
to see that fogs are not necessary consequences of the melting
of snow and ice per st> ; but some other conditions are
necessary for them ; and Dr. Croll has no right to say about
a glaciated country at some distance from the sea, " Fogs
prevent, to a great degree, the melting of the snow and ice."
   Mr. A. R. Wallace * has mentioned that in Northern
Siberia the powerful sun of June cannot melt the snow until
the warm southerly winds bring warm air. In so far as the
beginning of melting depends on this, I iim quite of the same
opinion ; but Dr. Croll is wrong when he too much extends
the influence of these southerly winds, and believes them to
prevail in summer on the north coast of Siberia. On the
contrary, cold winds from the sea prevail in summer and cer
tainly chill the air, while southerly winds prevail in winter.
Thus Dr. Croll's hypothesis, " Matters would be still worse if
these southerly winds, instead of ceasing, were simply to
change from June and July to December and January; for
then, instead of producing a melting effect, they would greatly
add to the snowfall, "f is realized as far as the winds are con
cerned ; but the snowfall of winter is exceedingly light,
because the southerly winds come from the colder interior of
the continent ; and, besides, they are descending winds, and
in descending become relatively dry. We know these facts
from the observations of Wrangell and Anjou at Nijnekolymsk
and Ustjansk ; and they were confirmed by the recent obser
vations of the Russian polar station of Sagastyr at the mouth
of the Lena J.
    Dr. Croll returns over and over again to the importance of
knowing the temperature of space, as well in ' Climate and
Time ' as in his new book; and in the latter he is rather in
favour of a lower value for it than that of Herschel and
Pouillet, which he admitted in ' Climate and Time.' He thinks
this knowledge of the utmost importance for the determina-
           • ' Island Life," p. 135.
           t 1'. 88.
           X Iswestia of the Ituss. Geogr. Soc. 1886, no. 4.

         Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.        227
tion of the temperatures which obtained during high excen-
tricity and winter in aphelion ; and repeatedly he admits that
the temperature of a place, other things being equal, is pro
portional to the heat received from the sun. To make us
quite sure of his meaning, he has a table in ' Climate and Time,'
p. 320, where he gives the value of excentricity for different
periods, and the midwinter temperature of Great Britain for
periods of great excentricity and winter in aphelion. So, for
example, it was, according to him, — 6°*3 F. 850,000 years
ago, when the excentricity was 0"0747; 10-3F. 210,000 years
ago, excentricity 0"0575, &c. The temperatures of Great
Britain are evidently given only as an illustration ; and there
is no doubt that a similar decrease of temperature was expe
rienced, according to him, even in the midst of the Atlantic
Ocean. Admitting even the present mean winter tempera
tures there to be 6° F. higher than in Great Britain at the
same latitude, we should then have, at the highest excentricity,
with winter in aphelion — 0°-3 F. and 4°7 F. 210,000 years
ago ; i. e. temperatures which were possible only if the ocean
was covered with solid ice—which is an impossibility with any
thing like the present geographical conditions ; and Dr. Croll
repeatedly admits that they have not changed since the glacial
epochs.
    It is exceedingly strange that Dr. Croll has not tried how
his method works when applied to the existing mean tempe
ratures of different latitudes. The mean temperatures at in
tervals of 10° have been calculated by different scientists. I
use the calculation of Ferrel as the most recent. The mean
temperature of January may be regarded as the result of the
position of the earth towards the sun at the winter solstice.
Thus, if we compare the mean January temperature of 50°
and t)0° N., we have
                 50° K, 21-3,          60° N., 1-7.
    The quantity of solar heat received at the winter solstice at
 the 60th parallel N. is but 035 of that at the 50th parallel N.
 Thus, if the temperature of the former was less in proportion
 to the quantity of solar heat received, it should be = — 147°-9 F.
 It is easy to see how large the discrepancy is.
    Dr. Croll ascribes the relatively small decrease of tempera
 ture with latitude to the influence of ocean-currents, which
 abstract warm water from the tropics and bring it to high
 latitudes. But on the 60° N. there is considerably more land
 than on the 50° N., and air over the land under 60° N. is
 colder than over the sea.
     But to be quite sure of getting beyond the influence of

228               Dr. A. Woeikofs Examination of
ocean-currents, I will take the mean January temperature in
the strictly continental climate of Eastern Siberia under
120° E. According to Ferrel's tables :—
                     Under 50° N., we have 0° F.
                         „ 60° N.      „      -30° F.
   If the January temperature decreased from 50° to 60° N.,
according to the' hypothesis of Dr. Croll, it should be under
60°N.= -155°-3.'
   But to be quite sure of taking the most favourable case
for the hypothesis of Dr. Croll, I take the highest January
temperature under 50° N. in Fen-el's tables, i. e. that at
20° W. = 44° F., and the coldest January temperature under
60° N., i. e. that at UO0 to 130° E.= -30° F. Yet, in pro
portion to the quantity of heat received, the mean tempera
ture of January at 60° N. should be = -140° F.
   The following Table gives the results of the three cases
considered :—
                                          Mean temperature 60° N.
                             Mean tem
                             perature   On the
                              50° N. hypothesis   Actual.   Difference.
                                          of
                                      Dr. Croll.
  Mean January tempera-]        213     -1479         1-7      1496
    ture of all meridians. J
  Mean January tempera
    ture in 120° E. (East        0      -155-3     -30         125-3
    Siberia)
  Mean January tempera- ^
    tare of warmest meri- [
    dian under fiO° N. and V    44      -140       -30         11(1
    coldest meridian under |
    60° N                  J
   If the discrepancies are so great in taking even the means
of a whole parallel, or strictly continental climates, and even
in the last example, how much must Dr. CrolPs calculations
for Great Britain be wrong. In so oceanic a climate an
equal difference in the amount of sun-heat will certainly cause
a smaller fall of temperature.
   I o-ive another example, which shows how little the method
of Dr. Croll is applicable even to the mean annual tempera
tures. In Chapter IX. of ' Climate and Cosmology ' he states
that the difference of temperatures between the equator and
the north pole ought to be at least 200° F. if they were in
proportion to the heat received from the sun, and the tempe
rature of space ( — 239° F.) was taken as the initial one; but
actually the difference is but 80° F. This small difference,

         Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.           229
  he thinks, is caused by the ocean-currents, which brine an
  immense quantity of heat from low to high latitudes. That
  ocean-currents have a great influence on the temperature of
  our earth I do not deny, but it is not so great as Dr. Oroll
 believes.
    To prove this, I will take two places in as different lati
 tudes as possible, and both uninfluenced by the ocean-cur
 rents. Ths first is Iquitos, on the Amazons, 3£° S., and about
 300 feet above the sea-level. The mean yearty temperature
 is 760-4. The reduction to sea-level would make it about
 770-8, and the reduction to the temperature of the equator
 would give 78°-3. Now Iquitos is more than 1000 miles
 from the Atlantic ; and though nearer to the Pacific, is sepa
 rated from it by the chain of the Andes. It must be admitted,
 then, that this place gives us a good idea of the temperatures
 near the equator, uninfluenced by the heat-abstracting influ
 ences of ocean-currents.
    The other place which I choose for comparison is Verk-
 hojansk in N.E. Siberia, under 67° N, and having the coldest
 winter known on our globe (January, —56° F.). I think it
 will be readily admitted that this place is out of the influence
 of ocean-currents, bringing heat from low latitudes, and in
 most favourable circumstances for radiation of heat. The
 mean yearly temperature of this place is 1°"9 F.; the reduc
 tion to sea-level may bring it to about 2°"3 F.*
    Thus we have, out of the influence of ocean-currents, the
following mean yearly temperatures at sea-level :—
                                                   o p_
                 Equator                          78-3
                 67s N. lat                         2-3
                    Difference      ....          76-0
    Eeasoning on the premises of Dr. Croll, we ought to expect
a difference of 172° F. between the equator and 67° N. The
actual difference is less than half that amount (scarcely over §);
yet heat is certainly not abstracted from the vicinity of the
equator in the interior of South America by ocean-currents,
nor are the continental regions of N.E. Siberia warmed by
ocean-currents.
   The Rev.. O. Fisher f has already proved that if Dr. Croll's
reasoning was right, the mean temperature of the equator
should be higher in January than in July by 21° F., on
account of the greater nearness of the earth to the sun in the
       * The actual height is not known, but in any case small.
       t Nature, vol. xx. p. 577.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.               R

  230              Dr. A. Woeikofs Examination of
  former month, while it is known that at most places on the
  equator the warmest and coldest months do not differ even by
  3° F., and nowhere so much as by 5° F.
      Dr. Croll has answered the Rev. 0. Fisher*, and this
  answer is a curious illustration of the difficulties in which he
  has involved himself. The question as to why the annual
  range on the equator is so small is a very simple one. The
  quantity of heat received from the sun varies but in (the
  ratio of 100 : 115 ; and besides, the observations on which
  our knowledge of the temperature of the equator depends
  were mostly made on the sea-coast—two good reasons indeed
  for a small annual range. Under the 50° N., the quantities
  received on the days of the winter and summer solstices are
  in the ratio of 100 : 562 ; and yet in some places in England
  the yearly range is not above 20° F., and nowhere above
  27° F. It is thus the small annual range in many regions of
  the middle and high latitudes which much more needs expla
  nation. Dr. Croll, in his reply, expresses the opinion that the
  northern hemisphere is the dominant one ; and as the whole
  earth has a higher temperature in July than in January, so by
  the operation of this cause the normal excess of the tempera
  ture of the equator in January is weakened and even abolished.
  I replied to this, that the temperature on the equator was almost
  entirely influenced by cold winds from cold ocean-currents
  in some regions (the west coasts of Africa and America
  and the adjoining parts of the Pacific and Atlantic), and in
  these the equator was considerably colder in July than in
  January, for example at the island of St. Thome, W. Africa,
  by 2°*7. These cold winds come from the south, while winds
  from the north seldom reach the equator, and can never have
  a depressing influence on the temperature. In most places
  the temperatures on the equator were influenced by the rainy
  season; so that when it was at its height in January, this
 month was cooler than July. This is the case even in Batavia,
  7° S.; while when January is a dry month and July rainy,
 the former is warmer not only on the equator, but even to
 some degrees north of it (so, for example, it is warmer by
 7°-2 at Lado, Upper Nile, 5° N., and by 3°-4 at Freetown,
 Sierra Leone, 8£° N.)f.
     All this is, I think, conclusive enough, and proves that
 Dr. Croll's system of estimating temperatures breaks dotcn when
 tested seriously. Small errors would be quite natural in a
    * Nature, vol. xxi. p. 120. Reprinted in ' Climate and Cosmology,'
chap, iv., omitting some passages relating to the Rev. O. Fisher.
   t Nature, vol. xxi. p. 249 ; reprinted also in the 'American Journal of
Science,' I860.

         Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.           231
 question of that kind ; but I have shown that the errors are
 enormous, amounting to 100° F. and more, i. e. iliey are
greater than the difference of annual temperature between the
 equator and the north pole.
   There is certainly a mistake somewhere, or, rather, the whole
method is a failure. How can we judge of the change of
temperature resulting from this or that distance from the sun,
 even if we knew accurately the temperature of space*, when
 we do not know the diathermancy of the atmosphere under
 different conditions ? We know only that it is exceedingly
 different according to the different quantities of carbonic acid
 and aqueous vapour contained in it, and in a far higher degree
 according to the absence or presence, in different quantities, of
suspended liquid and solid particles (clouds, dust, smoke, &c).
Thus, when we do not know how far the loss of heat is im
 peded, even an accurate knowledge of the temperature of
 space would be of small use in this matter.
    I will illustrate this by a homely example. Take a room
 where the fire is extinguished and the hearth or stove cold in
the evening, and try to guess at the temperature the room
will have in the morning. If we followed the method of
 Dr. Croll, we should inquire only about the outside tempera
 ture, and not about the thickness of the walls, the windows, &c.
 I think that, taking the average construction of Russian,
English, and Italian houses, if the inside temperature was in
all three cases 65° in the evening, and the outside temperature
 —20^ in Russia, 32° in England, and 45° in Italy, the morn
ing temperatures in the room would not be very different, and
probably even higher in the Russian room owing to its thick
 walls, double windows, &c.
    It is also interesting to note that a calculation by the method
 of Dr. Croll of the mean January temperature under 60° N.
as given above, gives lower figures than the extreme minimum
anywhere observed by reliable thermometers ; this latter is
about — 90°'4 F. (-68° C). Neither in the coldest part of
N.E. Siberia nor in the highest latitudes of Greenland and
 Grinnell-land have lower temperatures been noted ; and yet in
Floeberg Beach the sun is absent from the horizon more than
 four months. The lower we make the temperature of space,
the more conspicuous is the tenacity with which the surface
of the earth and the lower stratum of air retain a relatively
high temperature.
    Dr. Croll says, in ' Climate and Time,' p. 43, " The stoppage
 of all currents would raise the temperature of the equator
   * I just see that Prof. Laagley has determined the temperature of
space ; but the actual figures and all details are still wanting.
                                    R2

232             Dr. A. Woeikofs Examination of
55°, t. e. give it a mean temperature of 135°." Now such a
temperature is not only above anything known on the globe
as the mean temperature even of a single month, but the
absolute maximum known by exact observations does not
exceed 131° F. (55° C).
    Though Dr. Croll repeatedly, and quite rightly, points oat
the far greater influence of ocean -currents as compared with
air-currents in modifying the temperature of the globe, he
quite unexpectedly expresses an opinion as to the power ol
air-currents in cooling the temperature of the ground and
air at the equator, which ought not to remain unchallenged.
" No knowledge whatever as to the intensity of the sun's heat
can be obtained from observations on the temperature of the
air at the equator. The comparatively cold air flowing in
 from temperate regions has not time to be fully heated by the
 sun's rays before it rises in an ascending current, and returns
 to the temperate regions from whence it came. More than
 this, these trades prevent us from being able to determine
 with accuracy the intensity of the sun's heat from the tem
 perature of the ground ; for the surface of the ground in
 equatorial regions is kept at a much lower temperature by the
 air blowing over it than is due to the intensity of the sun's
 heat"*.
    Certainly no physicist or meteorologist ever thought of a
determination of the sun's heat by observations on the tem
perature of the air or the ground at the equator or elsewhere.
 But Dr. Croll evidently thinks that this would be possible at
the equator were it not for the influence of cool winds from
temperate regions !
    Let us first see how far facts corroborate this opinion.
According to Ferrel's tables, the mean annual temperature of
 10° N. is 81° F., of the equator 80°'l F.; thus the equator
 cannot be cooled by winds from the northern hemisphere, as
 the lowest latitudes of the latter are warmer than the equator.
 The cool winds must come from the south. Yet the mean
 annual temperature of 10° S. is 780,7, i. e. only l0-4 lower than
 the equator. Even in July, the winter of the southern hemi
 sphere, the difference amounts to but 3"8, i. e. in the annual
 mean to 0°'14 F. for a degree of latitude, in July to O0,38
 for the same.
    The greater part of the equatorial region consists of ocean
and islands, where, at least south of the equator, tlie trade-
winds prevail. They are not strong winds, a few ocean regions
excepted, they have a very easterly direction, and blowing
   * ' Climate and Cosmology,' chap, iv., and ' Nature,' vol. rxi. p. 129.

        Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.     233
over very large extents of sea, they bring to the equatorial
regions the temperature which prevails over tropical seas.
There can be no question of an influence of aerial currents
 from the middle latitudes on the temperature of the equator,
and the latitudes 10° N. to 5° S. at least. Two examples
show how the thermal influence of stronger winds than the
trades nearly disappears as soon as they have blown over an
extent of about 1000 miles of sea. The coldest region of the
tropics in winter is Southern China ; near Canton frosts
are not rare in winter ; the N.E. monsoon blows as a strong
steady wind towards the coast of Cochin China; and yet at
Saigon, but 12£° south of the tropic, the mean temperature of
January is not below the normal of the parallel. We have :—
                                          Mean temperature
                                             of January.
          Canton, 23° N                           54-8
          Hong Kong (Victoria), 22° N . . 535
          Saigon, 11° N                           77-5
Thus, between Hong Kong and Saigon the difference per
degree of latitude is 1°'8 P., while the mean difference in
January between 10° and 20° N. is ()"77 F. per degree of lati
tude. Thus we see, that when a cold wind from the middle
latitudes reaches the borders of the tropical zone, it is soon
warmed on passing over the broad expanse of the seas, and
already north of 10° N. the cooling influence is not felt.
The exceedingly small difference of temperature in the zone
between 10° N. and 10° S. is a proof that the cooling influence
of winds from middle latitudes is not felt there.
   Another cold wind reaches the tropical zone—the famous
Northers of the Gulf of Mexico. This is not a steady wind
like the N.E. monsoon of China, but a cold wind blowing at
times with the utmost violence. At the mouth of the Rio
Grande (26° N.) frosts happen every winter, and even tem
peratures of 23° have been observed during Northers ; the
latter are frequent and dangerous at Vera Cruz (19° N.) ;
but the temperature does not sink below 51°, and not below
59° on the exposed, relatively very cold plateau of Tarifa, on
the isthmus of Tehuantepec. Owing to their extreme vio
lence, the Northers keep for a longer distance a much lower
temperature than other winds of the tropical zone. Not
withstanding the Northers, the mean January temperature
of Vera Cruz (710-7) is not below the mean for the latitude.
   On the extensive wooded plains of the Upper Amazons
weak winds and calms prevail for a great part of the year, ana
the S.E. winds of the drier months have so little the power

234           Dr. A. Woeikofs Examination of
of cooling the air, that at Iqnitos the absolute minimnm
during a year was 66°"8 F. It is clear that in continental
regions also, cold winds from the middle latitudes do not
reach the equatorial zone.
    It may be fairly asked, Where and how did Dr. Croll get
his opinion about the cooling influence of winds from middle
latitudes on the temperature of the equatorial regions?
Would it not have been better to inquire about some of the
best-known facts of climatology, before speculating " k perte
de vue," and bluntly stating that the mean temperature of
the equator would be 55° above what it is now, if it was not
for the heat-abstracting action of ocean-currents ? Why, on
the Upper Amazons there is no such heat-abstraction ; aerial
currents can certainly not have a cooling influence of even a
degree F.; and yet the mean temperature, reduced to sea-level,
is not anything like 135° F., but below 80°. Besides the
immense influence of the diathermancy of the atmosphere
and its enormous variations in time and place, another ex
ceedingly important consideration has been overlooked by
Dr. Croll, viz. the very great difference of continent and
ocean in the matter of temperatures, the fact that an equal
loss of heat, expressed in calories, will have a very different
influence on temperatures, both on account of the great,
caloric capacity of water and of the mobility of its particles.
I must add that the latter condition is too often lost sight
of, not only by Dr. Croll, but by many other scientists, in
their speculations on the influence of a solid or liquid sub
stratum on the distribution of terrestrial temperatures.
    Besides, we have the formation of ice on the waters, which
also has a great influence on the temperatures.
   Thus it is easy to see, that the question how great will be
the temperature of the air at a given place, say in midwinter,
when the distance of the sun is greater or less than at present,
cannot be answered, even approximatively, especially in the
exceedingly crude way in which it is put by Dr. Croll,
i. e., without distinguishing high and low latitudes, continent
and ocean, &c. One thing is certain, that such a change will
certainly have a greater influence on the temperatures in the
interior of continents than on the oceans and their borders.
The caloric capacity of water is so great, and the mobility
of its particles so effectual in resisting a diminution of the
surface-temperature (by the convection-currents it causes),
that I doubt very much if, during a great exceutricity and
winter in aphelion, the surface-temperature of the oceans can
be lower in winter than now. The difference in the quantity
of sun-heat is too small and too fleeting to give an appre

         Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.          235
ciable difference in winter, and, as in the year there is no
difference in the quantity of heat received by the waters, I
think there will be no difference in the temperature of the
waters, and thus no influence of great excentricity and
winter in aphelion on the ocean temperatures, and also no
greater snowfall than now. As to the continents, I admit
that, though we are unable to calculate the rate of decrease of
temperature of the winter months under these conditions, there
is no doiibt that it will be appreciable, and be the greater the less
a given place is under the influence of the seas.
   But what has this to do with glaciation ? Even now, the
temperatures in the interior of large continents are low enough
in midwinter to allow of the snow remaining on the ground for
some weeks, not only under 45° N., but under 40° N. And yet
we have no glaciers on the North-American continent, which
reaches to 71° N., or on the Asiatic, which reaches to 78° N.,
except in high mountain-regions, because the snowfall of
winter is so small that it is melted in summer. Even the
mountains of N.E. Siberia have no glaciers.
   The greater part of the snow which lies on the ground in N.E .
Siberia falls in autumn, when the air contains vapour of water
enough to allow of a great precipitation ; the snowfall of
winter contributes very little. Now what would a further
lowering of the temperature of winter produce ? A further
diminution of the quantity of the falling snow. It would
then even sooner be melted in the warmer summer months.
    The cold of winter in the interior of largo continents of
high latitudes, especially that of Asia, has very important in
direct results : the high pressure and the resulting cold and
dry winds of winter, especially towards the S. and E. of the
region of high pressure. These winds, the cold dry winter
monsoon winds of Eastern Asia, are unfavourable to snowfall,
so that in the interior of Transbaikalia, for example, with mean
winter temperatures of —13° F. and below, there is generally
too little snow for sleighing ; and if the quantity of snow
 falling near the mouth of the Amoor is larger, it falls almost
entirely in October and November, i. e. at the beginning of
 the cold season, and in the few days with east winds, which
bring warmer and moistor air from the seas, not yet frozen
 in these months.
     A lower winter temperature and an earlier beginning of
 the cold in the interior of Asia would increase the pressure
 towards the north and the interior of the continent, and thus
 give a greater impetus, strength, and duration to the dry N.W.
 winds, and so be even less favourable to snowfall and an
  accumulation of snow.

236            Dr. A. Woeikof's Examination of
   In summer the winds in Eastern Asia are S.E., and bring
clouds and rain far inland. Owing to the high temperature
of the continent and of the surrounding seas, rain and not
snow falls even at great heights, for example, up to 15,000 feet
in the mountains of Kansu in Western China (37° N.). Thus
the heavy rains of summer are not favourable to an accumu
lation of snow, but, on the contrary, assist in melting the
small quantity which may remain on the ground.
   During a high excentricity and winter in aphelion the tem
perature must be higher in summer, and this would cause a
lower pressure on the plateaux in the interior of Asia. This
would increase the difference of pressure between the ocean
and the interior of the continent, and give a greater impetus
to the moist winds and bring larger quantities of rain, at least
where the air is ascending. Such conditions would then
favour the melting of snow to a greater height than now. At
present, in Northern Thibet for example, permanent snow is
found at 17,000 feet ; then it would disappear perhaps even
to 20,000 feet.
   The climatic conditions of Asia show us, so to speak, the
normal reactions between continent and ocean. Everywhere
there is a tendency towards a higher pressure in the interior
of continents in winter and on the oceans in summer, and to
winds from the first in winter, from the second in summer;
that is, there are what Coffin calls monsoon influences. A
colder winter in the interior of the continents, with an un
changed temperature on the oceans, would certainly strengthen
the winter winds from the interior, and thus bring more cold
dry weather than is experienced now, and reduce the precipi
tation in winter. Such conditions are certainly not favourable
to a greater accumulation of snow than prevails now. The
Ural Mountains have, as well as those of Norway, prevailing
W. winds and a much colder winter ; but, on account of the
smaller snowfall, no permanent snow and no glaciers, while
the W. side of the Scandinavian mountains has enormous
flaciers. If a high excentricity with winter in aphelion can
  ave a considerable influence on climates, it would give to
Western Europe colder winters with a greater proportion of
dry east winds, and warmer summers, both conditions un
favourable to glaciation.
   It has long seemed to me that those who have expressed an
opinion on the favourable influence of winter in aphelion on
flaciation, from Adhemar to Dr. Croll and his followers, have
 een influenced by the present difference of the northern and
southern hemispheres. The glaciation is far more prevalent in
the latter, and this has been ascribed to winter in aphelion on the

         Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.       237
well-known principle " post hoc, ergo propter hoc,"' as it gave
a ready explanation of the former glacial periods of the north
ern hemisphere. I am quite sure that Dr. Croll was also
influenced by the present differences of the two hemispheres.
   Dr. Croll has long been an advocate of the wind theory of
ocean-currents and has proved that, at present, a considerable
quantity of warm water is brought by these currents from the
southern to the northern hemisphere and serves to warm the
latter. In these two questions he has rendered good service
to science. The transport of warm water from the southern
to the northern hemisphere is a fact ; but what is the cause ?
Dr. Croll believes the cause to be, at least indirectly, winter
in aphelion, which brings, especially during high excentricity,
but to a certain degree even now, a host of other indirect
results, by which the given hemisphere is cooled, its trade-
winds are strengthened, and bring the more warm water into
the other hemisphere, the higher the excentricity. I have
shown above that the cause assigned by Dr. Croll is inadequate
to produce any considerable lowering of temperature on the
ocean in winter, and that even the small difference perhaps
possible must be regained in summer. Thus winter in aphe
lion cannot cause the change in the velocity of the trade-
winds and their more southerly extension when winter in
aphelion exists in the northern hemisphere, and the reverse
during winter in aphelion in the southern hemisphere. Why,
then, are the trades of the southern hemisphere blowing
into the northern at present, and also the conditions more
 favourable to glaciation in the southern than in the northern
hemisphere ? There are certainly good reasons for that.
    1. The extent and depth of the oceans of the southern
hemisphere. This gives a greater steadiness and force to the
 winds of that hemisphere ; and the difference is even more
 marked in the westerly winds of middle latitudes than in the
 trades, but is certainly well seen in the latter. Now land acts
 in two ways on the trade-winds: it weakens them first by the
 increase of friction. But this is not all: the trades, few ocean-
 regions excepted, are not strong winds ; they are important
 on account of their extent and steadiness. The gradient
 which causes them is small. Now in such cases land, even if
 it is not a continent but only a cluster of small islands, has a
 great influence on trade-winds in causing local gradients, which
 mav have even an opposite direction to the general gradients,
 thus causing different and sometimes opposing winds. The
 land- and sea-breezes and the monsoons aro cases in point.
 Even where the disturbances of the normal ocean gradients is
 not large enough to cause monsoons, we see generally the

238            Dr. A. Woeikof's Examination of
trades oftener interrupted in summer, when they are weaker,
and when local thunderstorms and rains are more frequent on
land. For the two reasons given, the trades of the southern
hemisphere must be more extensive and stronger than those
of the northern.
    2. The relatively small extent of sea in middle latitudes of
the northern hemisphere in comparison with the southern, must
tend to warm the seas of the former, even if the quantity of
warm water from the tropical seas reaching them be equal.
Thus, generally in middle latitudes, the evaporation goes on at
a higher temperature from the seas of the northern than of the
southern hemisphere. Now, this has a very great influence
on the resulting precipitation; when the evaporation goes on
at or near 32°, there is much more probability that the result
ing precipitation will be snow and not rain even on lowlands ;
the higher the temperature at which the evaporation takes
place, the greater must bo the height at which snow can fall,
on account of cooling by expansion.
    3. Not all cold seas are favourable to glaciation. If they
are surrounded by land on which the winters have a tempe
rature much below 32°, they will be covered with ice, and
thus evaporation will be checked just at the time when it is the
most favourable to snowfall; the ice of the sea will be covered
with snow; the temperature of the air over it may be very low,
but the snowfall will not be great; and thus the conditions
not favourable to glaciation. Such is the condition of many
seas of the northern hemisphere, as the Arctic Ocean north of
 Siberia, the Kara Sea, the bays and inlets north of the North-
American continent, the sea of Okhotsk, &c, which are
covered with ice for many months. These conditions are
favourable to a long and cold winter, but not to a large snow
 fall and the resulting glaciation. The observations made at
many points of the coasts of Siberia and the North-American
archipelago have shown that the snowfall is exceedingly
light. The seas of the higher southern latitudes are deep and
not surrounded by land, and thus by far not so ice-bound,
both on account of the absence of very low temperatures
favourable to the formation of ice, and of the rupture of the
ice, when formed, by winds and currents. Such seas as
these are favourable to snowfall and glaciation on land, as
even in midwinter there is a great extent of water which
evaporates freely. The only parts of the northern hemi
sphere where glaciation is considerable outside of high moun
tains, is the region from Greenland to Francis-Joseph Land;
but here we have rather cold seas, which are yet not entirely
ice-bound even in winter. These seas are more favourable

         Dr. Croll's Hypotheses on Geological Climates.      239
to snowfall and glaciation than those around Great Britain,
because they are colder, and than those of the North-American
archipelago, the Kara Sea, and the Arctic Ocean about Siberia,
because they are less ice-bound in the cold season.
    4. The intense glaciation of the highest southern latitudes
gives an enormous quantity of icebergs floating northwards,
i. e. to the seas of lower latitudes. As the surface of the
southern seas to about 62° S. is below 32° F., even in mid
summer, the icebergs cannot melt till they reach that latitude,
and their immense size enables them to reach sometimes
even the 35th parallel S. They certainly cool the waters,
and thus produce conditions favourable to glaciation even
in lower middle latitudes. This, besides, is a further direct
cause of lower temperatures, and an indirect cause of stronger
and more extensive trade-winds, which reach to beyond the
equator and bring much warm water to the northern hemi
sphere. The geographical position is also favourable to this,
especially the situation of Cape S. Roque and its vicinity.
   It is easy to see from all this, that there is no necessity to
seek far for the reason of the difference of the northern and
southern hemispheres as to glaciation, without calling in aid
the winter in perihelion of the former and the winter in aphe
lion of the latter ; much simpler causes explain the result.
The operation of these causes is exceedingly well illustrated
in the glaciation of a part of the higher latitudes of the
northern latitudes, while to the east and west there is none,
with lower mean annual temperatures.
    I take another example from the southern hemisphere. Its
general geographical conditions are favourable to glaciation,
but by no means everywhere equally. Thus the higher
latitudes of the eastern part of South America have as little
snow, even in winter, as the warmest parts of the European
continent under the same latitudes ; while a degree or two to
the south, South Georgia is deeply glaciated. As to South
America, I must disagree also with Mr. A. R. Wallace * as
to the condition of this continent being a proof of the influence
of winter in aphelion on glaciation. Besides what is stated
above as to the conditions of the eastern part of the continent,
I may mention the absence of snow and glaciers from the
highlands of the Atacama Desert (above 10,000 feet high),
and those between the coast and Lake Titicaca (about 14,000
feet) . Only in the west of the continent, and south of 35° S.,
does glaciation prevail. But where, in the northern hemi
sphere, have we so enormous an extent of sea westwards, with
                    ¦ • Island Life,' p. 142 and foil.

240           Dr. A. Woeikof on Geological Climates.
such regular brisk west winds, bringing an immense quantity
of vapour, which is condensed as snow ? The amount of pre
cipitation on the west coast and the western slope of the moun
tains of South America, south of 40° S., is scarcely equalled
anywhere in the tropics, and, besides, the greatest part falls
in the cold season. The same may be said of the west coast
of the southern island of New Zealand, where also high
mountains rise, and to the west is an immense stretch of
ocean, uninterrupted to the E. coast of South America. The
snowfall is enormous, and glaciers reach down to 700 ft. above
sea-level ; and yet the mean temperature at sea-level is higher
than in other meridians of the southern hemisphere, and the
greater part of the northern also.
   In the two examples given above, evaporation takes place
from seas of relatively high surface temperature, about 50° F.
or more, and in such cases permanent snow can exist but at a
height of some thousand feet, because air rising to such a
height is cooled by expansion, and its vapour precipitated in
the form of snow.          Mr. A. R. Wallace * has very well
shown the importance of high land for glaciation; though,
to my mind, he has gone too far in not admitting the possibility
of glaciation on low lands.
   I must conclude.         An English geologist of note f has
called Dr. Croll's hypotheses brilliant and fascinating. So
they certainly are. The originality of the conception, the
fertility of resource of the author, his indomitable will, are
sympathetic in the highest degree.            With a melancholy
feeling I must state that, interesting and important as are
some parts of the system of Dr. Croll, the main points of it
are opposed to the most certain teachings of meteorology, and
cannot be accepted. Besides the purely geological and cosmo-
logical part of his work, which I do not consider here, and the
tables of excentricity, what can be accepted ? The wind theory
of the upper oceanic currents, the notion of the great clima-
tological effects of these currents (though by no means in the
exaggerated extent given to them by Dr. Croll), and some of
his considerations on the conservative effects of snow and ice.
 The main points on which rests, so to speak, the whole fabric in
its explanation of glaciation and geological climates generally
—the influence of winter in aphelion and perihelion during high
excentricity and the calculation of temperatures in proportion to
the sun-heat received—are, unfortunately, not acceptable.
   Geologists will have to look for other causes to explain the
more or less frequent glacial and interglacial periods, which
their studies lead them to admit.
         * ' Island Life.'      t Mr. Searles V. Wood, jun.

                            [   241     ]
         XXXI. On a Machine for Solving Equations.
                         By C. V. Boys*.
                             [Plate HI.]
AT a late meeting of the Physical Society Mr. C.H. Hinton
       showed some apparatus that he had made to explain the
nature of equations. One of the instruments for representing
the case of a simple equation was manageable enough; but
the second, which dealt with the quadratic, could hardly be
employed to solve a quadratic, as the root was not capable of
continuous variation. It could, therefore, only after con
siderable trouble in trials and errors had been taken, find
those real roots which consisted of whole numbers between
the limits of the machine, say + and — 10.
   At the time that Mr. Hinton was trying to devise a
quadratic machine (with the object not so much of solving
quadratic equations, as of assisting boys to understand the
method employed, now about ten years ago), he showed me
what he had done; and it then occurred to me that continuous
variation might be employed in a machine so that fractional
roots could be found, and that the degree need not be limited
to a quadratic, but that a cubic or one of any power of the
form a + bx + ex* + da:3 + &c. = 0 could be solved. I then half
completed the machine I have now the honour of exhibiting
before the Physical Society, but laid it on one side till the
present time.
   I find that Mr. A. B. Kempe has invented and described! a
machine with the same object. He replaces the expression x
by cos 0, and then by a known process changes the equation
in which the terms are powers of cosines of 0 into one in
which the terms are cosines of multiples of 0. The equation
is then in a state to be dealt with by his machine. A series of
levers jointed on one another, the first hinging on the inter
section of a pair of rectangular axes, have their lengths
variable, so that each one in order can be set so as to be equal
to the coefficient of the corresponding term ; moreover, by
mechanism each one makes with the last the same angle that
the first makes with the axis of x. Thus, on rotating the first,
the end of the last describes a curved line cutting at one or
 more points the axis of y; every angle 0 of the first which
 causes this intersection is noted, and the value being inserted
 in the original equation gives at once one of the real roots.
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read December 12, 1886.
   t 'Messenger of Mathematics,' 1873, vol. ii. p. 51.

242               Mr. C. V. Boys on a Machine
    I am not aware of any other machines for solving equations
of a high order, except Mr. Cunynghame's, which will be
described this afternoon. Machines for solving simultaneous
equations also exist.
    Like Mr. Hinton, I made use of the equality of moments
by arranging a series of levers to operate upon one another.
Thus, let the lovers bo called successively 1, 2, 3, 4, &c; then
1 is on a stationary axis ; it has at unit distance from its axis
and on either side of it pivots, from each of which hangs a
pan or hook labelled — a and + a. If, then, a weight of a
units is put upon either of these pans, the moment of the force
upon the beam will be — or +a units.
    Let a second beam 2 be connected with 1 by a sliding joint
which is permanently at unit distance from the axis of 2 ;
let the joint also carry a scale-pan, and let there be another
scale-pan at unit distance on the other side. These are labelled
 + b and —b. A weight of b units hung on either of these
pans will produce a turning moment on b of +or— b units, and
a turning moment on a of + or — bx units, where x + 1 units is
the distance between the axes of 1 and 2. Such a pair of
beams of course will solve a simple equation whether the root
be positive, negative, whole, or fractional ; for as the second
beam is made to traverse, it must pass some position where
a + bx=0, and on the two sides of this position the moments
on 1 will be opposite in sign. Therefore by shifting the beam
till the arm changes position, the root can be exhibited by a
pointer on a scale.
    Similarly, if a third beam be mounted opposite 1 with a
fixed axis, and if it be provided with pans as before, labelled
 — c and +c, and if this be connected with 2, as 2 is with 1,
then on pushing 2 along between these two beams a weight
of c units on one of the c pans will exert on 2 a moment of
 + cx, and on 1 of + cx2 units. If, then, a quadratic equation
of the form a + bx + cx2 = 0 has to be solved, weights of a, b,
and c units are placed on the proper pans and the beam 2 slid
along until the beam 1 shifts its position. The two places at
which this occurs are the two real roots of the quadratic.
When the quiidratic has no real roots, the machine can be still
 employed to find the impossible roots, as will be explained later.
    A fourth beam placed opposite to 2 and connected with 3,
as 2 is with 1, will in the same way make the machine capable
of finding the real roots of a cubic equation, and so by adding
more beams to the stationary and movable sets, an equation
of any degree can in theory bo solved. Of course, as the
number of joints increases, the friction and elasticity of the
working parts increase enormously, and so with the best

                       for Solving Equations.                 243
work possible there is a practical limit beyond which it is
hardly possible to go.
    The only difficulty lay in the design of the beams, which
would allow the connections between them to be capable of con
tinuous variations at all parts of their length. The joint must
be able to slide freely past the axis and past the coefficient
pans. All the beams are of the same construction except that
alternate ones have the connecting joint on opposite sides of
 the centre, as shown by the diagram fig. 1. Fig 2 is a front
view of a beam with its supporting-rod and coefficient hooks
complete ; fig. 3 a back view, and fig. 4 a plan of the same.
Fig. 5 is a transverse section through the middle, and fig. 6
an end view of a beam and connecting joint but without sup
porting bar. It will be seen that there runs along the back
of each beam a web which may be embraced at any part by
a pair of fingers fixed to the front of the next beam behind it,
 L e. by the beam which is next higher in order of number.
    It is evident that this construction allows the connecting
joint of each beam to slide past the centre of the next lower
one.
    The supporting bars hang from a series of longitudinal
beams lying in a cradle, the alternate ones being joined
together. These then can be shifted relatively past one
another, and one set can carry an index reading on a scale
on the other set, so placed as to read zero when the distance
of the centres of consecutive beams is one unit.
    To show how to apply the machine to find the impossible
roots of a quadratic, it will be necessary to consider the qua
dratic equation y = a -t bx + ex2 as representing a parabola. In
 this parabola a has nothing to do with the shape of the
curve. Variation in a only shifts it or makes it slide up
and down the axis of y. It may therefore be struck out for
the present. Then the parabola passes of necessity through
the intersection of the axis of x and y. If the sign of b is
changed, the new parabola will be a reflection of the old
about the axis oft/. Fig. 7 thus represents the double equa
tion x1 + bx=y.
    The distances of the vertices of these parabolas from the
axis of y are + -:, and the values of y at the vertices are each
    o*               .
 — j-. Now let a line parallel to the axis of x slide down the
axis of y, and let its distance above the axis of a? be a in a
series of equations a + bx + (c)x2=y (the c may be omitted),
then those values of x at which this line cuts the parabola
will be roots of the equations. As it slides down, that is as

244             On a Machine for Solving Equations.
a increases algebraically, it approaches the vertex, and the
two roots become more nearly equal until at the vertex they
join, and there are two equal roots ; here of course 62=4a.
If the sliding line is below this position, it misses the parabola,
and there are no real roots.
    Now going back to the case of real roots, it is clear that
they are equally greater and less than +», which is the
distance of the vertex of the parabola from the axis of y, and
the excess or defect is the half width of the parabola at the
place of cutting. Now this half width is by the nature of
the parabola equal to the square root of the distance along
 the axis from the vertex to the sliding lino. If, then, the
sliding line misses the parabola, the half width of the curve
at the position of the line being equal to the square root of
 its distance above the vertex, will, as this distance is now
 negative, be impossible, or the curve at this region does not
exist ; nevertheless the imaginary half width is still the square
 root of the distance of the sliding line above the vertex.
 Geometry is incapable of representing this impossibility ;
 but it is curious that the machine can be made to indicate
 its existence and measure its amount. Since the ordinates
 of the parabola represent the moments on the first beam for
 every value of x, it is clear that a minimum of moment will
 be produced in the case of impossible roots. If, then, the
 machine fails to find two real roots (which of course must
 be within its limits), the first beam must be constrained by a
spring instead of being free. The deflection will then indicate
 moments, and therefore the position of the minimum may be
 observed. The reading on the scale of the instrument is then
 the real part of the root, and the square root of the moment,
 which may be found by applying weights, the impossible
part.
    In the case of a cubic equation there must be one real
 root, and there may be three ; if only one exists this may be
 found and divided out, when the resulting impossible qua
 dratic can be solved by the machine. If all these roots are
 real, they can of course be found directly.
    In a biquadratic, or one of a higher order, the possible
 roots may be found. If there remain more than two im
 possible roots, the machine is incapable of finding thern.
    While attempting to find properties of such equations that
 might be made use of in the construction of a machine, I
 found a curious relationship between two pairs of curves
 which might be turned to account in a curve-tracing machine.
 They are probably well known, but if so it may be worth

   On some Organic Substances of High Refractive Power.            245
while to mention them, as they have an interest in connection
with this paper.
    It' the signs of all the terms of an equation bx + caP + dx3
 + &c. =y rte changed, the curve of course is in no way-
changed. If the signs of the oven powers be changed, the
curve is obviously turned round about the origin through two
right angles ; but if the sign of the term containing x alone
be reversed, the shape of the curve is entirely altered, yet
the relation between the new and the old curve is very simple.
    Firstly, they cross at the origin, making there equal angles
on either side of the axis of y. Secondly, whatever value of
x be taken the tangents of the two curves for that value
will cross one another and the axis of y in the same point.
This must be so, for the distance of this point from the
origin =y—;E-p, and in this expression no part of the term
involving x remains. Fig. 8 shows the series of curves for
the particular series of equations
                      y=a* + ,6a? + 2x                              (1)
                      y=x3-3o? + 2x                                 (2)
                      y=xi + 3x*-2x                                 (3)
                      y=x*-3xi-2x                                   (4)
 and shows the intersection of three pairs of tangents in y.
    I should say, in conclusion, that I have brought this
machine before the notice of the Physical Society not as a
thing which is likely to be of any practical use, but because
it has a certain interest, more especially in connection with
another machine invented by my friend Mr. Cunynghame,
which is really practically valuable, and which he will show
 this afternoon. (See p. 260.)
 XXXII. Note on some Organic Substances of High Refractive
                Power. By H. G. Madan, M.A.*
 IN the course of some correspondence respecting M. Bert-
        rand's polarizing-prisms, one of which I had the honour
 of showing to the Society last summer, I was informed that
 the cement used was naphthyl-phenyl-ketone dibromide. It
  was evident, from the theory of the prism, that this substance
  must have a refractive index at least as high as that of calc-
  spar for the ordinary ray, viz. 1*658 ; and as so highly re
 fractive a cement seemed likely to be of great value for
      * Communicated by the Physical Society : read January 23, 1886.
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886. "               S

246              Mr. H. Gr. Madan on some Organic
many purposes, I thought it worth while to prepare some of
the ketone and examine its properties. I now exhibit a speci
men of it.
    I prepared it by the general method devised by Grucarevic
and Merz (Berichte der deutschen chemischen Geselkchaft, vi.
pp. 60 & 1238) for obtaining double ketones ; viz. by heating
together benzoyl chloride and naphthalene, and placing in
the mixture a strip of zinc. The product was fractionally
distilled, to free it from the excess of naphthalene, and was
finally obtained as a thick yellow oil, boiling at a point so
nearly that of mercury that a mercury-thermometer could
not be used to determine it. In properties it seems a very
stable, neutral, harmless substance like Canada balsam; but
unfortunately it does not appear capable of hardening like
balsam, and hence it is not by itself adapted for a cement. It
is insoluble in water, but dissolves readily in alcohol and
benzol.
    Its refractive index was determined in the usual way, a
hollow prism (of refracting angle of 59° 48') being filled
with it, and the angle of minimum deviation for yellow sodium-
light .observed with a refractometer ; from which data the
usual formula gave as its refractive index, 1"6G6. This is
 even higher than that of carbon disulphide (1*63), and verv
 nearly the same as that of calcspar given above.
    I compared its dispersive power with that of a prism of
 very dense glass (refractive index 1*73) having a refracting
 angle of 60°, with the following results :—
                                                  Carbon disul-
     Fraunhofer's     Ketone.        Glass.          phide.
        line.           n=            fi=             n=
         B .    .   .  1-654        1-725            1-617
         E .    .  .   1-678        1-744            1643
 From this it is easily seen that the coefficient of dispersion of
 the ketone is 1£ times that of the glass, and almost exactly the
 same as that of carbon disulphide.
     I have made the compound of the ketone with bromine,
  referred to by M. Bertrand, but I hesitate to recommend it
  as a cement, at any rate for anything made of calcspar; as
  it seems liable (like many similar bromides) to decompose
  with formation of hydrobromic acid, which of course acts
  upon the spar.
     The ketone itself has a refractive index quite sufficiently
  high, if only some means can be found of hardening it.
     I cannot, however, yet vouch for its permanency. It was
 made in August last, and remained for several months without
  change; but it has lately shown a tendency to pass from the

                Substances of High. Refractive Power.         247
colloidal to a crystalline condition, especially during the cold
weather, although I had previously exposed it to a tempera
ture of —20° without causing any alteration beyond an in
crease of viscosity.
    I would also ask permission to show the Society a speci
men of another highly refractive substance, viz., metacinna-
mene. It is a polymeric form of cinnamene, obtained by the
action of light or heat upon the latter substance.
    Cinnamene is a colourless liquid, obtained by distillation
from the resin storax. Its refractive index I found to be
1*54 for the D line, nearly the same as that of Canada balsam.
When this liquid is exposed to light for a few weeks, or
heated to 190° in a sealed tube for half an hour, it becomes
a glass-like solid, contracting greatly during the change.
     In order to determine its refractive index, it was heated
until it became viscous and placed in a hollow prism. The
angle of minimum deviation for yellow sodium-light was
found to be 39° 44' 35"; whence its refractive index is cal
 culated to be 1'593. This is much higher than that of any
 other resin, so far as I can make out; and metacinnamene
 would make a very valuable cement, since it is readily
 softened by heat and becomes remarkably hard and tough on
 cooling, but it does not show any great adhesiveness for
 glass. I hope to get good results by mixing it with other
 things, such as the ketone above described.
     Another highly refractive organic substance is monobromo-
 naphthalene, of which I exhibit a specimen.
     It is a nearly colourless liquid, more stable than similar
 compounds containing bromine usually are, and boiling at
 the high temperature of 285° C. Its refractive index for the
  D line is 1*662; very nearly equal to that of naphthyl-phenyl-
 ketone. I am rather surprised that it has not come into use
  as a substitute for carbon disulphide for filling prisms, as it
  is much less volatile and inflammable than the latter sub
  stance, while it has an even higher refractive and dispersive
  power.
      The great desideratum at present is, a substance which has all
  the excellent qualities of Canada balsam—colourless, neutral,
  permanent in the air, becoming fluid when moderately heated,
   but hard and tough when cold, and with a refractive index
   of at least 1'66.
      Such a substance would not only be of great use in the
   construction of polarizing and other prisms, but it would also
   be invaluable as a medium for mounting microscopic objects;
   since details of structure are brought out much more clearly
                                    S2

 248 Determination oftlie Volume of Mercury in a Thermometer.
 when the object is immersed in a medium which differs
 greatly from it in refractivity.           Phosphorus, arsenic sul
 phide, and mercury-potassium iodide have been used for this
 purpose, but they are all open to grave objections. None of
 them are permanent in the air ; some are dangerously in
 flammable ; while most of them act on delicate organic struc
 tures, although available for such things as siliceous Dia-
tomaceae.
    The most hopeful direction in which to look is undoubtedly
 towards some of those complex organic compounds which
are now being built up by many workers in England and
 Germany.
XXXIII. Note on the Determination of the Volume of Mercury
    in a Thermometer. By A. W. Clayden, M.A., F. G.S.,
    Bath College*.
IN Professor Clark's paper on the Heat-capacity of a
       Thermometerf, he shows that it may be calculated ap
proximately if the specific gravity of the instrument, and that
of the glass of which it is made, be known. The first step in
his method is to determine the volume of the contained mer
cury, which he points out may be ascertained by the following
formula,
                                    V(S-S,),
                            Vl_ s,-s2 '                                w
            in which Vj = the volume of mercury,
                       Si = its specific gravity,
                       V = the volume of the instrument,
                        S = its specific gravity,
                       S2 = the specific gravity of the glass.
Now this expression will only be correct if the bulb and tube
of the thermometer be completely filled with mercury, as they
will be at a temperature (^°) slightly above the highest read
ing of the scale. At all lower temperatures V will be too
large and S too small ; an error being introduced, as Professor
Clark points out, by the empty space of unknown capacity
which occupies the unfilled portion of the tube.
    At this higher temperature (<), v*i becomes V1(l+/9/), /8
being the absolute coefficient of expansion of mercury. Simi
larly V becomes V(l+ut), « being the coefficient of cubical
expansion of the glass.
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read January 28, 1880.
   t Proc. Physical Soc. vol. vii. p. 113. [Phil. Mag. vol.xx. p. 48.]

         On "Resistance" at the Surfaces of Electrodes.           249
    Also
                s                      s
 S becomes l + cu ;' Sxl becomes 1n + -=-;
                                                                 °
                                         /3t ' and Saa becomes 1 +*t'
  If, now, these results be substituted for those in formula (1),
the expression obtained will be theoretically correct, as the
empty space vanishes at t°.
   Thus
                            V(i+«o(-A_--A_\
             Vi(1+/3<) =            a,         a, —»
                                  l+@t       1+eU
 which, by simplification, becomes
                       v*-:        is2(i+^)                       (2)
                               1      l + at
   It will be seen that (2) gives rather a larger result than (1),
 because /8 is greater than a. This, however, is what must be
 expected if reference is made to (1). There V is too large
 and S is too small, so that the product VS remains unaltered ;
               W
 because S= -^ if V is the volume in cubic centimetres,
 whence VS = W ; but the product VS2 becomes greater as
V increases. Hence (1) gives too small a value for Vj, a
result which is compensated for in (2).
  XXXIV. On "Resistance" at the Surfaces of Electrodes in
       Electrolytic Celts. By G. Gore, LL.D., F.R.S.*
IN a former paper on "Evidence respecting the Reality of
      Transfer-resistance in Electrolytic Cells ' (Proc. Birm.
Phil. Soc. 1886, and Phil. Mag. February 1886, vol. xxi.), I
have shown that the passage of an electric current into or out
of an electrode of sheet platinum by means of dilute nitric
or sulphuric acid, sets free at the surface of contact of the
metal and electrolyte an amount of heat which cannot appa
rently be accounted for by any other cause than that of an
obstacle of some kind to the passage of the current at those
surfaces.
   And in another paper, " On the Relations of Surface-resist
ance at Electrodes to various Electrical Phenomena " (ibid.),
  * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Birming
ham Philosophical Society, February 11, 1886.

250      Dr. G-. Gore on "Resistance " at the Surfaces
I have further shown by experiments that, with a thermoelec
tric couple composed of a hot and cold sheet of platinum in
dilute nitric or dilute sulphuric acid, " in each of these two
couples the total amount of ' surface-resistance ' in the cir
cuit, when one of the junctions was heated, was very much
greater in the direction of the current produced than in the
opposite one ; " and I inferred that the direction of current
was not due to those differences of resistance. And I further
stated that several of the results of experiments described in
that paper " agree with the conclusion that differences of
transfer-resistance are incapable of producing a current, and
are essentially unlike differences of electric potential ;" also
" that heat decreases such resistance whilst increasing contact-
potential in various metal-electrolyte thermoelectric couples."
   Lest it should still be supposed that the phenomena to which
I have! ventured to apply the term " transfer-resistance " are
not really of the nature of " resistance," but are effects due to
polarization, some kind of counter electromotive' force, or
other form of opposing difference of electric potential, I have
further examined, by means of the following experiments, the
question whether the phenomenon I have found can exist
independently of such difference.
   A single conclusive adverse fact is sufficient to upset the
most fixed theory : if the phenomena termed " transfer-resist
ance " are really due to some form of opposing difference of
electric potential, they ought to disappear wherever such
difference is absent.
   I have tested this point in the following manner :—By the
aid of some tables of " Chemico-electric relations of Metals in
Solutions of Salts of Potassium" (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1877,
No. 200), and in another on " Some Relations of Heat " &c.
(ibid. 1884, No. 233), I selected cases in which two different
metals in an electrolyte produced no voltaic current, and
examined those combinations of metals and liquid for any
differences of "surface-resistance."
   I nearly filled a glass trough, 10-0 centim. long, 2"5 centim.
wide, and 3-0 centim. deep, with a solution consisting of
about 3 grammes of potassic cyanide (of 92-1 per cent.) and
 100 cubic centim. of water. In this solution was immersed,
near the opposite ends of the trough, at 8-0 centim. apart, a
sheet of nickel and one of pure gold, each being l'Ox 1*0
centim., not varnished on the back, and connected with a
graded, dead-beat, Despretz d'Arsonval galvanometer (see
'Nature/ vol. xxxi. p. 8(>), having a resistance of about 150
ohms, and I altered the strength of the liquid until all signs
of difference of potential ceased. (The sensitiveness of the

               of Electrodes in Electrolytic Cells.            251
galvanometer was very largely increased by substituting for
the suspending and connecting wires of silver above and
below the movable coil, fibres of silk, and making the connec
tions with the coil by means of spirals 3'0 millim. diameter,
of platinum wire of about "064 millim. thickness, enclosing
the fibres. The instrument was then much more sensitive than
an ordinary astatic galvanometer of 100 ohms resistance.)
   To test for any difference of " surface-resistance " at the
two metals, an electrode of nickel 2"0 x l-0 centim. was placed
in the electrolyte at exactly mid distance between the end
plates, and the following arrangement employed :—
   A. Battery of six pairs of zinc and platinum in dilute sul
phuric acid. B. Regulator of current (see Proc. Birm. Phil.
Soc. vol. iv. p. 422 ; the < Electrician,' 1885, vol. xv. p. 196).
C. D'Arsonval galvanometer. D. Electrolytic trough. E. Box
of resistance-coils = 2000 ohms. F. Astatic galvanometer,
resistance = 2 ohms. G, H. Two resistance-coils of 5 ohms
each.
   The cyanide solution was at 9° C, and the total strength of
current employed was = "00058 ampere, or '00029 to each end
plate. The middle electrode was of nickel. The total current
was passed in either direction according to whether the two
metals were used as anodes or as cathodes, the bridge galva
nometer F being brought to zero by varying the resistance
in E.
   When the two end plates were used as anodes, 43 ohms
required to be added on the side of the gold plate to restore
the balance ; and when they were employed as cathodes, 280
ohms had to be added on that side to restore it. The amounts,
therefore, of total " surface-resistance " at the gold and nickel
plates were in each case very unequal, that of the nickel one
being the largest.

252       Dr. G. Gore on "Resistance " at the Surfaces
   As the liquid was not stirred, the " surface-resistance "
at each of the two plates included not only what I have termed
" transfer resistance," but also any opposing influence due to
polarization developed by the current. As, however, the
reverse current, produced by first connecting the gold and
nickel plates with the batter}' for a time equalling that of
duration of the experiment, and then instantly switching
them to a galvanometer, was less than one hundredth the
strength of half the total current employed in ascertaining
the inequality of " resistance," the opposing effect due to
polarization must have been exceedingly small, and was equal
 at the two plates. I have already shown in a large variety
and number of cases, described in an extensive research com
 municated to the Royal Society, March 2, 1885, that the
 " resistance " still exists, and varies greatly in amount in
 different cases, when polarization is nearly or entirely pre
 vented by employing and rapidly stirring a suitable electrolyte.
 It may also be remarked that the amount of " resistance " is
 not directly proportional to that of polarization • for whilst
 the opposing force of the latter increases with increased
 strength of current, " transfer-resistance " decreases.
    A second solution, composed of 7*0 grammes of potassic
chloride, '05 gramme of potassic cyanide (of 92'1 per cent.),
and 80 cubic centim. of water at 8° C, was tested with plates
of gold and iron in a similar manner. The plates were each
 1/0 X 1"0 centim., about 9'0 centim. asunder, and not varnished
on their backs ; the gold was very faintly positive, and this
disappeared on stirring the liquid. The total strength of cur
 rent employed was "0014 ampere, or '0007 to each plate. The
middle plate was of iron. With the two metals as anodes,
the iron offered 1230 ohms less, and as cathodes 26-0 ohms
less, "resistance" than the gold.
   And with plates of nickel and copper 10xl-0 centim.,
9'0 centim. apart, and varnished on their backs, in a third
solution, composed of 1*89 gramme of potassic bromide dis
solved in 100 cubic centim. of water at 8° C, the potentials
were equal. The strength of current employed was "0005S
ampere, or "00029 to each metal. The middle plate was of
copper. With the two metals as anodes the nickel offered
650 ohms greater, and as cathodes 210 ohms less, than the
copper.
   We know that the contact of two pieces of the same metal
with an electrolyte of uniform temperature produces no dif
ference of potential. I therefore took two electrodes of sheet
platinum, varnished on their backs, one being 1*0 x 1/0 cen
tim., and the other 2-0x5*0 centim. and 8-0 centim. apart,

                of Electrodes in Electrolytic Cells.           253
in the solution of potassic bromide at 8° C. ; no current -was
produced. I measured their amounts of " surface-resistance "
in the same manner, by means of a middle plate of platinum
and a total current of "00058 ampere. As anodes, the " resist
ance " of the large one was 140 ohms less ; and, as cathodes,
23 ohms less than that of the small one.
   And in another similar experiment with plates of copper,
one being TOx l'O centim. and the other 2'0x5'0 centim.,
8'0 centim. apart, and varnished on their backs, with a middle
plate of copper, in a solution composed of l'O gramme of
glacial phosphoric acid and 10'0 cubic centim. of water at
8° C. As anodes the " resistance " at the surface of the large
one was 50 ohms less, and as cathodes 249 ohms less, than that
at the small one.
   In the first three of these combinations difference of " sur
face-resistance " was obtained by employing plates of different
kinds of metal, and in the last two by using plates of the
same of different sizes. I have already stated (Proc. Roy.
 Soc. 1885, No. 236, p. 209), "that this resistance varies
 Largely in amount with different metals in the same solution;"
 also, that " the usual effect of diminishing the density of
 current alone, by enlarging one electrode only, was to
diminish the resistance at that electrode."
    The results of each of these ten experiments show that the
 influence which opposes the current at the surfaces of metallic
 electrodes in electrolytes, exists independently of counter
 electromotive force, polarization, and all other forms of electric
 potential, and is therefore a distinct phenomenon, and cannot
 be due to those causes.
   The magnitudes of " surface-resistance " at each plate of
different metal in the first three liquids were also separately
measured by means of an ordinary method with a condenser.
The two end plates were immersed, 4'0 centim. apart, in the
liquid in a glass beaker ; the battery, regulator, D'Arsonval
galvanometer, a coil of 200 ohms resistance, and a closed
connecting-key being in the circuit. A condenser of '33
microfarad capacity was then connected, through a Thomson's
reflecting galvanometer of 3040 ohms resistance and a key,
with the electrolyte close to one of the plates by means of a
wire of the same metal as one of the electrodes, and with the
 wire circuit near that electrode, and the deflection noted.
After discharging the condenser, a second deflection was ob
 tained in a similar manner by means of the potentials on each
 side of the other plate ; and a third by means of those at the
 two ends of the coil ; and the " resistances " calculated from
 the results.

254       On "Resistance " at tlte Surface of Electrodes.
   With the gold and nickel plates in the solution of potassic
cyanide at 8 C, and a strength of current ="00029 ampere,
the " resistances " were :—
                              As Anode.      As Cathode.
           Gold . . . 114 ohms.              1044 ohms.
           Nickel ... 143 „                   801 „
   With the gold and iron in the mixture of potassic chloride
and cyanide at 8° C, and a strength of current = "0007 ampere,
the " resistances " were :—
                               As Anode.      As Cathode.
           Gold . . . 1136 ohms.              768 ohms.
           Iron ...             56 „          360 „
   And with nickel and copper in the solution of potassic
bromide at 8° C, and a current of '00029 ampere, the
" resistances " were :—
                                As Anode.      As Cathode.
           Nickel . . . 639 ohms.              1565 ohms.
           Copper ... 130 „                    1565 „
    The results obtained by this method agree substantially
with those obtained by the previous one ; there are, however,
some considerable discrepancies in the amounts. It need
hardly be remarked that in such experiments it is very diffi
cult to obtain perfectly concordant quantitative results by two
such different methods, and that it would not be reasonable to
expect them. The results uniformly confirm the conclusion
that " surface-resistance " may exist independently of all
difference of electric potential.
   Equality of voltaic potential, attended by more or less
difference of " surface-resistance," may be obtained by a
variety of arrangements ; and a large number of additional
instances might be selected in which the potentials are equal
whilst the "resistances" are unequal. The ones chosen were
preferred because they were convenient and comparatively
manageable. Oases of equality of " resistance " accompany
ing difference of potential might probably also be found.
   Is the phenomenon I have detected really of the nature of
ordinary electric conduction-resistance ? If it is, its charac
ters will agree with the most essential ones of that influence.
It agrees in several important points with ordinary conduction-
resistance : first, it is not able to produce a current ; second,
it is usually small with those liquids in which ordinary resist
ance is small ; and, third, it is considerably reduced in liquids
by rise of temperature (see " Relations of Surface-resistance
at Electrodes," Phil. Mag. vol. xxi., Feb. 1886). It differs,

            On some Thermodynamical Relations.                   255
however, from conduction-resistance in the less important
circumstance that it varies in amount with the strength and
density of the current ; with a given electrolyte it is also
usually much larger in amount than the ordinary conduction-
resistance of a short section of that liquid : this appears
consistent with the difference of conditions.
    From these various fundamental truths respecting it,
"transfer-resistance" is a retarding influence essentially
similar to ordinary conduction-resistance, but modified, in
creased in amount, and rendered more complex by taking
place at the surfaces of mutual contact of two heterogeneous
bodies instead of in the mass of a homogeneous substance ;
but whether it ought to be designated by some other term
than the one I have found it convenient to employ is a ques
tion not yet settled. It is my intention, if I am not prevented,
to further investigate the subject.
   As the magnitude of this " resistance " to that of the mass
resistance in a given electrolytic or voltaic cell is usually
large, especially with non-corroded metals, it performs an
important part in the action of voltaic batteries and electro
lytic cells. One important practical application of the fact
that "transfer-resistance" is usually diminished by enlarging
the electrodes, has been made in the olectro-metallurgical
purification of copper on the large scale, where a great saving
has been effected by arranging the depositing-vats in "multiple
series." I have also shown (Phil. Mag. vol. xxi. 1886, p. 150)
that in consequence of diminution of " transfer-resistance " by
rise of temperature, with a voltaic element composed of zinc
and platinum in dilute suphuricacid, " the electromotive force
was increased about 8"38 per cent., and the strength of cur
rent 220 per cent., or to 3"2 times its original amount, by
raising the temperature of the platinum negative plate 81 C.
degrees."
XXXV. Note on the Paper on some Tlieiinodynamical Relations
   by Prof. W. Ramsay and Dr. S. Young. By Professors
   W. E. Ayrton, F.R.S., and John Perry, F.R.SS
 WE have written this note partly for the purpose of draw
         ing attention to the fact that, although scientific work
 of many kinds is being much more thoroughly done now than
 ever before in the history of the world, mainly because the
 workers are specialists, yet a great deal of valuable work is
 rendered comparatively useless because the specialist is now
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read January 23, 1880.

256                  Professors Ayrton and Perry on
too perfect a specialist, and so obtains no help from other
departments of physics than that in which he himself is
working.
   We have ourselves, for example, wasted much time in use
less observation of what seemed to be capricious behaviour of
voltaic cells, a result to be expected when electricians who
are not practical chemists conduct chemical investigations.
Again, the specialist in pure mathematics might often do
much more valuable work if he had practised the application
of his mathematics to natural phenomena, for he would learn
of new directions in which to conduct his special investiga
tions. We have been told by certain authorities in Chemistry
that a few chemists with a good working knowledge of
mathematics possess at the present time facilities for rapidly
improving our knowledge of chemical science.
   Drs. Ramsay and Young must forgive us for making their
recent papers the text of a discourse of this kind. We might
have selected papers by other authors which show more clearly
the truth of what we say ; but the work done by these two
gentlemen is of such a valuable kind, their scientific positions
are so well established, that we can venture to take this libertv
without feeling that we do any harm in making an illustration.
   These gentlemen read a paper at the last meeting of the
Physical Society, in which they gave the gist of two papers,
one of which had been published in the December number of
the Philosophical Magazine, and the other has since been
published in the January number. Members of the Society
will find the first of these in the number of the ' Proceedings '
of our Society which reached them yesterday. Referring to
the papers in the Philosophical Magazine and to the published
abstract of the paper read before the Physical Society, we have
for saturated vapours :—
   I. Rnnsay's first law :
                 is constant for all substances at the same pressure ;
      •si    s2 l l)omg latent heat, and s2 and sx the specific
                volumes of the liquid and saturated vapour.
  II. Rimsay's second law :
               at pressure p, bears a constant ratio to            a/
     *1 — s* pressure p2 for all substances.                *i~-*j
  III. Young's law :
          t -f- is constant for all substances at any given pres
                sure ; t being the absolute temperature, and p the
                pressure of a saturated vapour.

                 some Tliermodynamical Relations.            257
   Their paper, published in the December number of the
Philosophical Magazine and in our ' Proceedings,' is devoted
to the illustration of these three laws, and it is the record of
an extraordinarily large amount of calculation.
   IV. Eamsay and Young's law :
        -j- It -j-\ is nearly constant for all stable substances
               at the same pressure.
   One of us pointed out in the discussion on the paper, that
to measure ~ by drawing a tangent to a plotted curve was
usnally an inexact method ; and that much greater accuracy
would have been obtained by the authors if they had, for each
substance, found the values of the constants a, /8, and 7 in
Rankine's well-known formula
                    logp=«-f-|+&c;                            (1)
and that probably the best way of making a comparison
between two substances and observing changes due to dissocia
tion would be by remarking that, for the substances examined
by Eegnault,
              «~— |s+ &c. =a-g-Ji + &c->
             a-                                     •  •  •   (2)
if t and 6 are the absolute temperatures of two saturated
vapours at the same pressure. It is unlikely that any person
will discover an improvement on Rankine's formula just given.
It cannot merely be looked upon as an empirical formula
being based on Rankine's molecular theory. The exactness
with which Rankine has reproduced Regnault's numbers,
using only three constants, is exceedingly remarkable. Ran
kine in his paper refers to the formula
                          logj>=«-f,                          (3)
which is the same formula but with two constants only, and
is inexact for calculations of pressure.
   To show that Messrs. Ramsay and Young might have em
ployed a less laborious method of testing, we may first point
out that it would have reduced the labour by something like
75 per cent, to have recognized the fact that I., II., III., and
IV. are all identical. If any one of them is true, they must

258              Professors Ayrton and Perry on
all be true.   Thus III., when stated mathematically, is simply
                         *t-*o*                               w
</>Q>) being the same function of the pressure for all sub
stances. Differentiating (4) with regard to p, we obtain at
once law IV. If it had sooner been observed that
                                 _t d£
                         *i — ss J dt
                                                              (5)
is simply a statement of the Second law of Thermodynamics,
the authors would probably have examined the truth of the
law in the shape III. only; since the specific volumes of
vapours are so difficult to test experimentally, that Rankine,
to obtain the density of steam, calculated s1 — *2 by dividing
the latent heat L by y-^- rather than depend on direct
measurement.       Again, since the first law is         =<f>(p),
if we insert Lj and L2, px and p3, s and a, we see that law II.
is identical with I., and therefore I., II., III., and IV. are
 merely different methods of stating the same law, and to test
 one is to test them all.
    Now we are sorry to say that we should not have attempted
 to test any of these forms of the law. The form which maybe
 tested with most accuracy is III., or, as it may be stated
 mathematically, as in (4)
 or
                            dp    dt
                            4p~ t'
 or
                            t = a+(p),                         (6)
 where t is the absolute temperature corresponding to the pres
 sure^ of a saturated vapour ; a is a number which depends on
 the nature of the substance, and the function ^fr{p) is the same
 for all substances. Hence to tost laws I., II., III., and IV.
 it is simply necessary to see whether (6) is true, as (6) is
 identical with them. Now if (6) is true, it follows that the
 ratio of the temperatures of two vapours to one another at
 any pressure is the same as at any other pressure, or
                                0=kt                          (7)
    In fact, then, we can test laws I., II., III., and IV. by

                some Tnermodynamical Relations.             259
simply testing (7) ; and, as we find from Regnault's or
Rankine's formula (1) or (2) that (7) is untrue, there is
nothing further to be said about the four laws in question.
    We draw attention to the fact that Dalton's law, which was
the earliest law concerning saturated vapours, and of whose
inaccuracy the text-books always warn us, is a much more
correct law than the four identical laws which we have been
considering. For, to state Dalton's law mathematically,
                            &-*<*>                           w
That is, the rate of change of pressure with temperature is
constant at a given pressure lor all saturated vapours. Inte
grating (8), we obtain Dalton's law in the shapes
                          t + a=1r(j>),                      (9)
                          e=t+b                            (io)
That is, there is a constant difference between the tempera
tures of two saturated vapours at the same pressure. Now
 this law has been known to be incorrect for a long time ; but
 if, assuming this law to be correct, we calculate the tempera
 tures of saturation corresponding to various pressures of, say,
 bisulphide of carbon from those of water, we shall find our
 errors to be much smaller than those obtained when we use
 any of the above-mentioned four laws.
     Of the law connecting 0 and t, which has been published
 in the January number of the Philosophical Magazine, it is
 easy to see that the two forms in which it has been stated by
 the authors are inconsistent with one another. Such incon
 sistency is not of much importance in the statement of empi
 rical laws ; but we think that one of the forms is preferable
 to the other on account of its symmetry, as it may be put in
 the form :—The reciprocals of the absolute temperatures of
 two saturated vapours at corresponding pressures are linear
  functions of one another, or
  Or, again, it may be put into the shape
  which may be compared with (3).
      In conclusion, it will be observed that in calculating the
  temperature of a saturated vapour, a small-looking error may

260      Mr. H. Cunynghame on a Mechanical Method
represent an error which looks much larger in the pressure.
In comparing the errors of calculation from other empirical
formulae with those due to Rankine's formula, it is well to
remember that Rankine calculated pressure, and that his
errors, which for that reason might have been expected to
appear large, were very small, thus showing the great accuracy
of his formula.
XXXVI. On a Mechanical Method of Solving Quadratic and
   Cubic Equations, whether the Roots be real or impossible.
   By Henry Cunynghame, Barrister-at-Law* .
rpHE method which I have the honour to bring before this
 J- Meeting depends upon the use of a parabola of the form
represented by the equation ,vn=y. And it is capable of
effecting solutions of all equations of the form .r" + »i.c = C.
   Let us first examine the case of a cubic equation. By
Cardan's rule reduce the equation to the form x3 + Ax + B=0.
In fig. 1 let P 0 Q be a cubical parabola, such that the ordi
nate at any point represents the cube root of the abscissa
along the axis of X, measured negatively towards the right.
That is to say, let OM = (PM)3. From P draw any line such
that the angle PNM= cot"1 A, and let ON = B. Then it is
clear that
                     OM + MN + ON=0;
that is,
                (PM)3 + PM cot PNM + ON = 0 ;
or, putting PM=,«, cotPNM = A and ON = B, we have
                       *» + A* + B=0.
And this, therefore, shows that if from a point N, such that
ON = B, we draw a line NP inclined at such an angle with
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read December 12, 18S5.

           of Solving Quadratic and Cubic Equations.        261
OX that tanPNM = A, then the value PM will represent a
root of tho equation a:3 + A.r + B = 0. Of course, if FN pro
duced cuts the other branch of the cubical parabola, there
will be two other real roots. If it does not, those other roots
will be impossible.
   In making a machine practically, it is well for convenience
to draw on a paper a cubical parabola, say 2 feet wide,
and make 1000 divisions on OX each way. Then make
X 11=^/1000 = 10. But as this would make the parabola too
thin, lot us multiply its ordinates by 10, and then take a co-
tangent protractor scale with the cotangents also multiplied
by 10. So that the parabola drawn, as well as tho tangent
scale in any position, is an orthographic projection of the real
one. Such a machine will find real roots true to two places
of decimals.
   To find the impossible roots. First find the real root, say
P ; draw P Q to touch the other branch of the parabola in Q.
It may then bo easily shown (though lam not aware that it
has been before pointed out) that
and that therefore
                                     PM*
                        OS = SQ3= —•
                                      o
And, further,
                         SW _ SQ _ 1
                        MW _PM~2'
and
        SW + MV= SO + OM= —¦ + PM3= g PM8;
whence
                        3SW=2PM3;
and
                         SW=2PM3,
and
                        MW=§PM3.
Now if a be the real root of the equation, so that PM = « ;
then, by dividing (.r — a) into x3 + Ax + B=0, we can easily
show that the other two imaginary (or real) roots are given
by the expressions
B being =a' + Aa.      But we have already shown that
                      |«,= JPMS=MW,
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.        T

262      Method of Solving Quadratic and Cubic Equations.
                          MN
and we know that A= Tfj-n ; wherefore
                          MP
            ,A - i . /MN .MW                    /WN
           4/A- f «'= V MP ~ *MP = V MP 5
which gives us this curious result—that if PM be the real
root of the equation, the other two roots are
                      PM
                        , ±v ratio of \VM:PM.
 If W lies to the left of N, then WN is negative and the roots
are impossible. If it lies to the right of N then the roots are
 real ; and of course the ratio WN to PM is easy to find with
 the tangent scale ; for it is the difference of the cotangents of
 the angles PNM and PWN, and may be read off" at once by
 sliding the cotangent scale so as to have its centre at W and
 its edge parallel to NP; or, in fact, in any convenient
manner.
    It remains only to add, that a geometrical relation can
always be found for the impossible parts of the roots of all
equations given by the form x* + mx = C. Thus, in a parabola
the impossible part would be represented by the horizontal
distance of the line PN, measured along the axis of X from
the tangent to the curve drawn parallel to PN, and would
 thus be the square root of a line, not of a ratio.
    The same instrument may be used to take square roots of
any numbers, so as to find the square root of the ratio above
 mentioned, by holding the cotangent protractor so that its
 centre is at 0, and the division on its scale corresponding to
 the square of which the root is required is on the axis of X.
Then we shall have -g^ = cot a = division on the scale.
                          . . .                        PM3
But OM = PM3 ; /. division on the scale shows               , that
is to say PM2, whence PM gives the square root required.
 The values of PM should be written off in divisions and de
 cimals along the branches OP and OQ, one being negative,
 the other positive ; and the sides of the protractor, and also
 the axes OX, OX', should be marked with their proper
signs.
    It will be observed throughout that T have treated lines and
areas and ratios of lines as representing numerical values.
 Hence the equations above given have numerical values for x ;
 and to make all the terms of the oquations of the same order,

Electromotive Farces in Voltaic and Tliermoelectric Piles.         263
constants would Lave to be introduced, which I have left out
because they are unnecessary.
   The following is a sketch of the machine represented in the
act of solving the equation a?—2Qx — 200 = 0.
                                                      i—i    i  i
                                                               J00O
                                                       Negative valuer
                                                          tf B
   (One of these instruments is to be seen at the loan collec
tion, South Kensington, where it will remain permanently.)
XXXVII. On the Seat of the Electromotive Forces in Voltaic
   and Thermoelectric Piles. Reply to Professors Ayrton and
   Perry. By Dr. Oliver Lodge*.
I AM glad that Professors Ayrton and Perry have reprinted
      their criticism of my paper to the Society of Telegraph
Engineers at length in the Philosophical Magazine—with a
few emendations and additions doubtless, but with no sub
stantial alterations ; for though I replied to the greater part
of it at the time, as reported in the ' Journal ' of the Societyt,
there are one or two points which have been now brought
more prominently and distinctly forward, notably a more
precise statement of their thermoelectric views, first appended
by Prof. Perry as a footnote, by Prof. Ayrton as a descrip
tion of experiments with hot and cold mercury, to their
respective communications in the Journal of the Society for
last year. The difference between our modes of regarding
electrical phenomena are so fundamental, and the smaller
points at issue so numerous, that it would be easy to canyon
the controversy by harassing each other in all manner of places
                   • Communicated by the Author.
                   + April 1885.
                                 T2

264      Prof. Oliver Lodge on the Seat of the Electromotive
at once, and to tight over the domain, not only of electricity,
but of hydraulics and mechanics as well. Hitherto this has
been our policy, but the result is that we stubbornly maintain
our respective positions and neither side obtains any striking
advantage. Moreover this kind of skirmishing at the present
stage would consume a good deal both of time and space, and
it is doubtful whether much of it would be profitable.
   I propose therefore to change my tactics, and, fixing upon
some one well-marked and crucial position, try to show under
what conditions it can be held by either side, and what con
sequences would result from its abandonment by the other.
    Such a position is afforded by the thermoelectric views
deliberately and specifically expressed in their last communi
cation in the January Philosophical Magazine. For our
opinions on one part of this subject are quite definite and yet
quite contradictory*.
    I hold that local heat-production in a metallic circuit is a
precise measure of local E.M.F. Professors Ayrton and Perry
hold that the two things are unconnected, or at least quite
otherwise connected.
   The question then is, Does a seat of E.M.F. necessitate a
source of reversible heat at the same spot ? or, conversely, Does
a local E.M.F. exist wherever reversible heat appears? and
are the E.M.F. and the reversible heat directly proportional
to one another ?
    In discussing this question we both have, and I especially
(as more needing it) have, the great advantage of Dr. Hop-
kinson's communication on the subject, published in the
 Philosophical Magazine for October 1885, in which he judi
cially reviews the arguments used by both sides ; and though
he does not pronounce sentence one way or another, it is
easy, 1 think, to see in which direction he himself inclines.
 To my unbounded astonishment, however, Professors Ayrton
and Perry, in an appendix to their January paper, claim Dr.
 Hopkinson as a champion of their cause !
    It would be both futile and ridiculous to argue about the
views of a third person ; but I may bo allowed to say that, in
the first three quarters of Dr. Hopkinson's paper, the onlv
 portion germane to the present subject, there is nothing with
 which I do not cordially and unhesitatingly agree ; and if
 Messrs. Ayrton and Perry agree with it too it is not surpri
sing, tor, as I say, he judicially and fairly sets forth the
   • I may quote Prof. Ayrton in support of this (Journal of the Society
of Telegraph Engineers, 1885) :—" JJr. Lodge's reasoning ia based on a
totally wrong conception of the Peltier efi'oct, which I am astonished to
find exists in the mind of a man,'' &c.

              Farces in Voltaic and Thermoelectric Piles.        265
  arguments on either side without definitely committing him
  self to either view ; but I must protest against their assumption
  that his equations support theirs. " But," say they, " his
  equations are the same as ours." So far as the mere shape of
  the formulas is concerned, they are ; but their tacit under
  standing, implied in the very symbols they use, as to the phy
  sical meaning of the expressions, is quite different, and involves
  a gratuitous assumption with which [ entirely disagree. On
  this outpost, therefore, it is necessary that I join issue before
  proceeding to attack the position already specified.
     I will first, for convenience, rehearse the general theory of
 thermoelectricity as laid down by Dr. Hopkinson, because
 nothing more concise and comprehensive than this portion of
 his paper has yet been written on the subject. With the
 statements so made I expect complete agreement. I shall
 then try to show that the particular interpretation Ayrton and
 Perry put upon these equations is certainly unnecessary and
 probably false. I cannot indeed prove it to be false ; I can only
 show that it is unnecessary, and that to grant it requires an
 improbable hypothesis concerning electricity. This has been
shown already, but perhaps too briefly and judicially, by Dr.
Hopkinson.
    The statement of the general theory may run thus :—
    1. By experiment the total E.M.F. in a closed circuit of
 any one metal is zero, however temperature be distributed.
 Hence E.M.F. in a metallic circuit depends on a thing like a
 potential, or dE is a perfect differential of a function of the
 temperature ; whence, in a simple thermoelectric circuit of
 two metals A and B, with junctions at t° and rs°,
                           E =/('*) -Ah)                        (1)
    2. The measure of E.M.F. in any complete circuit is the
work done per unit electricity conveyed round it,
                           B=f                                   00
    Let n(t) stand for the reversible heat generated per unit
electricity at an AB junction whose temperature is t. Let
 ®i(t)dt represent the reversible heat generated per unit elec
 tricity transmitted in the metal A from the temperature t to
the temperature t + dt; and let ©B(<)efr represent the same
thing for the other metal. Then, by direct application of the
first and second laws of thermodynamics and by differentiation,
Hopkinson gets, in a few lines which can hardly be abbre
viated or improved,

266       Prof. Oliver Lodge on the Seat of the Electromotive
                                   H(t)=tf'(t), .... (3;
                         eA(o-©B(0='/"(0                       W
If, now, 0 is to be regarded as simple proportion, in accord
ance with the results of Professor Tait, /" is a constant
depending on the two metals only ;
so
                    f(t) = b + ct,
and
                    / (t) = a + bt + ict,2}
 t meaning absolute temperature throughout.
     So far everything is unassailable, except by one who may
 believe in some irreversible degradation of heat by conduction
 or otherwise as necessarily accompanying the process, and so
 deny the applicability of the second law altogether. Certainly
 Ayrton and Perry are not thinking of doing this : they accept
 the equations as they stand, and claim that their own are
 identical with them.
     But now comes in the gratuitous assumption which causes
 them to misunderstand the true physical meaning of these
  equations, and which leads them into what seems to me error.
     I speak from my own point of view : I do wish to show that
 their position is untenable, but I have no wish to dogmatize.
  I use language which may serve to bring out the differences
  between us plainly ; and while I am sure neither Prof. Ayrton
  nor Prof. Perry, so I hope no one else, will misconstrue what
  I say in any offensive or disrespectful sense. From my
  standpoint their theory looks erroneous, and it is allowable to
  say so. They will no doubt return tho compliment.
     They beg tho whole question by their interpretation of/(<).
  All that is certain about /(f) is that it is a potential function
  characteristic of the two metals in contact. Ayrton and Perry
  assume, without, so far as I can see, the slightest warrant for
  their assumption, that f(t) is the "contact-difference of poten
  tials " which has been measured electrostatically as the Volta-
  effect.
     Once grant this, and things begin to go their way : thermo
  electric force is a mere variation of Volta-effect with tempera
  ture ; Peltier generation of heat is proportional to the rate at
  which Volta-effect changes per degree ; the E.M.F. of a cell
  is due to differences of Volta-effects at the several junctions,
 just as the E.M.F. of a thermopile is due to their variations
  with temperature : and in general the Volta-effect, as observed

             Forces in Voltaic and Thermoelectric Piles.              267
  inductively, is monarch of all it surveys, including the whole
  of electrochemistry and thermoelectricity under its sway.
  If Ayrton and Perry believe all this, or rather since they
  believe all this, their energy in experimenting on it, and the
  importance they have attached to questions of priority in
  connection with it, are no longer surprising.
     It will be understood, then, that my first contention is that
  the function /(<), characteristic of a thermoelectric circuit, has
  no relation whatever to the Volta-effect. The function f(t) is
  something connected with the properties of the metals them
  selves : the Volta-effect is caused by an action between each
  metal and the medium surrounding it. The one is physical,
 the other is chemical. This, of course, is as yet an open
  question ; but any way it is plain that, before one can legiti
 mately assert a connection between such apparently distinct
 things, he should be prepared with full and satisfactory proof.
 I am not aware that Profs. Ayrton and Perry have attempted
 any proof ; it would seem rather that they have been deceived
 by a jingle of names, as thus :—f(t) is a potential function cha
 racteristic of two metals, the Volta-effect is a difference of
 electrical potential in the air near two metals, hence f(t) and
 the Volta-effect are identical. If they have any stronger basis
 for their assumption than this singular syllogism I shall be
 glad to hear it. Till then I must regard it as a baseless con
 jecture ; and I believe that with as much right they might
 say that/(<) meant the specific gravity, or elasticity, or thermal
 conductivity of the two metals, as assert that it means their
 Volta-effect, at the specified temperature.
    Nevertheless, although the Volta-effect is some hundred or
 thousand times greater than any concerned in thermoelec
 tricity*, though it has no relation with bismuth and antimony
 or the thermoelectric order of metals, though it is plainly
 related to the affinities of metals for the oxygen in which they
 are immersed, being demonstrably connected with their che
 mical properties and calculable very approximately from them;
 notwithstanding all this, Profs. Ayrton and Perry, and those
 who think with them, believe that a thermoelectric current is
 propelled solely by the difference of two forces at the junc
 tions, and that these forces are the same as those which Volta
 and Kohlrausch and Ayrton and Perry have observed and
 measured electrostatically in the air near metals in contact.
   • Profs. Ayrton and Perry will reply that the constant a is indepen
dent of thermoelectricity and may nave any value they like, however
great. So it may as a matter of mathematics ; but what proof is there
that the value they like is its correct value ? The burden of proof assu
redly rests with them.

268     Prof. Oliver Lodge on the Seat of the Electromotive
   As a matter of historical fact, this is exactly the basis on
which Avenarius, in 1863, discovered the law of E.M.F. in a
thermoelectric circuit. He knew Volta-effects very well : he
surmised that they might vary with temperature, say as a
quadratic function,
he considered it obvious, as every one did before Thomson
 (and as Ayrton and Perry do still), that the E.M.F. of a ther
moelectric circuit depends on the junctions alone ; and he
made the natural jump of supposing that
                   E=V1-VS
This expression he verified by experiment so far as the vari
able part is concerned ; and inform it stands correct at the
present day.
   What, then, is wrong with this theory? According to
Ayrton and Perry, nothing ! not even the neglecting of the
then unknown Thomson effect, for its introduction will merely
modify the value of the constant c, leaving all the equations
unaltered.
   According to my view, the only thing wrong is the suppo
sition that the V involved in E has anything whatever to do
with the totally distinct phenomenon observed by Volta :
though this is enough to put all the constants quite wrong.
   According to Prof. Tait, from whatever point of view he
regards the error (I think he regards it mainly as a neglect of
Thomson-effects), the falsity of the theory is so serious as to
deprive Avenarius of every claim to credit, even to the credit
of guessing at a formula and experimentally verifying it
within certain limits of accuracy. Or perhaps Prof. Tait
means that the credit of such an achievement as that is so
small as to be negligible. I am unable to agree with this
opinion ; but I certainly have thought that the confounding
of thermoelectric E with a temperature-variation of Volta-
effect was an error so serious, however natural, as to diminish
very considerably the brilliancy of his happy, though unsub
stantially founded, guess.
   But now that in the year 1886 Professors Ayrton and Perry,
learned in the doctrines of Sir William Thomson, support and
contend for this identical view, I bog to modify this opinion,
and to withdraw everything that I have said adverse to Pro
fessor Avenarius's remarkable paper, written at Kiew in 18(53.
For, since the matter is at present one of controversy, its truth
or untruth must be regarded as still sub judice, and not to be

            Forces in Voltaic and Thermoelectric Piles.        269
lightly commented upon. At the same time I remember that
whenever direct experimental evidence in favour of this view
has been sought for, as it has been industriously by Edlund
and by Sundell, it wholly and admittedly fails to support it.
So much for the outpost, now for the main attack.
   Besides the above assumption, Ayrton and Perry hold
tenaciously to another dogma. They believe (I feel sure
they will acquiesce in this) that reversible heat-localities and
seats of E.M.F. are quite disconnected ; that Peltier-effects
are no sign of a local difference of potential ; conversely, that
electricity may rise or fall in potential without disappearance
or generation of heat or other form of energy ; and in general
that energy may disappear from, or be created at, any point
of a circuit without any work being done on the spot.
    Well, then, if I dissent from all this, what is it that I want
to say instead ? I only wish to generalize the above defini
tion (2) so as to make it applicable, not only to the whole
circuit, but also to every portion of it. I would remake the
statement (2) so as to include all its old meaning and some
thing more : and say,
     2, . The measure of E.M.F. at any point of a circuit is
the work done per unit electricity conveyed past that point.
                             dV=^-                             (2')
 Surely a harmless modification ; but once grant it, along with
the baselessness of Ayrton and Perry's first assumption, and
everything goes my way. Reversible heat-localities and
seats of E.M.F. are identical in metallic circuits: reversible
energy-localities and seats of'E.M.F. are identical everywhere.
Energy cannot appear or disappear at any point without
equivalent work being done on the spot. Thermoelectric
 forces and Volta-effects are utterly distinct, having no con
 nection with each other. Peltier-heat also is quite uncon
 nected with Volta's effect, though wholly bound up with
 thermoelectricity. The E.M.F. of a cell is due to, and located
 along with, the reversible chemical and thermal actions from
 which it is admitted to be calculable, nnd whence its energy
 is derived ; and the Volta-effect sinks into the comparative
 obscurity and insignificance of a disturbance in the electric
 condition of metals by reason of their chemical affinity with
 the particular atmosphere which happens to surround them.
     My view of a thermoelectric current, then, is simply tbis:—
 An E.M.F. necessarily exists at every place where reversible
 heat phenomena, whether of Peltier or of Thomson, are occur
 ring ; its magnitude being measurable by the quantity of heat

 270      Prof. Oliver Lodge on the Seat of the Electromotive
 fenerated or destroyed per unit current. And the whole
   I.M.F. of a circuit is simply the algebraic sum of all such
 E.M.F.'s at every point of the circuit.
     If we must put it into symbols, there is a slope of potential,
 dE = <&(t)dt, at any point of either metal (considering J as
 unity, i. e. that heat is measured in mechanical unite) ; and at
 a junction, where a.finite amount of heat, C . II (<), is produced,
 a finite E.M.F. exists,
                                   AB = n(<).
     The whole E.M.F. of a simple circuit is made up of four
 portions, one portion at each junction, and the rest in each
 metal wherever there is a temperature-slope,
                B=(AE),+ fdE-(AE),- fdE
     And the second law of thermodynamics ¦? cycle 1 — =0 J-,
 combined with this, gives us further the simple relation
 among these quantities already established,
                                       II_rfE
                                        t ~ dt'
                            0a-0b_^E
                                   t       ~ 17'
    And, as before, if the last expression is to be constant,
                       E = &(<!-*,) + ic(<J-<;)*.
    • Perhaps the shortest way of putting' the whole thing ab initio is as
 follows :—Regard the difference of the Thomson functions in the two
 metals as a single function ; »'. e. write for 0a(<) — 6b(0 simply e. Then
 the second law of thermodynamics (in its differential fomi) gives us
            5. -/'(<), ...CO,             |=*'(Q;...(U)
where /and <f> are unknown functions satisfying the condition
                      /'(*,)-/'(Q+<Ky-<W,)=o,
or
                                     /"=*'                              (iii)
Further, by the first law of thermodynamics and the energy definition of
E.M.F.,
                         E=n,-n2-l-J Odt,

           Forces in Voltaic and Thermoelectric Piles.               271
   Everything being so simple and straightforward from this
point of view, we have next to ask, What fault can be found
with it, and why is it not readily admitted ?
   The crux is the proposition 2'. It is granted that E.M.F.
is work per unit electricity for the whole circuit, i. e. proposi
tion 2 ; but it is not admitted that the same thing is true for
every point of a circuit.
   Well, then, supposing this legitimately questioned, there
must be something to put in place of it. What is this some
thing? Dr. Hopkinson answers the question completely and
satisfactorily.     I want to know if Professors Ayrton and
Perry accept his answer.
   The " something " is this. Electricity is supposed to have
a specific heat like any ordinary fluid, and this specific heat is
supposed to vary with temperature and with the substance in
which it happens to be flowing, to the extent even of being posi
tive in some metals, negative in others ; and the variations in
this hypothetical specific heat, since nothing is otherwise known
about it, can be relied on to perform whatever office is required.
Electricity can let heat drop, or pick it up again, at spots
where its specific heat is supposed to change, and this without
introducing any rigid work- and -energy considerations;nothing
but a free and airy ''specific-heat" hypothesis.
   Dr. Hopkinson denies that there is anything " confusing "
in this mode of regarding the matter ; and Ayrton and Perry
very naturally object to their view being considered " absurd."
 I should be sorry to bandy adjectives of any but a compli
 mentary nature ; and considering the high authority of many
 who have found themselves for various reasons able to main
 tain much the same position as Ayrton and Perry, it would
 be wholly unseemly to do so. But I must confess that were
 I unacquainted with the fact that such views are hold by
or                       ^=n'-e
                         dt
                             =r+tr-t$;
 whence it follows that
                        /'(«)-§                                       (iv>
 And all the relations are established.
    They may be exhibited in one line, along with the approximate formula
 of experiment, thus:—
                *e=°=j|a«/'(0=(*.-*»)(<,-9»                •  • •  •   (<U+25BC>)

  272     Prof. Oliver Lodge on the Seat of the Electromotive
  persons of eminence, and were it only a question with myself
  as to which mode of expressing the fact was most consistent
  with ordinary common sense and with one's natural physical
  instinct, I should not hesitate to stigmatize myself as almost
  ludicrously wrong-headed were I to accept the arbitrary
  and hypothetical specific-heat- of-electricity hypothesis, and
  decline the simple proposition that E.M.F. and unit-current
  energy were proportional to one another, not only in an entire
  circuit, as is by all sides admitted, but also in every portion of
  such a circuit.
     I believe that the idea of attributing to Electricity a real
  physical specific heat has arisen (wherever it has arisen)
  solely from the natural, allowable, but almost playful, analogy
  by which Sir W. Thomson chose to popularize his brilliant
  discovery of the E.M.F. existing between a hot and a cold
 Iiiece of the same metal ; or, what is the same thing, of the
   H.M.F. existing in any metal along which heat is flowing,
 t. e. which is subject to a slope of temperature.
     He did not express it by saying there is an E.M.F. in iron,
 &(t)dt, which tends to propel electricity from hot parts toward
 cold parts, and whose existence is proved, and amount
 measured, by the generation of heat which appears in the
 middle of a bar when a current is sent from its cold to its hot
 end : he perceived that if electricity were a real fluid with an
 actual capacity for heat, it would in flowing from cold to hot
 " carry cold with it," and so cool the middle of the bar ;
 and he expressed the sense of the phenomenon he had disco
 vered by saying that electricity in iron behaved as if it were
 a fluid with a negative capacit}' for heat, of value © (t). But
 I feel sure that at the time ne had no notion that electricity in
 iron really was such a fluid, or that it had such capacity for
heat. Soon afterwards he was able to prove that in copper
 electricity behaved like a fluid with a positive capacity for
heat, " carrying heat with it " as it flowed from hot to cold,
and vice versa.
    This term, " the specific heat of electricity in a metal," to
express the function ©a(?) or @b(0> was tnus a* ^rs^ intro
duced " without theory, but by an obvious analogy;" and I
surmise that any idea of an actual physical truth underlying
the phrase, .or the notion that electricity in different sub
stances really had a thermal capacity specific to that substance,
would have been scouted by the illustrious author of the
phrase as an illiterate pressing of an analogy.
    But the term survived ; was adopted by Prof. Tait ; we find
the numerical value of the specific heat of electricity in various
metals quoted and investigated in every memoir and research
on thermoelectricity; and I am constantly using it myself.

           Forces in Voltaic and Thermoelectric Piles.           273
   Such phrases, however, unless they are closely related to a
real physical entity, are dangerous ; and one has, it seems to
me, a good example of this danger in the present instance.
Observe, I am not questioning for a moment the existence of the
analogy nor its convenience in expressing man}' of the facts ;
I question the truth of the physical meaning which may, and
has, come to be supposed to underlie the form of expression.
    If there is any real reason for believing electricity to actually
possess a specific heat, then all I here say falls to the ground;
but if the idea is based solely upon the ordinary facts of
thermoelectricity, then I say that it is a misleading idea
founded upon a picturesque analogy which has too promi
nently intruded itself into science.
    Once grant that electricity in a metal has a real specific heat
which varies with temperature and with the nature of the
metal, and the Peltier and Thomson effects are at once ac
counted for, without our being able to draw from them the
 slightest information about seat of E.M.F or anything else.
For wherever specific heat falls in value, there heat must be
 dropped, so to speak, by the current; wherever it rises in
 value, there heat must be absorbed.
    And, conversely, whenever it is desired to get rid of an
awkward and undesirable energy which ought to produce some
 effect but does not, as, for instance, at the place of solution of
 zinc in any ordinary battery-cell, it can be done without
trouble by this convenient hypothesis. Those who feel bound
by mere work-and-energy considerations, knowing that where
 zinc combines with sulphuric acid, a considerable amount of
energy is set free, which does not appear as heat on the
 spot, but does appear as the energy of an electric current,
 these simple folk are constrained to believe that it expends
 itself in propelling the current, i. e. that the zinc-acid junction
is the main seat of E.M.F. in the cell. Not so those who have
 possessed themselves of the elastic specific-heat view—these
 can otherwise regard the transaction. They may say,
     " True, energy is liberated by the solution of zinc ; and true,
 it does not appear as heat; but the reason is not that it is expend
 ing itself in doing work, but because the specific heat of elec
 tricity, as it flows from zinc to acid, rises so greatly in amount
 [no proof has been given of this gratuitous statement], that
 all the heat that would otherwise be there generated is taken
 up and absorbed by the flowing electricity. The place which
 really does the work of propelling the current is not the zinc-
 acid junction at all ; it is the zinc-copper junction. At this
 spot arises all the energy of the electric current."
     " But," says a plain man, "surely that energy must como
 from somewhere : either the zinc and copper must com

  274     Prof. Oliver Lodge on the Seat of the Electromotive
  bine, or the junction must cool itself vigorously,—something
  must disappear at the junction if it is to keep on propelling
 the current." " Not so, my unlearned friend," rejoins the
 philosopher armed with the elastic hypothesis ; " you forget
 that it is possible for the specific heat of electricity suddenly
 to diminish as it flows from copper to zinc ; I have no evidence
 that it does ; in fact experiment proves that it does not ; but
 I assert that it must, and in so diminishing it sets free an
 amount of heat exactly sufficient to maintain the junction at
 its usual temperature, notwithstanding its energetic propul
 sion of the current." " That is very strange," muses the
 other ; " for where metals touch acid, activity is mani
 fest ; and if you change the solution in any way, say by
 dropping a little bichromate of potash into it, the E.M.F. at
 once changes ; whereas nothing can seem more passive than
 the place where the metals touch each other, no chemical
 action nor any change of temperature goes on there ; you
 may warm it, or cool it, or hammer it, or put it into all
 manner of different media, and you cannot change the E.M.F.
of the cell an appreciable bit. I cannot see how it is possible
 that the metallic junction should be propelling the current."
    " No, you wouldn't. You seem to expect some excitement
 and disappearance of energy wherever work is being done.
 Yon seem to expect a kind of Peltier-effect at a junction if it
 is doing work and propelling the current. You labour under
 the delusion that wherever energy is transformed from one
 shape to another, the transformation takes place by means of
 work being done. I am astonished to find such delusions in
 the mind of a person so generally sane as yourself."
    This is the view of Ayrton and Perry. If it is not, I
challenge them to state it better, and to refute the article of
Dr. Hopkinson rather than claim it as on their side.
    Let me restate their assumptions ; every one of them gra
tuitous it seems to me, and unsupported by experiment.
    a. The characteristic function f{t) of a simple thermoelectric
circuit is an expression for the Volta-effect between the metals
of that circuit. [Mere assumption.]
    b. The Volta-effect of two metals varies with the tempera
ture.     [Even this has never been safely proved so as to
certainly eliminate all effects due to tarnishing.]
    c. The total E.M.F. of a thermoelectric circuit is equal to
the difference between the Volta-effects of its two metals at
the temperatures of tuo hot and the cold junction respectively.
[Baseless assumption. Disproved as far as was possible for
it to be disproved by the experiments Ayrton and Perry made
to support it. See their paper in January, anil Prof. Ayrton's

           Forces in Voltaic and Thermoelectric Piles.          275
remarks at Soc. Tel. Eng. Disproved also by experiments of
Edlund.]
   d. The specific heat of Electricity, i. e. ©(<)> falls greatly as
it flows from copper to zinc and rises a nearly equal amount
as it flows from zinc to acid. [It really rises from about
240 to 600 on passing from copper to zinc ; what it does on
entering acid no one yet knows.]
   e. The rate of variation of Volta-effect with temperature is
a measure of the Peltier-effect at a junction. [Pure assump
tion.]
  /. Heat is generated or destroyed at certain places in a circuit,
because Electricity changes its capacity for heat there ; or
because some other hypothetical change goes on sufficient to
account for the observed effect without having to fall back
upon the too simple and obvious vera causa of an opposition
or a helping E.M.F, located at these places. [Overpressing
of a mere analogy.]
    Only a little wilder is the following :—
   g. Reversible energy-actions, e. g. chemical combination or
disunion, may go on in a circuit when a current passes, without
producing heat or any other form of energy on the spot, and
without either propelling or retarding the current ; because
the energy which one would expect to appear there is taken
up and disposed of by some change in the properties of Elec-
tricityas it passes that place, such as a change in its specific
heat : and yet the total E.M.F. of the circuit shall be somehow
 numerically equal to the energy so available.
    [This last statement reads almost like nonsense. It has
nevertheless been virtually maintained by many contact phi
losophers, though I understand from their last communication
 that Ayrtou and Perry have now given it up. It appears
 that they concede the seat of E.M.F. as regards chemical
 actions and the voltaic circuit, but retain their old persuasion
 in respect to thermal actions and the thermoelectric circuit.]
    To be quite clear let me just recapitulate these statements,
 modifying them so as to be correct from my point of view.
    a. The characteristic functional) of a simple thermoelectric
 circuit represents itself, and no other physical phenomenon
 that has as yet been specially observed. At the same time I
 admit that the constant term in this function is unknown,
 and undeterminable by thermoelectric experiments ; it thus
 affords a fine field for speculation, of which contact-theorists
 have availed themselves. If one knew the value of this con
 stant a there would be no room for discussion, it would all be
 matter of fact.
    b, e. The Volta-effect of two metals certainly varies with

276     Electromotive Forces in Voltaic and Tliermoelectric P'dei.
temperature if the heat tends to oxidize one metal more than
 another, or in any other way to interpose a barrier between
 metal and active medium ; but the fact has no thermoelectric
interest whatever.
    c. The total E.M.F. of a thermoelectric circuit is the sum
 of the forces in the different parts of that circuit, viz. at the
junction and in the metals, and has nothing on earth to do
 with Volta's, or Crookes's, or Hall's, or anybody else's
 "effect" except Peltier's and Thomson's.
    d, e. The Peltier-effect at a junction is a measure and conse
 quence of the E.M.F. located there.
   /, g. Heat (or more generally energy) is generated or
destroyed at places where the current does work or has work
done upon it, i. e. whenever it is opposed or assisted by an
E.M.F., and nowhere else.
    In conclusion, a word of explanation. In the effort to be
clear, and to bring opposing views into sharp collision and
 contrast, I fear I have been dogmatic, and sometimes perhaps
in appearance arrogant. I beg to assure all who may do me
the honour to read this lucubration that it is only an appear
ance. I doubt not but that much can be said on the other
side, but I have also no doubt that whatever can be said trill
 be said ; and it is essentially because of the energy and ability
 of my opponents that I am forced to strike out vigorously.
    Professors Ayrton and Perry very naturally endeavour to
 crush me with the weight of the name of Sir William Thomson,
and were I to listen to an argument ad verecundiam I should
indeed hold my peace. But in science one need not be silenced
by authority, and I may well be pardoned for stating strongly
the views which commend themselves to me. Sir William
himself would be the first—as a matter of fact has been the
first—to wish it. If Sir William Thomson really agrees in
the main with the doctrines expounded by Ayrton and Perry,
as I have some reason to believe he does, it is no part of
my business to explain the phenomenon : if it were, I might
tentatively suggest that perhaps he has not very recently, or
very carefully, considered the subject. Nor can I say that
I should wish him to trouble himself to do so. Let him
reserve his tremendous powers and energies for higher and
more momentous problems, such as the nature of Matter, of
Elasticity, and of Light. The seat of E.M.F. in a pile,
whether it be voltaic or thermal, is comparatively a small affair,
and can if necessary be settled without his active participation
in the controversy.
   University College, Liverpool,
        February 13, 1*«3.

                                  [    277    ]
             XXXVIII. Notices respecting New Books.
   Outlines of Organic Chemistry. By H. Fobsteb Mohlet, MM.,
      D£c.,etc. London: Churchill. 1886. Pp. xx and 490; cr. 8vo.
  TVHE large number of manuals of Chemistry that have appeared in
   -1- recent years may be accepted as a gratifying sign of an ex
  tended and awakened interest in the acquisition of experimental
  knowledge. But the very nature of the case precludes the infusion
  of much originality into the labours of authorship ; and the process
  of preparing a book of this kind closely resembles the operation
  of pouring a liquid from one vessel to another. Under such cir
  cumstances the task of the reviewer, if undertaken at all, is reduced
  to chronicling, not an advance, but a kind of lateral transition. It
  is seldom we meet with a writer so enthusiastic and so frankly
  desirous of taking pains as Dr. Morley ; we have therefore selected
  his ' Outlines ' for some comments dedicated to our younger school
 of chemical litterateurs.
      The Preface contains a discussion of the plans at present in
  vogue, or scientifically possible, for constructing manuals of Organic
 Chemistry. Premising that " it was necessary that the book should
 include every substance upon which a student might expect to be
 examined," the author adduces and rejects two of the usual methods ;
 and then proceeds as follows :—" I have, however, adopted a third
 arrangement. I have endeavoured to describe compounds in the
 order iu which they may be synthetically produced, so that each
 compound should be a product of the one before and a producer
 of the one after. In this way the truth of the majority of the
 formula? would be self-evident. I have adopted this order be
 cause I believe that a correct appreciation of structural formula?,
 and the power to judge whether a given formula be correct or in
 correct, is essential if chemical industry is to make any headway
 in England. The dogmatic teaching of structural formulae has
 turned the hearts of many chemists against them altogether ; the
 result has been that original research has ceased for want of original
 ideas, and the decline of chemical industry is the result." It is
 hardly necessary to say that the " arrangement " indicated breaks
 down ; in by far the greater part of the work the plan of con
 venient successive grouping is adopted. Thus " Sugar and Starch
Group," " Cyanogen Group," " Polybasic Acids," " Unsaturated
Compounds," are consequent among the groups ; and among indi
vidual members, phenol lies between dipheuyl sulphide and phenyl
acetate ; the constitution of benzene is discussed between phenylic
ether and bromaniline, &c, &c.
    An author must be possessed by an exceptionally fervid zeal for
chemical " structure " who supposes its neglect to be the cause of
the decline of chemical industry in England. It has been con
tended, and with much reason, that chemical industry has not de
clined more in England than elsewhere; and that in England it
bas always been exceptionally characterized by original ideas. Of
all departments of chemical theory, that of " structure " is the
most infertile. The ideas that underlie it are, as Dr. Morley sayB,
"very simple"; and this fact alone might induce us to suspect it.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.               U

278                Notices respecting New Books.
On the other hand, industrial chemical processes are highly com
plex, and often extremely subtle ; while their specially kinetic
character imposes, as a frequent essential of success, the mainte
nance of a very recondite order of conditions. Upon these condi
tions the theory of chemical structure throws no light. All the
great manufactures were founded, have grown, and are still maiii-
taiued, in its absence. If structural language and formulas are
used in some of the minor industries, there is no case in which the
terminology and symbols might not equally well be made non
structural without detriment to logical reasoning and the power of
discovery. Structural formulae, to be legitimate, are nothing but
multum in parvo records of experimental transactions ; but ever
since the first of them was written by Higgins, there have been
chemists who suppose them to have some extra virtue, to be pic
tures suggesting profounder insight into the constitution of matter.
In these metaphysical paths the industrialist may, without blame,
decline to wander. Indeed, Dr. Morley himself gives no prac
tical demonstration of the value of chemical structure to manu
facturers ; in particular, under " fermentation," " paraffin," " soap,"
" coal-tar," not a hint of help from this source will be found, in
fulfilment of the enthusiastic promise of the Preface. Apart alto
gether from the applications of Chemistry, it is notorious that the
hypothesis of " structure " fails to explain the numerous instances
of isomerism which it dismisses as " physical,"—admitted, in fact,
on p. 125. Structure suggests nothing as regards colour in the
region where it has been most employed, viz. that of the aniline
colours themselves ; for the few indications which have been made
by "Witt cannot be extended to " structures" in general. Structure
presupposes all chemical change to be of a mechanical nature ; but
there is ample kinetic evidence that it is not. Hence we cannot
agree with the author's extremely narrow definition of the object
of Chemistry ; which he states (p. 10) " is to study the relations
which exist between the properties of bodies and their internal
structure, so that we may be able to solve this problem ; given the
structure of a chemical compound to deduce all its properties,
whether physical or chemical."
   Among the earlier contents of the work, we may notice a few
pages devoted, as is customary, to analysis. These are far too con
densed to be of any real value for teaching purposes, and should
be entirely omitted, as having nothing to do with the general scope
of the book. Later on (p. 102) there is a discussion of Boiling-
points, which would be much more appropriately placed in the
terminal chapter on Physical Constants. The discussion itself is,
 by the way, very ancient history ; Baeyer having shown long since
that the properties of homologous series depend upon whether
the coefficient of C is even or odd—a conclusion that has received
much independent verification, and is, in fact, merely a derived
form of the periodic law. This law must always be taken into
account in the explanation of the properties of series. " Symmetry"
(p. 108 and elsewhere) is a mechanical conception not derivable
from a study of chemical reactions, and does not amount to a
reason for the production, in any given case, of only a limited num
ber of compounds. Again (p. 468) some decompositions are said to

                     Notices respecting New Books.                  279
  be possibly complete. No such decompositions are, however, known
  to modern chemistry. Eeverting once more to the Preface, we
  should earnestly advise the author to withdraw from any future
  edition the concluding sentence. The slightest consideration must
  convince him of its extreme personal ungraciousness to all living
  chemists save one.
     It remains to add that Dr. Morley's ' Outlines ' is in most other
 respects deserving of much praise. The descriptive part of the
 work is concise and, so far as we have examined it, free from
 serious errors. It was a happy thought to place the chapter on
 Physical Constants near the end of the book ; most of this is pithily
 written and brought down to date. But, like a skilful tactician,
 the author has kept his best to the last. The Summary of General
 Reactions, with references to the proper pages preceding, is an
 almost original feature, and cannot fail to be of the greatest advan
 tage to students ; it would well repay extension and classification.
    Dr. Morley's text-book is undoubtedly a valuable and interesting
 work. If it is not quite the success that the author appears to
 have intended, we can only say, in the words of our neighbours,
 il merite bien de Vetre.
A Popular History of Astronomy during the Nineteenth. Century. By
    Agh*es if. Clebke. Edinburgh: Adam and Charles Black. 1885.
Since the publication of Prof. Newcomb's ' Popular Astronomy ' in
 1878, this is undoubtedly the most remarkable work of a popular
character that has appeared in this country on the subject of Astro
nomy. And being a history of Astronomy—that is, as Miss Clerke
puts it, telling us in addition to what wo know, how we came to
know it,—it covers somewhat different ground from that traversed
by Prof. Newcomb, and is to a considerable extent, especially in the
domain of modern astronomical physics, supplementary to his
treatise. The recent progress of Astronomy has been such as, in
Miss Clerke's opinion, to lend itself with facility to untechnical
treatment ; and her endeavour has been to enable the reader to
follow the course of modern astronomical inquiries, and to realize
the fnil effect of the change introduced by the discovery of spectrum
analysis. The author is evidently a practised writer, who has
thought for herself on most of the astronomical problems of the
day, and is not afraid of expressing her opinions on them, and she
has certainly succeeded in making the work before us a very
instructive as well as a very interesting one.
    The book is divided into two parts. Part I. is concerned with
the progress of Astronomy during the first half of the nineteenth
century, and Part II. with the recent progress of Astronomy. In
the first part, Miss Clerke sketches clearly and well the history of the
foundation and progress of Sidereal Astronomy, including the life
(special prominence being assigned to the biographical element) and
work of the Hersehels, Bessel, and the other pioneers of Astronomy
of the time. She tells once more the story of the early struggles
of the elder Herschel, and of Bessel, who " chose poverty and the
stars, and went to Lilienthal with a salary of a hundred thalers an-
nually,"of Sir John Herschel's splendid work at the Cape, of F. Gr. W.
Strove and the Pulkowa Observatory.        The progress of our know

 280              Notices respecting Neic Books.
 ledge of the Sun during the first half of the century is related ; and
 the Herschelian theory of the solar constitution explained and dis
 cussed in a way which shows that Miss Clerke is quite familiar with
 current ideas and theories on the constitution of the Sun and his
 appendages. The first discovery of minor planets and the circum
 stances which immediately led up to that event are gone into at
 length, as well as the great services rendered by Gauss in the
 emergency caused by these discoveries. We fear, however, that
the method of Least Squares is not very felicitously referred to as
that which "enabled hiin to extract the utmost amount of probable
truth from a given set of observations;" but such subjects are
avowedly outside the scope of Miss Gierke's book. The history of
the discovery of Neptune is given with great impartiality, and a
full discussion of the observations of, and theories relating to,
Comets anterior to the application to them of the methods of spec
trum analysis. The first part of the work concludes with a chapter
on the important subject of the improvements effected in astrono
mical instruments duriug the period to which it refers.
   Part II. may be divided into four sections, consisting of the
chapters referring to (1) the Sun, (2) Planets and Satellites,
(3) Comets, and (4) Stars and Nebulas. Of these we think that
the chapters devoted to the Sun are the best. Miss Clerke has
evidently given much attention and thought to the subject, and has
drawn a very clear and accurate picture of the state of our know
ledge of, and of the various theories which have been advanced
regarding, the Sun. Starting from Schwabe's discovery of a decen
nial Sun-spot period, she goes on to trace the rise and development
of Spectrum Analysis, and to point out the various ways in which
the spectroscope has increased or originated knowledge in the
several departments of solar physics. Of the chapters on the Sun,
that which pleases us best is the one on Recent Solar Eclipses.
This, to our mind, gives a remarkably clear and able account of the
various questions successively raised and answered, completely or
partially, by the series of total solar eclipses extending from 1860
to 1883 ; and we know not where else, in popular literature, such
an account is to be found. In discussing Sun-spot theories, Miss
Clerke manages very judiciously to steer a middle course between
" Sun-spottery " and scepticism. She even finds space for reference
to the attempt which has been made to arrive at the period of an
unknown planet through the observation of sun-spots ; but, some
what drily, adds, " The prediction still awaits fulfilment." "We
venture to think that the author is much more successful when
discussing theories («. g. when engaged on the subject of Mr.
Lockyer's " basic lines ") than when describing appearances :
thus the chapters on the Planets and Satellites, which are mainly
concerned with descriptive Astronomy, appear to us to be the
least satisfactory of any in the book, and not calculated to fix
the reader's attention in the same way as the following ones
dealing with Comets or with Stars and Nebula?, in which a much
greater amount of speculative matter is introduced. In speak
ing of the rotation-period of Mars, Miss Clerke appears to claim
for Mr. Proctor's result an undue amount of accuracy : it is un

                           Geological Society.                    281
donbtedly five or six hundredths of a second too great. The chapter
on Theories of Planetary Evolution is very interesting ; but it is
difficult for a writer not conversant with dynamics, to a knowledge
of which Miss Gierke makes no claim, to discuss these subjects with
perfect clearness, and a little obscurity is noticeable in one or two
sentences. The book appropriately concludes with an account of
the monster telescopes of the present day, special stress being laid
on the necessity for placing them amidst suitable climatic con
ditions in order to reap the full advantages of their optical power.
    All through the second part of the book, Miss Gierke brings
prominently forward the great services which have been rendered
to Astronomy in almost all its branches—Solar, Stellar, and
Cometary—by the spectroscope ; and to those of our readers who
wish to have a clear view of the state of our knowledge before the
invention of the spectroscope compared with what it was in the
year 1 885, we have no hesitation in recommending for their perusal
this History of Astronomy during the Nineteenth Century.
    The book has been printed with remarkable accuracy. We have
noticed the following errata :—
         Page viii, line 8, for Illinois read Wisconsin.
          — 294, bottom line, for or read of.
          — 314, line 5 from bottom (Notes), for N. G. Green
                    read N. E. Green.
            XXXIX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 162.]
    January 13, 1886.—Prof. T. G. Bonney, D.Sc, LL.D., F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
T^HE following communications were read : —
 -*- 1. "On some Fish-remains from the Tertiary Strata of New
Zealand." By James W. Davis, Esq., F.G.S.
    2. " On a recent Section through Walton Common, exposing the
London Clay, Bagshot Beds, and Plateau-gravel.'' By W. H.
Hudleston, Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S.
    During the past autumn the widening of the line between Walton
and Weybridge stations has afforded a very interesting section in tho
above beds, showing their relations to each other with considerable
clearness. Walton Station is 68 feet above O.D., and immediately
to the westward the section described in the paper commences, the
surface of the country gradually rising to a height of about 120 feet
in the plateau which separates the drainage of the Mole from the
drainage of the Wey. This plateau is connected on the south by a
slope with the higher and far narrower plateau of St. George's Hill,
having an elevation of 245 feet.
    For convenience of reference the portion of the section more par
ticularly described, and which has a length of 1070 yards, is divided
into four blocks :—
    Block A extends from Walton Station to where the unaltered
London Clay is seen—313 yards.
    Block B extends from this to the point where the Bagshot beds
are first seen in situ—345 yards.

282                     Geological Society : —
   Block C extends from the above to the point where the Bagshots
are first cut through to the level of the line, and the hollow filled
up with Plateau-gravel— 165 yards.
   Block D exhibits the relations of the Bagshots to the Plateau-
gravel, where the latter is most fully developed—247 yards.
   Details of Block A.—This portion of the section rises from zero
to 12 or 14 feet ; the first bed which becomes visible is the " Top
Sand," and on advancing further westward portions of a peculiar
mixture of gravel and lumps of brown clay form the sides and floor
of the cutting. This is evidently a disturbed series, and has pecu
liar relations with a mass of yellow sand, mainly false-bedded, which
is 70 yards long, and from 12 to 14 feet high at the west end. The
London Clay in situ rises very suddenly beyond this, Reasons were
given for supposing this sand to be a superficial deposit against a
steeply eroded surface of London Clay.
   Details of Block B.—The London Clay of this block has yielded
no fossils, nor are any Septaria visible. The bedding is difficult to
distinguish, but recent weathering has made it more plain. This
seems to establish a very slight dip towards the west. The surface
of the London Clay is undulating, and it is overlain by from 6 to 7 feet
of Piateau-gravel.
   Details of Block C.—In this block, where the cutting has a depth
of about 24 feet throughout, occurs tho junction of the Lower Bag-
shots with the London Clay, and this is apparently an unconformable
one. Both the lithology and the stratigraphy favour this view.
Nothing in the nature of a lithological passage exists. The lowest
bed of the Bagshots here is remarkably clear sand full of false-
bedding, and is succeeded by an argillaceous series, also somewhat
6andy. It was suggested that this latter might be the equivalent
of the " Ramsdell Clay."
   Details of Block D.—Here the Plateau-gravel attains its maxi
mum thickness, since the Bagshots are cut through to the level of
the line in three places—depth of cutting from 24 to 27 feet,—thus
affording a fine opportunity for the study of this peculiar deposit.
Three horizons were roughly made out, or, rather, three varieties oc
curring ono above the other. Beyond the limits of the section there
is more distinct evidence of at least two groups in these Plateau-
gravels. No materials from the northern drift are found.
   Other sections in tho superficial beds were noticed, and more
especially one about the 180-feet line on the north slope of St.
George's Hill, where the contortions are of considerable interest.
January 27.—Prof. T. G. Bonney, D.Sc, LL.D., F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
   The following communications were road :—
   1. " On the Fossil Mammalia of Maragha, in North-western
Persia." By R. Lydekkcr, Esq., B.A., F.G.S., &c.
   2. " On the Pliocene of Maragha, Persia, and its resemblance to
that of Pikermi, in Greece ; on Fossil Elephant-remains of Caucasia
and Persia ; and on the results of a Monograph of the Fossil Ele
phants of Germany and Italy." By Dr. H. Pohlig.

   The Melbourn Rock and the Zone of Belemnitella plena.           283
   3. " The Thames Valley Surface-deposits of the Ealing District
and their associated Palaeolithic Floors." By John Allen Brown, Esq.
   The author stated that his paper might be regarded as in some
degree supplementary to that by Colonel Lane-Fox, published in
the Quarterly Journal of the Society in November 1872. He re
ferred to Mr. Whitaker's division of the Thames-valley deposits
into three terraces, namely : — 1. The lowest now seen in bends of
the river, 10-20 feet above 0. D. ; 2. The middle terrace, 20-40
feet ; and 3. The high-terrace gravel, 50-100 feet, extending up to
the shoulders of the hills, and, according to the author, much
higher. The high-terrace gravels near Ealing reach nearly to the
top of the hills forming the inner valley-ridge, the highest point
in which is the Mount at Ealing, 204 feet. The summit of this,
when excavated for a reservoir, was found to be occupied by
thick beds of gravel of different character from the valley-
gravels, and not of fluviatile or estuarine formation ; the same gravel
occurs upon other elevations, and patches of it, appearing here and
there, show that it probably once extended right along the ridge and
over Hanger Hill. Similar materials to those forming this gravel
also occur scattered over the surface of the ground. On the Mount
these gravels filled a series of furrows or channels, beneath which
were horizontally stratified deposits of white sand, loam, and loamy
clay, which were pressed out of the line of deposit where the jagged
furrows occurred ; and from all the characters presented the author
inferred that these deposits were due to the action of ice which had
stranded and melted here, and deposited its burthen of glacial
detritus. The author described the deposits of gravels, brick-earth,
&c. at various points in the district, and noticed that the high-
terrace gravels between 60 and 125 feet contain seams of black
matter, apparently due to the decay of vegetable substances, which
recur at more or less regular intervals, and serve to indicate three
or four lines of old land-surfaces. In connection with these land-
surfaces, especially in some pits excavated in the Creffield Eoad,
about 100 feet above O. D., numerous worked flints were found, the
characters and mode of association of which led the author to think
that we have here traces of a regular manufactory of flint imple
ments. He further indicated the conditions under which he con
sidered their preservation in this locality had taken place.
February 10.—Prof. T. G. Bonney, D.Sc., LL.D., F.E.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
    1. "On a new species of Psilotites from the Lanarkshire Coal
field." By K. Kidston, Esq., F.G.S.
   2. " The Melbourn Bock and the Zone of Belemnitella plena,
from Cambridge to the Chiltern Hills." By W. Hill, Esq., F.G.S.,
and A. J. Jukes-Browne, Esq., F.G.S.
   The " Melbourn Kock," which was first defined by one of the
authors in 1880, is a band of rocky chalk which forms the base of
the Middle Chalk in Cambridgeshire, and occurs about 80 feet above
the " Totternhoe Stone." In the present paper it was shown, as the
result of the mapping operations of the Geological Survey, to form

281                        Geological Society.                  •
 a well-marked and constant feature in the counties of Hertford,
Bedford, Buckingham, and Oxford. In the original description of
the Melbourn Bock it was confounded with the "Zone of Beltm-
nitella plena in a remanie condition," as described by Dr. Barrois; but
it was now pointed out that the latter horizon is distinct from and un
derlies the latter. Although the zone of Bdemnitella plena has been
very largely removed by erosion in the district described, there is,
nevertheless, evidence that this erosion has gone on to a different
extent in each of the localities which have been particularly studied ;
 and in some places some of the lower portions of the rocks of that
horizon seem to have escaped denudation.
   The microscopical characters of the several varieties of rock form
ing tho Lower and Middle Chalk of the district were described, and it
wiis shown that tho beds containing nodules of a different variety of
chalk which occur below the Melbourn Bock, may have been
formed by tho washing away of the finer particles from a disinte
grating mass of chalk. This mottled chalk and the overlying
Melbourn Bock are very similar to the bed found on the same
horizon in the Bichmond well. Somewhat similar beds occur,
however, at other horizons in the Chalk over the district described
in this paper.
   3. " On the Beds between the Upper and Lower Chalk of Dover,
and their comparison with the Middle Chalk of Cambridgeshire."
By W. Hill, Esq., F.G.S.
   In introducing the subject of this paper, the author referred to the
divisions of the Upper Cretaceous series given in the ' Geology of the
Neighbourhood of Cambridge' by Messrs. Penning and Jukes-
Browne. The Middle Chalk was there described as separated from
the Lower by the Melbourn Bock, which also appeared to coincide
with a marked palrcontological break, and from the Upper Chalk by
the well-known Chalk Bock, this rocky bed, 10 feet in thickness,
being included in the Middle Chalk. The division thus made corre
sponded exactly with the Turonian of French authors.
   The author, giving a description of the Middle Chalk seen in the
cliffs east and west of Dover, stated that tho grit bed of Mr. Price,
though much thicker, had all the appearance and structure of the
Melbourn Bock, and this, with less hard,butstill nodular, chalk above,
appeared to be tho equivalent of the zone of 11. Cuvieri in Cambridge
shire. The zone of Terebratulina gracilis is well marked in the
Dover cliffs, and is equal in thickness to that zone as described in
the Cambr. Mem , viz. 150 feet. Above this zone the chalk became
harder, withered, with lumpy projections, and finally passed into a
series of rocky layers, separated by courses of softer chalk, containing,
however, hard crystalline lumps. The passage to this rocky chalk
was marked by the occurrence of Holasterjilanus (zone of //. planus).
Tho rocky layers, extending upward for 80 feet, were marked by tho
presence of numbers of Micrasters, " Chalk with many Micrasters "' of
the author. His division included all tho nodular chalk of Dover,
the " chalk with many organic remains " of W. Phillips, and in it were
found the fossils recorded as peculiar to Chalk Bock in the Geol. of
Cambridgeshire. It appeared divisible into two zones ; the lower,
\5 feet, with Micraster breviporus (zone of M. breviporus), may be

                 Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              285
  considered by some to be an extension of the zone of //. planus, the
  form which marks the passage from the soft to the hard chalk. In
  the remainder M. cor testudinarium was common (zone of M. cur
  testudinarium).
     Seen in thin sections under the microscope, the structure of the
  hard beds which mark the limits of the Middlo Chalk was stated to
  be very similar.
     In conclusion, the author considered that the divisions of the Middle
  Chalk, as set forth in the Cambr. Memoir, are well shown in the cliff's
  of Dover ; but the hard beds which appeared to him the equivalent
  of the Chalk Rock, and mark the upper limit of Middle Chalk, attain
  ing a great development at Dover, it became necessary to examine
  the palajontological position of that bed to which the name " Chalk
  Rock " was given by Mr. Whitaker. Having studied Mr. Whitakcr's
  description given in the ' Geology of the London Basin,' and having
  examined exposures of this rock between Cambridge and the Thames,
  he came to the conclusion that there was probably more than one bed
  to which the name Chalk Rock might be applied, and that these,
  probably not all persistent, may occur at different palteontologicnl
  horizons. He therefore proposed to take the zone of //. planus
  as the top of the Middle Chalk ; although this zone was difficult to
 identify inland, from the paucity of its fossils, the base of the over
 lying zone was well marked by the abundance of Micrasters and other
 forms, which appeared to him more closely allied to Upper than to
 Lower Chalk.
     He believed that while the Chalk Rock seen at Henley may be con
 sidered the summit of the Middle Chalk, the Chalk Rock of Cambridge
 shire, though convenient for marking the summit of the Middle Chalk
 of that county, included that which was really the upper part of the
 zone of 11. plan its and the base of the true Upper Chalk, the equiva
 lent of chalk with many Micrasters of Dover.
    He would therefore consider the Middle Chalk of Dover to be that
 included from the base of the grit-bed to the summit of the zone of
 H. planus. Its thickness was 242 feet at Shakespeare's Cliff. He was
 indebted to M. Curry, Esq., of Dover, for this accurate measurement.
           XL. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   ON THE VELOCITY OF EFFLUX OF LIQUIDS.              BY M. VAUTIER.
rPHE experiments which lead to the determination of the velocity
 -*¦ of efflux generally depend on a measurement of the quantity, and
on a coefficient of contraction of the jet. Bossut, however, verified
Torricelli's law by two experiments, in which he measures the
range of a horizontal jet of water (Traite ilementaire d' Hydro-
dynamique, vol. ii. p. 120).
    In the course of researches on this subject, I have applied a
graphic method which enables me to measure directly the velocity of
efflux of liquids, and I have made use of this method for months.
    In the flat horizontal bottom of a cylindrical vessel full of water,
is an orifice in a thin plate, for which can be substituted an
ajutage. Inside the vessel and in the line of its axis is placed a
tube containing an emulsion of an insoluble liquid of the same
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 130. March 1886.                X

286"          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
density as water. This liquid is a mixture in suitable pro
portions of nitrobenzole and oil of turpentine. The very fine
bubbles of emulsion pass along the axis of the jet, of which they
take the exact velocity, as I have ascertained by modifying the
density of the liquid ; within pretty wide limits experiment
shows a velocity independent of this density. This velocity is
occasioned as follows.
    The image of the jet, and therefore that of the bubbles, is formed
on a photographic plate, which, by means of a suitable mechanism,
is made to move at right angles to the trajectory of the jet. When
the liquid begins to flow out the plate is exposed, and thus the
sensitive plate receives the image of the jet during its passage.
    The developed plate shows then one or more lines according as
 one or more bubbles have passed during the course of the plate.
 These lines are slanting ; the direction of each is made up of two
 rectangular motions, that of the plate and that of the bubble.
The velocity of the plate is determined by the vibrations of a
tuning-fork, and the exact direction of the motion of the photo
graphic plate is marked by a dotted line. The angle which one of
 the slanting lines of the photographic plate makes is measured ; from
 this angle we easily deduce the velocity of the bubble, and hence
 that portion of the jet which is being investigated.
    I have applied this method to the measurement of the velocity
 of efflux through an orifice in a thin plate 5-90 millim. in diameter
 under pressures varying from 0-15 metre to 0-30 metre of water.
 These experiments have been at first intentionally limited to such
 similar pressures, in order that we could settle by the constancy of
 the results the real accuracy of the method. With an imperfect
 apparatus, the mean error has remained below -j-^.
    I intend to investigate in this way, but under considerably
 different pressures, the efflux of different liquids, and particularly
 of viscous ones. — Comptes Mendus, Jan. 18, 1886.
 A METHOD OF PRECISELY MEASURING THE VIBRATORT PERIODS
            OF TUNING-FORKS. BY PROF. A. M. MAYER.
    The third volume of the Memoirs of the National Academy of
 Sciences contains a paper by Professor A. M. Mayer, embodying the
 results of a research recently carried on by him with funds from
 the Bache endowment. This research has as its object the elabo
 ration of a method for measuring accurately the times of vibration
 of tuning-forks, and the determination of the laws of their vibra
 tions with reference to the use of the tuning-fork as a chronoscope.
The method employed was briefly to make a clock flash, at each
 second, a spark of induced electricity on a trace made by a style
 attached to the prong of the vibrating fork. To accomplish this
 the pendulum of the clock was armed with a triangular piece of
 platinum-foil, which each second cut through a globule of mercury
 contained in a small iron cup. To ensure the best results fresh
 mercury was taken with each experiment, and the height of the
mercury was adjusted by a screw-collar in such a way as to make
*' "lobule as nearly as possible rigid and free from vibrations

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,             287
with each touch of the platinum point. The clock through this
mercury connection was placed in the circuit of the primary coil of
an inductorium, the current of which was given by a single voltaic
cell. The tuning-fork, with one of its prongs armed with a light
style of thin elastic copper-foil, was screwed to a board with a hinge
which, with a screw-stop suitably placed, allowed of its being
inclined so that the style was just in contact with a smoked surface
of paper wound on a rotating cylinder. The secondary circuit of
the induction-coil included the fork and cylinder. In the experi
ment the fork was raised on the hinge, set vibrating by a bow, and
then depressed again, so that the style should write out its vibra
tion on the smoked surface ; at each second, as the platinum-pointed
pendulum left the mercury, the primary circuit was completed and
an induced current caused a spark from the point of the style,
which made a single minute circular white spot on the blackened
surface. The determination of the vibration-period of the fork is
obviously given by counting the number of waves in the trace, and
measuring the fraction of a wave with a microscope-micrometer.
It was found to be essential to accuracy that the induction discharge
should give a single spark only, and that the spot made by it should
bisect the trace of the fork. A series of experiments with discharges,
obtained on a rapidly rotating surface of blackened paper with cur
rents of various strengths, showed that the discharge is ordinarily
complex, and consists of a shower of sparks producing a large
number of spark -holes on the paper. The proper conditions to be
fulfilled to give the single spark-hole with a given induction-coil
can only be obtained by a series of experiments varying the strength
of the primary current and the area of the condenser in the secon
dary. In the experiments described the primary coil was 150 feet
in length, the secondary 8 miles, and a condenser of plates of glass
with tinfoil with 50 square inches of area was employed.
   With the instrument which has been described a number of
separate investigations were made. The first had to do with the
question of the influence of varying amplitude on the time of vibra
tion. With amplitudes varying in one case from 1*19 to 0-59
millim., in another from 2'39 to 0-61, and a third from 2-07 to
0-78, no variation in vibration-period greater than 0-5 of a vibra
tion was noted. In a second series of experiments the effect of
temperature was considered, and the result established with six
 Koenig forks with Uta and Ut, as extremes, that for all forks of
 the same steel and shape the effect of change of temperature was
 the same. A change of 1° F. produced a change of vibration-
period of hI&t part. In another series of experiments the law
of the running down in the amplitude of a fork's vibration, and
in another the numbers of vibrations per second of some European
forks of various standards of pitch, were determined. In the latter
determinations the probable errors in one of the mean cases was
estimated to be + -0053 of a vibration; in another +-004 of a
vibration.
    Professor Mayer discusses further the use of the apparatus de
scribed as a chronoscope, and gives the results of some experiments

288            Intelligence ami Miscellaneous Articles.
with it on the velocity of fowling-piece shot of various sizes with
various charges of po.vder. The degree of uniformity of rate of
rotation of the cylinder is shown to be immaterial, aud further it
is shown that no correction is needed for the weight of the tracing-
style nor for its scrape on the paper. With an A fork with 440
vibrations per second, it is stated that the number of vibrations
can be determined by this method to at least T-Jjj of a vibration, and
the time-record consequently to ^J-j-j of a second.—Hilliman's
American Journal, December 1885.
         ON THE PERMEABILITY OF VARIOUS DIAPHRAGMS.
                              BY A. ZOTT.
   The chief results of a long investigation on this subject are
summed up by the author as follows : —
   1. The most useful diaphragm for dialytic ssparation is gold
beater's skin. By its means twice as much, or in some cases,
according to the way in which the experiment is arranged, a far
greater separation is effected than with a dialysis of parchment
paper, which it exceeds in homogeneity and in its capacity to hold
water.
   2. For mixtures of liquids which would attack organic dia
phragms, ordinary porous cells are best ; the separation which they
effect is, however, 60 to 75 times less, that is to say slower, than
that produced by goldbeater's skin.
   3. All phenomena of diffusion are greatly increased when the
diaphragm is first evacuated ; the increase of volume of the solution
in the dialysis is, however, far more considerable than the increase
of the quantities of material which pass out ; and the latter depends
again on the relative velocity of diffusion of the substances in
question. The more rapidly a substance of itself passes through
a diaphragm, the more considerable is the acceleration which its
velocity of diffusion experiences by exhausting the diaphragm.
   4. The exhaustion of the diaphragm must from time to time be
renewed, and this is best done after each experiment.
   5. After previous exhaustion endosmosis takes place even with
those diaphragms aud porous plates which previously showed no
increase in volume of the inner liquid.
   6. Even substances which diffuse slowly, or what are called
colloids, may bring about a considerable endosmosis, which, with a
correspondingly long time of diffusion, may even exceed that of
some crystals. Endosmosis is independent of the transit of the
substance in solution, that is of the exosinosis, and when there is
a mixture of solution in the dialyser, it does not differ much from
that which the dissolved substances would separately bring about.
   7. Solutions which contain two different substances may be
more easily and completely separated in the dialyser, the further
apart are the relative velocities of diffusion.
   8. A dialytic separation is the more rapidly effected the more
frequently the outer water is renewed. — Wiedemann's Annalen,
February" 1S8G.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
     PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                  AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                          APRIL 1886.
XLI. On the Electromotive Forces developed during the Com
   bination of Zinc and Iodine in presence of Water. By
   A. P. Laukib, B.Sc. Edin., B.A. Cantab*
THE following paper is a description of the measurements
       of the electromotive forces of certain constant voltaic
elements, with a view to determine the heat of combination
of zinc and iodine in presence of water.
   As these measurements have been made in new voltaic
combinations, a few words may be devoted to describing the
forms of cells used. In the experiments described in the
sequel, two cells have been used, namely the zinc-iodine cell
and the zinc-cuprous-iodide cell.
   The zinc-iodine cell consists of a zinc rod and a platinum wire
immersed in a solution of iodide of zinc, in which free iodine
has been dissolved. During the passage of a current the
reactions which take place in the cell are very simple, zinc
and iodine combining to form iodide of zinc, which dissolves
in the water present. Thus as the zinc dissolves, the iodine
combines with it, and as long as free iodine is present the
cell is remarkably free from polarization.
   The cuprous-iodide cell consists of a zinc rod, and a copper
wire coated with cuprous iodide, immersed in a solution of
iodide of zinc. During the passage of the current the zinc
dissolves and the insoluble cuprous iodide is reduced to
metallic copper.
  * Communicated by the Author. The substance of a considerable
portion of this paper appeared in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh ' for 188-1
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 131. April 1886.               Y

  290      Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Electromotive Forces
     With these two cells the following experiments have been
  made, with a view to determining the changes in electromotive
 force during the combination of zinc and iodine in presence
 of water.
     These changes in E.M.F. no doubt correspond more or less
 closely to the changes in the heat set free during the reaction ;
  and therefore before describing the experiments it is necessary
 to discuss the connection between these two phenomena from
 the point'of view of the recent work on the subject by Prof.
  Helmholtz.
     When a current passes through a given zinc-iodine cell,
 various changes take place requiring either the production or
 absorption of heat. In the first place, there is the combination
 of the zinc and iodine, producing heat ; in the second place,
 there is the solution of the zinc iodide formed, producing
 heat. On the other hand, the disintegration of the zinc, the
 decomposition of the iodine molecule, and the removal of the
 free iodine from its solution in zinc iodide, absorb heat.
     If now a series of cells is made up differing only in the
 strength of the zinc-iodide solution, the heat of solution of
 the zinc iodide formed in the cell during the passage of a
 current, will vary with the strength ol the iodide of zinc
 solution, and that probably in a way familiar to chemists from
 the behaviour of sulphuric acid when added in larger and
 larger quantities to water.
    On the other hand, the heat of combination of the zinc and
 iodine, and the heat absorbed in decomposing the iodine
 molecule and disintegrating the zinc, will probably remain
 the same. We shall, in fact, find that the small quantity
of zinc iodide dissolved on passing a current has a definite
heat of solution determined by the amount of zinc iodide
already dissolved in the water contained in the cell.
    Further, if a series of cells are made up differing only in
the amount of free iodine dissolved in a given iodide of zinc
solution, we shall find the heat absorbed in removing the
iodine from its solution in zinc iodide diminish as the amount
of free iodine present is increased.
    It is also probable that the heat of solution of a constant
quantity of iodine will vary with variations in the strength
of the iodide of zinc.
    Having thus stated what takes place in the cell, the
question next to be decided is, whether the heat given out by
these reactions corresponds exactly with the electromotive
force of the cell.
   Sir William Thomson, in publishing his formula connecting
the electromotive force of a cell with the heat set free by the

     developed during the Combination of Zinc and Iodine.        291
reactions taking place, assumed that this correspondence
existed. Recent experiments have shown, however, that this
is not a true assumption in many cases, and Helmholtz has
recently treated the subject from a new point of view*.
   The following is, as I understand it, the outcome of his
work on chemical combination, in so far as it applies to
finding the connection between the heats of combination and
the electromotive force of the cell.
   In general, when an infinitely small current de passes
through a cell at a given absolute temperature 9, a certain
amount of heat, dQ, must be supplied to or removed from
the cell to keep its temperature constant, apart from the heat
developed by the electric resistance of the liquid.
   If the electromotive force of the cell corresponds exactly
to the heat given out by the reaction taking place in the cell,
then no heat need be added or removed.
   Now the measurement of this cooling or heating of the .
cell would be difficult in practice, but, applying the second
law of thermodynamics, Helmholtz obtains the following
formula, showing that a measure of dQ, can be obtained from
the variations in electromotive force due to temperature—
                         ed£de=JdQ,
where dp is the variation in the electromotive force due to
temperature.
   It is necessary, then, in practice to measure the electromo
tive force of the cell experimented upon at different tempera
tures and to find the variation, ifany, of the electromotive force.
   In a cell of one volt electromotive force, at 300° ab. temp.,
a variation of "0001 volt per deg. Cent, would mean a correc
tion of "03 volt or 3 per cent, to be applied before determining
the heat of combination from the electromotive force.
   The heat of combination can seldom be obtained with much
accuracy from books on thermal chemistry, the conditions
under which the reactions have been performed in the calori
meter differing considerably from the conditions in the cell.
   For example, three numbers are given by Naumann as
representing the heat of combination of zinc and iodine in
presence of water—
    1st. The heat of combination of zinc and iodine in water,
60540 calories.
    2nd. The heat of solution of zinc iodide in water, 11310
calories (Znl2, 400H2O).
   * Die Thermodynamik Chemischer Vorgdnger.         Witsenschaftliche
Abhandlunyen, von Hermann Helmholtz : Zweiter Band.
                                Y2

292        Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Electromotive Forces
   3rd. The heat of combination of zinc and iodine obtained
by subtracting the second from the first, 49230 calories.
   Now the first and second numbers are obviously average
results, the zinc iodide formed dissolving in pure -water at the
beginning of the reaction, but in a strong zinc-iodide solution
towards the end.
   If care has been taken to use the same quantities of water
and zinc iodide in both experiments, no doubt the third number
represents fairly well the heat of combination of zinc and
iodine.
   The above criticism applies to Thomsen's book, though
more details are usually given by him. It is consequently
impossible to compare with exactness these numbers with
those obtained by measuring the heats of combination in the
iodine cell.
    In the following experiments on the zinc-iodine and zinc-
 cuprous-iodide cell, I have used Professor Tait's Thomson
electrometer to measure the electromotive forces obtained.
Alder Wright recommends a high-resistance galvanometer
 for the purpose, which is certainly more delicate, but not
 more reliable, than this particular instrument.
   About 50 divisions of the scale correspond to one volt, and
it is possible to read to half a division.
   As a standard of electromotive force a Daniell cell was
 used, made up according to the directions given by Alder
Wright*, but specially constructed to make diffusion of the
two liquids practically impossible. This cell has, according
to Wright, an electromotive force of 1/107 volt.
    To check this cell I used two Latimer-Clark cells, one
made up to two years ago, the other made up quite recently.
 Taking Lord Bayleigh's recent determination of the electro
 motive force of this cell (1"454 volt), the three cells agreed
 with each other within the errors of experiment.
    The electrometer was connected to a rocker so constructed
 that the zero of the instrument, the deflection due to the cell
 to be measured, and the deflection due to the Daniell cell
 could be noted one after the other. This was always done,
 and the numbers given at the end are always the mean of
 several readings. The Daniell did not alter at all from week
 to week.
    When very small variations in electromotive force had to
 be measured, two or three cells were placed in series, and in
 some cases cells were connected to the electrometer through            -
   * ¦ Electrician,' Feb. 18, 1882. In recent papers Wright states the
 electromotive force of a Daniell cell, differing in some details, at 1*112
volt.

      developed during the Combination of Zinc and Iodine.          293
 similarly constructed cells, especially to note the effects of
 temperature. No correction has been made for the new
 determination of the B.A. unit, as this affects both the electro
 motive force and the zinc dissolved by unit current. Conse
 quently the error introduced in calculating from electromotive
 force to heat of combination is very slight*.
   With the above apparatus the following experiments were
made :—
    1. Experiments to find the effect, on the electromotive force
of the cell, of varying the nature of the zinc.
   2. Experiments to find the effect, on the electromotive force
of the cell, of varying the temperature of the cell.
   3. Experiments to find the effect of varying the strength
of the iodide of zinc solution. For these the cuprous-iodide
cell was used, as simplifying the changes taking place in the
cell.
   4. Experiments on varying the strength of the free iodine
present.
   5. Experiments on varying the strength of the iodide of
zinc solution in the iodine cell.
   (1) In making measurements with the electrometer, the
surface condition of the metals used is evidently of great
importance, as so little current is drawn from the cell. If
wet zinc is exposed to the air, it becomes coated with a film
of hydrate, which perceptibly lowers the electromotive force
of the cell.
   I could find no difference between the deflections given by
zinc electro-deposited from pure zinc, zinc " free from
arsenic," zinc cleaned with sand-paper, zinc corroded by the
iodine solution, and zinc with a freshly-broken crystalline
surface. Probably, if two or three cells in series had been
used, slight differences in electromotive force would have
appeared, as is shown by Alder Wright's results with modi
fications of the Daniell cellf. It is well known that when a
crystalline metal is treated with a weak acid, the crystalline
structure is brought out by the dissolving of the crystals,
which have been cut through in smoothing the surface of the
metal, and there is, therefore, probably a slight difference of
electromotive force between a smooth-filed zinc surface and a
broken crystalline zinc surface. This difference, however, is
too small to be shown on the electrometer with one cell.
   (2) Two iodine cells in series, containing a dilute solution
of iodine and of iodide of zinc, were raised from 10° C. to
50° C. No variation of electromotive force could be detected,
     * See Alder Wright's recent papers in the Phil. Mag. for 1885.
     t Phil. Mag. Jan. 1885.

294        Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Electromotive Forces
showing that the electromotive force does not vary "0001 in
1° C.
    Consequently the correction, if any, to be applied before
calculating the heat of combination from the electromotive
force is less than 2 per cent.
    One iodine cell, made up with a saturated solution of iodide
of zinc, was raised from 17° C. to 70° C. No variation of
electromotive force could be detected.
    (3) A series of measurements of the electromotive force of
the zinc-cuprous-iodide cell, with varying strengths of iodide
of zinc, was made. The amount of zinc iodide in each solu
 tion used was estimated by determining volumetrically the
amount of combined iodine.
    The temperature of the room during the experiments varied
 a little above and below 20° 0.
    The results of the observations are given in Table (a).
    The lowest number given is that obtained in a saturated
 zinc-iodide solution ; the highest is that obtained with only
distilled water in the cell.
    In every case zinc corroded in iodine solution, and then
 washed, was used. Some %'ery minute traces of zinc iodide
 were therefore probably present in the distilled water, but
 probably this number should not be taken as being a trust
 worthy statement of the heat of solution of the first few
 molecules of iodide of zinc, until further experiments have
been made. The next number obtained for a solution of -003
 grm. Znl2 in 1 grm. of water is probably safer as a starting-
point for a curve.
    Evidently the determination of the heat of solution of the
 first traces of a salt is difficult even by this method, though a
 much nearer approximation can be obtained than that possible
 in the calorimeter.
     It was noticed, in the case of the stronger solutions, that
 on first placing the zinc rod, damp with distilled water, in the
 solution, the electromotive force of the cell was 2 or 3 per
 cent, too high, quickly falling to a constant value. This was
 no doubt due to the temporary dilution of a layer of liquid
 next the zinc, and the effect disappeared on drying the zinc
 with a filter paper.
     On looking at the table, it is noticeable that the electro
 motive force falls off suddenly in a saturated solution. This
 is probably due to the separation of solid zinc iodide during
 the passage of the current.
     (4) The variations in the electromotive force, caused by
 gradually increasing the amount of free iodine in a cell con
 taining a constant amount of zinc iodide, are given in the
 Table (0).

    developed during the Combination of Zinc and Iodine.             295
   The free iodine .present was estimated with standard hypo
sulphite solution in the usual way.
   This table requires no particular remark.
   (5) Three determinations of the variation of the electro
motive force of the zinc-iodine cell were made, due to varying
the strength of the iodide of zinc, one in an iodine solution
in distilled water, one in a zinc-iodide solution of medium
strength, and one in a saturated iodide of zinc solution. The
results are to bo found in the Table (c)*.
   If these numbers are subtracted from those obtained for
corresponding solutions in the cuprous-iodide cell, the
numbers obtained show that the curve for the zinc-iodine cell
is slightly different, rising a little higher for distilled water,
and not falling quite so low for saturated iodide of zinc.
Table (a).—Variations in Electromotive Force caused by
   varying the Zinc Iodide in solution as measured in the Zinc-
   Cuprous-Iodide Cell.
 Electromotive Force in Volts.         Gnns. of Znl2 in 1 grm of Water.
              •390                                    3-90
              •415                                    3-90
              •419                                    3-64
              •425                                    2-87
              •440                                    2-72
              •454                                    2-49
              •488                                    1-86
             •545                                      •596
              •607                                     •236
             •637                                      •118
              •656                                     •059
              •696                                     •029
             •771                                      •003
              •894                                   D.W.
Table (b).—Variations in Electromotive Force caused by
   varying the amount of Iodine dissolved in a solution con
   taining "33 grm. of Znl3 in 1 grm. of water.
             ive Force in Volts.          Grms. of Iodine in 1 c. c.
               1-287                                •309
               1-271                                •155
               1-271                                •077
               1-268                                •037
               1-259                                •018
               1-238                                •005
               1-221                                •0006
  * Very similar results have been obtained for sulphates and chlorides
by Alder Wright, Phil. Mag. 1884.

 296       Mr. A. P. Laurie on the Electromotive Forces
 Table (c).—Variations in Electromotive Force caused by
    varying the strength of the Iodide of Zinc in a cell con
    taining -014 grm. of Iodine in 1 c.c.
    Electromotive Force in Volts.     Grms. of Znl2 in 1 grm. of Water.
                1-075                               3-870
                1-303                                ¦118
                1-594                              D.W.*
    On subtracting these from
the cuprous-iodide numbers,
 we get
                 •686
                 •667
                 •719
    Having now described the experiments, and given the
results, I wish to make a few remarks upon them.
    In the first place there are one or two points worth referring
to with regard to this zinc-iodide curve. It will be noticed
that the E.M.F. of solution for the first few traces of the salt
is very high. This agrees with Prof. Helmholtz's experiments
on zinc chloride, given in his second paper on the " Thermo
dynamics of Chemical Combination." In connection with that
paper I may say that I propose to make measurements of the
vapour-tension of zinc-iodide solutions, with the view of com-
Earing them with the curve of E.M.F., as Prof. Helmholtz
  as done for zinc chloride.
    One very curious point is the drop in E.M.F. for a satu
rated solution. This is no doubt due to the different physical
conditions in the cell at this point, owing to the separation of
solid zinc iodide ; but it requires further investigation, as it
is difficult to understand why the formation of the solid salt
should lower the E.M.F. In all the calculations given below
I have taken the value above -390 volt, namely -415 volt, as a
starting-point for the values of y. With reference to this part
of the curve, the two numbers, 3-9 grms., require explanation.
The analysis of the very strong solutions with accuracy was
difficult, and therefore, although the second solution was
certainly just off" the saturation-point, and the first solution
contained solid zinc iodide (which was settled out before
analysis), it seemed better to give the strength of the two
solutions as the same, rather than to give numbers which lay
within the errors of experiment.
   I must also state that I have made no experiments to deter-
                    * fodine calculated to -014 grm.

     developed during the Combination of Zinc and Iodine.    297
mine whether my strong solutions contained more complex
compounds than Zn I2.
    In the next place, the electromotive force of an iodine cell
containing an almost saturated solution of zinc iodide should
correspond pretty closely with the calorimetric number for
the heat of combination of zinc and iodine, as in this parti
cular case the electromotive force due to the heat of solution
 of zinc iodide is eliminated.
    Disregarding the portion of the iodine curve where the
E.M.F. of solution of the iodine is considerable, as being too
small a portion to affect materially the heat set free in the
calorimeter, and taking the portion between 1'268 volt and
 1"287 volt as being a straight line, we get the average E.M.F.
 of a cell containing "33 grm. of Znl2 in 1 grm. of water as
 being 1/277 volt. This gives the E.M.F. of a cell with nearly
saturated zinc iodide as 1-104 volt, a number probably too
high, since the falling portion of the iodine curve has not been
 considered.
    The value in volts of the number given by Naumann is
1-085 volt.
   A more exact comparison is impossible as the strength of
the iodine solution used in the calorimeter experiments is not
given by Naumann.
   The calculation of the heat set free during the solution of a
given quantity of zinc iodide in a given quantity of water can
be easily made from the curve of E.M.F. If a cuprous-
iodide cell be started with distilled water and allowed to run
down, during the passage of the current zinc iodide will
accumulate in the cell, and the E.M.F. will fall along the
curve plotted in the diagram. At the same time the amount
of zinc iodide dissolved during any time is a measure of
the current that has passed through the cell.
   We have only then to state percentages of zinc iodide in
terms of unit current to calculate, by the integration of the
curve, the quantity of heat set free during the solution of the
zinc. It is necessary of course to take some value of E.M.F.
as representing y = 0, where v is the E.M.F. due to heat of
solution only. It is probably best, as explained above, to
take -415 volt as the value corresponding to y=0.
    If then y=<j>x is the equation of this curve, then the heat
of solution of -044 grm. of zinc iodide in 1 grm. of water
(ZnI2,400HaO) can be calculated from 1$.z.d.r. Plotting this
portion of the curve very carefully, and finding this area
arithmetically, the value for the heat of solution (ZnI3,400H2O)

298 Electromotive Forces developed from Zinc and Iodine.
is found to be 13,000 calories.                      This is somewhat higher than
Naumann's number.
               Curves showing the E.M.F. of Solution of Zinc Iodide in Water,
                                  and of Iodine in Zinc Iodide.
         130
 y
  PI
  K
  a,
  i—i
  c.
  a'
  o
         128
         126
         121
         122
         120
         118
         116
         114
               r   ! 4 6 8 10 1214 16 182022242628 303234363840
I-       112
         110             No. of D. grins, of Iodine in 1 cubic centini. of a '33 gnn. sol. of Zinc Iodide.
         11)8
   n
   n     106
   3
   q.
   <     101
   c      102
   7      100
           08
           90
           <li
           92
           90
           83
           M
           84
           82
           80
           78
           76
           74
           72
   M       70
  g        0s
  ja       00
 o—.       04
   o       62
  c
"2         00
  1        58
           50
   1s*     54
           52
    o      5(1
-=¦        43
           46
    5?S    44
    P.     42
  £s       40
                  2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18202224262830323(36 3840
                              No. of Decigrammes of Znla in 1 grtn. of Water.
        It is evident from the above remarks and calculations, that
any very close agreement between the numbers found in the
calorimeter and those found in the voltaic cell, even on the
assumption that Sir William Thomson's formula, E = Je#, is
true, cannot as yet be expected, and that therefore any theories,
based on the differences between these values, are at present
meaningless.

       Relations of Pressure, Temperature, and Volume.            299
   Some of Dr. Alder Wright's recent work is thus open to cri
ticism on account of his theoretical conclusions on the results
of the comparison of his values with those found in the calori
meter. Another desideratum in his recent papers is the state
ment of the effects of temperature on the E.M.F. of his cells.
Such measurements should always be made, especially sinoe
the publication of Prof. Helmholtz's mathematical researches
already referred to.
    This paper is only put forward as a preliminary investigation
of the electromotive forces developed during the combination
of zinc and iodine, and the difficulty of dealing with zinc
iodide as a salt in solution must be my excuse for not produ
cing final results on going over the ground for the first time.
  XLII. The Relations of Pressure, Temperature, and Volume
    in Saturated Vapours. By W. C. Unwin, M. Inst. C.E.*
IN the interesting and laborious paper of Messrs. Kamsay
       and Young, there are given four relations of a simple
kind between the pressures, temperatures, and volumes of
saturated vapours and the heat of vaporization of a number of
 substances. These relations are not given as exact relations,
but as suggestive of laws approximately satisfied by very dif
 ferent substances over a very wide range of conditions.
    Now long ago Hirn pointed out that, as for saturated vapours
 there exists only a single value of p and / corresponding to
 one specific volume v, there must be a direct relation between
 t and v, and between p and v, independent of p. or t. But
 hitherto no exact relation has been found, and we remain still
 in the condition of being obliged in every thormodynamical
 calculation to fall back at every step on data either inteqw-
 lated from tables of experimental values, or determined by
 the aid of purely empirical formulae. Nor is this all: the
  formula} are themselves cumbrous and are not interrelated.
     Regnault's formula, giving p in terms of t for instance,
  cannot be inverted to get t in terms of p, though in practical
  calculations the pressure is almost always the given datum.
  Further, if differentiated to obtain J- an expression is obtained
  far too cumbrous for ordinary use. Eankine's formula is
  nearly as accurate, and is both simpler and gives an inverse
  function ; but the expression for -fj is cumbrous.          The ex
  pression for latent heat is necessarily independent, but then
     * Communicated by the Physical Society ; read February 27, 1880.

300        Mr. W. C. Unwin on the Relations of Pressure,
the density or specific volume ought to be expressed in terms
of the formulae for latent heat and pressure and temperature.
                                      •       dp . .
But there being no simple expression for ~ it is more com
mon to resort to the quite independent empirical formula of
Zeuner.
    For purely scientific purposes no absolute difficulty or in
accuracy is caused, and no advance can be hoped for till
rational expressions are found. When such expressions are
found, also, it may probably prove, as Hirn surmises, that
they will not have the simplicity which some people expect
in all natural laws. The practical difficulty, again, can be
                                                              dv
surmounted by means of the tabulated values of p, t, -£f
calculated with great care and labour by Prof. Zeuner and
 Prof. Cotterill. Nevertheless the author thinks that some
clearness would be introduced into the teaching of thermo
dynamics, and possibly some facility gained in practical cal
culations, if only amongst empirical expressions to which
recourse must be had, one could be found accurate enough
and yet so simple that all the related functions could be derived
from it. The paper of Messrs. Ramsay and Young suggested
an attempt in that direction.
    It might be expected that the approximate relations stated
 by Profs. Ramsay and Young could be deduced from some
of the empirical relations already established. This, however,
 is not strictly the case.
    It is known for instance that the expression
                            p=AT",
 where A is a constant and T is reckoned from an arbitrary
 zero, approximately satisfies the law connecting the pressure
 and temperature of saturated vapours.
    Differentiating,
                           i=5-5AT«
 So that
                         ^=5-5ATV5=5-5/>.
                        rfi                 '
 Consequently
                            pdT-^'
a relation which should be approximately satisfied for dif
ferent vapours.
    Thus, for instance, reckoning from the zeros given below

          Temperature, and Volume in Saturated Vapours.               301
we get from the values of -J- in Messrs. .Ramsay and Young's
                                  dt T dp
tables the following values of —,~:—
        Substance ... j  Bisulph. of     Ethyl                 Mercury.
                          Carbon.       Alcohol.    Water.
           Zero
   (Above -273°C)J          144°.         208°.       210°.      322°.
     Pressure in mm.
             100           5913          5-323       5-183      5-243
             500           5749          5-616       5-794      5-598
            1000           5-666         5-802       5-808      5707
            5000           5-201         5-540       5-645
          10,000                         5-429       5-503
          20,000                         5-291       5-302
    At first sight it looks as if this were similar to the relation
   7
t-4r = constant at any one pressure, given in Messrs. Ramsay
and Young's paper. But, obviously, it is a quite different
relation from the difference in the reckoning of temperature.
 It is, besides, a purely empirical relation, and the constancy of
the values obtained may serve as a useful warning against
accepting such correspondence of formula and data as indi
 cating that the formula expresses a real law.
    The principal relation discussed by Messrs. Eamsay and
Young is that
                                       dp
                                      *di
is constant for different vapours at the same pressure. In
their table (Proc. Phys. Soc. vol. vii. p. 301*) values of this
 quantity, very carefully and laboriously calculated, are given
 for various vapours at pressures ranging from 10 to 20,000
 mm. of mercury. It will easily be seen that the numbers in
 each horizontal line in their table approximate to constancy,
 varying in extreme cases by possibly 30 per cent.
     If now these numbers are divided by the pressures so as to
 form values of
                                     t dp
                                     p dt
 the constancy of the horizontal lines of figures will remain
 unaffected, while the vertical columns will approach to con
 stancy almost as nearly as the horizontal columns. The
 following table gives these values, with some of those for
 mercury corrected and with those for vapour of carbonic
 anhydride added: —
                 * Phil. Mag. vol. xx. p. 526 (December 1885).

302           Mr. W. C. Unwin on the Relations of Pressure,
                               Values of - -y- for different vapours.
                                         p at
                  bisulphide,                a"    Mercury,
     si   'Carbon                                                a    £ ¦
                                                                      •o
     is
                             OS,.
                                  gig.       - td
                                             5
                                                            Hg. "§,SQ
                                                                CO
                                                                            lip
      100 12-80 1304 1304                                             1607  16-42 1
      500 10-83 11-31 11-22 11-66 13-20 1212 13-81                          14-39
     1000 1010 10-37 10 01 10-85 11-89 11-20 12-95                          13-83 '
     3000 8-08 8-96 924 9-27 11-23 '.M.7 11-58                              11-99
     0000 8-22 8-26 860 8-46 9-73                                     10-89 11-29
   10.000                                                             1003  10-39 7 02
   15,000                                                              9-50  9-89 7-63
   20,000                                                              913   9-54 | 757
   00,000                                                                           6-77
    But now it may be pointed out that - j~ is not a mere
arbitrary expression for
                                          t dp            r
                                          p dt     Apu
 (Him, torn. i. p. 319). That is, it is the ratio between the
total heat of evaporation and the heat expended in external
work. What we have found, therefore, is that this ratio
approaches constancy for widely different substances and
 under considerable differences of pressure. This approxima
tion to constancy appears to me to lie at the basis of all the
 relations Messrs. Young and Ramsay have found.
    The constancy of this ratio of internal and external work,
 for different vapours at one pressure, has been investigated
 by Messrs. Young and Ramsay from other data, but it does
 not seem to have occurred to them that it would be obtained
 in the simple way given above.
    The author noticed that another relation, namely,
                                                e dp
                                                v dt'
 gave values for each vapour, far more constant at different
 pressures than
                                                 t dp
                                                p dt '
    The following table gives some of these values :—

                     Temperature, and Volume in Saturated Vapours.                                 303
                                      Values of - -£ for different vapours.
  Pres ure
  in                          bisulphide,                                    "3
           mil iras.   Carbon                                      c .        gW  Carbonic anhydride,
                                               S 2             3   SO        ¦3°
                                                                                                      CO..
                                                    a        m
                                                                             w
           100             3120               3394  7053          5218       5049
          500              3324               3320  7231     8437 4995       4909
     1000                  3313               3321  7247     8275 4932       4956
    5000                   3220               3233           7930 4745       4610
 10,000                                                           4670       4528       1889
 20,000                                                           4570       4455       1991
 50,000                                                                                2018
   This suggested that probably an empirical relation of this
kind could be found expressing the relation of pressure and
temperature very simply and with considerable accuracy.
                                                                       £3-25 fa
Let, for instance, for steam the values of — -f- be formed.
We get:-                                                                 P " dt
                                                                     t™ dp
                                           t.             P-          p di'
                                          273              400       210(W
                                          298             23-55      21970
                                          323             91-98      22020
                                          348            288-5       21940
                                          373            7000        21870
                                          398           1743-9       21830
                                          423           3581-2       21790
                                          448           07174        21770
                                          473          110890        21950
Where the greatest and least values differ from the mean by
only 07 per cent. But the expression, the values of which
have been found, is integrable. Putting n + 1 for the index
of t, we get for a general approximate relation between the
pressure and temperature of vapours,
                                                   \og,p=a--.                                         (1)
    From this are easily derived the following equations, in
which for convenience the logarithms are common logarithms.
                                              logp=a- -                                               (2)

304       Mr. W. C. Unwin on the Relations ofPressure,
                     ~\a — \ogp)                             ' a'
                   \% =2-3025^..           .  .+ . .   .   .   (3)
                          = 2-3025^a-lof^'.          .   .   (3a)
                      at
                   p?-f=2-3025^     t"                          v '
                                                                (4)
                          = 2-302.'m(a-log_p)                 (4a)
   For the latent heat, besides the ordinary formula,
                    L=m                r                        (5)
                             (a-log^)i
And consequently if v is the volume in cubic metres of the
vapour and s that of the liquid,
                                JL
                                 dp
                                 dt
                                 13497L           .... (6)
                               pn{a—logp)'
    In all these equations the quantity required is expressed
simply in terms of the pressure or the temperature, a result
not obtainable with the formulae previously used.
                         Formula for Steam.
    To test the value of these equations, the author has calcu
lated the constants for steam most suitable for the complete
range of Regnault's experiments, from —30° C. to 230° C,
and from 0"4 milliin. pressure to 20,000 millim. pressure.
The proposal of a new empirical formula, and one not so
accurate as Rankine's or Regnault's, for the relation ofp and
t in the case of steam, will probably appear the reverse of
commendable. Still the fact that it gives a series of expres
 sions, all directly derived from it, simple enough for ordinary
 use in engine calculations and accurate enough for practical
 purposes, is a strong reason in its favour. Its applicability
 can only be determined by testing its accuracy in a suffi
 cient number of cases. In all the following calculations the
 calculated values are compared with the most accurate values
 thus far computed, over a range of pressure and temperature
 greater than would occur in practical cases.
    The primary equation, derived from Regnault's data, for
 millimetres ot mercury, Centigrade degrees reckoned from

            Temperature, and Volume in Saturated Vapours.                  305
   —273° 0., and common logarithms is
                                              7579
                          \ogp= 7-5030-          [•as '                      (?)
   which gives
                                /   7579         \l                            .
                          <_V7-5030-]ogp;                                 (la)
       The following table gives the values of p calculated from t
   with Regnault's experimental values and values calculated by
   Bankine s formula for comparison :—
 Tempera Tempera        Pressure   Pressure                Pressure
    ture,      ture,  in uiiUims. in millims. in Error
                                                  millims.
                                                           in millims.   Error
Centigrade. absolute.  Regnault. by formula.                           in millims.
                                                           Rankin e.
       o          o                     •401                     •35
   -30         243         0-386                + -015                    -036
   -20         253         0-91         •982    + -072           •89      -02
   -10         203          208       2-229     + -149          207       -¦01
       0       273          4-60      4-709     + 109           4-47      -13
       5       278          6-53      6-69      + -16
      10       283          917       9-40      + 23            905       -12
      15       288        12-70      1301       + 31
      20       293        17-39      17-83      + -44          1733       -06
      25       298        23-55      2407       4- -52
      30       303        31-55      3218       + 63           31-57      4-02
      35       308        41-83      42-fil     4- -78
      40       313        5491       55-72      + -81          5505       4--14
      45       318        71-39      72-24      + -85
      50       323        91-98      92-85      + -87          9226       4-28
      55       328       117-48     11830       + -82
      60       333       148-79     149-48      + -69         14915       4- 36
      65       338       186-94     187-50      4- -5(5
      70       343       233-08     233-61      4- -53        23348       4- -40
      75       348       288-50     288-60      + -10
      80       353       354-62     353-59      -1-03         355-04      4- 42
      85       358       433-00     433-21      + 21
      90        363      525-39     52348       — 1-91        525-70      4- 31
      95       368       633-69     633-72      + "03
    100         373      760-00     757-35       -2-65        760-0         0
    105         378      906-41     904-27      -214
    110         383     1075-4     1071-5       -3-9         1074-8       -•6
    115         388     1269-4     1263-3       -61
    120         393     1491-3     1485-6       -5-7         14901         -1-2
    125         398     1743-9     1785-4       -8-48
    130         403     2030-3     2020-2      -10-1         2028-0       -23
    135         408     23537      23475       - 6-2
    140         413     2717-6     27102       - 74          2713-8        -38
    145         418     3125-6     3114-6      -11-0
    150         423     3681-2     3564-5      -16-7         8575-5        -5-7
    155         428     40886      4064-4      -24-2
    160         433     4(551-6    4633-4      -18-2         4643-6        -8-0
    165         438     5274-5     5262-6      -12-9
     170        443     5901-7     5941-6      -201          5951-2        -10-5
    175         448     67174      6694-2      -23-2
    200         473    116890     11664-4      -23-6        11675-0        -14-0
    230         503   20926-0     20951-7      4-25-7       209450         4-19-0
         Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 131. April 1886.

306      Mr. W. C. Unwin on the Relations of Pressure,
  The following short table gives some values of t calculated
from p :—
                                               t.
                p-
                            Calculated by(7o).        Observed.
                  400              272-7                 273
                 91-98             322-8                 323
               760-00              373-2                 373
              3581-2               423-2                 423
             11689-0               4731                  473
   The following are the derivative expressions. A few values
are calculated from each and compared with the values very
laboriously calculated by Zeuner from Regnault's formula.
                       1 dp _ 21815                                         m
                      p dt ~ t*'a                                           K '
                              _(7-50m-\ogp)'
                                         441-3"          ¦     •   •   •   (8a>
                                             1 dp
                                             p dt'
                 t.
                               By formula (8).      From Zeunor.
               273                 •07201                 07150
               323                 •04932                •04979
               373                 •03567                •03577
               423                 •02688                •02685
               473                 •02090                 •02083
                              t «>_ 21815
                                                                             (9)
                              V dt ~ t1'25
                                    = 2-8782(7-5030-log?).                 (9 a)
                                          t dp                                |
                                          p dt'
         t.            V-                                        From Zeuner.
                                 By equation      Bv equation
                                     (9).            (9 a).
       273               4-60      19-659            19-69           19-52
       '&•?&            91-98      15-929            1594            1608
       373            76000        13-304            13-30           13-34
        423          3581-2        11-368            11-37           11-36
       473          116890          9-890              989 '          985

       Temperature, and Volume in Saturated Vapours.                  307
   The latent heat of vaporization has hitherto been expressed
only in terms of the temperature by the empirical formula
                        L = 796-23-0-695«,                            (10)
where t is the absolute temperature, and the smaller terms
containing higher powers of t are omitted. From the rela
tion between p and t we get
                     L=799-           *7
                                      894.                        • (10a)
                                 (a- \ogp)*
                                           L.
        t.                                                     From
                      P-      By equation ! By equation       Zeuner.
                                  (10).        (10a).
       273             4-60       606-5           607-0        000-5
       323            91-98       6718            571-7        5717
       373           76000        537-0           536-3        536-5
       423          35812         502-3           501-0        500-8
       473        116890          466-5           465-9         464-8
    The new formula (10 a) is more accurate than the one (10)
 commonly used.
    Let v be the volume in cubic metres of a kilogram of steam,
 and s the volume of the same quantity of water, usually token
 atO'001,
                     «-s = 10-821                                      (11)
                                     p{a— logpY
 where p is still expressed in millimetres.
                                            V- s.
                 p-
                            By equation (11).     From Zeuner.
                   4-60         208-7                210-6
                 91-98           1214                 1205
                760-00             1-652               1-650
               3581-2               ¦3833               •3839
              11689-0               •1255               •1257
                            Other Vapours.
    The following equations may be useful. That for ether
  agrees extremely well. The mercury equation less well ; but
 the errors are considerably less than those of Rankine's equa
 tion in his paper of 1850. The data are all from Regnault.
                                   Z2

308        Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Law of Error
   Alcohol :—
                         ,        _.,0 8784
                         logi>= 7-448- -j^-.
    Ether :—
                          logP=6-9968-pJ
    Mercury :—
                          logi,=9-8651-^.
    Carbonic acid :—
                           .                 302-8
                          logi) =8-4625--^-.
XLIII. The Law of Error and the Elimination of Chance. By
    F. Y. Edgeworth, Jlf.A, Lecturer on Logic, King's
    College, London*
ONE of the principal uses of the Law of Error is to elimi
        nate chance in cases like the following. The mean (or
sum) of a set of observations t differs by a certain extent
from an assigned value % ; usually that value which, upon
the supposition that no disturbing cause other than chance
had been at work, would be most likely to occur. It is
required to determine the probability that the observed
divergence is due to a disturbing cause rather than mere
chance. The general method may be summarized as follows.
Let x be the extent of observed divergence from the value
most probable on the supposition of mere chance. The pro
bability of this amount of divergence in an assigned direction
(positive or negative) occurring by mere chance is approxi
mated
                             r i— e -*c2 ax,
                               vV
where c is a constant depending upon the number and cha
racter of the observations. To which is to be added a certain
term outside the sign of integration, when we are dealing with
discrete errors, as in Bernouilli's theorem, rather than with
continuous quantity, as in the ordinary theory of errors of
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t Or more generally elements subject to definite laws of facility: such
as those which Mr. Galton supposes to obey individually the simplest
binomial law, and bv their composition to constitute an approximate
probability-curve, such as we find in rerum natura (Phil. Mag. Jan. 1875).
   \ Whether a fixed quantity or the mean (or Mini) of another set of
observations (or more generally elements).

                    and the Elimination of Chance.                       309
observation. It is thus that Laplace determines the proba
bility that the difference of a millimetre between the means
of two sets of barometrical observations made at 9 a.m. and
4 p.m. respectively is due to a " constant cause," rather than
mere chance. I have applied the method to a great variety
of statistical inferences in a paper read before the Statistical
Society this year.
   In that paper *, and elsewhere, I have discussed the general
principles upon which the method is based. The subject of
this paper is the particular case where the observed divergence
is very great—so great as to raise a doubt whether the law of
error upon which the whole theory turns is adequately ful
filled. For instance, in the example just cited from Laplace,
the observed divergence much exceeds (as will presently f
appear) the limit analogous to that which is ordinarily postu
lated in the application of the law of error to Bernouilli's
theorem. It is attempted here to remove this scruple by
proving the following propositions. The received formula is in
general sufficiently accurate, or at least safe, in that it affords
a superior limit to the probability of mere accident, an a for
tiori argument in favour of law. But in a certain class of
cases correction is required, and is attainable in a certain
species of that class.
    The subject may be divided according to the presence or
absence of certain properties which frequently occur, and
whose occurrence tends to the correctness or at least the
corrigibility of the received formula. These properties are
(a) the symmetry, (/3) the finiteness, and (7) the binomial
character of that facility-curve, or moro generally -locus,
which represents the possible errors of an individual obser
vation, or more generally of each of the elements\ of which th0
sum is our datum. The negatives of these attributes may be
 denoted thus :—o, /3, y .
     a /3 y. According to this arrangement, the first case to
be considered is that in which all the properties are present.
 This is that simple case of Bernouilli's theorem where the
 probability of both alternatives is the same, namely £. The
interest of this theorem greatly transcends games of chance.
 For, as Mr. Galton has pointed out in this Journal §, the laws
    * " Methods of Statistics," Journal of Statistical Societv, Jubilee Num
 ber, 1886. " Observations aud Statistics," Cambridge Phil. Soc. 1885.
 " On the Method of ascertaining Variations                " read before the
 British Association, 1885; published in the Journal of the Statistical
 Society, January 1886 ; Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research,
 parts viii. and x.
    f Below, pp. 311, 317.                 X See note to p. 308.
    § Phil. Mag. Jan. 1875.

310          Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Law of Error
of error which occur in rerum natura may very generally be
regarded as Binomials.
    It suits our purpose to take as the quaesitum not as usual *
the probability of one of the events occurring within certain
limits on either side the greatest term, but the probability that
the divergence from the greatest term should exceed a given
limit in an assigned direction ; in short, one of the extremities
rather than the body of the curve or locus under consideration.
 In this inquiry let us take Poisson f for our guide. And
according to his notation let us call the total number of
trials /x, the observed number of successes m, the number of
failures n.
    It is shown by Poisson that the probability of obtaining at
least m successes, at most n failures, may be represented by a
certain fraction, of which the numerator and denominator are
both integrals ; the subject of integration being the same for
both, but the limits different. The subject of integration is
of the form
                       He-«*(A' + 2h"t + 3A"'ts + &c),
where h', h", &c. constitute a descending serios, if, as usual,
ft, m, and n are large. In order that the quotient of the
integrals should converge, a further condition must bo fulfilled
by the inferior limit of the numerator, which Poisson calls k.
This limit is found by substituting ^ for p and q in the fol
lowing expression—
                     i       n       , / . i\i        »»+l
                  nl°s?-(^) + (w+1>l0gK^T)'
and extracting the square root. If we actually perform the
work of integration and division, we shall find that the result
consists of two portions, one under the sign of integration
which does not explicitly contain k, and one outside the sign
of integration affected with k after this wise,
                        e~k2[X' + X"k + X'"k'i + ...-],
where \', \", X."' . . . are of the same order respectively as
h'. h", /»'" . . . , that is —r, -, -r . . . In order that the above
                             fit' /*' ill
expression should converge it is necessary that the order -
should be fractional.                                              f*
                     k                  1
    If we have - of the order -, k of the order unity, we shall
                    * E. g. Todhunter, art. 993.
                    t Hecherches tur la probability, chap, 3.

                    and the Elimination of Chance.                     311
have the usual degree of approximation,* in which the lowest
terms rejected are of the order -.             This condition may be
thus translated into the usual postulate, that the excess
should not exceed the order VV Expanding k in terms of
p, where />= s            n, we have
                     7!{l4(!r}-
                        P
                           2
Now, when p is of the order \/^, since terms of the order -
 may be neglected, we have k of the order unity.              But, when
a exceeds the order —r=, since k increases with p, k exceeds
the order unity. Hence the ordinary limitation is from this
point of view perceived to bo both sufficient and necessary.
    It is more important for our purpose to show that the
ordinary formulae of approximation hold good far beyoud the
limit ordinarily prescribed, not of course with what may be
called the regulation degree of precision (where the smallest
order neglected is -), but with sufficient precision for prac
tical purposes. Suppose p is of a higher order than \/fi, e.g. yu,*;
then k is of the order p$. The series X' + \"k + &c. is still
convergent. It is still possible to simplify our formula by
expanding k and neglecting terms of the order —v                 And the
further simplification which is necessary to reduce Poisson's
first formula to the more usual one given, e. g. by Mr. Tod-
hunter, is still allowable. We have thus for a first approxi
mation to the sought probability,
                      e~*'dt+ —= e~*\ where t=- P._
                                                            V2
(the Poissonian % u for the case of symmetry).
   For a second approximation we have the more rugged
formula, from which Poisson reasons downwards,
  *   Cf. Todhunter, loc. cit.
  t  "this expression for the tail of the binomial locus is deducible from
Mr.  Todhunter's formula for its body (History, art. 9fl3).
  %  Ibid. art. 79.

312        Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on tlw, Law of Error
                                 3v wftmn
where A8 = n log      \-(m + l)\os —          and k is to be taken
positively, when, as here supposed, n falls short of ~.
    Take for example /*=1000, rn= 700, and therefore n = 300,
the divergence 200 far exceeding the regulation limit, which
is the order V500. By the first approximation we have
t*=80, and for the qucesitum,
                     .L «-»[•-* + 1 1.
                    Vtt     L-2\/80 \/2000j '
that is, about 10-36, or (writing '0" for x ciphers following a
 decimal point) 'O36!. By the second approximation I find
 •037(i. And by another method which will be explained *
 below 1 find for inferior and superior limits of the quaesitum
 •03'5 and -03767. _
    In proving this conclusion we have had the advantage of
 knowing explicitly the probability of any degree of divergence.
 It is instructive to consider how we should have proceeded
 without this start. We should then have had to resort to
 methods of approximation analogous to those which are
 applied to the general theory of errors of observation. The
 following is, I think, the analogue of Laplace's procedure.
 Consider the expression
                —        ~           cos x 20 (P even) .
 If it is integrated between the limits ir and 0, all the terms
 other than the #th from the centre vanish. Hence we have
                   - \\cos0ycos20xdd
                       0
 for the probability of the particular divergence x. By the
 ordinary reasoning this expression is to be reduced to the
            1    -*d
 form       .— e * , which is to be summed between limits x
        V ^2
 and 00 ; the process of summation, 2, as contrasted with the
 usual (", introducing a term outside the sign of integration.
    There is another form perhaps better suited to the present
 purpose, the investigation of the limits of correctness. This
                            * See p. 821.

                  and the Elimination of Chance.                313
 is the method employed by the present writer in a former
 number of this Journal *, not without reference to the kindred
 work of Mr. Morgan Crofton. The essential feature of this
 method is a partial differential equation which must be ful
 filled by the general expression for the probability of diver
 gence x. In the case of a binomial let w„ denote that pro
 bability, where s, an integer, = £/*, and consider the formation
 of"i+i,z- We have
 Whence
 an equation in finite differences which may under certain
provisos be reduced to the differential equation
                        du_\ dqu _
                         ds 4 dx* '
an appropriate solution of which is found to be
                            1       _?i?
                         V    2*
In order that this solution should satisfy the equation infinite
differences with a precision which retains quantities above
the order -, it will be found necessary that ar9 should not
          m
exceed ^.      But in order that some degree of precision should
be attained, it is sufficient that x be of an inferior order to
a, e.g. ( ^ )•   Thus from this point of view also it is seen that
the received formula is fairly accurate beyond the regulation
limit.
    And further, when it ceases to be accurate, it still remains
safe : inasmuch as it affords a value superior to that of the
real probability of mere accident; and therefore underrates
the evidence in favour of the demonstrandum, the existence of
a disturbing cause other than chance. To show this it is
almost sufficient to compare the extreme term of the binomial
locus with the corresponding ordinate of the probability curve.
The Napierian logarithm of the former is —/j, log 2 ; that of the
latter — - — .j log ^— „ log tt.     The latter is therefore greater
than the former, and the curve has left the discontinuous locus
underneath it before it reaches the extreme region of the locus.
                             • Oct. 188a

314         Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Laic of Error
    This conclusion may be confirmed by comparing the ex
 plicit expressions for the height of the respective loci at any
 point. Take the common centre of the two loci as origin of
 coordinates ; then the binomial locus consists of a set of rect
 angular columns standing each on a base of unit length, the
 tallest at the centre. The general expression for the height
 of a column is                 .
                                [ft       1
                                          2*'
                           2 + .v ^-x
                                    2 *
This is to be compared with the corresponding ordinate of
the probability-curve, or rather what that ordinate becomes
when for x we put # + £. Otherwise, though the height of
a column is less than the height of the ordinate, we cannot be
sure that the curve has swept clear of the discontinuous locus.
In fact it will be found that the centre of the central column
(ft even, as in the accompanying figure) is less than the cen
tral ordinate of the curve, but that the curve strikes the
column between ,t=0 and x = ^. And for a long way the
curve continues thus to hug the discontinuous locus. Put 17
for the logarithm of the ordinate at the point x 4- 4, diminished
by the logarithm of the height of column x ; and let x=
(9)      ("<!)•     Expanding we hav
               '-6 Kv
a quantity which, fi being large, is apt to become positive as
soon as a is less than |; thatis after x hasattained the value (?)'•
This conclusion may be completed by observing the course of
t- and j-p       It will be found that when ft is large the latter
very early becomes positive, and the former after x has

                     and, the Elimination 6/CJuxnce.                      315
attained the value is)-          We thus conclude that the proba
bility-curve disengages itself from the binomial locus long
before the extreme region of the locus is attained, and sweeps
on to infinity above the binomial locus. The approximation
is therefore safe when it ceases to be accurate.
     a ft y. The conclusions which have been proved for sym
metrical binomials may be extended to the whole class of
symmetrical finite facility-curves. Here we have not in
general the advantage of starting from an explicit* knowledge
of the probability that any particular degree of divergence
would occur—the general term of what may be called the
compound facility-curves. An explicit form may, however,
be attained for some of the simpler cases by the method of
Lagrange, which Mr. Todhunter cites t- Consider the sim
plest case of all (after the binomial), that in which the
elementary facility-locus consists of a rectangle of base 2a,
and therefore of height ^              one value being as likely as
another between the limits ±a. Lagrange gives the facility-
 curve, which is formed by adding n values taken at random
from under this elementary facility-curve, or according to this
law of possibility +. The general expression is somewhat
     • Cf. above.                 t P. 301 and Mowing.
      | Lagrange's theorem may thus be proved by way of an equation of
mixed differences. Let Mr. Todhunter s 6=0, and accordingly his c =
 lil - ' : = our 2a. Let his K =our £-.   The primary facility-curve con
sists of a rectangle whose base is 2a and height 5-, and whose left base
angle is at the origin. The compound facility-curve extending to the
right is such that its ordinate ua represents the probability that, if s values
be taken at random from the primary facility-locus, their sum will lie
between x and x-\-dx; s and x corresponding to Mr. Todhunter's x and z
respectively. Observing the transition from utI to m»+i, r, we have
                         5-J,    tt»ar=«i+i,*+sa-
Put                       D,k = Uj+2„ ; D,u=u>+i.
Differentiating both sides of our equation, we have
         2I(D,-1)u=«£d.D,«,
             \dxJ 7\2a)
         h=(t)      T-V.ri-D-1
                          L                W Boole, 'Finite
                                  !*#(*)= (<?/•
                                . J<PW                     chap.Differences,'
                                                                  x. art. 2)
                 (^%y'{U*)-«t>(*-%>)+^=£ <Kx-4a)-&c }
Observing the initial case when «=2, we shall find that this expression
reduces to Lagrange's.

316        Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Law of Error
unmanageable, but it reduces to a few and ultimately to a single
term at the extremity of the compound curve. That term is
(mutatis mutandis)
                           1         r»_ "]"-
                       2a)"|«-l |_2 XJ
                      (2,
                                                               «
for the equation of the curve between the points #=„ and
    n              ...                                    .
x = -— 1, the origin being taken at the central point of the
    lb
curve, and n supposed oven. Let us compare now the height
of this portion of curve with the height at the same region of
the ancillary probability curve, of which the equation is
                                1      _ "*
                             V nfa
Put for x ^a, and the extreme ordinate becomes
                              v/n§«
The logarithm of the reciprocal of this quantity is of the
order n ; while the logarithm of the compared quantity's re
ciprocal is of the order (n — 1) log (n — l)+?i log (2a).
Neglecting the second of these terms, since 2a may be sup
posed of the order unity, we see that the representative
probability-curve is well above the real facility-locus. And
this being true of the particular case under consideration, the
rectangle, is a fortiori true for all other finite symmetrical
facility- curves which fulfil the usual condition of descending
from the centre. Hence it is safe for extreme degrees of
divergence to use the tail of the probability-curve as the
measure of the probability in favour of mere chance.
   To investigate the accuracy of the approximative form for
moderate degrees of divergence, we must leave the explicit
expression, and have recourse to the analogues of the methods
employed at p. 313. If the elementary facility-curve be
y=/(?2) between limits +b, then the general term of the
compound fulfils the condition
And this condition (with the other requisites of a symmetrical*
facility-curve) is approximately satisfied by the expression
                                1      -±
                             V 7TSC
  * See my paper on " Observations and Statistics," Cambridge Philoso
phical Society Transactions, 1885, p. 142.

                   and the Elimination of Chance.              317
                                x
 provided that the powers of - constitute a descending series.
                                s
 Hence it may be concluded that the probability-curve is for a
 long way a fairly accurate representative of the real locus.
    It continues for a long way accurate and it is ultimately
 safe ; and though we have not proved that between the accu
 rate tract and the. safe tract there may not intervene a tract
 without either of those attributes, still I think the analogy of
 the binomial-cnrves may justify us in jumping over this in
 terval, and asserting generally that the received formula is
 either accurate or at least safe.
    In forming this conclusion for symmetrical finite facility-
 curves, we have proved the greater part of our thesis*. For
 it will be admitted that the remaining cases are exceptional.
The most important remaining class is that of finite unsym-
metrical a 13. This may, like the symmetrical finite class, be
divided into binomial and non-binomial.
    a /S 7. The binomial species has an interest beyond games
of chance in so far as it may be regarded as the type of the
laws of error which occur in return natura. Here arises the
question : given a set of observations unsymmetrically grouped
(such as the entries in the column dx 01 a Life-table between
the ages of 50 and 100), how shall we reason back from this
composite datum to the elementary binomial from which it is
assumed to have sprung ? How shall we perform the analogue
of the operation which Mr. Galtonf performs for symmetrical
binomials, when he calculates the number and extent of the
elements which underlie a given set of statistics.
    Let us first get a clear idea of the problem. What we are
given is a set of« observations grouped unsymmetrically as in
the accompanying figure, where the ordinates of the curve
represent the number of measurements corresponding to each
degree of the base. Let the observations range from 0,
which we will cnll zero, over a length / to OL. It is assumed
         * P. 309.              t Phil. Mag. Jan. 1875, p. 43.

318        Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Law of Error
that the phenomenon observed is thus generated ; there are
taken at random n elements, each of which may have either
the value zero or a, but not with equal probability ; the chance
of zero being p, the chance of a (say greater) q. The proba
bility that the sum of n such elements should have the value
na would of course be given by the binomial law. Now we
have to determine, upon the hypothesis made, both n and a.
 For a first equation we have (1) na = l. A second equation
is afforded by the probable error of the observed group ; for,
as will appear presently, any binomial locus is accurately re
presented by the ancillary probability-curve up to the probable
error, and indeed as far as what Mr. Galton calls the decile.
Therefore we may equate the observed probable error to "475c,
where c is the modulus of the ancillary probability-curve.
But the modulus of this curve is in terms of n and a V2pqna,
p and q are given when M, the point of maximum ordinate,
is observed ; for p : q : : OM : ML. Thus then we are given
the value of y/n a ; let it = k. From this equation combined
                            k2       P
with the first we have a=-r, w=Ti-
   It may be objected to this reasoning that one of the data,
the distance between extreme limits, I, is apt to be very inac
curate. It will be found, however, that the error introduced is
on the safe side, causing the evidence in favour of law to
appear less than it really is.
   It may be assumed then that a large proportion of unsym-
metrical cases are reducible to the general form of Bernouilli's
theorem. In discussing this form, let us again take Poisson as
our guide. By parity of reasoning we shall still find Poisson's*
formula (15) a sufficiently good approximation, provided that
the powers of —r= constitute a descending series. But the
                v «*
further reductions by which we descend from k to the Pois-
sonian w, the Todhunterian t, must now be employed with
great caution ; in fact the formula given in most of the de
rived authorities is confessedly applicable only to the body,
not the extremity, of the binomial-curve. Applied to the
latter it gives a value which is neither accurate to the extent,
nor in the degree, which might be supposed. It is accurate
over a range of divergence, not so much of the order y/p,
but y/2pqn—a serious correction when the asymmetry is very
great. And the degree of accuracy is measured not by the
                             • Art. 77.

                     and the Elimination of Chance.                   319
neglect of terms of the order -, but terras of the order
     1                                   P
—.-        . For that is the order of the first term* of A's ex-
pansion, which vanished in the symmetrical case, but now
makes itself felt. Among derived authorities the only one
known to me who has called attention to this point is Prof.
Lazarus, in a paper " On some Questions . . ." in the 15th vol. of
the ' Assurance Magazine ' t- In short for other than small di
vergences the formulae in the text-books are apt to be unsuited
to our purpose J, the determination of the probability that a
given divergence in an assigned direction would have occurred
by mere chance.
    The conclusion that asymmetry diminishes the range and
the degree of accuracy may be verified by that method of
approximation which proceeds by way of a partial differential
equation §.
    Let the odds be a : /3 where a. and /3 are integers. Let
H=s(ei + fi); and put uu for the #th term from that which
is the greatest. Consider the formation of u,+Xi x; it is thus
made up:
        «.+., «- «., .-« x *"+? + (a + /8) «,, ._(._!) X /J«<«-»+* + &c.
               + (« +j3K.+o_1) x «/?•+«•-'> +u.,„.w0"+<'.
     Expanding as before, we have
                .<U+2666>£-«. + «¦«+ B*+4cg,
where B is the mean error of the binomial (a + /3)a+P about
its centre of gravity, and C is the mean square of error about
the same point. The first coefficient vanishes ||, and the second
   * Poisson, art. 78.
   t The correction which he derives from Poisson is accurate only for a
very limited extent of divergence.
    | 1 have treated the case of unsymmetrical Binomials more fully in the
' Journal for Psychical Research,' part x.
    § Above, p. 313.
    || These propositions, if they are not already known, may thus be
proved. Put
                          »+p        tt+p
The centre of gravity of the binomial locus (p+q)*, measured from one
extremity is
                     ^.    l/»
                        [m^-m^ *             '                      [Over.

320          Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Law of Error
                  etil
is equal to ——,. Whence it follows that the modulus of the
      ^         a + li
representative probability-curve tends to be small when a : (i
is very small; and therefore that the range throughout which
the approximation holds is, cceteris paribus, less. Also for the
same range the degree of approximation is less. For in the
case of symmetry the equation above written is satisfied
up to and inclusive of the term involving j-3 by the solu-
           fill        il 77
tion of -t-=^C J-$.             But in the case of asymmetry that term
does not vanish.           Hence, even though x is within the regula
tion limits, yet uxi is accurate only up to the order —7=, not
 1                                                                    v»
—. In order to obtain the latter degree of accuracy we should
 have to add together the nth terms on both sides of the
   reatest term of the binomial, as is done in the books (e. g.
  >lr. Todhunter). For in that case the third term of expan
 sion would vanish.
     But. though apt to be incorrect, the received formula is in
 the case of the binomial corrigible. With regard to the degree
 of accuracy, it is necessary, in order to obtain the regulation
 precision, to add to the argument of the probability-curve
 the t* of Mr. Todhunter, the second f term of the expansion
 of k ; and this even when the regulation extent of range is
 (where m has every integer value from 0 to ft),
               =M»X2          '^n=      pn-iq*-™=lip.
                          j»»— 1 /* — m
 Whence the first proposition.
    Again,
         2 7—/£—pY-'-Xm"
            \tn \n — m
     = M'X ,     Ltt=       pm-\qp--m x m
    =/ipy ,—!===—pm-ijn-»x (m-l)+ltp'E ,—^-==—j>"»-»ge-»
            \m — l \ix—m                              l/i — l |;x — n
    =/iOi-i)p»+rt»=/ty+«>(i-jp)
 Whence the second proposition.
    * Or more exactly to Poisson's u, which is not quite the same as
 Mr. Todhunter's r.
    t Poisson.

                  and. the Elimination of Chance.            321
not exceeded. With regard to the range or extent of diver
gence with which we are hero more particularly concerned,
when this is large it will be found necessary to desert alto
gether the neighbourhood of the received formula, and revert
to Poisson's earlier formula *, where the argument of the
probability-curve is the unreduced k (written above, p. 310),
and the expression outside the sign of integration is the unre
duced one written on p. 312. This incorrectness and corri-
gibility may be illustrated by the following example. Let
/u=999, /> = -jIs, m = 299, n = 100. Here the current, as con
trasted with the unreduced formula, exaggerates by trillions
of times the improbability of the observed divergence being
clue to accident—the odds in favour of a disturbing causo.
For the t'2 of the former formula is 222'4, giving as the value
of the probability of mere chance about 10-98. Whereas P,
which measures the order of the sought probability according
to the unreduced formula, is 153*7. And the corresponding
value of the quaesitum is 10-68, which is correct to its last
decimal.
   I have verified this calculation by the following simple pro
cess, which has the advantage of being most efficacious just
when the received methods are least so : when the asymmetry
and the divergence are great. The sought probability may be
written
   If p is small and n less than fxq, m greater than up, as in
the case which presents difficulty, that of the longer limb,
the second term within the brackets is fractional, say =r.
The third term is less than r1. Hence we have a convergent
series, which converges the more rapidly the less p and n are,
the greater the as3'mmetry and divergence. For a superior
limit we have the geometric series 1+r + r2 &c. multiplied by
the term outside the brackets ; for an inferior limit that term
alone.
   The formula given in the text-books is quite inadequate to
deal with such extreme cases. And not only is it accurate
only for a short range, but also when it ceases to be accurate,
it ceases to be secure. For, as before, compare the extreme
term with the corresponding ordinate of the probability-curve.
The former is now p*. The (Napierian) logarithm of the
latter is
                   - £/*-ilog2i"7/*-ilogir.
                             • Ibid. (15)
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 131. April 1886.      2A

322          Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on (lie Law of Error
    If we compare       1-P fi with ^log,/), we see that as p
                         2p
diminishes from ^, the first exponent soon becomes, and con
stantly continues, of a lower order than the second. Hence
at the extremity of the longer limb of the binomial the proba
 bility-curve does not escape free from the binomial. It is
 otherwise at the extremity of the shorter limb. These con
 clusions may be verified by examining the explicit general
 terms of the compared loci. It will be found now that, as
 regards the longer limb, it is not in general possible to expand
 in terms of—- (where p is the divergence from the central
 point, the position of the largest term) . For p may be greater
 than ftp. And if we examine* the differentials of j;, we shall
 find that —-{ is apt to be continually negative and large.
     a~/3 7. The inaccuracy and insecurity which have been proved
 for the binomial species of asymmetry may be extended by
 parity of reasoning to the other species, multinomials and con
 tinuous facility-curves. But the attribute of corrigibilityisless
 easily generalized. First, it is to be observed that in case of
 asymmetry the modulus of the ancillary probability-curve is
 apt to be small. This may be shown by induction from par
 ticular hypotheses, like that which is indicated by the accom
 panying figure, where 0 is the centre of gravity, and the sum
                                                     a
 of the rectangles erected on 0 P and 0 Q is unity,           The
 modulus squared = twice sum of squaros of error
                        =KOQ3Q? + OFPj>),
 where £0Q2Q<7=40PPp and OQx Q? + OP x T?p=l. Also
  PQ, the total range, is finite, say of the order unity. Whence
  if OP is small, the modulus is small. This proof may be thus
  generalized:—The curve being huddled asymmetrically, the
  mean error for the short limbs must be small. But it is equal
  to the mean error for the other limb. Therefore the total
                          * See above, p. 314.

                   and the Elimination of Chance.                323
 mean error is small. Bat if the total range is unity, the mean
 square of error is less than the mean error. Whence the pro
 position. Also the Lagrangian * method may be applied to the
 investigation of explicit expressions for the extreme terms
 of the compound facility-curve. Comparing these extreme
 terms with the corresponding ordinates of the representative
 probability-curve, we see that the former are apt to be of a
 higher order than the latter. Hence the representative curve
 does not in general disengage itself from the real locus before
 the extremity of the latter has been reached. The received
 formula, therefore, does not afford a superior limit to the pro
 bability of the observed divergence occurring by chance.
 Again, by parity of reasoning, by way of a partial differential
 equation, it may be seen that when the modulus is small,
 ceteris paribus, the range and degree of accuracy is dimi
nished. But a remedy for this defect is not attainable, owing
 to the unmanageability of the explicit expression for the
 general term.
   «. There remains the class of infinite facility-curves. This
is of the less importance in that the attribute infinity must be
construed strictly in order that the class should be exceptional.
If it is merely meant that the range of the elementary facility-
curve is very large, then the peculiarities which I have else
where t ascribed to this class will not occur. Consider, for
example, the curve y= n V"I3V           ^ *' *8 mere^y meant that
this form holds for a long way, then it constitutes no excep
tion to the law of convergence that the arithmetical mean has
a less dispersed facility-curve than the primary or elementary
curve. Convergence will set in at once and continue until
any assigned extent of the original form has been converted
into that of the probability-curve. It is not easy to under
stand how such strictly infinite errors as here postulated can
exist in observations or statistics. The only case in which it
occurs to me that such forms might arise is where the regis
tered " errors " or variations are not the raw material of obser
vations, but functions of a datum given by observation, and
where the function becomes infinite for certain finite values of
its variable. Suppose, for example, an angle 6 to be the direct
object of observation; and that it is as likely to have one
value as another between limits ± ^ a. (« /. 1 ).       Then it may
be shown that the facility-curve which represents the possible
           • Above.
           t Phil. Mag. Oct. 1883 ; Comb. Phil. Trans. 1885.
                                 2 A2

324      Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Experimental
                  0.
variations of tan - is
                  a
                          _1       1
extending from +oo to — oo .
   In such cases the general proof of the law of error breaks
down. The general formula for the modulus, that it is the
double sum of squares of the apparent errors, is apt to yield
 an infinite result. We must fall back upon the explicit
methods. If, for instance, the law of facility above written,
or rather the more general form
                              1     s
held good for .any species of phenomena, then, in order to
determine the improbability of a chance deviation to the extent
of v , we must integrate y from oo to if.
   In view of the rarity of such cases, I think we arejustified
in,concluding that the received formula enounced at the outset
is in general either accurate or at least safe; and that, in
the exceptional case where it is neither correct nor safe, it is still
corrigible, so far as the laws of error which exist in nature
may he regarded as binomials.
XLIV. Experimental Error in Calorimetric Work. By
   Spencer Umfreville Pickering, ALA., Professor oj
   Chemistry at Bedford College*.
THE determination of the heat of dissolution of a solid in
       water is an operation which will always occupy a most
important position in the majority of calorimetric determina
tions ; and it is therefore desirable to ascertain what the
experimental error involved in this process is, and in what
direction we must look for a reduction of this error. The
large number of these determinations which I have had occa
sion to make during the last two years will give the means
requisite for an investigation of this error.
   The modus operandi in the experiments was as follows :—
The given salt was weighed out into test-tubes on feet, which
were placed in an open metal beaker carefully guarded from
radiation and draughts by screens ; in this was suspended
a delicate thermometer, a companion instrument to that used
in the calorimeter itself, the exact difference in the readings
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 13, 1886.

                       Error in Calorimetric Work.                   325
   between the two instruments being known throughout the
   extent of their scales.
      It was found that one hour * was a sufficient interval to
   allow for the salt to assume the temperature of the surrounding
   atmosphere, provided this latter remained constant during
   this time. In order to diminish the error in measuring the
   rate of cooling (or heating) during the dissolution of the salt,
   the temperature of the air was always maintained as nearly
   as possible at the temperature of the calorimetric water, the
   difference in the majority of cases not exceeding '1° 0., or at
   the most "2° C. The correction to be applied, owing to the
  temperature of the salt not being exactly the same as that
  of the calorimetric water, was thus rendered very small, and in
  most cases quite negligible.
     The alteration in the temperature of the salt during
  its removal to the calorimeter can scarcely be appreciable,
  since this operation does not take more than ten or fifteen
  seconds.
     The calorimeter employed was an open calorimeter similar to
  that devised by Bertbelot {Miwnique Clumique,\o\. i. p. 140);
  a pounder such as Berthelot uses to crush salts which cake
  (ibid. vol. i. p. 183) being employed in all cases, not only as a
  pounder, but also as a stirrer, and the platinum vessel in which
  the operations were performed being always used without its
  cover ; indeed, free circulation of air round the calorimeter is
  most important in all delicate determinations. It was found
 that an annular cardboard disk, covering in a most imperfect
 manner the space between the calorimeter and the surround
 ing water-jacket, enclosed the air to an extent sufficient to
 make it act as so much calorimetric water, and introduced a
 very appreciable error into the results.
     In dissolving an anhydrous salt, when caking generally
 occurs, the calorimeter proper cannot be placed on the cork
 tripod as in other cases, but must be supported on a cork disk
 covered with cardboard ; and, inasmuch as this disk was found
 to absorb an appreciable amount of beat from the calorimeter,
 the quantity thus absorbed bad to be determined by perform
 ing a series of experiments in which a reaction of known
 calorimetric value was effected in the calorimeter when sup
 ported on the tripod and on the disk alternately. The use of
 this disk unfortunately introduces a small experimental error,
since from continual pounding the form of the bottom of the
   * A hygroscopic substance may be left in a tube well closed with an
india-rubber stopper for two or three hours with safety ; but a longer
exposure .should be avoided, as moisture is gradually absorbed from the
air permeating the stopper.

326       Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Experimental
platinum vessel is altered, and consequently this vessel may
not be in such intimate contact with the disk at one time as
at another, and the amount of heat absorbed by the latter
will therefore not always be the same. The error thus intro
duced, however, cannot be very large, since the disk was never
found to be equivalent to more than one hundredth of the
contents of the calorimeter.
   It was thought possible that an error might also arise in
the following manner. Before the introduction of any salt
into the calorimeter, all the parts of the apparatus are at the
same temperature; but as soon as a reaction takes place, in
volving, say, the evolution of heat, the radiation from the
 calorimeter will raise the temperature of the vessel which is
 interposed between it and the water-jacket (owing to its great
 bulk the water-jacket itself remains practically unaltered in
temperature). During the rest of the time allowed for the
 experiment this vessel will therefore be at a higher tempera
 ture than it was initially; and consequently the rate of cooling
 during the last intervals will be less than during the first one,
 the correction to be applied for cooling will be under-estimated,
 the intermediate vessel having in reality acted as se much
 calorimetric water. In order to ascertain whether the error
 from this source attained appreciable dimensions, four experi
 ments with potassium sulphate were performed ; in two of
 these the intermediate vessel was present as usual, while in
 the other two it was dispensed with. The results obtained
 were as follows :—
   A. With the intermediate vessel :—
          \ ";;;; -JJg Cal^ries } Mean             -7198 cal.
    B. Without the intermediate vessel :—
          1          — 7157 calories ) ¦.«•           i*n* 1
          2          -7185 „            )Mean -'171 cal-
 Showing that the use of the intermediate vessel had no appre
 ciable effect on the results obtained *. Where, however, large
 heat-disturbances take place in the calorimeter, it is safer to
 dispense with it entirely; and indeed the employment of it is
 in no case attended by any advantage.
    The time required to complete the dissolution of the salt
 varied, of course, in different cases, but rarely exceeded 5
 minutes. The loss (or gain) of heat by radiation <tc. during
 this interval was determined separately in each experiment.
   * If otherwise, the results of A would be smaller than those of B.

                     Error in Calorimetric Work.                       327
 It was found that with the apparatus employed, and with a
 difference between the temperature of the calorimetric liquid
 and that of the surrounding air not exceeding 2°"5 C, the
rate of cooling was practically constant throughout the 20-30
minutes (and even for a considerably longer period) during
which the experiment lasted ; whereas for accurate measure
ments it was never safe to trust to the results of one experi
ment to determine the rate of cooling in another experiment,
even though the two were performed within 10 minutes of
each other, and apparently under exactly similar conditions.
To determine the rate of cooling, therefore, all the operations
(pounding, stirring, &c), performed during the first 5
minutes to effect the dissolution of the salt, were imitated as
nearly as possible during a second, third, and sometimes even
fourth and fifth similar intervals, the temperature being read
at the end of each interval. The actual rate of cooling (or
heating) rarely exceeded 0o,04 C. for 5 minutes, and was
generally much less.
   In these experiments the proportion of salt to water taken
was 1 : 400 molecules*, the actual volume of the latter being
about 600 cub. centim. The chief salts operated on were the
sulphates of sodium, potassium, lithium, copper, magnesium,
potassium-magnesium, and potassium-copper, both bydrated
and anhydrous.
   The thermometers were all read by estimation by means of
a lens to the twentieth part of the marked divisions, t. e.
to 0"05 lnillim.f; and one such estimation-figure, being equi
valent to "002° C, makes a difference of about 16 cal. in
the molecular heat of dissolution. I should not put the esti
mation-figure at less than ono tenth of the marked divisions
were it not that these experiments afford ample proof that
some reliance can be placed on smaller amounts than this.
    The heat-disturbance in the calorimeter varied between nil
and 2°*3 C, the average being rather less than 1° C.
    Out of some 600 determinations of this nature, I may
   * With double salts 1 : 800 ; but, for the sake of comparison, these are
here reduced so as to be comparable with the other experiments.
   t The divisions in some of the instruments measured rather more than
1 miUim., namely 1'2 millim.; but, provided sufficient attention bo paid
to a certain proportion between the breadth of the mercurial column and
the distance between the divisions, there is no appreciable difference be
tween estimating the fractional portions of these two quantities. Uesidea
practice, and uniformity in the lines themselves, nothing conduces so
 much to accuracy in estimation as a just proportion between the breadth
 of the mercurial column and the distance between the divisions. I find
the best proportion to be 1 : 10 ; 1 : 15 is too great, and 1 : 6 too small.
Different ratios, however, might suit different observers.

 328       Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Experimental
 discard the first hundred as consisting chiefly of preliminary
 and imperfectly conducted experiments ; the next century of
 determinations was also found to give an experimental error
 decidedly higher than the rest ; these also I have therefore
 omitted, and will confine myself to the remaining 400 expe
 riments. Out of these, however, it will only be the ones
 which were performed in duplicate which will be available for
 the present purposes.
    Now the average difference between two such duplicate
 experiments, performed on the same day and with one thermo
 meter only in the calorimeter, was found to be 26'6 calories
 (deduced from 76 separate experiments), giving a probable
 error in each experiment of + 13'3 cal. ; this corresponds
 to an error in the thermometric column of considerably
 less than +'05 millim. ; and as the results involve not only
 four or five readings of the thermometer, but also the correct
 reproduction of every action performed in dissolving the salt
 during the intervals allowed for the determination of the rate
of cooling, the correct determination of the salt temperature,
and many other points where serious experimental error may
occur, I consider that I am fully justified in concluding that
the thermometers can be read to "05 millim., and that even a
certain amount of reliance can be placed on such estimation
figures.
    Where the duplicate experiments were not performed on
the same day, the error was found to be greater than in the
previous case ; on an average, deduced from such experiments,
it amounted to ±19*6 cal. This numberis, however, some
what bigger than it should be for strict comparison with the
previous one ; for the experiments which yielded it belonged
chiefly to the earlier ones amongst the 400 under considera
tion, and an increase of accuracy appeared to be made with
increased practice throughout the whole series.
    In what follows I deal with those duplicate experiments
which were performed consecutively only. We thus have so
far:—
    I. Difference of two experiments where one thermometer
was employed, 26'6 cal.
   Now in a large number of cases two thermometers were
used in the calorimeter at the same time ; from these was
deduced,
   II. Difference of two experiments where two thermometers
were employed, taking the results obtained with the same
instrument in the two experiments, 41"9 cal. (from 72 expe
riments).
   Subtracting I. from II., we get

                   Error in Calorimetric Work.                    329
   III. 15*3 cal. as the increase of difference in two experi
ments due to the increased difficulty of manipulation when
two thermometers are used instead of one.
   IV. Difference in two experiments when two thermometers
are used, comparing the results obtained with the one instru
ment in the one experiment with those of the other instrument
in the other experiment, 53'02 cal. (from 76 experiments).
   V. Difference in the results obtained from the two different
thermometers in the same experiment, 33'95 cal. (from 142
experiments).
   Now, subtracting II. from IV., we get
   VI. That portion of the difference in the results given by
two thermometers in any single experiment which is due to
the instruments not being absolutely concordant, 11*12 cal.
   (This amount will represent the sum of the errors in the
calibration and standardization of the instruments. As it is
dependent on two readings of each instrument, the amount
attributable to each reading will be 3"7 cal., corresponding to
•014 millim., or 0-00056° C.)
   Subtracting this amount from V. gives
   VII. Difference due to the error inherent in reading the
two thermometers, 22-83 cal., and therefore a difference due
to error in reading each thermometer of 11*42 cal.
   Subtracting these two quantities from I. and II. respec
tively, and halving the results, we obtain :—
   A. In a single experiment where one thermometer is used :—
      (1) Error of reading                        ±5*71 cal.*
      (2) Error due to manipulation ... ±7-59 „
                        Total                    ±13-3 „
   B. In a single experiment where two thermometers are
used :—
      (1) Error of reading                         ±11*42 cal.
      (2) Error due to manipulation ... ± 9-53 „
                        Total                      +20-95 „
   These duplicate experiments being performed at exactly
the same temperature, no difference will appear between them
due to errors of calibration or standardization ; but in regard
ing the absolute value of the numbers deduced from them, this
source of error must also be taken into account. The amount
of this error has already been shown to be ll- 12 cal. when the
results of two instruments are compared (VI.) • the total
         * Corresponding to -021 millim. of the mercurial column.

330         Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Delicate
error, therefore, in experiments where one thermometer is
used will have to be increased by half this amount, thus be
coming + 18-86 cal. This number, then, represents the
probable divergence from the truth of any one experiment ;
and, from the manner in which the various thermometers
were standardized (by comparison with each other), this error
will probably be as great when two experiments performed at
different temperatures are compared, whether they were per
formed with the same or with different instruments.
   Perhaps, for the purpose of determining this probable error,
the calculations ought to be based on the difference between
duplicate experiments performed not on the same day, in
which case the error would be somewhat larger. I have not
done so, however, chiefly owing to uncertainty in the number
given for this quantity (see above). Many causes also which
tend to increase the difference when the experiments are not
performed consecutively might not apply in general. Amongst
these I may mention the very hygroscopic nature of many of
the salts taken, where a difference in the state of moisture of
the atmosphere would affect the extent to which traces of
water were absorbed during their exposure while being trans
ferred to the weighing-tubes : these substances, again, were
often kept in sealed tubes containing sufficient for two or
three determinations only, and the contents of the various
tubes may not have been dried to precisely the same degree.
XLV. On Delicate Calorimetric Thermometers. By Spencer
   Umfreville Pickering, M.A., Professor of Cliemistry at
   Bedford College*.
IN the foregoing communication it has been shown that the
      average error of a determination of the heat of dissolu
tion of a salt in 400H2O amounts to + 18-86 cal.; but this is
only an average, and it must not be overlooked that the error
in some cases may exceed this very considerably. It is not
uncommon to find a difference of 40 or 50 cal. between two
duplicate experiments (although the average error in &uch cases
is only + 13'3 cal.), and a proportionately larger error must
therefore be expected occasionally in the comparison of two
experiments at different temperatures.
   The determinations from which these conclusions were
drawn consisted of a series of experiments with various salts
at temperatures ranging from 1° to 26° C, where it was im
perative that the greatest possible accuracy should be attained,
and also that the experiments at the different temperatures
should all be strictly comparable with each other. The ther-
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 13, 1880.

                     Calorimetric Thermometers.                        331
mometers employed had a range of 15° C, and a total length
of 600 mi Mini.; it was therefore impossible to increase their
length sufficiently to make one instrument embrace the whole
range of 25° C, and any increase in the delicacy (by increasing
the size of the bulb) would have involved a diminution in
their range, so that more than two instruments would have
been required, while in such experiments it is obviously of
the greatest importance that as few instruments as possible
should be used.
    With a view to overcoming these difficulties the following
expedient was adopted, whereby the delicacy of the instru
ment was increased six- or sevenfold, its range was made to
embrace that of all temperatures at which a mercurial ther
mometer can be used, and its registration was rendered (for
these purposes) practically independent of calibration and
standardization error.
  • The principle on which it was worked consisted in removing
a portion of the mercury, by the application of heat, into the
upper chamber, and thus adjusting any particular point in the
instrument so as to register any required temperature. Ex
periments on the same substance at different temperatures
 were thus made absolutely comparable, exactly the same por
tion of the scale being used in each case.
    The zero point of the thermometer being thus altered for
each experiment, the actual temperature in degrees Centigrade
which it registers will not be known with any great degree
of accuracy; but this is not necessary in calorimetric work:
the heat of chemical combination is affected to such a small
extent by temperature, that an error of -05° or "1° G. in this
will be unimportant; and by a rough comparison of the
 thermometer with some standard instrument after each ad
justment of the mercury, the temperature which it registers
 can be easily ascertained within "01° or '02° C.
    This thermometer (No. 62839) possessed a total length of
 746 millim., of which 565 millim. constituted the divided por
tion of the stem, each division being 1 millim., and ten such
 divisions being termed 1 degree. The bulb measured 72 millim.
 in length, and was made out of glass cylinder instead of being
 blown, a detail which is rarely attended to in the construction
 of delicate thermometers, but one which is most important in
 giving the bulb greater stability and greater uniformity of
 action. The weight of mercury in the bulb was 36*23* grams,
    * In the other instruments, with a range of 15° C, the weight of
 mercury varied between l.'i'G and 15'6 grams ; the bore of the tube of
 No. 62830 would be considerably more than twice as fiue as in these.
 Fuller details respecting these instruments will be found in the Phil. Mag.
March 1880.

 332           Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Delicate
 and the total range of the instrument only 3°*4 C, giving
 166 niillim. to each degree C; one estimation figure (-05
 millim.) would therefore represent "0003° C.
    In using this thermometer it is first suspended in the calori
meter containing water at a temperature a certain known
 degree above that at which the experiments are to be made ;
a very small flame is then applied to a point just below the
upper chamber (which in such instruments must be of con
siderable size), by which means the column of mercury is
broken off at the part thus heated, and the separated portion
remains in the upper chamber, the tube being much too fine
to permit of it being shaken down again. After cooling it is
put into a bath at the required temperature, and compared
with some standard instrument. In this way the registration
of the thermometer can be adjusted to any required tempera
ture within '05° C. without the least difficulty; but greater
accuracy could be obtained if necessary.
    This thermometer was employed in a largo number of ex
 periments, and the general results, as will be shown below,
 proved to be satisfactory. But it possessed one serious im
 perfection, or, more properly speaking, its delicacy brought
 into light an imperfection which must be inherent, although
it has hitherto been unnoticed in all mercurial thermometers.
    As is well known, the bulb of a thermometer does not ex
 pand regularly when heated ; " en effet," to quote Berthelot's
 words, " la marche de l'instrument est intermittent, e'est-a-
 dire quo le niveau n'est souvent atteint qu'apres une serie
de petites oscillations " *. To obtain a state of equilibrium the
thermometer must be tapped on the top with the finger, or
some such means adopted to overcome the inertia of the bulb
before each reading. The larger the bulb and the finer the
bore of the tube, the more apparent dues this inertia become :
with instruments such as the less delicate ones here mentioned
a dozen or less taps are sufficient to overcome it, but with
No. 62839 it was found that continuous tapping for two or
   * Mic. Cltim. i. p. 178. It is curious to note that even while Bertbelot
is warning his readers against this source of error he appears to have
fallen into it himself. On p. 163 he gives the results of a comparison of
two thermometers placed in a bath of water, the temperature of which
was rising, and read simultaneously at intervals of ten minutes ; from this
and other closely concordant comparisons he finds G'702 degrees of the one
instrument are equivalent to 14827 of the other ; but, on looking more
closely at each reading, it will be found that
    (1) a rise of U-0 in the one corresponds to a rise of 1-1 in the other.
    (2)     „     07         „        „                   2-2
    (3)     „     00         „        „        „          1-5
    (4)     ,.    11         „        „        „          0-9
,. W ,. » , 1-2          , »          >>       »          I"1        »
Vastly discordant numbers.

                   Calorimetric Thermometers.               333
three minutes was absolutely Decessary. The extent to which
error from this source may accumulate may be drawn from
the fact that this instrument, when the mercury is rising to
the temperature of the bath in which it is placed, will register
6 miMim. lower than when falling to the same temperature,
however long it be left in the bath, if it be not tapped (the
temperature of the bath in this case was such that the mer
cury stood at about the middle point of the stem). Again,
it was found, by means of a series of experiments in which the
height of the column was read when the instrument was
inclined at different angles, that with thermometer 55082,
which possessed a blown bulb containing 15'1> grains of
mercury, a difference of 6'6 millim. in the reading was made
when the instrument was placed horizontally instead of ver
tically; making due allowance for the greater size of the bulb
and greater fineness of the bore in 62839, this latter instru
ment would probably exhibit a difference of at least ten times
this quantity under similar treatment. This will give some
adequate idea of how great an effect the expansion of the
bulb under pressure may have on the reading.
   Now, besides the inertia of the bulb, which may be overcome
by a sufficient amount of tapping, there appears to be another
and more serious imperfection, due to what may be termed a
permanent alteration in size, as opposed to the other, which
may be called temporary, and one which no amount of tapping
will overcome. It would seem that the bulb of this, and every
thermometer, has two different shapes, one when the column
is rising, the other when it is falling. The following simple
experiments will serve to show this.
   The thermometer being suspended in the calorimeter full
of water, the contents of this were heated or cooled slightly,
and the rate of cooling (or heating) determined during con
secutive intervals.
    In the first column the time is entered, in the second the
reading of the instrument, and iu the third the rate of cooling
or heating.
 A. Experiments in which a rate of heating was determined.
                                  I.
        Time.      Reading (arbitrary).  Rate.
          0            -1
    Hot water added.
          1 min.         19-96
          4 „           20-07
          7 „           20-165
         10 „           20-245                 mean ='10.
         13 „           20-38
         16 „           20-47

334           Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Delicate
                                  II.
         Time.         Reading.           Rate.
           0            —5
    Hot water added.
           2 mil).       20-685           •075
           5 „           20-76            •095 }
           8 „           20-855           •085 Vmean -09.
          11 „           20-94            •09 J
         14 „            21-03
    In this case the rate of heating is constant from the very
beginning : during the first three minutes it differs from the
mean of the other intervals by +'01 in Exp. 1 and by — '015
in Exp. 2, both of these quantities being well within the limits
of experimental error.
                                III.
       Time.             Reading.       Rate.
           0              54
    Cold water added.
           2 min.        20-555        •005
           5 „           20-56         •09
           8 „           20-65         •085 V mean -093.
         11 „
         14 „
                         20-735
                         20-84
                                T
                                1
                                       •105
                                           :r
                                IV.
       Time.           Reading.       Rate.
           0            54
    Cold water added.
           2 min.        19-45         •015
           5 „           19-465        •09)
           8 „           19-555        •09 Vmean -103.
          11 ,T          19-645        •13 J
          14 „           19-775
    In these two experiments, however, this is not so ; the rate
of heating (as registered) during the first interval is almost
 nil, in each case exactly -088 less than the mean deduced
from the other intervals. Thus, when the column of mercury
rises to any temperature it will go on rising regularly after
wards, indicating the rate of heating correctly, but when it
falls to that temperature a certain time elapses before it will
 begin to rise afterwards ; although the mercury must be ex
panding during this interval, the column is stationary, and
therefore the bulb must be expanding, and assuming a now
form.

                   Calorimelric Thermometers.            335
  The following experiments are complementary to the pre
ceding ones and illustrate the same fact.
  B. Experiments in which a rate of cooling was measured.
                                 I.
      Time.           Reading.        Rate.
          0              5°5
  Cold water added
          3 min.         22-16          ¦41
          6 „            21-76          •34
          9 „            21-41          •42 mean 39.
         12 „
         15 „
                         20-99
                         20-59
                                        •10
                                            }
                                 II.
       Time.          Reading.       Rate.
          0              53
   Cold water added ,
          3 min.         22-21          •37
          6 „            21-84          •37 -)
          9 »            21-48          •325 >mean 342.
         12 „            21-155         •34 J
         15 „            20-815
The difference between the rate of cooling measured during
the first interval and that during the remaining ones being
 + "02 in the one experiment, and +*028 in the other, t. e.
practically nil.
                                III.
       Time.           Reading.       Rate.
          0              0
   Hot water added.        o
          2 min.         20-65          •20
          5 „            20-45          •36
          8 „
         11 „
                         20-09
                         19-79
                                           il,
                                        •30 >me ri 34.
                                        •37J
         14 „            19-42
                                IV.
       Time.           Reading.       Rate.
          0           -3
   Hot water added.
          1 min.         25-58
          4 „            25-36
          7 „            24-935                mean -40.
         10 „            24-52
         13 „            24-16

 336          Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Delicate
 The difference between the first and remaining intervals
 being — *14 and —'18 in the two experiments. Thus which
 ever be the direction of the motion of the mercury it will
 continue in that direction, giving correct results, but, if the
 direction be changed, an interval elapses before the motion
 becomes apparent, and a considerable error will be introduced.
    The above are but typical experiments out of a large number
 performed, and all of which gave the same results ; indeed,
 every determination of the heat of dissolution of a salt afforded
 a fresh exemplification of the fact.
    Of course the alteration in the size of the bulb will invali
 date any experiment unless its effect be counteracted. This
 was always done in every experiment by taking care that, if
 a rate of cooling was to be measured after the salt had been
 dissolved, the liquid should be cooling also before its intro
 duction, and vice versa; the motion of the mercury, and
 therefore the shape of the bulb, being the same at the begin
 ning and end of the experiment, no error would occur. In
 such an experiment, where for instance a rate of cooling ob
 tained, and the salt dissolved with absorption of heat, no period
 of inertia in the column would occur ; but if the salt dissolved
 with evolution of heat, two such periods would occur, and,
 though this would not affect the accuracy of the results, a
 certain time would elapse before the apparent rate of cooling
 became constant, extending often to three intervals of 3 or 5
 minutes each (for the whole of these intervals cannot be spent
 in tapping the thermometer as in the experiments quoted
 above, but are chiefly occupied in reproducing the actions
performed in effecting the dissolution of the salt), thus creating
 a serious increase in the duration of an experiment. This
was obviated by removing the thermometer from the calori
meter, touching the bulb with some warm object, when, on
 replacing it, the column fell to the temperature of the calori
meter, and proceeded to give the rate of cooling at once ; where
a rate of heating was to be determined, the thermometer was
 cooled (by evaporation from the surface) instead of heated.
As a few millim. rise or fall are sufficient for the purpose, the
heating or cooling of the contents of the calorimeter in such
an operation is quite negligible *.
    The change of size in the bulb, as deduced from the expe
riments already quoted, is, perhaps, somewhat exaggerated,
owing to an under-estimation at the time of the amount of
   * The water-equivalent of the immersed portion of this thermometer
was 209 grams, that of the calorimeter and contents about 010 prnms.
A heating of the former sufficient to produce a rise of 5 mm. would
raise the temperature of the latter only 00001° C.

                      Calorimetriv Thermometers.                    337
 tapping which was necessary to overcome the temporary
 inertia of the bulb. The following, even more simple, expe
riments are free from such an error, and bring to light other
facts concerning this phenomenon.
    The method of procedure here consisted in suspending the
thermometer in a calorimeter containing a much larger volume
of water than the one generally used, taking the instrument
out, heating and cooling it alternately, when, on its being
replaced, readings of the same temperature were obtained, the
column having fallen or risen to that temperature respectively.
    A.s it was found to be impossible to keep the temperature
of the bath constant during the requisite time, any observed
reading, say when the column was rising to the temperature,
was compared with a theoretical reading consisting of the
mean of the previous and subsequent readings, both of which
were obtained when the column was falling to the temperature.
The differences here quoted will represent the total difference
between the readings with rising and falling columns. After
the thermometer had been replaced in the bath, it was tapped
continuously and read at intervals of one minute till it became
qnite stationary ; between five and seven such readings were
made in the series here given, although it will be necessary to
quote the final reading only in each case. An interval of
about 8 minutes elapsed between these final readings, all the
intervals in each separate series being exactly equal,
                                    I.
                                       Registered. Theory. Difference.
   Immersed after being heated 10°       14-08
                        cooled 10        1408       14103     -023
                        heated 10        14-125     14-118    +097
       „         „      cooled 10        14155      14-185    -030
                        heated 30        14245      14233     4- -012
       „         „      cooled 10        14-310     14313     -003
                        heated 10        14380
                                                   Mean          015
                                   II.
                                       Registered. Theory. Difference.
                                          o          o
  Immersed after being cooled  10°       2683
                        heated 10        26-86      26845     + 015
       „         „      cooled 10        2686       26908     --048
       „         „      heated 10        26-955     26 918    +1)37
                        cooled 10        26-975     27008     --033
                        heated 10        2706       27-038    +023
                        cooled 20        27-10      27-123    -023
                        heated 20        27185      27175     +O10
                 „      cooled 10        2725
                                                   Mean          *J27
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 131. April 1886.           2B

338          Prof. Spencer U. PickeriDg on Delicate
                                  III.
                                      Begietered. Theory. Difference.
                                         o          o
  Immersed after being heated 10°       46-845
       „         „     cooled 10        45755     45804      -"049
                       heated 10        45-763    45-718     +045
                       cooled 10        45-680    45717      -"083
                       heated 10        45670     45-643     +-027
                       cooled 10        45605      45-655    --045
                       heated 10        45640      45595     4--045
                       cooled 10        45-585     45-635    --050
                       heated 10        45630
                                                  Mean         '046
   Without exception, therefore, a reading when the thermo
meter is falling to a given temperature is higher than when
it is rising to this same temperature, and the difference between
these two readings appears to be independent of the extent of
the foregoing fall or rise; a fact which will be shown more
clearly in a series of similar experiments with another ther
mometer to be quoted below. The difference in the two
readings, however, is considerably influenced by the position
of the mercury in the stem ; from these experiments it would
appear to be directly proportional to the height of the column,
the total difference in each case being 1 0\j0- of this height.
   Although this difference is very appreciable, it must be
remembered that it corresponds to a difference of very small
dimensions in the capacity of the bulb. The0o,015 measured
in the first series is equivalent to 0o-0009 C, and represents
but O'OOOOOO-i c.c, or but little over one millionth part of the
total capacity of the bulb (2-64 c.c), a quantity so small that
there is no wonder in its having hitherto escaped observation.
The considerable force necessary to push a column of mercurv
through a long very fine tube is, I should say, quite sufficient
to account for this expansion of the bulb ; it is well illustrated
by the fact that a quick fall of but a small amount causes the
mercury to separate at the neck of the bulb.
   The question now arises whether this instrument, possessing
such serious imperfections, is really workable, or whether we
have not pushed thermometric delicacy beyond the limits
compatible with accuracy.
   The various determinations of the heat of dissolution of salts
which were made with this thermometer give the means of
answering this question.
   As shown in the previous communication, ±13-3 cal. is the
average error of each experiment when compared with a
duplicate one performed under the same conditions ; of this
7-59' cal. are error due to manipulation and 5*71 cal. to error
of reading. The manipulation-error will be independent of

                      Calorimetric Thermometers.                           339
  the thermometer employed, but the reading-error will be
  smaller in direct proportion to the delicacy of the instrument.
  As an estimation-figure with No. 62839 represents about ^ of
  what it does in the case of the instruments to which these
 numbers refer, the reading-error with it ought to be only ^74-,
 or about "9 cal., giving a total error for each experiment of
  ±(-9 + 7-59 = )8-49. "
     Now the .average difference of two duplicate experiments
 with this thermometer was found to be 14'84 cal. (deduced
 from 38 experiments), giving an error of only +7"42 * cal.
 for each experiment, a quantity even smaller than that which
 Mould have been anticipated, proving conclusively that such
 an instrument can be worked with just as much certainty as
 the less delicate ones. The fact that the total error here is
 even less than the manipulation-error alone in the other ex
 periments is due to greater care being taken in manipulation,
 a larger number of intervals being allowed for the determi
 nation of the rate of cooling. It must be remembered,
 however, that this diminution of the difference between two
 duplicate experiments by no means represents the total advan
 tages accruing from the use of this thermometer, for, the
 same portion of the instrument being used for experiments
 with the same substance at all the different temperatures, those
 will be on the same footing as duplicate experiments them
 selves. We shall, therefore, have to make no addition to this
 error when comparing different experiments in a series, and
 we thus get rid at once of the additional error of + 5"5t> cal.,
 which had to be admitted with the other instruments f.
     The extra time required for experiments with such an in
 strument is considerable ; the determination itself occupies
 two or three times as long as with an ordinary thermometer,
 and the preliminary adjustment of the mercury J and the
    * I am probably very much overstating the error here ; this number is
 deduced from all the experiments in which this thermometer was used.
 Several of these were performed before the peculiarities of the instrument
 were thoroughly known, and contained known sources of error ; eliminating
these, the average error of the remaining experiments (24 in number) is
only +iJ'33 cal., a surprisingly small quantity.
    t From what has been mentioned in the Phil. Mag. March 1880 as to
the error of standardizing this thermometer, the divergence of any
measurement from the absolute value will probably not be more than
¦OOO-lo0 C. for each degree C. measured, or +3-4 cal.
   | In one instrument which I possess a small particle of dust has become
fixed in the tube just below the upper chamber, the result of which is
that the column of mercury, whenever it has passed a few millimetres
beyond this point, breaks oil' there aud shoots up into the upper chamber.
If it were possible to introduce such an obstacle at v. ill, the time expended
in separating the mercury bv heat, and the danger thereby incurred, would
be obviated. I am not without hopes of succeeding in effecting this.
                                   2 B 2

 340            Prof. Spencer U. Pickering on Delicate
 comparison with a standard occupies the greater part of an
 hour. It is possible to do three determinations at different
 temperatures with it in a day ; but this means a very hard
 day's work, and could only be effected after much practice.
      Although the results obtained with this thermometer may
 appear satisfactory as measured by the average error, they
 still leave much to be desired. It is impossible to feel
 absolute confidence in an instrument which possesses such
 serious imperfections ; and, apart from this, I was desirous of
 investigating the matter further for its own sake, and pro
 ducing an instrument in which delicacy did not involve the
 sacrifice even of convenience.
      It occurred to me that the substitution of a double bulb for
 the single bulb of No. 62839 would probably result in a
 considerable increase in strength under pressure. Such an
 instrument, therefore, I had constructed. Considerable diffi
 culty was met with in boiling the mercury in a double bulb
 thoroughly, but this was overcome in a masterful manner,
 while at the same time the other parts of the instrument were
 so perfect that I believe it is the finest thermometer of its
 kind ever constructed, in this country at any rate. The stern
 was of the required stoutness, and the bore, while being flat,
was well rounded at the edges, thus exposing no crevices into
which the mercury would find it difficult to enter, as is usually
the case with flat bores, and as was so with No. 62839. The
length of each bulb of this instrument, No. 63616, was 55 mm.,
the total weight of mercury in them being 30*5 grams, con
siderably less therefore than in the other thermometer and
less than double that in the bulbs of some of the less delicate
thermometers. The scale was rather less open than in 62839,
the total range of 60 cm. representing 3°-85 C, or 154/3 mm.
to each degree, one estimation-figure representing therefore
305IJ •
     The n•esults of two series of experiments with this instrument
similar to those with 62839, last described, gave the following
results :—
                                    I.
                                       Registered.  Theory. Difference.
                                         o          o
   I mniersod after being cooled 1°      45-69
                          heated 1       45765       45688    -f-077
                          cooled 1       45685      45790     -106
                          heated 1       45-815     45703     + 112
                          cooled 10      45720      45733     -113
                          heated 10      45-850     45768     +-082
                   „      cooled 10      45-815     45899     --084
                          heated 10      45-947
                                                   Mean         -096

                      Calorimetric Thermometers.                  341
                                    II.
                                       Registered. Theory. Difference.
   Immersed after being heated  10°       13085
                        cooled 10        1395       14-00    --05
                        heated 10        14-015     1393     +-085
                        cooled 10        1391       14-029   --119
                        heated 10        14043      13933    + 110
                        cooled 10        13-955     14-044   --089
                        heated 10        14045
                                                   Mean         091
   Thus, contrary to expectation, this instrument not only
 shows a difference in reading when the column is rising or
 falling to any temperature, but that difference is even greater,
 and considerably so, than with No. 62839. This is certainly
 remarkable, and tends to show that a full explanation of this
 difference has not yet been obtained, for the doable bulb
 would undoubtedly possess a greater rigidity than the single
 bulb of the other instrument ; although the combined length
of the two bulbs is 110 millim. as opposed to 72 million., the
 diameter of the tubing of which they were made was con
 siderably less, 4"83 millim. instead of 6-86 millim. (internal
 measurements), and the wall of the tubing also was consider
ably stouter, 0-76 millim. instead of 0-035 millim., and a
small improvement in these last two items would cause a very
considerable increase in the rigidity. Another peculiarity in
this instrument is that the difference in the readings is inde
pendent of the height of the column of mercury; or at any
rate very nearly so.
    Series I. of the above experiments affords good proof that
the difference in readings is independent of the distance
through which the column has fallen or risen; the mean dif
ference of the first three numbers in the last column being
•098, and that of the last three -093; numbers practically
identical, although the fall or rise was 1 degree in the former,
and 10 degrees in the latter.
   Although this difference, due to what I have termed the
permanent alteration in the size of the bulb, is greater with
63616 than with 62839, it is otherwise with the temporary
alteration. An experiment similar to the above, but the tap
ping of the instrument being omitted, gave a difference of
0o-23 in the mercury standing at 45-8, whereas with 62839 it
amounted to 0o-6 (at 27°) ; these numbers representing the sum
of the permanent and temporary alterations, the latter only
will be represented by (-23- -096 = ) 0°-13, and r6--027=)
0°"57 in the two instruments respectively. This tends to con
firm an opinion expressed by Mr. Casella, that a considerable

 342          On Delicate Calorimetric Thermometers.
 portion of this temporary alteration is due, not to the bulb,
 but to the mercury not entirely filling the bore of tube of its
 own accord, owing to the extreme flatness of this latter at
 the edges. The tube of which 63616 was made presented no
 such imperfections.          However, neither the permanent nor
 temporary difference can be in any degree attributed to the
 action of the tube in this latter instrument, but is wholly due
 to the bulb itself; for the thermometer was first made up
 with a small bulb*, containing only 3 grams of mercury, in
 •which state it showed no difference whatever in the readings
 obtained under different conditions, with or without tapping.
 The comparative smallness of this temporary alteration in
 the case of 63616 renders this instrument far more conve
nient and satisfactory than the other. Instead of requiring
 two or three minutes continuous tapping in order to obtain
a correct reading, less than one minute is sufficient, and this
must very materially increase accuracy in calorimetric deter
minations. I have not as yet used this thermometer in a
sufficient number of experiments to ascertain the experi
mental error with it ; but the uniformity of its action and
the increased concordance of the rate of cooling registered in
 successive intervals, leads me to feel confident that the error
with it will be considerably less than with 62839.
    From what has already been said as to the smallness of the
 reading-error in this instrument, it may be stated that we
have pushed thermometric delicacy quite as far as is de
sirable with regard to calorimetric work, and that to produce
a further degree of accuracy in this branch of study, the
methods employed, and not the thermometers, must be im-
proyed.
    In conclusion, I wish to take this opportunity of expressing
my warmest thanks to Mr. Casella and to his assistants for
the scientific interest which they have shown in this investi
gation, and the ungrudging manner in which they have
spared no pains to help me in attaining my object.
   * Where the bulb is to contain as much as 20 or 30 grams of mer
cury, it is well to have the instrument made up temporarily with a small
bulb, for the purpose of calibration, as with line tubes some rough hand
ling is often necessary to pass a short thread of mercury along them.
   It would appear that 30 grams of mercury is not an uncommon amount
in the instruments used by Berthelot (Mec. Chim. i. 106), although thev
are far less delicate than those described in the present communication.
He even refers to thermometers containing 260 grams ! (p. 160).

                                [   343    ]
XLVI. On the Foundations of the Kinetic Tlieory of Gases.
                            By Prof. Tait *.
THE attempt to account for the behaviour of gases by at
        tributing continuous pressure to exceedingly numerous,
but nearly infinitesimal, impacts on the containing vessel is
probably very old. It certainly occurs, with some little deve
lopment, in Hooke's tract of 1676, "Lectures de potentid
restitutivd, or of Spring " ; and, a little more fully developed,
in the Hydrodynamica of D. Bernouilli, 1738. It was re
called to notice in 1847 by Herapath in his Mathematical
 Physics, and applied, in 1848, by Joule to the calculation of
 the average speed of the particles in a mass of hydrogen at
    In and after 1857 Clausius greatly improved the theoretical
 treatment of the problem by taking account of the mutual
 impacts of the particles and the rotations which they com
 municate to one another, at the same time introducing (but
 only to a limited extent) the statistical method. In this series
 of papers we find the first hint of the length of the mean free
 path of a particle, and the explanation of the comparative
 slowness of the process of diffusion of one gas into another.
 But throughout it is assumed, so far as the calculations are
 concerned, that the particles of a gas are all moving with
 equal speeds.
    In this Magazine for 1860 Clerk-Maxwell published his
 papers on the " Collision of Elastic Spheres," which had been
 read to the British Association in the previous year. In this
 very remarkable investigation we have the first attempts at a
numerical determination of the length of the mean free path.
These are founded on the observed rate of diffusion of gases
into one another ; and on the viscosity of gases, which here
first received a physical explanation. The statistical method
is allowed free play, and consequently the law of distribution of
speed among the impinging particles is investigated, whether
these be all of one kind or a mixture of two or more kinds. In
the ardour of his research, Maxwell here and there contented
himself with very incomplete proofs (we can scarcely call
them more than illustrations) of some of the most important
of his results. This is specially the case with the investigation
of the law of ultimate partition of energy in a mixture of
smooth spherical particles of two different kinds. He obtained,
   * Abstract of Papers read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Dec. 7th,
1885, and subsequently : communicated (by permission of the Council)
at the request of Sir W. Thomson.

344              Prof. Tait on the Foundations of
in accordance with the so-called Late of Avogadro, the result
that the average energy of translation is the same per particle
in each system ; and he extended this in a corollary to a
mixture of any number of different systems. This proposition,
 if true, is of fundamental importance. It has since been ex
 tended by Boltzmann and others to cases in which the individual
 particles are no longer supposed to be hard smooth spheres, but
 complex systems having great numbers of degrees of freedom.
 And it is stated, as the result of a process which is rather of
 the nature of playing with symbols than of reasoning by
  consecutive steps, that in such groups of systems the ultimate
  state will be a partition of the whole energy in equal shares
  among the classes of degrees of freedom which the individual
  particle-systems possess. This, it accepted as true, at once
  raises a formidable objection to the kinetic theory. For there
  can be no doubt that each individual particle of a gas has a
  very great number of degrees of freedom besides the six
  which it would have if rigid:—the examination of its spectrum
  while incandescent proves this at once. But if all these
  degrees of freedom are to share the whole energy (on the
  average) equally among them, the results of theory will no
  longer be consistent with our experimental knowledge of the
  relations between the two specific heats of a gas.
     Hence it is desirable that Maxwell's proof of his fundamental
  Theorem should be critically examined, and improved where
  it may be found defective. If it be shown in this process
  that certain preliminary conditions are absolutely necessary
  to the proof even of Maxwell's Theorem, and if these cannot \>e
  granted in the more general case treated by Boltzmann, it is
  clear that Boltzmann's Theorem must be abandoned.
      1. The chief features, besides too great conciseness, in
   respect of which Maxwell's proof is objectionable are :—
      (a) He assumes that the transference of energy from one
   system to the other can be calculated from the results of
   a single impact between particles, one from each system,
   each having the average translntional energy of its system.
      Thus (so far as this step is concerned) the distribution of
   energy in each system may be any whatever.
      (&) In this typical impact the velocities of the impinging
   spheres are taken as at right angles to one another, so that
   the relative speed may be that of mean square as between the
   particles of the two systems. The result obtained is fallacious
   because, in general, the directions of motion after impact are
   found not to be at right angles to one another, as they would
   certainly bo (on account of the perfect reversibility of the
   motions) were this really a typical impact.

                   the Kinetic Tlieory of Gases.              345
   (e) Maxwell proceeds aa if every particle of one system
impinged upon one of the other system at each stage of the
process—i. e. he calculates the transference of energy as if
each pair of particles, one from each system, had simultaneously
a typical impact. This neglect of the immensely greater
number of particles which either had no impact or impinged
 on others of their own group makes the calculated rate of
equalization far too rapid.
    (d) Attention is not called to the fact that impacts between
particles are numerous in proportion to their relative speed,
nor is this consideration introduced in the calculations.
    (e) Throughout the investigation each step of the process
of averaging is performed (as a rule) before the expressions
are ripe for it.
   2. In seeking for a proof of Maxwell's Theorem, I found it
absolutely essential to the application of the statistical method
to premise :—
    (A) That the particles of the two systems are thoroughly
mixed.
   (B) That, in any region containing a very large number of
particles, the particles of each kind acquire and maintain the
error-law distribution of velocities. This will be referred to
as the "special" state. The disturbances of this arrange
ment produced in either system by impacts on members
of the other are regarded as being promptly repaired by
means of the internal collisions in the system itself. This
is the sole task assigned to these internal collisions. We
assume that they accomplish it, so we need not further allude
to them.
   [The warrant for these assumptions is sought in the fact
that only a small fraction of the whole particles are at any
instant in collision ; i. e. that each particle advances, on the
average, through a considerable multiple of its diameter before
it encounters another.]
   ( C) That there is perfectly free access for collision between
each pair of particles, whether of the same or of different
systems ; and that, in the mixture, the number of particles of
one kind is not overwhelmingly greater than that of the other
kind.
    [This is one of the essential points which seem to be wholly
ignored by Boltzmann and his commentators. There is no
proof given by them that one system, while regulating by its
internal collisions the distribution of energy among its own
members, can also by impacts regulate the distribution of
energy among the members of another system, when these
are not free to collide with one another. In fact, if (to take

346              Prof. Tait on the Foundations of
an extreme case) the particles of one system were so small,
 in comparison with the average distance between any two
 contiguous ones, that they practical ly had no mutual col
 lisions, they would behave towards the particles of another
 system much as Le Sage supposed his ultra-mundane cor
 puscles to behave towards particles of gross matter. Thus
 they would merely alter the apparent amount of the molecular
 forces between the particles of a gas. And it is specially to
 be noted that this is a question of effective diameters merely,
 and not of masses.]
   3. With these assumptions we may proceed as follows:—Let
P and Q be the masses of particles from the two systems respec
tively ; and when they impinge, let u, v be their velocity-
components measured towards the same parts along the line
of centres at impact. If these velocities become, after impact,
u', v' respectively, we have at once
           P(u'-u)=-|^(u-v)=-Q(v'-v);
an immediate consequence of which is
      P(u»-u')= -tj^L (Pu2-Qv2 - (P-Q)uv)
                       K    H>                 =_Q(v«-v9).
Hence, denoting by a bar the average value of a quantity, we
see that transference of energy between the systems must
cease when
                   Pui-Qv2-(P-Q)uv = 0, . . . . (1)
and the question is reduced to finding these averages.
   I thought at first that uv might be assumed to vanish, and
that u'J and v2 might each be taken as one third of the mean-
square speed in its system. This set of suppositions would
lead to Maxwell's Theorem at once. But it is clear that,
when two particles have each a given velocity, they are more
likely to collide when they are moving towards opposite parts
than when towards the same parts. Hence uv must be an
essentially negative quantity, and therefore Pu2 necessarily less
than Qv-i, if P be greater than Q. Thus it seemed as if the
greater masses would have on the average less energy than
the smaller.
   4. But these first impressions are entirely dissipated when
we proceed to calculate the average values. For it is found

                   the Kinetic Theory of Gages.             347
that if we write (1) in the form
                   Pu2 -uv - Qv^uv = 0,                      (2)
the terms on the left are equal multiples of the average energy
of a P and of a Q respectively. Thus Maxwell's Theorem is
rigorously true, though in a most unexpected manner. There
must surely be some extremely simple and direct mode of
showing that u2— uv is independent of the mean-square speed
of the system of Qs. Meanwhile I give the heads of the
investigation by which I arrived at the result just stated.
   5. It is shown that, if a particle move constantly with velo
city v among a system of other particles which are in the
" special " state, the fraction of the whole of its encounters
which take place with particles whose velocity is from »i to
ri + dvi, and whose directions of motion are inclined to its
direction at angles from /S to /9 + d/3, is proportional to
                      e-M'vfcadvi sin /S <//3 ;
where
                   v0=\/v2 + Vi—2vv1 cos/3
is the relative velocity, and 3 / 2a is the mean-square speed of
the spheres of the system.
   The line of centres at impact depends for its positions upon
the condition that the line of relative motion of the centre
of one of the impinging particles may pass, with equal proba
bility, perpendicularly through all equal areas of a diame
tral plane of the sphere, whose radius is the sum of the radii,
and which is concentric with the other particle.
   The number of particles of the first system which have
speeds between v and v + dv is proportional to
                             e-P'Vdv,.
where the mean-square speed of the system is 3/2p.
   Taking these things into account, it is found that
                              P + 21
                       U-2 " 2XP     + ?)
and
                      —              1
                      UV~      *{p + 9)'
so that
                        2        1-1
                      u'— UV=     -1
                                 p
which gives the result stated above.

348     On the foundations of tlie Kinetic Tlieory of Gases.
    These values are deduced from particular cases of the
curious expression
   J e-P"xdx(\ %-«*!/ rfy(^ya"+1-^2"+I)
                         +^ e-^dyifr^1-^'*1))
                                                  In— I
which, in its turn, may be made to depend upon the following
pair of fundamental theorems :—
             C"e-"3xdxCe-<>»1d2/=         ^T__>
            Jo            Jo          ±p \/p + q
             f e-P*'dx\ e-i»1ydy=        ^Z •
            Jo         J*             4q *Jp + q
   6. Another question of importance in the theory regards
the proper definition of the Mean Free Path. From the point
of view adopted by Maxwell, and since taken by Meyer,
Watson, and others, the mean free path in a system of equal
spheres is
                    average speed of a sphere
      average number of collisions per sphere per second
It seems to be more in accordance with the usual sense of the
word " mean " to define the mean path as the sum of the pro
ducts of the mean path for each speed into the chance of that
speed. And those who adopt the above deviation from the
ordinary usage must, I think, face the question,— Why not
deviate in the opposite direction, and define the mean path as
(average time of describing a free path) x (average speed) ?
   The numerical values deduced from these three definitions
bear to one another, in the above order, the ratios
                    0-707 : 0-677 : 0-647 ;
unit being the length of the mean path of a pari icle (whatever
its speed) if all the others were reduced to rest, and evenly
distributed throughout the space which they occupied while
in motion.

                              [  349    j
  XLVII. On the Diurnal Period of Terrestrial Magnetism.
                By Arthur Schuster, F.R.S.*
THE explanation of the daily variation of the magnetic
       forces observed on the surface of the earth will, in all
probability, lead to the explanation of the mysterious connec
tion between solar phenomena and terrestrial magnetism.
For the increase in amplitude of the diurnal variation of the
horizontal components of magnetic force forms one of the
most striking effects accompanying the increase in sunspot
activity. The daily variation, then, seems a most important
symptom of solar influence, and its investigation becomes a
matter of great interest.
    In the remarks which I wrote out for the Report of the
Committee appointed by the British Association, for the
purpose of considering the best means of comparing and
reducing magnetic observations, I pointed out the importance
of adopting a suggestion, made already by Gauss, to apply
the analysis of surface harmonics to the diurnal oscillations.
It is well known that such an analysis would allow us to
decide the question whether the immediate cause of the dis
turbance was inside or outside the surface of the earth ; nor
can there be two opinions as to the importance of definitely
settling that question. At the time I wrote out my sugges
tions, however, it seemed to me, as the causes of the
disturbance had their seat in all probability close to the sur
face, whether outside or inside, that we should require a large
number of terms in the expansion before we could arrive at a
definite result.
    In this I was mistaken ; and it is one of the principal
objects of this paper to show that the periodic variations adapt
themselves with great facility to the analysis, and that, even
with the very limited quantity of material at our disposal, we
shall be able to arrive at most important results ; results
which within a short time might be made absolutely certain,
if additional observations were taken at a few well-selected
 stations. My results, as far as they go, point definitely to
the region outside the surface of the earth as the locality of
the periodic cause of the variation.
    It is easy to see that if electric currents parallel to the
earth's surface produce any disturbance, we can readily find
out whether these currents are outside or inside the earth.
As we pass through any current sheet the normal magnetic
   * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Literary
and Philosophical Society of Manchester, January 26, 1886.

 350           Mr. A. Schuster on the Diurnal Period
 force remains continuous, but that tangential component
 which is at right angles to the current suffers a discontinuity
 depending on the intensity of the current. For a spherical
 current sheet these components will always be of opposite
 sign on the two sides. If we then find the distribution of
 magnetic potential on the surface of the earth from the hori
 zontal components only, we should get by calculation a vertical
 component of different sign, according as the cause is inside
 or outside. A comparison with the observed values will at
 once decide the question. A more careful analysis is neces
 sary if the causes are partly outside and partly inside, and we
 wish to determine their relative importance.
    I believe that few practical magneticians at the present day
 read Gauss's memoir, ' On the General Theory of Terrestrial
 Magnetism'*; and the loss which cosmical physics has suffered
 in consequence is, as far as our generation is concerned, quite
 irretrievable.     The memoir is a model of scientific reasoning
 and full of suggestions, which are as valuable now as they were
 fifty years ago. The investigations of Gauss are founded on the
 assumption of a magnetic potential on the surface of the earth ;
 and he deduces from this assumption the theorem, now well
 known, that if on every place of the earth we know the compo
nent of magnetic force tending towards the west, we can deter
 mine from that component the direction and magnitude of total
horizontal force, leaving only a quantity undetermined which
 may depend on the latitude, but which cannot depend on the
 longitude, and which therefore is easily found. It appears on
 investigation that the quantity in question, if it has a diurnal
 variation at all, must vary on each circle of latitude with the
 solar time of some particular meridian, and not with local
 time. There can only be a very small fraction of the observed
 diurnal variation changing in this fashion. We may then say
 that, assuming the variation of the westerly component of
 magnetic force to be known over the surface of the earth, the
knowledge of the northerly component will follow. This is of
 importance, considering the ease with which changes in de
 clination are observed compared to change of horizontal force.
 Nevertheless changes of horizontal force ought to be observed
wherever possible, as the two records at any one station will
be equivalent to the record of declination only, at two stations.
    Moreover, we cannot assume without proof that the mag
netic changes of diurnal variation are subject to the existence
of a potential. If there is any actual discharge through the
earth's surface it will not be the ease ; and if there is only a
variation of electric charge it would be equivalent to an
electric current.
        [ * Bee Taylor's Scientific Memoira, vol. ii. pp. 194, 313.]

                      of Terrestrial Magnetism.                       351
    The following calculations will show the order of magnitude
of the vertical currents required to produce a sensible effect
on the magnetic needle. But, in the first place, we may esti
mate the intensity of the displacement-current, consistent
with electrostatic observations. The numbers given in the
following quotation from Sir Wm. Thomson* may serve as a
basis:—"Even in fair weather the intensity of the electric
force in the air near the earth's surface is perpetually fluctua
ting. The speaker had often observed it, especially during
 calms or very light breezes from the east, varying from forty
 Daniell's elements per foot to three or four times that amount
during a few minutes."
    We may then take "01 volt per centimetre in a second as a
variation not unfrequently occurring. Reduced to C.G.S.
 units, this gives 106 as the rate of variation of displacement.
                                                   de I
     The current intensity C is measured by -.- / Attv3, where v
                                        de              .
is the velocity of light ; and for -j- we put, as just found, 106.
 We thus obtain C = 10_l6 nearly. This means that the total
 current through a surface of a million square kilometres is
 equal to unity. Charges such as described by Sir William
 Thomson, if occurring simultaneously over a surface of 600
 miles square, would thus be equivalent to a unit current.
 If occurring over an area about 20 per cent, larger than
 Ireland, therefore, the current would be equivalent to one
 ampere.
     Let us ask next how large the current through an area
  like that of Ireland would have to be in order to show itself
  in magnetic observations. A deflection of one minute of arc
  in the declination, if recurring periodically, would no doubt
  show itself. This means, in our latitudes, a force of 5 x 10~5
  C.G.S. Assuming, for simplicity's sake, the surface to be a
  circular disk of radius 16 x 106, we get 400 units of current,
  or 4000 amperes ; which is 4000 times stronger than the
  displacement- currents observed by Sir William Thomson.
   We may then leave out of account the variations of electri
   fication on the earth's surface ; for although the conditions
   are somewhat more favourable over larger surfaces, and espe
   cially near the equator, the possible effects seem to me always
   to fall outside the observable limits. It is difficult to estimate
   the possible values of actual discharge, especially in the polar
   or equatorial regions. It must therefore be one of our first
   objects to find out whether the line-integral of magnetic force
   does or does not vanish when taken round a closed curve
     * Reprints of Papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism, xvi. p. 21!).

  352           Mr. A. Schuster on the Diurnal Period
  taken on the earth's surface. In our latitudes we should
 almost certainly find that it does vanish ; but the observations
  of Sabine near the magnetic pole tend to show an appreciable
  effect.
     It is, then, to circnmpolar and equatorial observations that
  we must look for an answer ; and as the point is of importance,
 steps ought to be taken to settle it. Accurate and uniform ob
 servations over a limited area will be more valuable than less
  uniform observations over a more extended area. Two or
 three declination-magnetographs distributed over the northern
 frontier of India, together with one additional vertical-force
 instrument in Central India, would, I believe, when taken
 together with the Madras and Bombay observations, give
 definite results in the course of one year, and the instruments
 might then become available for other work.
     The following calculation, however, seems to justify us in
 neglecting, until we have more definite information, the ver
 tical discharges through the earth.
     In the first place it is necessary to draw attention to the
 fact that, as concerns the subject of discussion, everything
 that holds for any set of observations taken over the earth's
 surface at any particular time, must also be true of the average
 values taken over a certain period of time ; and hence we may
 deal with the averages which give us the daily variations
 exactly in the same manner as we should deal with the whole
 components of force at any particular time. All we assume
is, that no part of the mean magnetic force is due to vertical
currents crossing the earth's surface.
    Suppose the periodic forces on which the diurnal variation
depends to be expressed all over the earth in terms of longi
tude, latitude, and the time of a given meridian. Observation
tells us, that all over a given circle of latitude we may take
the variation to be very nearly the same for a given local
time j that is to say, we may write
                     (IX dX dY = dY
                      dt ~ dk' dt       d\ '
where X and Y are the components of force towards the geo
graphical north and west respectively, and \ the longitude
measured towards the east. If u is the co-latitude, we have,
assuming the existence of a potential,
                       d „ .       dX dX
                       dKYsmM=^ = ¥;
Y, considered as a function of the time, is nearly of the same
type at places differing widely in latitude; and we may there

                     of Terrestrial Magnetism.               353
fore, as a first approximation, put Y equal to tbe product of
two quantities, one depending on tbe latitude, the other on
the time only. This seems true approximately, but only
approximately. Writing, therefore,
                          x smw= U ->-»
                                      at
where U is a function of w, and T a function of the time, we
get
                                  du
where no constant is added, as we only consider periodic
terms.
   The result I wish to draw from this equation, which can
easily be tested, is this :—If our assumptions are all justified,
X will be a maximum or a minimum as far as the time is
concerned, whenever T is a maximum or a minimum ; that is
                   dT
to say, whenever -r-, and therefore also Y, vanishes. In other
words, the northerly component of horizontal force ought to
be a maximum and a minimum, whenever the westerly com
ponent vanishes.
   At Greenwich, X has a maximum at 7 o'clock in the even
ing and a minimum at noon ; while Y vanishes a little after
7 o'clock, and between 12 and 1 in the afternoon.
   At Bombay the declination-needle seems to pass its mean
position on the average a little after 10 in the morning and
about 10 in the evening. The horizontal force has its maxi
mum a little after 11 in the morning, and the minimum at
a quarter past 9 o'clock in the evening. Considering that,
owing to the southerly position of Bombay, the type in the
declination-range differs considerably from that in our own
latitude, the agreement is satisfactory, and so far tends to
disprove the existence of vertical currents through the earth's
surface.
   The observations taken at Lisbon and Hobarton show an
equally good agreement, those at St. Helena and the Cape of
Good Hope less so ; but in these two latter places the observa
tions taken at different months show a considerable difference
of behaviour.
   We may now attempt another step, and try to gain an idea,
however imperfect, as to the direction and intensity of the
currents which may produce the diurnal variation. The
variation in westerly force increases with the latitude, and we
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 131 April 1886. 2 C

354            Mr. A. Schuster on the Diurnal Period
shall not go far wrong in taking it as a first approximation
proportional to the sine of the latitude. I write therefore,
with an arbitrary unit of force,
                        Y= cos m cos (t + \),
where t is reckoned in arc from 2 o'clock Greenwich time.
   It is well known that in the expression for Y there is an
important term having a double period each day ; but it is
not my intention to enter into any details at present, and we
may see what we get with the above expression.
   Applying the equation
                           dY sin u _ rfX
                              du        d\
we obtain
                        X = cos 2m sin (t + \).
   The important point here is the factor cos 2w, which changes
sign at a latitude of 45°. If our equation is approximately
right the northerly force ought to be a maximum in the
morning, a minimum in the afternoon in the equatorial
regions, where cos 2u is negative ; while in the latitudes
above 45° the minimum ought to take place in the morning.
This is exactly what happens, with the exception that the
change seems to take place in latitudes smaller than 45°. At
Bombay the maximum of horizontal force takes place at
11 o'clock a.m. At Greenwich the minimum takes place a
little after that time. At Lisbon (w = 51°) the minimum lies,
as at Greenwich, in the morning, but the range is considerably
reduced*.
   It is surprising that the above equation represents so well
the general type of character of the horizontal-force variation,
both in the northern and southern hemispheres. Consider
able importance is to be attached to the fact that the maxima
and minima of horizontal force agree in sign with the observed
phenomena, for, as regards magnitude, all these variations
 might equally well be due to currents crossing the surface of
 the earth ; but the sign of X would have to be reversed, so that
the minima and maxima would be inverted. This is another
argument in favour of the supposition that no appreciable
part of the diurnal variation is due to currents crossing the
surface of the earth.
   • I find, since writing the above, that in the winter months Lisbon
agrees in phase with Bombay ; so that it is very likely near the line at
which the change takes place.

                     of Terrestrial Magnetism.               355
   Now as regards the vertical force and the localization of
the currents, we must in the first place obtain an expression
for the potential V. We may take either
                         dV                    dY
                             ;, or Y = -
                        adu '               a sin ud\'
where a is the radius of the earth, and find
                 V= —a sin u cos u sin (t + X).
   This expression for V happens to be a tesseral harmonic ;
and the potential, if it exists, must therefore be either
                  — V= — sin w cos m sin (< + \)
or
                          a*
                 —Y'= -j sin u cos u sin (< +\).
   For the vertical force we obtain in the first case, putting
r=a,
                      dY        . _ . . %.
                   — -j— = sin 2w sin (< + X) ;
and in the second case,
                      dY'         3 . .    . ,     >N
                   ~"-j- — — ^sm 2usm(t + \).
   Both expressions have their minima and maxima coincident
with those for the northerly components of horizontal force,
a fact which finds its confirmation in actual observation.
They also give us the phase of vertical force to be the same
for each hemisphere, and not to change as in the case of the
horizontal force. But there is an important distinction,
          dY
while       =— has its maxima and minima coincident with the
           dr
maxima and minima of horizontal force at latitudes greater
than 45°, and in the equatorial regions the maximum of hori
zontal force ought to be coincident with the minimum of
vertical force, and vice versd, just the opposite holds for dY'
                                                             -=-•
   At Greenwich the maximum of northerly force takes place
at 7 p.m., the minimum at noon ; the maximum of vertical
force takes place at 7 p.m., the minimum at 11 a.m.
   At Bombay the maximum of northerly force takes place at
11 A.M., the minimum at 9 p.m. ; there is a very decided
                                 202

356          Mr. A. Schuster on the Diurnal Period
minimum of vertical force at 11 a.m. ; but there is no pro
nounced maximum ; two minor maxima occur, one at 6 A.M.
and the other at midnight.
   As far as these results go, they give an emphatic answer in
favour of the supposition that a great part, at any rate, of the
disturbing currents lie outside the earth's surface ; a view
which Prof. Balfour Stewart has often supported in the last
few years.
    The results seem to me very encouraging, and I hope soon
 to be able to make use of more material, and to obtain more
 accurate expressions for the various forces concerned.
    It would help considerably all those who, like myself, wish
 to obtain some knowledge on the subjects of terrestrial mag
 netism without the aid of a staff of computers, if the directors
 of magnetical observatories were to reduce their observations
so as to give us changes in the components of force directed
towards the geographical north and west, rather than, as is
customary, changes in horizontal force and declination. In
all reductions such as I have attempted, and indeed in all
comparisons of the results obtained at different stations, what
interests us most is the two components of force resolved
along two definite directions like north and west, and not the
components of force resolved, as at present, in directions
changing sometimes rapidly from place to place.
    It may ultimately appear that some variations of terrestrial
magnetism are expressed most simply according to a system
of large and small circles, having the points of intersection of
the magnetic axis with the surface of the earth as poles ; but
the present system seems to me quite arbitrary, and until we
know more accurately the position of the magnetic axis, the
latitude and longitude circles seem to me to be the only
possible lines of reference for the magnetic forces.
   Supposing we have, by expansion in spherical harmonics,
obtained the distribution of potential, representing some peri
odic variation we wish to investigate, we may easily, should
it be considered desirable, obtain such a distribution of elec
tric currents on any sphere concentric with the earth's sur
face, inside or outside as the case may be, as might cause the
observed variation. Such a representation would always be
instructive, although the actual currents causing the disturb
ance may be distributed in a very different manner if they
have any vertical components. The simplest plan would be,
in the first place, to take the sphere on which we draw the
currents close to the earth's surface, either just outside or just
inside, according to the result obtained for the vertical force.
   If the magnetic potential is distributed over the earth's

                      of Terrestrial Magnetism.                  357
 surface, according to a surface harmonic of order t, Y(, the
 current function will be given by
                          .    (2i + l)AY»
                                  47T«
 the potential just inside the sphere,
                         V=-(t+l)^Y,;
                                        a
 that just outside,
                                    a.
or, if the current-sheet is just outside the earth, therefore
 (which supposition would, as we have seen, give a good agree
ment for the vertical force), we find
                       #— S±i.JLv.
                                 i+ 1   47T
It follows from this, that the currents flow at right angles to
the magnetic force at the point. If, however, the distribution
of potential cannot be represented by a single surface har
monic, then, as the coefficient of V differs for harmonics of
different orders, the currents need not necessarily be at right
angles to the magnetic force. If i is infinitely large, the
fraction depending on i is 2 ; if t is 2, the fraction is £ ;
and it must always lie between those limits if i varies be
tween 2 and infinity. There seems for diurnal variation
no term of the first order ; and we may therefore take very
approximately the currents to be at right angles to the mag
netic force at any place. In order to obtain the currents in
C.G.S. measure from the magnetic force we have to apply a
factor, which, as we have seen, is approximately obtained by
putting i=2, and therefore is equal to 5/12 7T.
   In the following table I give the direction and intensity of
the currents at Greenwich and Bombay for the local solar
hours. The direction of the current is as accurate as the
observations will permit ; the intensity is calculated, as ex
plained above, by multiplying the magnetic force by b / \2ir,
and is therefore approximate only as far as its absolute value
is concerned, but the relative value of the numbers ought to
be correct. The Greenwich result applies to the year 1 882,
that for Bombay is founded on the mean values during a
succession of years.
        * Maxwell, ' Electricity and Magnetism, vol. ii. p. 281.

358       On the Diurnal Period of Terrestrial Magnetism.
            Greenwich.                          Bombay.
     Time     Intensity                        Intensity   Time
   (astrono   (am port-3 Direction. Direction. (amperes  (astrono
    mical).     lO"6).                           10~6).   mical).
        h                       0          o               h   m
        0        366       + 53       -   67      556      0  12
        1        398       + 36       -   65      442      1  12
        2        364       + 24       -   65      282      2  12
        3        282       + 14       -   75      125      3  12
        4        184       - 2        +    0        8      4  12
        5        128       - 29       +   88       92      5  12
        6        126       - 72       +   85      165      6  12
        7        136       - 87       +   85      229      7  12
        8        146       -104       +   85      253      8  12
        9        149       -117       +   88      261      9  12
       10        149       -121       +   90      251     10  12
       11        146       -124       +   86      231     11  12
       12        138       -159       +   98      211     12  12
       13        120       -132       + 100       201     13  12
       14        110       -136       + 100       188     14  12
       16        110       -136       + 97        177     15  12
       16        118       -132       + 94        165     16  12
       17        124       -134       + 98        152     17  12
       18        136       -149       + 127       132     18  12
       19        168       -169       + 139       181     19  12
       20        219       + 170      -152        223     20  12
       21        263       + 145      -113        348     21  12
       22        277       + 116      - 90        462     22  12
       23        289       + 80       -76         569     23  12
   The table well repays a careful study. The Bombay ob
servations on magnetic declination refer, as regards time, to
twelve minutes past each hour ; the observations at the same
place on horizontal force to fourteen minutes past each hour.
This is only one of the many little devices by means of which
the heads of magnetical observatories try to enliven the time
of those who want to compare their results.
   The direction of the currents is reckoned from the geogra
phical north towards the west as positive, and towards the
east as negative. It is very remarkable how very nearly at
the same local hours the currents flow north and south at
Bombay and at Greenwich, namely at 4 in the afternoon
and between 7 and 8 in the morning. It is curious, more
over, how very quickly the current turns through the meridian
at Bombay ; at 3 o'clock it flows at an angle of 15° from
the east, and at 5 already it flows due west, and remains
almost unaltered in direction till 5 o'clock in the morning.
At Greenwich the currents turn much less sharply, but they
always flow east when the currents at Bombay flow west.

           On the Peltier Effect at different Temperatures.              359
The system of currents indicated by these numbers is that
approximately shown by the equations given above, the phase,
however, being different. Along the meridian, on which the
local time is 4, the currents flow from the equator towards the
north, they turn round in our latitude towards east and west,
join on either side again to go south, where the local time is
half-past 7 in the morning, and come back along the equator.
    The numbers given in the columns as intensity become
amperes when multiplied by 10-a. They are approximately
of the same magnitude as the currents we are accustomed to
send through our vacuum-tubes ; but as the thickness of layer
through which they are distributed must be very large com
pared to that on which we experiment, the current-intensity
at such place is very small, far too small to cause luminosity.
The currents, on the whole, are weaker at Greenwich than at
Bombay ; but while they almost vanish at one time at Bom
bay, making the ratio of the strongest to the weakest current
equal to 73, that ratio is only 3£ at Greenwich. The minimum
at Greenwich in the early morning is as pronounced at the
afternoon minimum, but much less so at Bombay.
    On the whole the numbers, both as regards direction and
intensity, show such a remarkable regularity that there is
good hope of obtaining a good mathematical representation of
their distribution.
     But more detailed investigations will require much time
and consideration. They can hardly upset the conclusion
arrived at in this paper, that the greater part of the diurnal
variation is due to disturbing causes outside the earth's sur
face. I forbear at present from entering into some very
curious conclusions to which we seem almost forced if we
 adopt this view.
     It will be interesting to apply the method here used to the
other periodic variations of terrestrial magnetism which have
been discovered.
  XLVI1I. On the Peltier Effect at different Temperatures* .
                      By G. Goke, LL.D., F.R.S4
 IN order to examine this question I made the following
        experiments :—A current of about '10 ampere was
 passed, during five minutes, through a thermoelectric pile,
    * See Campbell, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin. vol. xi. 1882-83, p. 807, and
 vol. xii. 1883-84, p. -i)3 ; consult also a paper by Naceari and Bellati ou
 the same subject, Wiedemann's Beibliitter, 1878, vol. ii. p. 2'2'S ; and one
 by Bellati, ibid. vol. iii. p. GiJ8.
    t Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Birming
ham Philosophical Sociely, February 11, 1880.

 360             Dr. G. Gore on the Peltier Effect
composed of thirty-six pairs of bismuth and antimony, at a
 uniform temperature of 8° Centigrade. The current was then
 stopped, and the terminals of the pile at once connected with
 an astatic galvanometer of 100 ohms resistance : the needles
 gave a swing of 8 degrees. The pile was then heated in a
 hot-water jacketed chamber to a uniform temperature of
 65° C, and the experiment exactly repeated with the current
 of its original strength : the needles now gave a swing of 17
 degrees. These experiments were again exactly repeated,
 but with the pile at 9° C. and 85° C. : the deflections were
 8 degrees at 9° C. and 20 at 85° C.
    These results indicate that the difference of temperature
 produced at and near the two junctions of a bismuth and
 antimony thermo-couple, by the passage of an electric current
 through them, is more than twice as great at 85° 0. as at 8°
 C. As the amount of resistance of the galvanometer was
 large in comparison with that of the pile, the increased strength
 of current was due to increase of electromotive force.
    In order to examine the amount of Peltier effect produced
 at the two junctions of the pile separately, a current of '2
 ampere was passed, during about twenty seconds, from A to B,
 through a cross composed of two wires ; A D being of iron,
 "5 millim. diameter, and B C of German-silver, -4 millim.
 diameter, whilst their opposite ends, C, D, were attached to a
 galvanometer, of about 2-0 ohms resistance, by means of
 slender wires of copper.
    With the entire cross and the adjoining
 portions of its conducting wires at 10° C,
 on passing the current from iron through
the junction to German-silver, a deflection
 of 3 degrees was produced, showing that
the junction was heated ; and on passing it
from German-silver to iron, the deflection
was 2 degrees in the same direction, show
ing that the junction was again heated, but
in a less degree. These results were ob
tained several times. On repeating these
experiments carefully in a similar manner,
but with the cross and its attachments at
90° C, the current from iron through the
junction to German-silver produced a de
flection of 4 degrees, indicating heat at the
junction ; and on passing it from German-silver to iron, the
deflection was 2 degrees in the same direction, the junction
being again heated.
   These results show—1st, that with a thermo-couple com-

                      at different Temperatures.                  361
posed of iron and German-silver, a current of uniform strength,
passed from iron to German-silver, evolved more heat than
when passed in the opposite direction, whether the pile was at
10° C. or 90° C. 2nd, that when the current was passed from
iron to German-silver, it evolved more heat at and near the
junction when the couple was at 90° C. than when it was at
10° C. And 3rd, that when it was passed from German-silver
to iron, the amounts of heat evolved were about the same
when the couple was at 90° as when it was at 10° C.
    With the same strength of current, and a cross formed of
bismuth and antimony, with the cross and its connections at
12° C, on passing the current from the bismuth through the
junction to the antimony, a deflection of 8 degrees was pro
duced, showing that the junction was cooled ; and on passing
it in the opposite direction, the deflection was 8 degrees in
the opposite direction, showing a heating effect. With the
 cross, &c, at 93° C, passing the current from the bismuth
through the junction to the antimony produced a deflection
 of 10 degrees and a cooling effect ; and passing it in an
 opposite direction produced a deflection of 10 degrees and a
heating effect.
    From these results it appears that the Peltier effect, both
of heating and cooling, with a thermo-couple of bismuth and
antimony, was considerably larger at 93° than at 12° C.
Also that the amounts of heating and cooling effect were
about equal, whether the couple was at 12° or 93° (J.
    Similar experiments were made with a cross formed of
bismuth and silver, and with one composed of antimony and
 silver, the silver wire being "5 iniliim. diameter, with the same
 strength of current as before. The results were as follows
 (the direction of current given in each case is that through the
junction) :—        Bismuth and gilver ^ 12<3 c
   Direction of Current.        Deflection.       Thermal Effect.
    From Bi to Ag                2'0            Junction cooled.
      „ AgtoBi                   2-0 to 2-5         „     heated.
                    Bismuth and Silver at 92° C.
    From Bi to Ag                3-0            Junction cooled.
      „ AgtoBi                   3-0                „     heated.
                   Antimony    and Silver at 12° C.
    FromSbtoAg                   1-5            Junction  heated.
      „ AgtoSb                   1-5                „     cooled.
                   Antimony    and Silver at 95° C.
    FromSbtoAg                   1-5           Junction   heated.
      „ AgtoSb                   1-5                „     cooled.

362                     Geological Society:—
   These results show—1st, That with a bismuth and silver
thermo-couple, the total Peltier effect was larger at 92° than
at 12° C. ; 2nd, with an antimony and silver couple it was
about the same at 95° as at 12° C. ; 3rd, that it was less with
an antimony-silver than with a bismuth-silver couple at
each temperature ; 4th, with a bismuth-silver couple, the
heating-effect at 1 2° C. was somewhat greater than the cooling
one, and at 92° C. the heating and cooling effects were about
equal ; and 5th, that with an antimony-silver pair, the heating
and cooling effects both at 12° and 95° C. were all about
alike.
   With the couples formed of bismuth-antimony, iron-
German-silver, and bismuth-silver, the total Peltier effect was
frreater in each case at the higher temperature than at the
 ower one, but with the antimony-silver one, the effects at the
two temperatures were about equal.
   All the results were probably affected to some extent by the
influence of " electric convection of heat."
   The whole of the results obtained (after making due allow
ance for differences in the specimens of metals employed by
different experimentalists) agree with the thermo-electric
diagram given in the manual on " Heat," by P. Q. Tait.
             XLIX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                       GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                       [Continued from p. 285.]
      February 24, 1886.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.K.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
rpiLE following communications were read :—
 J- 1. "On two Rhaetic. Sections in Warwickshire." By Rev. P.
B. Brodie, M.A., F.G.8.
   The sections noticed in this papor were (1) one exposed on a
railway at Summer Hill, near Binton, between Stratford and
Alcester, and (2) one, 13 miles further to the south-east, at Snitter-
field, 3 miles north of Stratford-on-Avon, in excavations for a
tunnel connected with a supply of water to that town.
   At the first-named locality a bed with insect remains overlies the
firestone and Estheria-bed, and this is succeeded in descending order
by a considerable thickness of black and grey shales with the usual
 Bhaitic fossils. The bone-bed is not exposed.
    At the second locality, in borings and shafts, black Rhwtic shales
 were found in throe places resting upon a denuded surface of new
 Bed Marl, and covered by between 40 and 50 feet of drift. Am
enta eontorta and other typical fossils were obtained from the shales.
In other shafts the Kluetic beds were wanting, so that apparently

                   On the Pliocene Beds of St. Erth.               363
those met with were merely small portions remaining of a larger
mass which had been denuded away.
   2. " On the Basement-beds of the Inferior Oolite of Gloucester
shire." By E. Witchell, Esq., F.G.S.
    The author observed that few papers have appeared lately on this
subject in the Quarterly Journal, and admitted that the work done
between 1847 and 1800 was of such excellent character that there
seemed to be but little left to do in the Cotteswolds. Still he con
 sidered, after twenty-five years of experience, that there is room for
another paper on the lower beds :—
    (1) Because the Pea Grit of Leckhampton is made to include
too much.
   (2) Because this use of the term has led to confusion.
   (3) Because the Pea Grit proper has a greater oxtension than
has hitherto been supposed.
   Thus has arisen the mistaken notion that the oolitic limestone
at Frocester and Haresfield Hills is part of the freestone series above
the Pea Grit. The author proposed to call the beds underlying
the Pea Grit the " Lower Limestone,'- and gave sections at Crickley
Hill and Ruscombe, near Stroud, in explanation of his views.
    Summarizing the results— (1) the Pea Grit is well developed in
the Cheltenham area, thinning towards tho south, is no more than
from three to five feet thick in the Stroud area, extending as far as
TJley Bury, where it occurs as a thin band, having lost its ferrugi
nous aspect. (2) Underlying this are several beds of white oolitic
limestone, having layers of freestone alternating with layers of shelly
detritus, and locally small quartz-pebbles, thickness from 20 to 30
feet. Attention was especially drawn to the contrast which these
beds present, both lithologically and palajontologically, to the Pea
Grit ; and to their poverty in entire organic remains, limited chiefly
to a few very small and peculiar Gasteropods.        (3) Brown sandy
limestones, locally coarse ferruginous gritty beds from 5 to 9 feet,
fossiliferous in tho lower portion. These are within the Opalinug-
zone, and repose directly on the Cephalopoda-beds.
   3. " On the Pliocene Beds of St. Erth." By Percy F. Kendall,
Esq., and Robert, G. Bell, Esq., F.G.8.
   This paper consisted of a description of the beds exposed at
St. Erth, a list of the Molhiscan fossils identified, and some pre
liminary considerations of the evidence afforded by the Mollnsca,
and may be considered a continuation of that by the late Mr. S. V.
Wood, read to the Society in November 1884.
   The beds consist of sand and clay dipping about 5° to N.N.W.
The only important fossiliferous bed is a blue clay, and fossils have
only been obtained in one spot, though the beds have been traced
over an area of about 120 acres. The fossils are well preserved,
and with a few unimportant exceptions, are of invertebrate forms,
chiefly Mollusca, Polyzoa, Ostracoda, and Foraminifera ; remains of
Crabs, Cirripedes, Echinoderms, Annelida, Sponges, and even of

 364                     Geological Society :—
Holothurians and Tunicata (e.g. Leptoclinum Unite1!) have been
detected.
   The list of the Mollusca showed the range of each species in
Miocene and Pliocene beds and in the present seas. The authors
 considered that the fossils agree in age with the middle or lower
 portion of the Red Crag, but that whilst many species having a
 southern character are present at St. Erth, and wanting in the
Crags of the east coast, the Boreal and Arctic forms found so
abundantly in the Crag are absent at St. Erth.
    In explanation of this remarkable fact, it is suggested that when
 the St. Erth beds wero deposited, although the North-Sea area
 was in direct communication with the Arctic Ocean, the western
part of the British Channel was not, that the British Isles were
joined to the continent of Europe on one side and to Greenland on
 the other, the Shetland and Faroe Islands and Iceland being the
remnants of the barrier that formerly divided the Atlantic from the
Arctic Sea. Evidence is given in support of this view from the
present submarine configuration of the North Atlantic. It was also
shown to be probable that the St. Erth area, in Pliocene times, was
more directly connected with the Mediterranean than at present,
by u marine channel that traversed France.
           March 10.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
   1. "On the Alteration of coarsely spherulitic Bocks." By Gren-
ville A. J. Cole, Esq., F.G.S.
   The author stated that the pitchstone of Zwickau, Saxony, con
tains large spherulites, remarked on by Cotta in 1847, which
are devoid of radial structure, and are traversed by the fine lines
of flow that characterize the glassy matrix. The centre of each
of these has been hollowed out by decomposition along cracks,
as may be seen at the ends of the branches into which the
cavity divides, and infiltration of chalcedony and calcite has
occurred. The lines of flow correspond on opposite sides of this
secondary mass, and do not bend round as if the spherule had
formed about some calcareous inclusion or about a vesicle. Similar
excavation and infiltration have occurred extensively among the
coarsely spherulitic layers of the Precambrian rhyolites of Lea
Bock, Wrekin, and in these tho cracks traversing the rock are
seen, under the microscope, as mere lines when passing through
the matrix, but widen out at once, probably through more ready
decomposition along their walls, when they enter spherulitic
matter. In the white rock (Silurian rhyolite) of Digoed, near Pen-
machno, N. Wales, similar alteration has converted the closely set
spherulites (often three inches in diameter) into mere shells filled
with quartz and chlorite ; while a black slate-like decomposition-
product, with a hardness of 2-5 and a specific gravity of 2-77, occurs
occasionally here, and very frequently in the less coarse but similar

           Account of a Well-sinking made at Swindon.              365
rock of Conway Mountain. In the latter place spherulites may be
found containing this product in alternate concentric layers. Ana
lysis shows it to be allied to pinite ; but the formation in it, when
it tends to become crystalline, of microlites of various kinds opposes
its being regarded as a simple mineral. The rock of Digoed itself
contains 83 per cent, of silica, the black product only 50 per cent.
The great nodular masses of quartz and these contrasted soft, black,
cleavable layers form striking features of alteration, especially as
the residual spherulitic matter closely resembles the matrix, and
may in time become undistinguishable from it. A consideration of
the pyromerides of the continent makes it appear probable that
they also are altered coarsely spherulitic rhyolites, and the compa
risons made by Delesse in 1852 strongly support this view.
   2. " Account of a Well-sinking made by the Great Western
 Railway Company at Swindon." By Horace B. Woodward, Esq.,
 F.G.S. With Lists of Fossils, by E. T. Newton, Esq., F.G.S.
   This well-sinking was made under the direction of Captain William
 Dean, while fossils were collected and notes of the strata were made
 by Messrs. W. H. Stanier and A. R. Elliott, to whom the authors
 were greatly indebted. The object of the sinking was to seek a
 supply of water for use in the works at Swindon. The strata proved
 were as follows :—
                                                    fi . in.
                 Made ground                          8   0
                Kimeridge Clay                      64    1
                 Corallian Beds                     40    1
                 Oxford Clay and Kellaways Book    572    0
                 Cornbrash                          18    3
                 Forest Marble                      33    0
                                                   736 2
    Unfortunately for the Company, saline waters were met with in
 the Corallian rocks and again in the Forest Marble.
    Few fossils were obtained from the Kimeridge and Corallian rocks;
 but those from the Oxford Clay and Kellaways Rock indicated the
 upward succession of the Callovian ornatus-, and cordatus-ioTms of
 Ammonites. It was shown that at least 44 feet of clays, sands, and
 sandstones might be assigned to the Kellaways Rock, which should
 be regarded as an irregular and impcrsistent basement-bed of the
 Oxford Clay. Turning to the subject of the saline waters, it was
 shown from analyses by Mr. F. W. Harris that the Corallian water
 contained 144 grains per imperial gallon, consisting chiefly of sodium
 chloride and sodium carbonate. In the Forest-Marble water, which
 had a temperature of 64°, the saline ingredients amounted to 2131
 grains per gallon, consisting chiefly of sodium chloride, calcium
 chloride, &c.
    Attention was then drawn to the occurrence of saline waters in
 the Jurassic rocks, at Melksham, Holt, Trowbridge, f>t. Clement's,
 Oxford, and other localities in the neighbourhood ; and also to the
 occurrence of saline waters in the Coal-measures and older rocks of

366            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
the Bristol Coal-basin, &c. It was shown that the occurrence of
saline waters was not necessarily connected with the proximity of
salifcrous New Red rocks, and it was suggested that the saline waters
at Swindon escaped from a ridge of Pahoozoic rocks against which
the Lower Jurassic rocks abutted, as they do on the Mendip Hills.
    Mr. E. T. Newton said the fossils had been collected with great
care by Mr. Stanier and Mr. Elliott, an exact record of depths being
kept. He noticed some of the more important species that had been
met with and their distribution, especially mentioning that the Am
monites from the Oxford Clay were nearly all from greater depths
than 400 feet.
            L. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    ON THE RESISTANCE IN THE VOLTAIC ARC.                HT E. EDLUND.
TE we measure the apparent resistance of the voltaic arc in the
-*- ordinary way, we find that it consists, as it were, of two parts,
one of which is independent of the length of the arc, and the other is
 proportional to it. If we call the resistance w, the length of arc I,
while a and b are two constants, then w = (t + bl. This holds if
the current strength is kept constant while the length of the arc is
changed. The behaviour of the constants a and b is in so far
 different that b is less when the current increases, while a is almost
 independent of the strength of the current, and of the electromotive
 force of the source of electricity ; it is only when this is so much
 diminished that an arc light is scarcely formed that the value of a
 becomes less. These observations of mine* have been confirmed by
 experimenters in recent times.
    The question may be put whether this constant a represents a
 resistance of transition, which takes place at the surface of contact
 of the electrodes and the air, or whether it has its origin in an
 electromotive force, for the diminution in the strength of the
 current expressed by a might be explained by either of these
 assumptions. Erom the reasons given in the researches in
 question, and to which we hero refer, it follows that a represents
 an electromotive force, which acts in opposition to the principal
 current.
     Of all investigations on this subject published in the last few
 years, we shall only call attention to the following.
     Frolichf, who in his investigation made use of observations
 made in the laboratory of Siemens and Halske, came to the
 conclusion that either of the assumptions are reconcilable with
 these observations, though he seems inclined to think that the
 constant a represents an electromotive force, as well as a re-
    * Pogg. Ann. vol. exxxi. p. 586 (1867) ; vol. exxxiii. p. 353 ; vol. exxxiv.
  pp. 250, 337 (1808) ; and vol. exxxix. p. 354 (1870).
    t Electrotechn. Zeitschrift, vol. iv. p. 150 (1883).

               Intelligence aiul 3>fi>scellaneou8 Articles.          367
sistance of transition.      Friilich probably considers that a cannot
be exclusively an electromotive force, for in this case it would have
what, in his opinion, is the absurdly high value of 39 volts.
Peukert* has made a series of observations on this subject, in which
the strength of the current varied from 10 to 30 amperes. As
follows from my older observations, Peukert found that the
apparent resistance of the luminous arc may be represented by the
formula w = a + b I. If it be assumed that the constant a is an
electromotive force, its value according to Peukert must amount to
35 volts ; a value which appeared to him so high that he did not
venture to assume it could have its origin in an electromotive
force, but that, partly at least, it represents a resistance of
transition.
   From my investigations cited above it follows that a is inde
 pendent both of the magnitude of the source of the current and
 of the strength of the current, provided this does not sink to
the lowest limit in which a voltaic arc may be formed. In my
first experiments on this subject I have calculated a as an electro
motive force, expressed in Bunsen's elements. Seven successive
experiments made with a current of 53 to 79 Bunsen's elements
 gave the following results : —
a=24,416; 25,962; 25,354; 20,951; 21,637; 21,483; 23,119;
 the mean of which is=23-315. This holds when the light is pro
 duced between carbon points of the ordinary kind.
    If it be assumed that 1 Bunsen's element is equal to 1*7 Daniell's,
 and that this is 1*08 volt, 1 Bunsen = l-8 volt. If this number be
 multiplied by the mean in question, we obtain 41*97 volts. The
 mean of this number and of that found by Friilich and Peukert
 (39 and 35) gives 38-66 volts.
    The view favoured by some experimenters, that the constant a
 partly represents a resistance of transition, is in fact disproved by
 the investigations of Victor von Langt. By an ingenious method
 Lang succeeded in pro\ ing that the voltaic arc does contain a counter
 electromotive force which is equal to 39 volts. As this value of the
 counter force in the arc is almost equal to the value of the constant
 a above given, it follows that there is no resistance of transition in the
 voltaic arc, and that therefore the entire diminution of the strength of
 the current which remits from the production of the arc-light is caused
 by the resistance of the arc bl, and by the electromotive force contained
 in it.
    It must, however, be remarked here, that since the determinations
 of the values of a and of the electromotive counter force contained
 in it may possibly have been made with carbon electrodes of
 different kinds, it would be desirable to repeat both determina-
    * Mectrotechn. Zeitschrift, vol. vi. p. Ill (1885).
   t V. von Lang, Wien. Bit. April 188o: Wiedemann's Annalen,
 voL xxvi. p. 145 (1885).

368            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
tions with one and the same voltaic arc.—AnnaUn der Fhysik,
vol. xxvi. p. 518.
ON THE DEVIATION OF OXYGEN FROM BOYLE AND MARIOTTE S
   LAW UNDER LOW PRESSURES.              BY CHRISTIAN BOHR, OF
   COPENHAGEN.
   In a series of absorptiometric determinations which I made in
the course of the last few years, on the loosely combined oxygen in
oxyhemoglobin, the experiments made under low pressures of
oxygen always showed irregularities, which, notwithstanding all
the trouble I expended, could not be eliminated. In inquiring
after the cause of these irregularities, I was led to look for it iu
the calculations necessary, in all such experiments, for converting
the volume of the gas from the pressure before the absorption to
the smaller pressure after the absorption.
   This calculation was made of course by Boyle and Mariotte's
law. The object was therefore to investigate with what accuracy
oxygen follows the law in question under low pressures, in order,
if possible, to obtain data for the experiments on dissociation. In
this way arose the present series of experiments, in which it is
indisputably proved that oxygen differs considerably from the law
under the conditions in question. In the course of the experi
ments, the unexpected phenomenon was met with that the curve
which expresses the relation between volume and tension exhibits a
strongly marked discontinuity at a certain tension, which seems to
suggest that here there is an alteration in the molecular compo
sition of oxygen. Hence in the experiments great weight was laid
on an accurate determination of this point.
   After describing the experiments, the author sums up his con
clusions as follows :—
   I. At a temperature between 11° and 14° C. oxygen deviates
from Boyle's law within the limits in question. The dependence
between volume and pressure for a value of the latter which is
greater than O70 millim. may be approximately expressed by the
formula
                          O+0-109)u=Z.-;
while the formula for values of the pressures which are less than
0-70 millim. is
                          (p + O070>=A-.
   II. If the pressure sinks below 0-70 millim., oxygen undergoes
a change of state ; by raising the pressure above O70 millim. it
mav be restored to its original condition.—Wiedemann's Annalen,
No. 3, 1886.

                                  THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                  AND
        JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                           MA Y 1886.
  LI. The Reaction upon the Driving-Point of a System
    executing Forced Harmonic Oscillations of various Periods,
    with Applications to Electricity. By Lord Rayleigh,
    D.CX.,F.E.S*
 THE object of the present communication is to prove
        some general mechanical theorems, which may be re
 garded as in some sort extensions of that of Thomson relating
 to the energy of initial motions. The question involved in
 the latter may be thus stated f:—
    " Given any material system at rest. Let any parts of it
 be set in motion suddenly with any specified velocities possible,
 according to the connections of the system ; and let its other
 parts be influenced only by its connections with these. It is
 required to find the motion." And the solution is "that the
motion actually taken by the system is that which has less
kinetic energy than any other motion fulfilling the prescribed
velocity conditions." On the other hand, if the impulses are
given, a theorem of Bertrand tells us that the kinetic energy
is the greatest possible.
    For our present purpose we suppose the system to be set
in motion by an impulse of one particular type, which we
may call the first. The impulse itself may be denoted by
f^jrff, and the corresponding velocity generated by ¦i,.
Under any given circumstances as to constraint, the velocity
and the impulse are in proportion to one another ; and the
       • Communicated by the Author.
       t Thomson and Tait's ' Natural Philosophy/ §§ 316, 817.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 132. May 1886.              2D

370              Lord Rayleigh on Forced Harmonic
resulting kinetic energy T is proportional to the square of
either, being equal to £^i \^idf. Now Thomson's theorem
asserts that the introduction of a constraint can only increase
the value of T when if"! is given. Hence, whether i^ be
given or not, the constraint can only increase the ratio of £ T
to if-?, or of f^i dt to ijrj. This form of the statement virtually
includes both Bertrand's and Thomson's theorems, which are
 thus seen to be merely different aspects of the same truth. If
the velocity be given, the impulse is a minimum in the absence
 of constraint. If the impulse be given, the velocity is under
the same circumstances a maximum. Calling the ratio of
 f ^ifft to ^"i the moment of inertia of the system when sub
jected to forces of the type in question, we may say that this
moment can only be increased by the introduction of a con
straint forcing the motion to follow a different law from that
natural to it.
    In close analogy to this theorem there are two others, rela
ting to equilibrium and to steady motion resisted by viscous
forces, of at least equal importance*. They may be thus
stated.
    Conceive a system to be displaced from stable equilibrium
by a force of specified type. If the corresponding displace
ment be given in magnitude, the force is a minimum—or if
the magnitude of the force be given, the displacement is a
maximum,—when there is no constraint. Or we may say that
the stiffness of the system, with respect to the kind of force in
question, is increased by constraint. Examples, in illustra
tion of the general proposition, are given in the papers already
cited.
    The third theorem depends upon the properties of the dissi
pation-function, and its most interesting application is to the
conduction of heat and electricity. To take the latter case, if
an electromotive force be applied to any system of conductors,
the " resistance " to steady currents can only be increased by
the imposition of a constraint, such for examplo as the rupture
of a contact.
    Hitherto we have supposed the forces to be either instanta
neous or steady ; and the three theorems depend upon the
functions T, F, and V, expressing respectively kinetic energy,
dissipation, and potential energy, only one of them being
supposed to come into consideration at a time. We have now
   * Phil. Mag. Dec. 1874, "A Statical Theorem " ; March 1876, " General
Theorems relating to Equilibrium and to Initial and Steady Motion."
See also ' Theory of Sound,' ch. iv.

                 Oscillations of various Periods.              371
to inquire under what conditions the theorems remain intact
when the impressed force is a harmonic function of the time.
   As regards the first theorem, the justification for the neglect
of F and V may be that they are non-existent, as in many
problems of ordinary hydrodynamics. In such cases the
motion is at any instant of the same character as if it had
been generated impulsively from rest, and the moment of
inertia is a minimum. But even when F and V are generally
sensible, their influence tends to diminish as the frequency of
alternation increases, and we approach at last a state of things
in which they may be neglected. From this point onwards
we may say that the moment of inertia is a minimum in the
unconstrained condition. Thus in a system of electrical con
ductors subject to a rapidly periodic electromotive force, the
distribution of currents is ultimately independent of the resist
ances, and the self-induction is a minimum in the absence of
constraint.
    In like manner, even when T and F are sensible, the motion
tends to be more and more determined by V, as the frequency
of the vibrations is imagined to diminish. An " equilibrium
theory " ultimately becomes applicable, and the " stiffness "
is a minimum when there are no constraints.
    The theorem in which F is mainly concerned stands in a
somewhat different position. If T and V are both sensible, we
 cannot find an extreme case, in respect of the frequency of the
vibration, which shall annul their influence. If, however, V
vanish, we can make F paramount by taking the period suffi
 ciently long ; and if T vanish, we can attain the same object
 by limiting ourselves to the case when the period is very
 short. If T and V both vanish, the theorem of minimum
 resistance in the absence of constraint holds good for all
 periods of vibration. In the application to a system of elec
 trical conductors which possess resistance and induction, but
 no capacity for charge needing to be regarded, we find that
 while (as already stated) the induction becomes paramount
 when the vibrations are very rapid, on the other hand when
they are very slow the distribution is determined ultimately
 by the resistances only. In the first case the self-induction,
and in the second the effective resistance, is a minimum in
 the absence of constraints.
    We are now prepared to enter upon the consideration of
 the problem which is the main subject of the present paper,
 viz. the behaviour of systems in which F, and one or other of
 the two remaining functions T and V, are sensible, but with
 out the restriction to very rapid or to very slow motions by
                               2D2

372              Lord Eayleigh on Forced Harmonic
which the influence of the second function may be got rid of.
The investigation is almost the same whether it be T or V that
enters ; for the sake of definiteness I will take the first
alternative.
   Consider then a system, devoid of potential energy, in
which the coordinate fa is made to vary by the operation of
the harmonic force ^tly proportional to &*. The other coor
dinates fa, fa, . . . may be chosen arbitrarily, and it will be very
convenient to choose them (as may always be done) so that
no product of them enters into the expressions for T and V.
They would be in fact the principal or normal coordinates of
the system on the supposition that fa is constrained (by a
suitable force of its own type) to remain zero. The expres
sions for T and F thus take the following forms :—
               T= fain* + fair22 + fa^2 + ...
                  + a1,ij^2 + a13-^1^3 + au^1i/r4+     .   .  .   (1)
               F =fafa* + fafa* + fa^2 + ...
                 + bl3fafa + b13fafa + bufafa + ... (2)
from which we get the equations of motion
      anfa + ai2^2 + ^lafj + ¦ • • + ^n^i + ^12^2 + • • • =¥„
      «12^1 + Offl^r*2 + hufa + ^22^2 = 0,
      «13"S^l + "33^3 + ^13^1 + h3fa = 0,
since there are no forces other than 'Vj. We now introduce
the supposition that the whole motion is harmonic in response
to *Px. Thus the above equations may be replaced by
   (ip an + bn)fa + (ip a12 + bl2)fa + (ip a13 + bl3)fa + . ¦ ¦ = *i,
   (ip a13 + bu)fa + (ip a22 + b33)fa = 0,
   (ip aj, + b13)fa + (ip ajj + b33)f, = 0.
      •       ••••••
By means of the second and following equations, fa, fa, . . .
are expressed in terms of fa. Introducing these values into
the first, we get
    *1 _,V,„ j. A         (ipau + bii)2    (ipan + bnY            ,-qx
        = ID aii T Or\ — —:————;        — —;       ;     — ... .  \Oj
    fa                     ipaS2 + bM       tpa^ + b^
   The ratio ^i : ^j is a complex quantity, of which the real
 part corresponds to the work done by the force in a complete
period, and dissipated in the system. By an extension of

                  Oscillations of various Periods.           373
electrical language we may call it the resistance of the system
and denote it by the letter R'. The other part of the ratio is
imaginary. If we denote it by ijpL'^r,, or L'^, 1/ will be
the moment of inertia, or self-induction of electrical theory.
We write therefore
                      %=(R' + t>I/)ti;                        (4)
and the values of R' and 1/ are to be deduced by separation
of the real and imaginary parts of the right-hand member
of (3).
   Now the real part 0fi!£3»±M.
                              ipa2i + bn
                 = hi. _ i?3(ai2&2a— flfrAa)' ;               (5\
                    bn        bn{b^+p^a^) '                   K
so that
                           t>23        <>23^28 +/> a22 )
   This is the value of the resistance as determined by the
constitution of the system, and by the frequency of the im
posed vibration. Bach component of the latter series (which
alone involves p) is of the form ap7 /(/3 + yp'2), where «, /9, y
are all positive, and (as may be seen most easily by considering
its reciprocal) increases continuously asp2 increases from zero
to infinity. We conclude that as the frequency of vibration
increases, the value of R' increases continuously with it. At
the lower limit the motion is determined sensibly by the
quantities b (the resistances) only, and the corresponding
resultant resistance R' is an absolute minimum, whose value is
                               **-*¥                          (7)
At the upper limit the motion is determined by the inertia of
the component parts without regard to resistances, and the
value of R' is
                         DS2            022022
That the resistance in this case would exceed that expressed
by (7) might have been anticipated from the analogue of
 Thomson's theorem ; but we now learn in addition that at
 every stage of the transition, during which in general the
 motions of the various parts disagree in phase, every incre

374             Lord Rayleigh on Forced Harmonic
ment of frequency of vibration is accompanied by a corre
sponding increment of resistance.
    a • a. •                       i- fi(ipai* + bi*)2
   Again, the imaginary part ot -.               —,—
               _ . &13(2a|2622 — a;25ia) + p^a^a^
               — ;n at»     ,•„ (an'<M~<t«"n)                            f q\
so that
              L/         V °H     i V (a12"22 — GlAj)                  /1A\
                            <ht       a*2(c>2a +/> fl22 )
 In the latter series each term is positive, and continually
 diminishes as p* increases. Hence every increase of frequency
 is attended by a diminution of the moment of inertia, which
 tends ultimately to the minimum corresponding to disappear
 ance of the dissipative terms.
    Certain very particular cases in which B/ and 1/ remain
 constant do not require more than a passing allusfon. If
 T and F are of the same form, every such quantity as
 (a126j2— aM6i2)2 vanishes.
    As examples of the general theorem may be mentioned the
 problems considered by Prof. Stokes in his well-known paper
 upon " The Effect of the Internal Friction of Fluids on the
 Motion of Pendulums "*. Consider, for instance, the result
 for a sphere of radius a, vibrating (according to «**') in a
 fluid for which the kinematic coefficient of viscosity is /*'.
 M' denoting the mass of the fluid displaced by the sphere,
 Prof. Stokes's results may be written
                      »-£{*<U+2666>•<*»}.
                     "-*{i <U+2666>**??}•
 When p is zero, which represents uniform motion of the sphere,
                            VM'
 As p increases, the expressions show that, in agreement with
 the theorem, R' continually increases and 1/ continually
 diminishes. In fact R' tends to become infinite, and L' to
    • Camb. Trans. voL ix., 1850.
    t That the energy of the motion is infinite in this case does not appear
 to have been noticed.

                  Oscillations of various Periods.           375
assume the value (£M') given by ordinary hydrodynamics,
in which viscosity is not regarded.
   The use of the principal coordinates would not often be
advantageous when the object is a special calculation of 1/
and R', rather than the establishment of a general theorem.
In one very important case—that of two degrees of freedom
only—the question does not arise, sinco but one other coordi
nate -^rj enters in addition to fa. Under this head we may
take the problem of the reaction upon the primary circuit of
the electric currents induced in a neighbouring secondary
circuit. In this case the coordinates (or rather their rates
of increase) are naturally taken to be the currents themselves,
so that fa is the primary, and fa the secondary current.
   In usual electrical notation we represent the coefficients of
self and mutual induction by L, N, M, so that
                    T = i Lfa + Mfafa + i Kfa*,
and the resistances by R and S.         Thus
                    in=R,      &ia = 0,   6M=S;
and (6) and (10) become at once
                        R,=R+i#W''                          (11)
                       h- L &+p>n*                          w
These formulae were given long ago by Maxwell*, who remarks
that the reaction of the currents in the secondary has the effect
of increasing the effective resistance and diminishing the
effective self-induction of the primary circuit.
   If the rate of alternation be very slow, the secondary
circuit is without influence. If, on the other hand, the rate
be very rapid,
                 R'-R + M'S             L'-LN"M*
   The formula? (11) and (12) may be applied to deal with a
more general problem of considerable interest, which arises
when the secondary circuit acts upon a third, this upon a
fourth, and so on, the only condition being that there must be
no mutual induction except between immediate neighbours in
             • Phil. Trans. 1865; M is misprinted for Ma.

376             Lord Rayleigh on Forced Harmonic
the series. Thus als, au, alt, . . . (or, as we should here call
them, M13, MM, M24, . . .) are supposed to vanish, as would
usually happen in experiment. For the sake of distinctness
we will limit ourselves to four circuits.
    In the fourth circuit the current is due ex hypothesi only to
induction from the third. Its reaction upon the third, for
the rate of alternation under contemplation, is given at once
by (11) and (12); and if we use the complete values applicable
to the third circuit under these conditions, we may thence
forth ignore the fourth circuit. In like manner we can now
deduce the reaction upon the secondary, giving the effective
resistance and self-induction of that circuit under the influ
ence of the third and fourth circuits; and then, by another
step of the same kind, we may arrive at the values applicable
to the primary circuit, under the influence of all the others.
The process is evidently general ; and we know by the theorem
that, however numerous the train of circuits, the influence of
the others upon the first must be to increase its effective
resistance and diminish its effective inertia, in greater and
greater degree as the rapidity of alternations increases.
    In the limit, when the rapidity of alternation increases
indefinitely, the distribution of currents is determined by the
induction-coefficients irrespective of resistance, and it is of
such a character that the currents are alternately opposite in
sign as we pass along the series*.
    As another example under the head of two degrees of
freedom, we will take the case of two electrical conductors in
parallel. It is not necessary to include the influence of the
leads outside the points of bifurcation. Provided there be no
mutual induction between these parts and the remainder, their
induction and resistance enter into the result by simple
addition.
    Under the operation of resistance only, the total current ¦^•1
would divide itself between the conductors R and S in the
parts
                       Rgfc    and
                         + S, ana     Ml
                                      R + S"
We may conveniently take the second coordinate ^rs so that
the currents in the two conductors are
                   S                      R     •     ¦
                R+l^+*» and RTF*1-*"
¦^•j still representing the total current.
   * See a paper, " On some Electromagnetic Phenomena considered in
connection with the Dynamical Theory," Phil. Mag. July 1869.

                 Oscillations of various Periods.          377
   Thus,
                   CD
and if L, M, N be the induction-coefficients of the two con
ductors,
     T . ¦„LS2 + 2MSR + NRJ
     T-W              -(S+W "
            . ; ;   (L-M)S + (M-N)R , . ; m           air.Vl
Accordingly,
       _LS2 + 2MSR + NR'              _(L-M)S + (M-N)R
    au_         (R + Sp        '   a"            R+3         •
                        cJ2=L-2M + N;
    ^11==RTS'              ^u=0,              6m=R+S;
and thus by (6), (10),
      R,_ SB , ^              ](L-M)S + (M-N)R}2
            R+S+R+S (R+S)2+^(L-2M + N)2' •                 ^lo;
            LS2 + 2MSR+NR2 _ |(L-M)S + (M-N)Rp
      L'=         (R + S)2             (R + S)'J(L-2M + N)
                     |(L-M)S+(M-N)Rp
          " (L-2M + N){(R + S)2+/(L-2M + N)2} ' ^ *''
   It should be remarked that (L — 2M + N) is necessarily
positive, representing twice the kinetic energy of the system
when the current in the first conductor is + 1 and in the
second — 1.
   Of the three terms in (14) the second and third cancel one
another when p vanishes, and when p is very great the third
term tends to disappear. The first and second terms together
may be put into the form
                             LN— M2
                           L-2M + N'                       (15)
independent (as it should be) of the resistances. In this
(LN — M2) is necessarily positive, but may be relatively small
when the wires are wound together. The energy of the
system is then very small, when the currents are so rapid
 that their distribution is determined by induction.

 378             Lord Rayleigh on Farced Harmonic
     There is an interesting distinction to be noted here de
  pendent upon the manner in which the connections are made.
  Consider, for example, the case of a bundle of five contiguous
  wires wound into a coil, of which three wires connected in
  series (so as to give maximum self-induction) constitute one
  of the branches in parallel, and the other two, connected
  similarly in series, constitute the other branch. There is still
  an alternative in respect to the manner of connection of the
  two branches. If steady currents would circulate opposite
 waj's (M negative), the total current is divided into two parts
  in the ratio of 3 : 2, in such a manner that the more powerful
  current in the double wire nearly neutralizes at external
  points the magnetic effects of tho less powerful current in
  the triple wire, and the total energy of the system is very
 small. But now suppose that the connections are such that
  steady currents would pass the same way round in both
  branches (M positive). It is evident that the condition of
  minimum energy cannot be satisfied if the currents are in
  the same direction, but requires that the smaller current in
 the triple wire should be in the opposite direction to the
 larger current in the double wire. In fact the ratio of cur
 rents must be 3 : — 2; so that (as on the same scale the total
 current is 1) the component currents in the branches are
 both numerically greater than the total current which is
 divided between them. And this peculiar feature becomes
 more and more strongly marked the nearer L and N ap
 proach to equality *.
     When there are several conductors in parallel, the results
 would in general be very complicated. When, however,
 there is no mutual induction between the various members, a
 simplification occurs. If the currents be denoted by ^^ ^ ,
 ifr3 . . . , the difference of potentials at the common ter
 minals is
             E=(i>L1 + R1)^1=(t>L2 + R,>^= . . . .,
 so that
                          E                   1
                   ^+^,+ ... 2(i>L + H)-i"
But if R' and L' be the effective resistance and self-induction
respectively of the combination,
                            : ¦pi      = R' + i>L',
                     ^1 + ^2 + •••
   * The reader who is interested in this subject is referred to my papera
in the Thil. Mag. July 1800, June 1870, " On Some Electromagnetic
Phenomena," &c.

                 Oscillations of various Periods.              379
so that
                     W+ipL'=%Si+^L                            (16)
Now
                     -    1_      - R-frL
                     ZR+i>L_iR2+p2L3'
or, if we write
           2R»+j>»L*=A'         %+/L9=B'            ' '   *   ^1?)
          %+p]=A~^B=(A + «>B)/(Aa+/F)-
Hence
                             A                 B
                   R/=AM^F'           L'=AHpF- •          '   (18)
 Equations (17) and (18) contain the solution of the problem.
 When » = 0,
                   R/_      *_       L^S(LR-»)
 When p = x> ,
                   B/_S(RL-2)         T/_     1               /20x
 These examples will suffice.
    The relation between ^t and fa expressed in (4) may be
 exhibited in another way in terms of the phase difference (e)
 and the ratio of maxima. Thus if
 we have                                          r,
              F=S(R"+p'L"),              tane=^.        .   .  (21)
 As p increases from 0 to co , e usually ranges from 0 to £ ir.
 At first sight it might appear probable that every increment
  ofp would involve an increment of e, but this seems not to be
  generally true. For consider a case in which
                     au = 0,   ai2=0,    a13=0, ....
  so that by (10)
                                l>2i+P<hi
  Here pU begins (as usual) at zero and ends at zero. During
  part of the range, therefore, it falls ; and thus since R' rises
  throughout, it follows that e does not rise throughout.

380     On Forced Harmonic Oscillations of various Periods.
   It may be worth while to remark that in some cases, where we
cannot deal with phases, we are concerned principally with the
value of \Z(R'2+_p*L'*), a quantity which practical electricians
are then tempted to call the resistance of the system. This
temptation should be overcome, and the name reserved for
R/, on which depends the amount of energy dissipated. It
must be admitted, however, that a name for •v/(Il'2+p2L/i)
is badly required. Perhaps it might be called the "throttling."
   The corresponding theorem in cases when T vanishes is
deduced in a similar manner with use of the potential energy,
Thus, if we write
                       V^p'+i
                       \tr.          + Bftk
                            — ,.M,_ iP'_                       (22)
                                           dt
we find
             ^=Cn-s £»'+^ % (bif"r*lf"L . .                    (23)
            Rl_i       -^1>U , y(frl2f28~ b^fiu)               (9A\
               = t>U — i-p +Z-. 7 «— ... o,.           .  .  . (-4*)
As p1 increases, the " stiffness " (represented by p') increases,
and the " resistance " diminishes.
   After what has been said it will not bo necessary to occupy
space with illustrations of the present theorem. Indeed its
applications seem to afford less interest. It is curious that
here, again, the easiest examples would be taken from elec
tricity, although the principle itself is one of general mechanics.
These (relating to the periodic charge and discharge of con
densers through high resistances) may be left to the reader
who wishes to pursue the subject further. The application to
the theory of the conduction of heat may also be noticed.
   When the three functions T, F, and V are all sensible, it
is not generally possible to make the transformation to sums
of squares upon which our process was founded. There are,
however, special cases in which the same transformation
which is required to simplify T and V is successful also as
regards F. Among these are of course to be reckoned cases
in which F does not appear, and those where there is but
one other coordinate besides i/^. Assuming that 623, &M, . . .
vanish, we have
    ^1         2    , • 7      (cl*—7>'2"12 + *JP&12)'         ,oe\
    Tl                           ( 22 P a2S + lP °i»

     Self-induction and Resistance of Straight Conductors.       381
    If we put
                         ^1=/*'^i + R'^-1,                       (26)
we obtain the values of ft' and R' by writing in (23) and (24)
throughout cn—p*au, Cn—p^an, Cn —p2<*u, ... for cu, cJa,
p1S) . . . respectively.
    A simpler case, which may be worth special mention, arises
when all the coefficients bu, ol3) . . . vanish. We have
then
            R^^ + S,—^'2-"^2]-"-,                   ....         (28)
This case, when there are two degrees of freedom, is con
sidered in my book on the ' Theory of Sound,' § 117.
    If all the frictional coefficients b22, bi3} . . . disappear,
we have                       -r,, ,                             ,-.„.
                             R' = *u,                            (29)
and
           M=cii-ya„-S                  g —                      (30)
 Whenever, during its increase, p approaches and passes
 through one of the values proper to the free vibrations of the
 system supposed to be vibrating under the condition that
¦i^i is constrained by a suitable force "9i to remain zero, /*'
 rises to — oo and passes through to +» .
 LII. On the Self-induction and Resistance of Straight Conduc
          tors. By Lord Eayleigh, Sec. R.S., D.C.L.*
 IN connection with the experimental results of Professor
        Hughest, I have recently been led to examine more
 minutely the chapter in Maxwell's 'Electricity and Mag
 netism ' (vol. ii. ch. xiii.) in which the author calculates the
 self-induction of cylindrical conductors of finite section. The
 problems being virtually in two dimensions, the results give
 the ratio L : I, where L is the coefficient of self-induction, and
 I the length considered. And since both these quantities are
 linear, the ratio is purely numerical. In some details the
 formulae, as given by Maxwell, require correction, and in
 some directions the method used by him may usefully be
    * Communicated by the Author.
    t Inaugural Address to the Society of Telegraph Engineers, January
 1886.

 382             Lord Rayleigh on the Self-induction
pushed further. The present paper may thus be regarded
partly as a review, and partly as a development of Maxwell's
chapter.
    The problems divide themselves into two classes. In the
 first class the distribution of the currents is supposed to be
 the same as it would be if determined solely by resistance,
 undisturbed by induction ; in particular the density of cur
 rent in a cylindrical conductor is assumed to be uniform over
 the section. The self-induction calculated on this basis can
be applied to alternating currents, only under the restriction
that the period of the alternation be not too small in relation
to the other circumstances of the case. If this condition be
not satisfied, the investigation must be modified so as to
include a determination of the distribution of current. A
problem of this class considered by Maxwell (§ 68D) relates
to the " Electromotive Force required to produce a Current
of Varying Intensity along a Cylindrical Conductor."* In
connection therewith another problem of the same class will
here be treated, in which the mathematical conditions are
simpler, and the results more readily apprehended.
    In § 685 Maxwell takes the problem of two cylindrical
conductors, the first of which conveys the outgoing and the
second the (numerically equal) return current. The external
radii are a,, a/ ; the internal radii a2, a,' ; b the distance
between the centres. A possible difference in the magnetic
quality is contemplated, the permeabilities for the material
composing the cylinders being denoted by fi, /jl', and that of
the intervening space by /i0.
    The first correction 1 have to note relates merely to a slip
of the pen. The result (22) should run
    L        ,      6* . i [V — 3a,2             4o2*         a^~\
                          ,  ,r«i'i-3a8/2 ,        4a,"1    ,    a/T
As printed in Maxwell's book the square brackets are omitted.
This error does not affect the following formula (23), in which
the cylinders are supposed to be solid. By putting <z„ at'
equal to zero, we get
                    L              b*
                    j - 2m<> log —, + £ (fJ. + /*').
   * That some of the results arrived at experimentally by Hughes might
be attributed to unequal distribution of current in the conductors wits
pointed out by Prof. Forbes in the course of a discussion which followed
the delivery of Prof. Hughes's address.

               and Resistance of Straight Conductors.             383
   It must, however, be remarked that in the derivation of
(22) Maxwell appears to have overlooked tbe effect of the
matter composing one conductor in disturbing tbe lines of
induction due to the current in the other. On this account
the formula is correct only when the permeabilities \i are all
equal, and the results cannot be applied to iron wires without
reservation. It would seem, however, that the error is of
small importance when the wires are distant. The application
to wires in contact, contemplated in § 688, will hold good
only for the non-magnetic metals.
   If we write c2 for (a{2— Oj2), so that c is the radius of the
solid cylinder of equal sectional area, we have in (22),
      a-i2 — 3a,2       4a2*      ,    at
       V-W """(V-a,")*108"*
                    3c2-2ai2        2(«12-c2):1
                                                *(i-$)
                    2 c2 . ,          . c',*
                    77 —5 + terms in —j
                    6 af                  at*
Hence, when the thickness of the cylinders is relatively small,
                L             Z»2       a c2    u! <P
               7 ^^aW + 3 a,2 + 8 <
   If b, c, d be given, the self-induction diminishes with
increase of ax, a/, especially when /i, /*' are much greater
than ft0.
   When /a is constant throughout, tho " geometric mean dis
tance " (§§ 691, 692) may conveniently be introduced. If
Ai, Aj be the areas occupied by the outgoing and return
currents, we have
              j =4/*o[log RAlAj-£log RAl-£ log RA2],
where RAl, Ra2 are to be understood as in (5), (6), (9)
§ (692).
   For two circular areas,
log RAlAa = log b,     log RAl = log ^ - \,      log RAa = log a/ - \,
if ai, a\ be the radii and b the distance between the centres ;
so that
as before.
   In § 692 the value of RA is given for rectangles and circular

384             Lord Rayleigh on the Self-induction
rings. For an ellipse of semi-axes a and b Prof. J. J. Thomson
gives*
                    logR=log^±-6-i,                            (1)
in which of course the case of the circle is included.
    It is evident tbat for a given area R is least when the figure
is circular. In that case we have
                         R=-4393 •(A)                          (2)
In the case of the square,
                        R= -44705 */(A)                        (3)
For the ellipse, Prof. Thomson's result leads to
                 R=-4393v^A.(l+^e4 + ...), ... (4)
showing the small effect of moderate eccentricity when the
area is given.
    As examples of very elongated forms we may take the
ellipse or the rectangle. In the latter case the value approxi
mates to that applicable to a line given by Maxwell (5) § 692.
If the length be a,
                      R=«,-i=^ff,                              (5)
increasing without limit for a given area as b decreases.
    It has been pointed out that Maxwell's result (22) § 685 is
not rigorous, unless fi be constant. In order to put a case in
which the lines of induction follow a simple law in spite of
the presence of iron, we may suppose that the conductors are
co-axal cylindrical shells. The outgoing current of total
strength C travels in the interior cylinder of radii as, at ; the
return current of strength — C in the outer cylinder of radii
a,', a/
   In Maxwell's notation we have the equations
             dR
             —7— = — /*/8,           /3r= 4ir I w r dr,
              dr
so that
           (THwd*rfy=27rl          HwroY=£ JHrf(/3r)
Now fir vanishes both at zero and infinity, so that we may
                       • * In a private letter.

              and Resistance of Straight Conductors.        385
take
                  ff<  Hwd#dy = £l nP2rdr, . .        .
in which /S represents the magnetic force, everywhere per
                                                         .  (6)
pendicular to r.
   In the integration from 0 to so there are five regions to be
considered. In the first, from 0 to Oj, there is no magnetic
force. In the second, from Oj to au the magnetic force depends
upon the total current travelling through the strata which are
internal with respect to the point in question. In terms of
the total current C we have
                    <-A('-3                                 co
The permeability is here supposed to be /*.
   In the third region, between the cylinders, the permeability
is j*o, and the magnetic force is given by
                           0-T                              («>
Within the second cylinder the permeability is fi', and
                 *-?-&4r?)
In the fifth region, from a\ to co , /8=0.
                                                            «
   Effecting the integrations, as indicated in (6), we obtain
the value of
                           jj H w dx dy,
which gives 2T/1; and (if L be the coefficient of self-induc
tion) T = i LCS. The result is
    T=2*, log £
            ax2— a2a \    4        a^—af ^a3)
               V       fa£-W* ,         a,'*   , a/\       „m
   Perhaps the most interesting application of the general
result is to trace the diminution of self-induction as the two
currents are brought into closer and closer proximity. Let
us suppose that the intervening space is reduced without
limit, so that a2'=a1. Suppose further that /*'=/*, and that
both conductors have the same sectional area trc2, so that
                     ai'-ai2 = a1n-ch"=c2.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 132. May 1886.        2E

386              Lord Rayleigb on the Self-induction
Under these circumstances we have
                              + (r2+.c:i)2logi/(^+c2)}, . (11)
in which r is written for the radius of the common surface.
   If c is small in comparison with r, (11) becomes
                   J- 3^l1+l6?+---J'                     • • • (  '
showing that when the sectional areas are given, the self-
induction diminishes without limit as the radius (r) increases.
   If b denote the thickness of the walls, we have ultimately
                               (*=2br,
and
                               I ~ 3r                          (W}
If the material composing the conductors be soft iron, the
self-induction will be several hundred times greater than in
the case of copper or other non-magnetic metal.
   I now pass on to § 689, in which Maxwell solves a problem
of the second class, relative to the self-induction of a cylin
drical conductor, regard being had to the disturbance i'roni
uniformity in the distribution of the current over the section,
due to induction. 1 will introduce the permeability //., which
in this question Maxwell treats as unity. His equations (14).
(15), thus become
                 „     / dT                <?T
                                + 2«V
                                  P. 2*
                                     na." /*"      d"J
                                + V.2\ ..n2 dtH
                                    2 2
                                  aril*    (PT
         AC-S=T+«/*^
                            at
                                + 1?. 22 di1
                                              a'lfj.H
                                1
                                                       d"T
where a, equal to / / B, represents the conductivity (for steady
currents) of unit of length of the wire.
   If <f>(.v) denotes the function

               and Resistance of Straight Conductors.          387
these equations may be written
                       °—*(»£)•*¦
Moreover, if E denote " the electromotive force due to other
causes than the induction of the current upon itself,"
                             E = dS
                             I    dt'
To apply this to periodic currents following the harmonio
law, where all the functions are proportional to eipt) we may
                                              jrn
replace d/dt by ip.       Hence, eliminating -7- , we get
   To interpret (15), we have to separate the real and imagi
nary parts of </>/<£'. Now if a: be small, we get in ascending
powers of x by ordinary division,
 <f>'{.v)-i+2X         12't+48^       l80* + 864(r         •••'^0'
so that
<t>(ip»fi) _..      1 , , ,     1 }i4„4,
^-^ -1+ igP « A* - igo^ »/* +• • •
          +*{f^-iAV+8gioAV-.-}- • (17)
Thus, if we write
                        E = WG + ipL'G,                        (18)
 we find
    k'=r{      1 +  ^a«V-      180 AV+. ¦ • }
       -Ri14 12li^-T80Tlr-+-"i' • • • [™>
          ,f .       /I    1 j>s«V . 13 /W              \ \ ,m.
   • For the case i»=l, (19) and (20) follow readily from Maxwell'i
 equation (18) § 690.
                                2E2

388             Lord Rayleigh on the Self-induction
in which B/ represents the effective resistance and L' the
effective self-induction.
    If the rate of alternation be very slow, so that p is small,
these equations give (as was to be expected), R' = R, and
                             I/=l{A+fr},                          (21)
representing the self-induction for steady or slowly alternating
currents, if we include the next terms, we see that as the
frequency increases, the self-induction begins to diminish.
At the same time the resistance begins to increase.
    These results are merely very special cases of a general
law*, from which we may learn that as the frequency of alter
nation gradually increases fron zero to infinity, there is a
steady rise of resistance and accompanying fall of self-induc
tion. The application of the general idea to the present case
is very simple. At slow rates of alternation the distribution
of current, being such as to make the resistance a minimum,
 is uniform over the section; and this distribution, since it
involves magnetization of the outer parts of the cylinder, leads
to considerable self-induction, especially in iron. On the
other hand, when the rate of alternation is very rapid, the
 endeavour is to make the self-induction a minimum irrespec
 tive of resistance. This object is attained by concentration
 of the current into the outer layers. The magnetization of
 the conductor is thus more and more avoided, but of course
 at the expense of increased resistance. We may gather from
 the general argument, what (19) and (20) in their actual
 forms do not tell us, that as p increases without limit, R' also
 becomes infinite, while the part of L' depending upon the
 magnetization of the conductor tends to zero.
     The increase of resistance proper (not merely of the
 " throttling " due to the combined effect of resistance and
 self-induction) in iron wires of moderate diameter subjected
 to varying currents, is one of the most striking of Prof.
 Hughes's results. So far as 1 am aware, neither Maxwell nor
 any other theorist had anticipated that the alteration of resist
 ance would be important under such circumstances')-.
     In order to see under what conditions the alteration of
 resistance (and of self-induction) would become sensible, we
have to examine the value of y~          ,S ¦    We will take first
    * See preceding article.
   t In the purer referred to 1 have quoted Maxwell's calculation of
increased resistance and diminished self-induction due to the operation
of currents in a secondary circuit.

              and Resistance of Straight Conductors.            389
the case of an iron wire of "4 centim. diameter. The specific
resistance of iron in C.GKS. measure is about 104; so that
                            R        10*
                             I    7T x -04
Thus, if p = 2tt/t, t being the complete period,
                         1 />*/y _ 5-2 tf                      (22)
                         12    Ha       1010t*' '   '
   The value of p is more difficult to assign. It must be
remembered that it is only in a very rough sense that /* can
be treated as a constant at all. For small degrees of mag
netization and for solid iron we may perhaps take fi = 300.
In the case of the hissing sounds of a microphone-clock, work
ing by a scraping contact, r must be less than j^o second.
Taking it, however, at this value, we get
                       T2T=47 nearly'
which shows that under these circumstances the resistance
and self-induction are entirely different from what they would
be for slow rates of alternation.
   We will now consider the case of copper, where fi—1.
The specific resistance may be taken to be 1640. If a be the
radius in centimetres,
                   1 p2/y _ 7T4 q*           . 1-2 a*
                                                               (23)
                  12 W          3 1640V        10V'
    From an alternate-current machine we may have currents
 of period '01 second (100 positive and 100 negative pulses
 per second). In such a case our fraction becomes "12 a*.
 This shows that for diameters of 1 centim. and over, the
 augmentation of resistance in the mains of an alternate-
 current system will rapidly become of commercial importance.
 A remedy may be found in the use of a more elongated
 section, or in subdivision of the main into a number of detached
 parts.
    In physical experiments, such as those in which absolute
 resistance is determined by the method of the revolving coil *,
 (23) may be neglected, as we may see by supposing a=fa,
    The ultimate form of (15), when p is very great, may be
   * See for example Phil. Trans. 1882. Experiments to Determine the
 Value of the B.A. Unit of Resistance in Absolute Measure.

390            Lord Rayleigh on tlie Self-induction
arrived at analytically.   The series (14) may be then replaced
                                                             (24)
                   2-/7T «* '
from which we find
or
    Accordingly, the limiting values of resistance and self-induc
tion are given by
         R'=Kv'(ip«/*)='/(ip^R),                              (26)
the first of which increases without limit with^>, while the
second tends to the finite value IA.
    In the preceding problem the return current is supposed to
 be at a distance. As an example in which the self-induction
of the whole circuit may become small, it would be natural to
 imagine the currents to travel in co-axal cylindrical shells, the
 interval between which might be considered to diminish inde
 finitely. The interest of the solution would, however, centre
 in the extreme case arrived at by supposing the radii of the
 cylinder to be great in comparison with the thickness of the
 walls ; and if we limit ourselves to this from the first, the
 analysis will be a good deal simplified.
    Neglecting then the curvature, we treat the walls as plane,
and the width of the strips (corresponding to the circumfer
ence of the cylinders) as infinite ; so that our functions, while
remaining, as hitherto, independent of z (measured parallel to
the axes of the cylinders) , now become also independent of
the second rectangular coordinate y, and may be treated as
functions only of the time and of x, the coordinate measured
perpendicularly to the walls. The problem is thus the distri
bution of currents in a circuit composed of two parallel infi
 nitely long, infinitely wide, and equally thick strips, one of
which conveys the outgoing and the other the return current.
 The thickness of each conducting strip will be denoted by b,
and that of the intervening insulating layer by 2a. The
origin of .v may conveniently be taken at the central point, in
the middle of the insulating layer.

              and Resistance of Straight Conductors.           391
    We might commence with the investigation of steady cur
rents ; but it will be sufficient to regard them as alternating
 («ip'). The results applicable to steady currents can always
be deduced by simply putting p equal to zero.
    Assuming, then, that the component currents u, v vanish,
as well as the components of magnetic force 7, a, we have, in
Maxwell's notation, the equations
                     <W    dR        dV       . „            ,_„
             pw=-d7-W = -d;-lPR>                     ' ¦  •  <28>
             t =4™>             *— £ »             ¦ • •  •  <29>
so that
                         4ird.v      Airp. rfa;2 '           ^   '
and
                    cfor    p   dz     .    p                v   '
    We will now apply (31) to that conducting strip which
lies on the positive side of the origin. Since, by hypothesis,
d^t
 -j-, the rate at which the potential varies, is independent of
x, the solution for regular periodic motion may be written
                 H_l <W +Aem{x-a) + Be-m^-„)            _  §  (32)
                /i/9=-mAem<-'-0> + mB<rm<*-'",       . .  .  (33)
in which A and B are constants, so far arbitrary, and
                           m>=^»                             (34)
                                   P
    One relation between A and B is supplied by the condition
that the magnetic force y9 must vanish at the external surface,
where x=a + b. Hence
                         Ae™* = Be-mb                        (35)
If C be the total current corresponding to width y, we have
by (33) ; so that
                         A-B=^°                              (36)
                                    my
These equations determine A and B.

 394        Prof. 8. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-Spectra
  or, on introducing the value of m from (40),
w=        '-£— e~'><-I-a) {cos {\tr— qx + qa) + isin [\tt— qx + qa)\. (48)
  The thickness through which the current is important is found
  from
                            q(x-a) = l,
  or
                               *-a=\/(%fc)>           •  •   •  •  (49)
  diminishing as p increases.
      It should be remarked in conclusion that when a is very-
  small and / very great, there may be a sensible accumulation
  of electricity upon the inner surfaces of the strips acting as
  plates of a condenser. In such a case u will no longer vanish,
  w will become a function of z, and our results will require
   modification.
     April 3, 1880.
  LIU. Observations on Invisible Heat-Spectra and the Recog
      nition of hitherto Unmeasured Wave-lengths, made at the
      Allegheny Observatory. By Prof. S. P. Langley, Alle
      gheny, Pa*
                                  [Plate TV.-]
  IT is known to all that the surface-temperature of this
         planet depends upon the properties of radiant heat and the
  relation to them of the action of its atmosphere. It has been
  usual to compare this action to that of the glass cover of a hot
  bed ; for glass, it is also well known, grows opaque to dark heat,
  and continuously so as its wave-length increases, thus letting
  the solar light-heat pass freely through it to the soil, while it is
  comparatively impervious to the dark heat returned from the
  latter. But this analogy must not bo interpreted too literally.
  Whether the atmosphere is pervious to the soil's heat we cio
  not here discuss, but it has of late f been shown that the air
  does not behave otherwise like glass, as it was supposed to do,
  but, except for the absorption-bands, grows—not more opaque
  —but more transmissible, to solar neat, up to its greatest
  observed wave-length, and that hence our views of the nature
  of the yet uncomprehended heat-storing action which main
  tains organic life on the earth must be modified. The little
  that the spectroscope tells us about the atmospheres of other
     * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the American
  Association for the Advancement of Science, at Ann Arbor, 1885.
     + See Amer. Journ. of Science, March 1883; Professional Papers of
  U.S. Signal Service, No. 15, Expedition to Mount Whitney.

                   and Unmeasured Wave-lengths.              395
planets, leads us to think that we can best understand their
relations to solar energy by studying the atmosphere of our
own ; for our non-comprehension of these relations is largely
due to our ignorance of certain physical data which have
never yet been obtained.
   While the general question for the physical astronomer,
then, is " What kind of transformation does the solar energy
suffer at the surface of any planet ? " we here seek a reply to
the simpler preliminary one, " What are the wave-lengths of
heat from non-luminous sources, such as the soil of this
planet ? "—a question which has never been answered, because
there have been no means of recognizing this heat when drawn
out into a spectrum ; indeed, we so habitually associate the
idea of a spectrum with that of light, that there is a certain
strangeness at first in the idea even of a "spectrum"
formed by a cold body like, for instance, ice. Yet the ice
surface must not only be capable of radiating heat to a still
 colder body, but, according to our present conceptions of
radiant energy, be capable of giving a spectrum, whether we
can recognize it or not. It is the object of the present paper
 to describe the actual formation of such spectra, and the
recognition of their heat in approximate terms of wave
lengths.
    To distinguish between these new regions of research and
the older ones, let us briefly summarize our actual infor
mation about wave-lengths, since on the latter the whole
question largely turns, and each extension of it, we may
agree, is a step toward an interpretation of everything about
the constitution of the universe which radiant energy may
have to tell us. Thus there is no exact relation known
 between the periods of vibration of certain molecules in the
 sun and the angles through which the rays announcing them
are refracted by a prism, while the wave-lengths of these
 rays, if known, are capable of giving us quite other intelli
gence.
   Yet our knowledge even of the wave-lengths of light is
comparatively recent, since it was only at the beginning of
this century that the labours of Thomas Young brought the
undulatory theory itself from the disfavour in which it had
lain ; and the memoirs in which Fraunhofer gave the first
relatively full and accurate measures of the wave-lengths of
light date no further back than 1814.
   The measures of Newton, interpreted in terms of the
present theory, gave the length of the extreme violet waves
at 100^,'j000 of an inch, and of the extreme red at ioWouo> or m
millimetres 0*00042 millim. and 0-00067 millim. respec

 396       Prof. S. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-Spectra
 tively—numbers nearly corresponding with the lines H and
 B, while Fraunhofer's own values are comprised between
 0-00036 millim. and 0-00075 millim. More recently the
 range of vision has been still more extended, by the use of
 the fluorescent eyepiece of Soret ; while by the aid of photo
 graphy and the employment of quartz trains, solar radiations
 of a wave-length of about 0-29 /* have been observed *, and
 rays whose wave-length is as little as 0-185 (i h:ive, it is said,
 been observed from the induction spark.
    Our atmosphere cuts oft' the ultra-violet rays of a length
 less than about 0*29 fi, while I have found it not very
difficult to see below Fraunhofer's great A, lines whose wave
 length is about 0-81 fi. The extreme range of the normal
 eye, then, is from about 0-00036 to 0-00081 millim. or a little
 over one octave, though the statement that the range of the
 eye is less than one octave is still commonly made.
    Fraunhofer's first measures were made with a literal
 grating composed of parallel strands of wire ; while ihe
 successive labours of Nobert, Rutherfurd, and Rowland have
placed in the hands of physicists instruments of constantly
increasing power, which have finally reached what seems
nearly theoretical perfection at the hands of the two latter.
It is with the now so well-known gratings of Prof. Rowland
that the direct measures of wave-lengths in the solar-heat
spectrum I have already made public- 1 have been chieflv
executed.
    In Plate IV. fig. 1 we have a necessarily condensed represen
tation of the whole spectrum, visible and invisible, on the normal
scale, the distances being proportional to the wave-lengths
observed. The inferior limit being 0, we have at (a) the
number 0"18 /a (eighteen one-hundred-thousandths of a milli
metre), which represents the shortest measured in the electric
spark from aluminum. Next, near 0*29 fi (b) we have,
according to M. Cornu, the shortest solar ray which penetrates
our atmosphere ; near 0-35 ft (c), in the ultra-violet, is the
shortest wave which can be seen by the naked eye, and
nearly the shortest which can pass through glass ; while near
0-81 fi (d), in the extreme red, is nearly the longest which
the eye can observe. The entire visible spectrum on the
normal scale is, it will be seen, insignificant in comparison
with that great infra-red region which is so important to us,
and of which we know so very little. It has been known
since the time of the first Herschel that heat-rays existed
   • l-0/n=0-001 millim.
   + Cmnptes Rendus, Sept. 11, 1882; National Academy of Science, 1883;
Amer. Journ. of Science, March 1884; Phil. Mag. March 1884.

                  and Unmeasured Wave-lengths.                    39
below the range of vision, but of their wave-lengths nearly
nothing has, till lately, been ascertained, partly for want of
sufficiently delicate heat-recognizing apparatus, and still
more from the fact that it is difficult to use the grating here,
owing to the overlapping spectra, and to the consequent neces
sity we have till lately been under of separating these rays
only by the prism, which gives no measure of their wave
lengths.      Physicists have accordingly attempted to find
these, by observing what deviations correspond to known
wave-lengths in the visible portion, and by trying to deter
mine from theoretical considerations what relations should
obtain in the infra-red ; but the various formulae by which
these supposed relations have been expressed have not till
lately been tested. The difficulty has been partly overcome
 in the last few years by the application of the linear bolo
 meter to the spectrum formed by the concave gratings with
 which Prof. Rowland has furnished us ; the deviations of the
 heat-rays having first been observed and the principal lines
 of the infra-red region mapped by the joint use of the
 bolometer and a flint-glass prism, in 1881. It will be
 remembered that one of the best known formulas on which
 physicists till lately relied for determining the relations of
 wave-lengths to deviations was Cauchy's; that this set an
 absolute limit to the wave-length which any prism could
 under any circumstances discriminate, and that this supposed
 extreme wave-length was somewhere between 10,000 and
             o
 15,000 on Angstrom's scale. Besides this theoretical limit,
 it was supposed that glass absorbed dark heat to such an
 extent that the longer solar heat-waves would be stopped in
 the substance of the prism, even were there no other obstacle.
     In 1881, however, we found at Allegheny by actual trial
 that heat-waves, whose wave-length was far in excess of the
 theoretical limit, passed through a flint-glass prism, so that it
 was ascertained both that this supposed limit did not exist
 and that common glass was nearly diathermanous to all the
  dark heat which comes to us from the sun. By means of a
 glass prism and the bolometer, we were thus able to pursue our
  researches and map the infra-red or invisible solar spectrum
  to a point where it actually came to an end. What the wave
  length of this point was we could not tell, for it lay entirely
  outside of what theory had till then pronounced possible.
     Next, using the grating, we have at Allegheny determined
  the wave-lengths of most of the newly discovered solar-heat
  region, bv direct observation, and shown that it extended to
  the unanticipated length of 2"7 fi (e, PI. IV. fig. 1) (t. e. 27,000
      O
 on Angstrom's scale). I cite these facts, which have already

398       Prof. S. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-spectra
been published, to bring us up to the point where the present
researches begin.
   The question now arises, " Does this ultimate observable
wave-length of solar heat of 2'7 /*, which our atmosphere
transmits, correspond to the lowest which can be obtained
from any terrestrial source, or are the wave-lengths emitted
from our planet towards space even greater, and conceivably
such that our atmosphere is nearly athermanous to them ? "
To answer this, it becomes necessary to do what I think has
not been attempted before—to take a source of very low
temperature, comparable to that of the soil, and not only to
measure its extremely feeble invisible heat, but to draw this out
into a spectrum by means of the prism or grating, and to deter
mine the indices of refraction of its prominent parts, and, by
inference, their wave-lengths. We have now been engaged on
this research at Allegheny at intervals for two years, a time
which will not appear extravagant to one acquainted with its
extreme difficulties. Not to dwell on these in detail, I will
mention only that the grating cannot well be used on
account of its overlapping spectra, if for no other reason,
and that the most transparent glass, which we have found to
be comparatively diathermanous to dark solar heat, turns out
to be almost absolutely athermanous to the heat from a
surface at the temperature of boiling water.
   Glass being useless here, almost the only material of which
we can form our prism is rock-salt, and we must have not
only an entire train of lenses (both collimating and observing)
of salt, as well as the prism, but the pieces must be of
exceptional size, purity, and perfection of figure, to contend
with these special difficulties, and they must be maintained
in condition, in spite of the incessant deterioration of this
substance. Finally, as we wish to determine wave-lengths,
these measures must be very accurate, and the prism be
capable of giving fixed points of reference like the visible
Fraunhofer lines. The prism we are now usiDg is made by
Mr. Brashear of Pittsburgh, and when freshly polished gives
a spectrum not only filled with hundreds of Fraunhofer lines,
but which shows distinctly the nickel line between the D's,
and is probably the finest one ever produced from this
material.
   Such measures on the collective heat of black bodies as
those of Melloni and Tyndall have been made on large
radiating surfaces, like 'those of the Leslie cube; but in order
to form a spectrum, of this as of any other source, we must,
of course, take only such a limited fraction of the side of the
cube as is represented by a narrow spectroscope slit ; so that

                 and Unmeasured Wave-lengths.               399
both from its minute amount and feeble intensity (even if
we can pass it through a prism, to form a spectrum), it is
absolutely inappreciable, in anything like homogeneous por
tions, to the most delicate thermopile, and difficult of attack
even by the bolometer.
    We have employed as radiating surfaces, Leslie cubes
covered with lampblack and filled with boiling water or
aniline, the former giving a radiating surface of a tempera
ture of 100° C, the latter one of 178UC.; and also cubes filled
with freezing-mixtures, with the latter of which Mr. F. W.
Very, of this Observatory, conducted in the cold days of last
March one series of measures in which the radiator was the
bolometer itself, at a temperature of — 2° C, and the source
radiated to, a vessel filled with a mixture of salt and snow at
the temperature of —20° C, thus determining the distribution
 of energy in the spectrum of a surface below the freezing-
point of water. The Leslie cube used in these experiments
 was filled either with a freezing-mixture or with water, kept
 gently boiling by a Bunsen burner underneath ; or, again,
 when measurements from a source at an exactly determinable
higher temperature were desired, with aniline, which has a
 boiling-point of about 178° C. A condensing apparatus
 connected with the cube in the latter case prevented the
 escape of the aniline vapour. It was also found possible to
 keep the cube at any intermediate temperature within suf
 ficiently narrow limits by properly adjusting the flame.
    The apparatus is shown in PI. IV. fig. 2. Between the
 blackened side of the Leslie cube C and the spectrometer-
 slit S were interposed a large pasteboard screen (a) and a
 flat copper vessel (0) filled with broken ice, both pierced
 with apertures slightly larger than the slit, to allow the pas
 sage of the rays ; and the exposures were made by with
 drawing a third hollow screen (c) made of copper and filled
 with ice, which cut off the radiation of the cube from the slit
 when it was in place.
     The train for forming the spectrum upon the bolometer-
  face consisted of two rock-salt lenses L, L, and the rock-salt
  prism P. Each lens is. 75 millim. in diameter, and 350
  millim. focus for visible rays. For the infra-red rays mea
  sured on, the focus is from one to two centimetres greater
  than this. The prism is made from an unusually perfect
 piece of rock-salt, and is 64 millim. on a side. With this
  train, composed entirely of rock salt, and an ordinary eye
  piece, the Fraunhofer lines are very distinctly visible in
  either sunlight or moonlight. The lenses, prism, slit, and
  other parts of the train were mounted upon the large spec

400        Prof. S. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-spectra
 trometer (described in the Amer. Journ. of Science, vol. xxv.
 1883, and the Mt. Whitney Report, chap. xi.).
    To illustrate the use of the apparatus, we give below in
detail the observations of March 20, 1885, for determining
the form of the energy- curve in the spectrum of a Leslie
cube at 178° C. The temperature of the room was —7° C;
so that the excess of the temperature of the cube over that of
the room was 185° C.
   The reading of the circle was made 0° 01 0" when the spec
trometer-arms were in line, and the direct image of the slit
fell on the bolometer. The prism was then placed on its
table, the automatic minimum deviation apparatus connected,
and the prism set to minimum deviation by a sodium-flame
held in front of the slit. The deviation of the ray falling
upon the bolometer was then given directly by the circle
reading to 10".
   The bolometer used was 2 millim. wide, and consequently
subtended an angle of about 207 in the spectrum. After
adjusting the prism, the slit was opened to the same width.
A secondary object of the experiment was the determination
of the transmission of rock-salt in different parts of the
spectrum, and for this purpose a plate of polished rock-salt,
whose thickness was 9*1 millim., was interposed at the slit,
after each deflection obtained in the ordinary manner, the
plate being allowed to remain in each case till the bolometer
had registered the heat due to radiations from the salt itself,
when the screen was withdrawn and the radiations from the
Leslie cube allowed to pass through it.
   The results are given below in the form of a table.
                                 Deflection with
                                                 Transmission
         Deviation.  Deflection. rock-salt plate
                                                   of plate.
                                   interposed.
           40 SO           12
           40 00           72
           39 30         214
           39 00         3< '.4
           38 80         420           360            •807
           38 00         3(55
           37 30         269           251            •933
           37 00         1%
           36 30         137           122            •891
           36 00          96
           35 30          62            63          102
           35 00          48
           34 30          29            27           •931
           34 00          26-5
           S3 30          18            14           778
           33 00          105

                    and Unmeasured Wave-lengths.                    401
    The " transmission " of the plate of rock-salt (here uncor
 rected for heat lost by reflection at the anterior surface)
appears to bo shown by subsequent experiments to slightly
diminish for extreme beat-rays in the Leslie cube-spectrum ;
but to remain so nearly constant through the range of these
experiments, as to show that the present approximate values
need no correction on this account. More exact ones decisive
of the point in question will be given in a subsequent
memoir.
   The following series was then taken for fixing more
accurately the position of the maximum :—
                  Deviation.                  Deflection.
                   39° 0(y                       365
                   38 50                         406
                   38 40                         430
                   38 30                         428
                   38 20                         414
                   38 10                         401
                   38 00                         371
    From curves representing these observations, it was con
cluded that the maximum was at 38° 35'. It will be shown
further on, how an attempt may be made to estimate the
 wave-lengths in these regions.
    Measurements were also made with surfaces of copper
heated to much higher temperatures, and with the cube at
different lower temperatures, for the purpose of determining
 whether the position of the maximum of the energy curve
varies with the temperature, and if so to determine if possible
the relation. Experiments of this kind have been made by
Mr. W. W. Jacques *, who found that " the distribution of
heat in the spectrum of a solid or liquid source of radiation is
nearly independent of the temperature of the source" It
was evident from the care with which Mr. Jacques's experi
ments were conducted, that the shifting of the maximum
must be slight and difficult of quantitative determination ;
but with the pure spectrum and delicate heat-measuring
apparatus at our command, it was thought possible that this
might be effected. Accordingly, measurements similar to
those just described were made with a radiating surface, of
lampblacked copper at the approximate temperatures of 815°
C, 525° C, and 330° C. ; and with the Leslie cube at tem
peratures of 178° C, 100° C, 40° C, and -20° C. ; the
excess over the temperature of the room being in the latter
   * " Distribution of Heat in the Spectra of various sources of Radia
tion," by William W. Jacques, Ph.D., Proceedings of American Academy.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 132 May 188P               2 F

402        Prof. S. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-spectra
cases respectively 185° C, 88° C.,46° C, and -18° 0. In
the last instance, the cube was colder than the bolometer
strips, and the deflections obtained were negative ; though
small, they were distinctively measurable, the greatest being
 — 12 divisions of the galvanometer-scale. The position of
the maximum in the ice-curve is indicated, but the curve
itself is, on this scale of ordinates, sensibly coincident with
the straight line. (See PI. IV. fig. 1.) We have in fig. 3 the
curves representing the radiation from these sources, in which
the abscissae are proportional to the indices of refraction in
the rock-salt prism, but the ordinates only approximately so
to the deflections of the galvanometer due to the heat at the
corresponding points ; since we are not here principally
concerned with the relation of the amounts of heat emitted to
the temperatures of the sources of emission, but chiefly with
the secondary effect of the progressive movement of the
maximum which is clearly shown.
                        Approximate Approximate        Deviation of
       Date of observa   temperature temperature maximum ordinate
             tion.        of source, j of excess.     in heat curve.
             1885.
       October 7           816° C.      803° C.           39° 08'
           „    3..        525          505               39 03
                7          330          318               39 01
                3          330          310               39 00
       September 26 ...    300          275               38 42
       March 20             178          185              38 35
                            179          152              38 35
       March 20             119          126              38 25
                            100           88              38 22
                3            99           79              38 27
       March 21              40           46              38 00
           „ 24            -02          -1R               37 40*
    It is to bo observed of each of the curves in fig. 3 that
 though nearly all the area is seen, yet, owing to the exten
 sion of the heat-curve toward the right, the length shown
 is limited here by the size of the plate, whereas the extremity
 measured in each curve (except of course the solar one) does,
 in fact, correspond to an index of less than T45. We give
 above a table showing the dates of observation, the approxi
 mate temperatures of excess, and the approximate deviations
 of the ordinate corresponding to the point of maximum heat
 in the (rock-salt) prismatic spectrum. We should observe
 that the higher temperatures are here only determined with
 an approximation sufficient to make it certain that there is a
    * The position of the maximum in this last case depends upon a
 single observation of some delicacy and is liable to subsequent correction.

                     and Unmeasured Wave-lengths.                    403
 progression in the direction of the shorter wave-lengths of
 the position of the maximum ordinate, as the temperature
 rises. These results, both in the table and as represented in
 the plates, are given as preliminary, not as final, for we hope
 soon to be able to offer other and more exact ones, deduced
 from the heat-spectra of bodies at all temperatures between
 that of melting platinum and melting ice. We are entitled,
 however, even at present, to draw the following conclusions,
 which are of special interest in connection with the spectra
 of dark bodies, of which almost nothing has been hitherto
 known.
    (1) The heat represented by the areas of these curves is
 almost altogether of a character not observed in that of the sun,
 these wave-lengths, in general, not being transmissible by
 glass, which is comparatively permeable to the lowest solar
 heat-waves that penetrate our atmosphere *. To show this
 more clearly we have drawn the solar spectrum given by the
rock-salt prism in its true position (though not in its true
amount) relatively to that of the heat-curves cited. The
maximum of the latter lies in every case, it will be seen, far
below the very lowest part of the solar invisible heat.
    (2) In spite of the compression of the infra-red by the
prism, these heat-curves extend almost indefinitely in the
direction of the smaller indices, so far that we can, in fact,
represent only a part of this extent in our plate. The measures
already cited in case of the curve for the Leslie cube at 178°,
for instance, show very measurable heat at a deviation of 33°,
which corresponds to an index of refraction of 1*451 1, while
the smallest index given in the plate is 1*49.
    (3) An increase of temperature increases every ordinate,
but not in like proportions, ordinates corresponding to the
heat in the more-refrangiblo parts always growing more
rapidly than those for less-refrangible heat.
    (4) As a necessary consequence of this, follows the (inde
pendently observed) fact of the progressive movement of the
maximum ordinate toward the more-refrangible end as the
temperature rises.
    (5) These prismatic curves are not symmetrical, the greater
portion of the area in every case lying below the maximum,
i. e., toward the greater wave-length, and the descent being
always most abrupt on the more-refrangible side.
    As the heat^spectra from surfaces at the temperature of
   * The distinctive character of these radiations is also well shown by
the fact that we have found that a thick film of lampblack, which is
nearly as impervious to the dork solar heat as to light, transmits more
than 50 per cent, of some of the rays in question.
                                 2F2
                                                                       /"

404       Prof. S. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-spectra
boiling water or melting ice are those to which the chief
interest attaches, in connection with the temperature of the
soil, and as these are not well shown on the same scale of
ordinates with that of the red-hot copper, we give an inde
pendent representation of these two in fig. 1, but upon the
wave-length, not the prismatic scale. Their maxima of heat
fall at points in the normal spectrum which (as we explain
later) are only approximately determinate on this scale, but
which are probably at least as low as the points (/) corre
sponding to the boiling-watermfixiinum, and (g) corresponding
to the position of the maximum ordinate in the spectrum of
ice at the melting-point, or lower. No attempt is made in
this figure to represent the relative amounts of heat in the
solar and Leslie-cube curves, but only their positions on the
wave-length scale ; and here also it will be understood that
the latter curves really extend far further to the right than
the limits of the plate admit of showing them.
    These observations, then, show a real though slight progres
sion of the point of maximum lieat toieard the shorter wave
lengths as t/ie temperature rises. The position of the maximum
ordinate of the lower curves is of course more difficult to
determine, on account of their flatness.
   The whole heat-spectrum from most of these sources, it is
interesting to note, passes through the prism at angles which
the theories of our text-books have heretofore pronounced
impossible. The existence of these radiations, and the relative
amounts of heat for each deviation, are certain, for these devia
tions are determined by the spectro-bolometer, in most cases
with a probable error of less than a minute of arc ; but when
we pass to the next stage of our work, the determination of
the corresponding wave-lengths, we cannot speak with such
confidence. We have calculated the wave-lengths for some
of the observations by means of Wiilluer's new formula*.
This formula,
where P, Q and A^ are constants, depending upon the nature
of the refracting substance, to be determined by observation,
is founded on Helmholtz's theory, but he has tested it by oar
own observations with the glass prism. We have found the
calculated values to agree with similar ones obtainedj directly
from the curve representing the relation between n and X for
rock-salt, which is shown in the woodcut, by measurements
pn points whose wave-lengths were known from our prior
               * Wiedemann's Annakn, Band 33, S. 307.

                       and Unmeasured Wave-lengths.                      405
                                                o
  observations up to about 20,000 of Angstrom's scale. Beyond
  tbis point we have continued the curve both by computation
  and by graphical extrapolation. We do not disguise from
  ourselves the danger of all extrapolations, although ours rest,
  it will be seen, on a wholly different basis from the ones
  depending on formulae derived from the visible spectrum
  alone, since our curve has been already followed by direct
            1-570(1
            1-Moi
                   •8 -4 -6 -6 1 '8 -9 10 1-1 1-2 13 14 15 1'6 17 Vt 1*9
                            Shuwiug n=/{A) for Kojk-Balt.
 observations until it is almost coincident with a straight line.
 Up to this point then (within the limits of error already
 elsewhere given) there is no doubt, and unless there is some
 utter change in the character of the curve, such as we have
 no reason to anticipate, a tangent from the last part will not
 differ very greatly from the immediate course of the curve
 itself, and will at any rate meet the axis of abscissae sooner
than the curve can. If we assume, then, the prolongation of
the curve to agree with this tangent, we evidently assume a
minimum value for all the wave-lengths measured by it, and
that is what we have done.
     We are not prepared yet to speak of these wave-length
values as exactly determinate, and they are here given as
first approximations. They are indeed sufficiently startling

406        Prof. S. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-spectra
to make us inclined to proceed with caution ; but, speaking
with the reserves indicated by the conditions referred to, I
may say that wo have every reason to believe that the
minimum wave-length assignable to the maximum ordinate
of the heat-curve, in the spectrum of a source whose tem
perature varies from 100° to 0° Centigrade, is a little less
than 5(i and a little over 6/t, and that these may be in
definitely greater. This refers, it will be remarked, only to
the position of the maximum ordinate, while the extremo
portions of the curve measured on (corresponding to an index
 of 1"45) have probably at least three times this wave-length.
 I shall be better understood, perhaps, if I say that some of
 the heat radiated0by the soil has probably a wave-length of
 over 150,000 of Angstrom's scale, or about twenty times the
 wave-length of the lowest visible line in the solar spectrum,
 as known to Fraunhofer.
    These investigations are still going forward, and I hope
 soon to give more exact values. But I have presented the
 present ones, though imperfect, because they give us at least
 some knowledge of a region of which we are at present quite
 ignorant, and because they are thus, I think, of some interest
 both to the physicist and to the astronomer : to the physicist,
 as showing that the wave-lengths which Newton measured to
 the ^^ of an inch are so far from being the limits of
nature's scale, that the existence of measurable wave-lengths
                                 i
 of something greater than ^5        of an inch is rendered at
 least highly probable ; to the astronomer, because we find
 that tlie heat radiated from the soil is of an almost totally dif
ferent quality from that which is received from the suti, so that
the important processes by which the high surface-temperature
of the planet are maintained can now be investigated with,
we may hope, fruitful results in connection with the researches
here described.
    I should not close this preliminary account without stating
that I have in these observations been throughout and at
every stage indebted to Messrs. F. "W. Very and J. E. Keeler,
of this Observatory, for a collaboration without which it could
not have appeared in its present form.
                           Addendum.
   Reduction of Observations made with the Rock-salt Prism to
a Standard Refracting Angle ; with a Table of Refractive
Indices of Rock-salt.
   The surfaces of the rock-salt prism and lenses undergo a
deterioration when exposed to the air, which is more or less

                  and Unmeasured Wave-lengtlis.               407
rapid according to the greater or smaller relative humidity of
the atmosphere at the time. In ordinary dry weather they
may be used several times before they become spoiled, while
in damp or rainy weather three or four seconds is a sufficiently
long time to cover them with condensed moisture, and work
under these circumstances is of course impossible. After the
surfaces have in this way become unfit for use they are re-
polished, and the refracting angle of the prism is therebv
unavoidably altered. The change is usually small, generally
not exceeding 1', so that for most of our heat-measures it may
be neglected altogether. The changes have, however, tended
on the whole to reduce the refracting-angle, so that it is now
about 4' smaller than when the prism was first used.
   To make all observations strictly comparable, they are
reduced to one value of the refracting-angle, for which the
deviations of the Fraunhofer lines, and the wave-lengths
corresponding to given deviations in the infra-red, have been
determined with the greatest possible accuracy. This standard
value of the refracting-angle is 59° 57' 54". A series of
observations for fixing the positions of the Fraunhofer lines
was made by Mr. J. E. Keeler, of this Observatory, on Sept.
 14, 1885. One arm of the spectrometer, which was firmly
 clamped, carried a glass collimating-lens of 25 feet focus, and
 the other an achromatic observing-telescope of nearly four
 feet focus, with a micrometer-eyepiece. The double deviations
 of the C, Du b,, and F lines were observed, and also the
 differences of deviation between these and the other lines
 whose positions were determined. For observing the M and N
 lines a Soret fluorescent eyepiece was used, and in the infra
 red a bolometer, having a single strip ^ millimetre in width.
 In the two last cases the prism was automatically kept in the
 position for minimum deviation. The spectrometer-circle
 reads by two opposite verniers to 10", but on account of the
 construction of the instrument (for whose principal purpose
 arms whose length is inconsistent with absolute rigidity had
 to be used), care is necessary to measure an angle with this
 degree of precision, as the arms are liable to spring slightly
 on the application of lateral pressure. The deviations given
 in our table were obtained by Mr. Keeler by setting on the
 line with the micrometer-eyepiece, after the telescope had
 been directed upon it and freed from strain by a light tap ;
 and applying the micrometer-correction to the circle-reading.
 It was found by a careful comparison of the solar spectrum
 given by the rock-salt prism with that by a fine prism of flint
 glass, that, in spite of the greater dispersion of the latter, no

408          Prof. S. P. Langley on Invisible Heat-spectra.
lines could be seen in its spectrum which the rock-salt prism
would not also show. The probable error of one setting of
the micrometer was less than I". From the agreement of
the different measurements made in this way, it is believed
that the deviations throughout the visible spectrum are correct
to within 5". Those in the ultra-violet and infra-red cannot
 of course pretend to this degree of accuracy. The positions
 of p s t (invisible) given by two independent series with the
 bolometer differed by 30"; those of d> (invisible) by 1', those
of $ (invisible) by 30", and those of XI (invisible) agreed
exactly.
     We have thus obtained incidentally the data forconstructing
 a table of retractive indices of rock-salt throughout the entire
 range of the solar spectrum, with an accuracy which we
 believe to be greater than has heretofore been attained, and
 which we deem of sufficient interest to give in full below, for
 the convenience of others having occasion to work with this
 material, and for testing theories of dispersion.
              Refractinu Angle of Prism = 59° 57' 54''
     Line.      Wuve-lengtb.   Deviation.        A   Refractive Index.
   M               0-3727      43 50 57        1-21       1-57486
   L               03820       43 35 27        1-20       1-57207
   H,              03933       43 19 32        119        1-56920
   h;              0-3968      43 14 44        1 19       1-56833
   G               0-4303      42 36 7         116        1-56133
   F               0-48(11      41 51 47       113        1-55323
   ft.             05167        41 33 43       1 12       1-54991
   6,              0-5183       41 32 52       112        1-54975
   D,              0 5889       41 2 41        110        1-54418
   D3              05895        41 2 29        110        1-51414
    C              0-6502       40 42 56        1-09      1-54051
    B              0-6867       40 35 49       109        1-53919
    A              0-7601       40 22 25        1-08      1-53670
    pIT    ...     0-94         40 1 26         107       1-5328
    <t>             113         39 49 11        106       1-5305
    *               1-38        39 39 56        105       1-5287
    Q               1-82        39 29 21        1-05      1-5268
       Temp. =24° C. Barometer, 733-1 mm.
       The wave-lengths of the M and L lines arc from Cornu,
  those of the lines between H and A inclusive from Angstrom,
  and those of the infra-red bands from the Allegheny observa
  tions. The column headed A was prepared at the suggestion
  of Mr. Keeler, and is for the purpose of facilitating the
  reduction of observations made with a different prism-angle
  from that for which the table is computed and for which our

           On Measurements of Electromotive Force 8fc.      409
wave-length curves are drawn.          If we differentiate the
ordinary formula for a prism,
                         _sin I (A-M)
                              sin ¦£ A
with respect to A, which we now regard as a variable, we
have
                   dd _ n cos £ A        i_a
                  dA~ cos £ (A + d)~ ~ '
or                          dd=AdA.
   The values of A for the different lines of the spectrum are
readily computed from the table of deviations and refractive
indices. To find, then, the deviation of a line after any
r^polishing of the prism, we have merely to multiply the
change of the angle by the approximate value of A taken
from the table, and we obtain the change in the deviation of
the line, and hence also the deviation required. Thus, if the
new angle is found on measurement to be 59° 57' 44",
dA= — 10", and the deviation of the F line (say) will have
been changed by 10" x M3= — 11"3. That is, the deviation
of the F line is now 41° 51' 36". The reduction from the
new to the standard angle is of course the reverse of this ;
and that the use of the table saves much labour in redeter
mining the constants of the prism will be understood when
it is added that ours has been entirely refigured and repolished
by the maker as many as ten times during the present year.
 LIV. On Measurements of the Electromotive Force of a Con
   stant Voltaic Cell with moving Plates. By A. P. Laurie,
   B.Sc. Edinb., B.A.Cantab.*'
IN the last number of the Philosophical Magazine I
       described some experiments made with the view of
determining the electromotive forces developed during the
combination of zinc and iodine in presence of water.
    Since obtaining the above results I have been engaged on
similar experiments with voltaic cells in which the zinc is
replaced by cadmium, the cell consisting of a cadmium plate,
and a platinum plate immersed in a solution of cadmium
iodide in which a little free iodine is dissolved. Tbis work
not being as yet completed, I do not propose to describe it
here, but merely to give an account of a special set of experi-
                  * Communicated by the Author.

410          Mr. A. P. Laurie on Measurements of the
ments made with this cadmium cell, for a special purpose.
The object which the investigator has in vjew in such re
searches as these, is to determine the electromotive force
developed by a given set of chemical reactions ; and he there
fore first devises a voltaic cell in which the given reactions
will occur on using the cell as a source of electricity, and
then measures its electromotive force.
   As examples of this kind of measurement it is only neces
sary to refer to the papers by Dr. Alder Wright in the back
numbers of this Magazine. I know of no other set of experi
ments approaching these in accuracy and completeness.
   These measurements, then, of electromotive force can be
made by two or three different methods : for instance, by
means of the quadrant-electrometer, or by means of a very
high-resistance galvanometer, with a few megohms in tbe
circuit. These methods of measurement, however, have one
point in common : an infinitely small current is drawn from
the cell which is being tested, whether it be to charge the
quadrants of the electrometer or to deflect the galvanometer-
needle. Unfortunately the use of these very small currents
leads one to doubt how far such measurements are reliable ;
for, be it remembered, it is not the measurement of the E.M.F.
of a given voltaic cell with an enormous resistance in the cir
cuit which is required, but the measurement of the electro
motive force due to a definite chemical reaction.
   Now an infinitely small current means an infinitely small
amount of chemical change ; and to take the cell at present
under consideration, how can we be sure that the source of
this current is the formation of cadmium iodide, and that it is
not due to impurities in the metal or the solution, or to a film
of gas or coat of oxide on the cadmium plate ? To this it may
be answered that experiments such as those of Dr. Wright
with a great variety of voltaic combinations, and the remark
able agreement of the results one with another, give a con
siderable confidence in such measurements. This is no doubt
correct, though it is still possible that constant sources of
error may occur. Then the approximate agreement of the
electromotive force found with that calculated from the
thermal data in so many cells confirms the measurements for
those cells at any rate.
   But in many cases Dr. Wright has found that not only do
the calculated and measured electromotive forces differ con
siderably, but in several voltaic combinations the current
actually flows the opposite way to that calculated from the
thermal data.
   Such a result, if proved, is of the greatest interest; but I

          Electromotive Force of a Constant Voltaic Cell.    411
think that we are justified in refusing to accept such a result
until not only the E.M.F. of the given voltaic combination
has been accurately measured, but it has also been clearly
shown to what chemical changes this electromotive force is
due.
   To show this it is necessary to draw a considerable current
for some time from the cell in order to find by analysis what
chemical changes have taken place ; and, further, it is neces
sary to measure the E.M.F. during the passage of this current.
Unfortunately, as soon as we attempt to draw a considerable
current per square centimetre of plate surface from a so-called
constant cell the E.M.F. immediately falls off considerably.
To give Jin example : Dr. Alder Wright finds that a current of
30 or 40 microamperes per square centimetre is quite sufficient
to cause an appreciable fall in the E.M.F. of the cell experi
mented on. Now a current of 30 microamperes running for
an hour from a cadmium cell would dissolve about -O0006
grm. of metallic cadmium, an amount hardly sufficient for
analytical purposes.
   Now this fall in E.M.F., on taking an appreciable current
per square centimetre from a constant voltaic cell, is usually
ascribed to " polarization," " transition resistance," &c. On
considering it more carefully, it seems to be largely due, pos
sibly entirely due, to alterations in the layers of liquid next
the plate.
   To keep to the cadmium cell, an increase of cadmium iodide
in the layer of liquid next the cadmium plate, or a diminution
of the free iodine in the layer of liquid against the platinum
plate, would cause a considerable diminution of E.M.F.
   If, then, we suppose the plates immersed in a sufficient
amount of solution to remain of practically constant strength
though a considerable current be running from the cell for
some time, the amount of current per square centimetre which
we can draw from the cell without a fall in E.M.F., will be
largely, perhaps entirely, a question of the rate at which
diffusion of the cadmium iodide and free iodine takes place.
   It follows, then, obviously that if we wish to draw a con
siderable current from a voltaic cell under conditions similar
to those during the measurement of E.M.F. in the usual
way, the liquid contents of the cell must be kept well stirred.
   I determined therefore to make some experiments on a
cadmium-iodine cell with moving plates, drawing from the
cell a considerable current per square centimetre ; a sufficient
current, in fact, to enable me to estimate quantitatively at the
end of about two hours the nature and amount of the salts
formed in the cell.

  412         Mr. A. P. Laurie on Measurements of the
     Although it is well known that blowing #ir through the
  liquid enormously increases the current from bichromate cells
  (probably because it thoroughly mixes the liquid), I do not
  know of any measurements having been made with cells with
  moving plates ; and even if such measurements have been
  made, additional results are nevertheless of interest.
     The arrangement I adopted was as follows :—A shallow
  glass jar was lined inside with platinum foil to which pla
  tinum wires had been welded. This platinum-foil formed the
  one electrode of the cell, and amounted to 90 square centi
  metres in surface. This jar was placed under a horizontal
  wooden pulley with a deep groove cut in its upper surface.
  A binding-screw was screwed into the pulley from below until
  the end of the screw emerged in the bottom of the groove
  above mentioned. To this binding-screw a little cadmium
  plate was attached, having 10"6 square centim. of its surface
  immersed in the liquid. (This is counting the surface of
 both sides of the plate.)
     The groove in the pulley was half-filled with mercury, and
 an amalgamated flattened copper wire, fixed to the framework
 of the apparatus, dipped into the mercury in the groove.
  In this way metallic connection was made with the cadmium
 plate. The cadmium plate whs driven through the liquid bv
 an old clock, altered for the purpose, at the rate of about two
 or three revolutions a second*.
     In order to check a little the moving of the liquid, little
 glass pillars were cemented at short iutervals to the surface
 of the platinum plate. The cell held about 100 cubic centim.
 of liquid. In order to measrre the current from this cell it
 was connected to the Helmholtz galvanometer in Prof. Tait's
laboratory.
    Taking into consideration the amount of accuracy with
 which the constant of this instrument has been determined,
and the amount of accuracy possible in the readings of the
talvanometer-needle, I believe the following measurements of
   l.M.F. may be taken as having a possible maximum error of
1 per cont.
    The method of experimenting was as follows :—
    The cadmium plate was weighed, both before and after the
experiments, the loss of weight amounting to "8275 grm., and
the solution analyzed. Before weighing after the experi
ments, the plate was washed in water, then in alcohol, and
   * This apparatus was a copv of a similar arrangement used by Dr. Gib
son, of Edinburgh University, in some experiments on Electrolysis.

           Electromotive Force of a Constant Voltaic Cell.    41 3
dried at a gentle heat. The solution contained about 5 per
cent, of cadmium iodide and "0032 grin, of free iodine in
1 cubic centiin. A little solid iodine was added to the cell
to keep up the strength of the iodine solution.
    It is sufficient to state that the weight of cadmium used
and the weight of combined iodine found corresponded to the
formation of cadmium iodide, as the result of the reactions in
the cell. Probably about one third of the cadmium iodide
formed was due to the direct action of the iodine on the cad
mium plate.
    After setting up the cell its E.M.F. was measured on the
electrometer against a standard Latimer-Clark. This mea
surement, it was found, was not affected by setting the plates
in motion.
    The plate being now started moving, the cell was connected
 to the galvanometer, and a deflection obtained corresponding
to -1054 ampere. The external resistance did not amount to
 •5 ohm, showing the internal resistance of the cell to be some
 where about 10 ohms. I next proceeded to measure this
 internal resistance by interpolating known resistances in the
 circuit.
    Now, as is well known, it is impossible to measure the
 internal resistance of an ordinary voltaic cell in this way,
 because every variation in external resistance alters the E.M.F.
 of the cell. It was necessary therefore to determine whether
 internal resistance, as calculated from different sets of two
 interpolated resistances, was the same.
     It is to be noted here that the calculation of the resistance
 in the rest of the circuit by this method is not capable of great
 accuracy, as is at once obvious from an examination of the
 formula used,
                              ir—i'r1 _
                               I — I
 where x is the unknown resistance, r, r1 the interpolated
 resistances, and i, ?' the respective current measurements. In
 fact, when the resistance of the whole circuit is varied one
 third of its whole amount, an error of 1 per cent, in the
  galvanometer-reading becomes about 10 per cent, in the cal
  culated resistance of the circuit. Keeping this in mind, the
  differences in the following numbers are within the errors of
  experiment; and it is further to be noticed that they are quite
  irregular, and that the resistance of the cell shows no tendency
  to increase with diminishing external resistances.

414       On Measurements of Electromotive Force Sfc.
        Interpolated resistance,    Calculated resistance
            stated in ohms.           of rest of circuit.
              10 and 20 ... . 10-3 ohms.
              10 „ 15 ... . 10-0 „
              10 „       5 . . . . 10-3 „
               5 „       0 . . . .         9-9 „
   This gives as the resistance of the circuit, 10" 12 ohms.
Adding this number to the interpolated resistance in each
experiment, and calculating the E.M.F. of the circuit for each,
we get as the mean, 1*084 volt. The number obtained on the
electrometer was 1*076 volt.
   After these measurements were completed, the current was
allowed to run through the galvanometer for nearly two hours.
The deflection remained very steady, slightly increasing and
then slightly diminishing. At the end of this time the deflec
tion corresponded to a current of *1068 ampere. On again
interpolating resistances, the following results were obtained :—
        Interpolated resistance.    Calculated resistance.
              0 and 5                           10-1
             5 „ 10                              9-9
            10 „ 15                             10-0
                          Mean   ....           10*0 ohms.
   The E.M.F. calculated from these results is =1-067 volt.
   The E.M.F. on the electrometer amounted to 1*072 volt, a
number about as much higher as the first number was lower
than that calculated from the current measurements.
   Experiments are evidently capable of being made of far
greater accuracy than these, but they are sufficient to show
that the E.M.F. of the cadmium-iodine cell as measured on
the electrometer is really due to the formation of cadmium
iodide.
   Similar experiments should, I feel sure, be made for all
cells which are not well known, before any attempt is made
to base important conclusions on the differences between the
calculated and measured E.M.F.
   As already stated, the area of the plate used amounted to
10-6 square centim. Probably ono side of the plate supplied
most of the current ; but, considering the current as equally
shared between both sides, this means *01 ampere per square
centim. of surface steadily supplied for two hours, about 500
times what could have been drawn from the cell with sta
tionary plates, without causing a serious fall in E.M.F.

          A Map of the World on Flamsteed's Projection.            415
    Whether the platinum plate could have been safely dimi
nished in size to the same extent I do not know : probably
not, as the iodine solution was so dilute.
    A striking experiment is to suddenly stop the movement of
the plate while the cell is connected to the galvanometer.
The needle at once begins to move, falling in less than a
minute to about a quarter of its original deflection. On now
allowing the plate to start off again, the needle rushes up to
its old position.
    These experiments then, though rough, are, I think, suffi
 cient to show that we have here a method of comparing
 measurements of E.M.F. made with open circuit with those
 made while a considerable current is being drawn from the
 cell, that the fall in E.M.F. when the plates are stationary
 is entirely due to the alterations in the strength of the solu
 tions next the plates, and that the particular piece of apparatus
 experimented with deserves the title of a constant voltaic cell.
       LV. A Map of the World on Flamsteed's Projection.
                     By Walter Baily, M.A.*
                               [Plate V.]
 IN Flamsteed's Atlas Cwlestis the projection used is one
        invented by him and described in the Preface to that
 work as follows :—
     " Conceive the globe or sphere to be compassed about with
 an infinite number of infinitely fine threads all exactly parallel
  to the equator. Let all the circles usually drawn upon the
 globe, as the equator, the ecliptic, the meridians, &c., be sup
  posed drawn and divided, and let the constellations also be
  formed upon them, and the stars laid clown in their proper
  places. Let also the meridian passing through the middle of
  any constellation bo conceived drawn on the globe, and covered
  with a fine thread with as many of the adjacent circles as you
  may think convenient. Conceive the tbreads on which the
  constellation is painted to be cut oft' from the surface of the
  globe ; and that which passes through the middle being ex
  tended straight on tbe middle of some paper or perfectly plane
  superficies, let the rest be placed on it at right angles to the
  middle meridian, but reverted."
      Flamsteed used his projection only for maps of portions of
   the celestial sphere, and he did not apply it to the polar
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 27, 1880.

416      A Map of the World on Flamsteed's Projection.
regions, as the distortion which would otherwise have been
produced would have been inconvenient to an astronomer.
   The Preface points out the advantages of the method as
follows :—" So will you have the picture of the Constellation
projected upon it, in which the parallels of declination will be
straight lines and their distances exactly equal, the same as
they are on the globe, as will also the distances and differences
of the right ascensions of anv two stars that are equally dis
tant from the pole." The advantage in Geography of a map
in which the parallels of latitude are equidistant straight lines
parallel to the equator is obvious, as the position with regard
to latitude is seen at a glance. There is, moreover, a property
of this projection which is evident at once from the way in
which the projection is constructed, viz. that the area of every
part is preserved unaltered. The imaginary threads have
simply slipped over one another, like the cards in a pack,
without altering their distances, so that only a distortion of
form has occurred. This property is not referred to by Flam-
steed, either because he did not notice it, or because it was of
no importance in Astronomy. I venture to submit, however,
that in Physical Geography it is a property of considerable
importance, and that it would be advisable in many physical
maps to use this projection. For instance, in maps showing
rainfall, depth of the sea, height of the land, ocean currents,
prevailing winds, distribution of plants and animals, &c, it is
essential to take account of the area occupied, and maps in
which this is correctly shown could not fail to be of nse.
In Plate V. is shown a map of the World on Flamsteed's
projection, the small square at the side representing 1,000,000
square miles on the same scale.
   The formulae for constructing the map are readily obtained.
Take the equator as the axis of x, and the central meridian
(say the meridian of Greenwich) for the axis of y. Let x, y
be the coordinates of a point m° of longitude from the central
 meridian, and n° of latitude from the equator. Then if a. is
 the length of a degree of latitude in the scale adopted,
                    y/a = n,   x / a = m cos n°.
Hence the equation to a meridian  ian m degrees
                                         dej     from the central
meridian is
                        - =mc(>- |

                            [  417    ]
          LVI. Note on Supersaturated Saline Solutions.
               By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S.*
 THE current number of the Journal of the Chemical
        Society has called my attention by its abstracts to two
most interesting papers on the above subject by Dr. Nicol,
contained in the Philosophical Magazine, 5th series, xix.
p. 453, and xx. p. 295.
   With Dr. Nicol's main conclusion, that a supersaturated
solution is a solution of the anhydrous salt, I cordially agree,
and expressed such an opinion in my paper read before the
Royal Society in 1868. I also brought together in the
'Chemical News' of December 1869 various opinions of some
French chemists on the constitution of sodium sulphate in
solution. These are somewhat contradictory. The favourite
view of supersaturation in French, English, German, and
American textbooks long continued to be Lowel's, viz. that
a solution (say of sodium sulphate) saturated at a high tem
perature, and left to cool out of contact with air, does not
actually become supersaturated, but undergoes a molecular
change, in which the 10-atom salt becomes the more soluble
 7-atoin ; so that, instead of having a supersaturated solution
of the 10-atom salt, we have only a saturated solution of the
7-atom salt.
   Now it is remarkable that in Lowel's five memoirs, which
appeared the first in 1850 and the fifth in 1855, the above
theory is maintained in the case of sodium sulphate, and a
similar theory with respect to sodium carbonate and mag
nesium sulphate. But in his sixth and last memoir, published
in 1857, he maintains that between the boiling-point of a
saturated solution of sodium sulphate (103o,17 C.) and the
point at which the 7-atom salt begins to be deposited (18°),
it is not this modified salt, but the anhydrous variety, which
is held in solution. He is led to this conclusion by con
sidering :—
    1. That the 10-atom salt parts readily with its water of
crystallization by mere exposure to the air.
    2. That Faraday found, on evaporating a solution of the
 10-atom salt below 100° C. (or, according to Mitscherlich,
below 40°), that the anhydrous salt was deposited.
    3. That in boiling for some time a saturated solution of the
                  * Communicated by the Author.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 132. May 1886.       2 G

418              On Supersaturated Saline Solutions.
10-atom salt, small hard granular crystals of the anhydrous
salt are formed as the solution becomes concentrated.
   Lowel's speculations as to the formation of the 7-atoin salt
need not be gone into here ; nor need I repeat my own expe
riments, conducted in 1867, which led me to the conclusion
that it is the anhydrous salt that is in solution ; but I do wish
to repeat the following consideration by which the same con
clusion was arrived at.
   In the experiments for determining the elasticity of steam
from pure water, the elasticity is diminished for any given
temperature if a small portion of a salt, such as soda, soluble
in water, and not capable of rising in vapour with it, be
allowed to ascend to the top of the mercurial column ; the
column rises, thereby indicating a diminished elasticity of
steam. The adhesion of the soda to the water tends to restrain
the water from evaporating, and this tendency is a measurable
force and here measured ; for it partly balances the tension
of the water or its tendency to emit steam, and it thus makes
the steam-emitting tension of a solution of soda measurably
less than that of pure water at the same temperature.
   Now it is clear that if, instead of soda, Glauber's salt be
used in experiments of this kind, there will be a smaller
amount of diminution in the elasticity of the steam if the salt
in solution retain its water of crystallization than if it en
tered into solution in the anhydrous form. In a valuable
series of experiments by Wiillner (Pogg. Ann. ciii. p. 529,
and ex. p. 564) it appears to have been established for solu
tions of various strengths (such as 10, 20, 30, <fcc. per cent, of
Glauber's salt in pure water), and at various temperatures
from 10° to 100° C, that the diminution in the elasticity of the
steam is proportional to the quantity of dry salt in solution ;
and, further, that at the point of maximum solubility of this
salt no molecular change takes place, or it would have im
pressed itself on the curve which represents the elasticity of
the steam. The general conclusion for the salts tried is that
the action of efflorescent salts is expressed in terms of the dry
salt, while for deliquescent salts it is in terms of the hydra ted
salts.
   Dr. Nicol's papers are so admirable, that I trust he will
continue his researches into other matters connected with this
difficult subject.
  ITip;hgate, April 15, 1886.

                              [   419     ]
  LVII. Discharge of Electricity in an Imperfect Insulator.
    By J. H. Poyntino. M.A., Professor of Physics, Mason
    College *.
 MAXWELL has shown that the phenomena known as
          the Residual Discharge may be accounted for on the
 supposition that the dielectric is an imperfect insulator in
 which the conductivity varies in different parts. His theory
 is really quite simple and straightforward and free from any
 hypothesis beyond the fundamental one of electric displacement.
 But its very generality makes it, I believe, difficult to grasp.
 The idea of a yielding of displacement in the dielectric, accom
 panied by a conduction-current in the opposite direction, gives
 us no help in forming a mental picture of the process actually
 going on in the dielectric. A hypothesis as to the nature of
 electric current, which will shortly be published in the ' Philo
 sophical Transactions,' seems to me to render the theory easier
 to follow; and I propose in this paper to arrange Maxwell's
 account of the Residual Discharge in accordance with it.
    I shall first give some account of the hypothesis referred to
 in the special case of the discharge of a condenser. Let us
suppose that we have two conductors, A and B, which we may
suppose to be the two plates of a condenser charged with equal
and opposite amounts of electricity, that of A being positive.
 Then the lines of force will run from A to B through the
 medium, the condition of the medium being described by
 saying that there is " electric displacement " from A to B.
 Or we may describe it without introducing the confusing term
 " displacement" by returning to Faraday's term " induction."
 We may then say that tubes of electric induction pass through
 the medium, each tube starting from +1 of electricity on A
 and ending in —1 on B. The total induction across any
 section of a tube is then always equal to 1. If we draw the
 level surfaces at unit differences of potential, the tubes will be
 divided up into cells ; and if we suppose each cell to contain
 half a unit of energy, then the whole energy of the electrified
 system is accounted for. Maxwell has called these unit cells
 ('Elementary Treatise on Electricity,' p. 47). According
 to the views of Faraday and Maxwell, the charges on the
 conductors bounding the dielectric are to be regarded as the
surface manifestations of the altered state of the dielectric
  * Communicated by the Author, having been read before the Birmingham
Philosophical Society, December 10, 1885.
                                2 G 2

420           Prof. J. H. Poynting on the Discharge
corresponding to the energy put into it, somewhat as the
pressure on a piston in the •wall of a closed vessel of compressed
water might be regarded as the surface-manifestation of the
strained condition of the water.
    In order to follow out the process of discharge in the medium,
i. e., the mode in which it is relieved from its strained condition,
we will first take a simpler case in which we connect the two
plates, A and B (fig. 1) , of one condenser to the two plates,
                                Fig.l.
                                 WIRE
C and D, of another condenser previously uncharged, and so
far from A and B that there is no appreciable direct inductive
action on C and D. When equilibrium is again restored, the
 + charge is shared between A and C, the — charge between
B and D, while the difference of level has decreased. There
is the same total number of tubes of induction, but each con
tains fewer unit cells than before, the energy corresponding
to the decrease having been transferred to the wires, where it
has been dissipated as heat. I shall use the term energy-
length to indicate the line-integral of the electric intensity
along its axis, this being the same as the difference of potential
when there is equilibrium. We may say then that the energy-
length of the tubes has decreased. During the change some
of the electric energy was converted into magnetic energy in
 the medium. This might be observed if sufficiently delicate
means were used.
     If we confine our attention to the charges on the conductors
 we must say that equal quantities of + and — have moved
 respectively from A to C and B to D along the wires.
     But taking into account the condition of induction in the
 medium described by the induction-tubes, we must say that
 the induction-tubes move sideways out from the space between
 A and B into the space between C and D, the motion of the
 charges along the wires being really the motion of the ends of

              ofElectricity in an Imperfect Insulator.        421
the induction-tubes. (See fig. 1, where 1-6 may be taken as
successive positions of a tube.) During the motion of the
tubes, some of their energy was converted into the magnetic
form, the coexistence of the two forms, electric and magnetic,
being a necessary condition of motion. We may illustrate
this from the analogous case of a strained incompressible solid
which can be sheared. If there is any mode of escape given
to the strain-energy by a slipping of the surface against the
constraint, then the state of strain will be propagated outwards
from the interior of the solid, but some of the strain-energy
will be converted into kinetic energy, and the presence of the
two is a necessary condition for the propagation of the strain.
     Since the energy-length of a tube diminishes as its ends
move along the connecting-wires, we may represent this by
supposing that parts of the tubes move into the wire. If a
similar motion of electric induction took place into a dielectric,
 it would remain, and the dielectric would become electrically
 strained ; but in the wire the strain breaks down rapidly, the
 energy being converted into heat. I think there is good reason
 to suppose that it is the electric energy which thus breaks
 down, the magnetic only being dissipated after it has been
reconverted to the electric form.
     We may now consider the case in which the total discharge
 of a condenser takes place through a connecting wire. Con
 sidering merely the conducting plates and the wire, we say
 that the chargesmove along them towards each other and finally
 unite, neutralizing each other and producing heat in the wire.
 Regarding the medium, we must suppose the tubes of induction
 to move sideways towards the wire, shortening as their ends,
 which are represented by the charges, approach each other,
  and finally disappearing into the wire. Faraday describes the
  process by saying that " when current or discharge occurs be
  tween two bodies, previously under inductrical relations to
  each other, the lines of inductive force will weaken and fade
  away, and, as their lateral repulsion-tension diminishes, will
  contract and ultimately disappear in the line of discharge "
  (Exp. Res. vol. i. n. 529, § 1659). The so-called velocity of
  electricity is merely the velocity of the ends of the tubes, and
  this may evidently vary according to the nature of the circuit.
  It is quite conceivable that if the wire be in a neutral medium,
  i. e. one in which there is no surface- difference of potential,
  say gold in air, and if it follow the direction of a tube of in
  duction, then a tube may move into the wire throughout its
  whole length at once. In this case the " velocity of electricity "
  would be infinite.

422          Prof. J. H. Poynting on the Discharge
    We know from experiment that if a galvanometer be inserted
on the connecting wire then the same magnetic impulse is
observed wherever in the circuit the galvanometer be placed,
the impulse depending on the galvanometer-constant and on
the total discharge. The same experimental result may be
stated in an equivalent form, viz. tliat the line-integral of the
magnetic intensity round a closed curve encircling the wire,
if integrated for the time of discharge, is the same for all
positions of the curve. On the hypothesis here described all
the electric induction-tubes of the system finally pass sideways
from the medium into the wire. Thev must, therefore, on
their way pass inwards across any curve encircling the wire,
so that the total number of induction-tubes cutting such a
 curve is the same for all positions of the curve. In the paper
 above referred to, I have sought to connect these two constants
 by supposing that the magnetic effect is due to, or, more cor
 rectly, accompanies, the motion inwards of the condition of
 electric induction. As soon as motion commences some of
 the electric energy is converted into magnetic, and the mag
 netic induction may be represented by ring-shaped closed
 tubes surrounding the wire. The two inductions, electric and
 magnetic, coexisting, will propagate the energy onwards till
 it finally arrives in the wire and is dissipated as heat, the
 induction there losing its directed condition.
    The flowing of electric charges along the wire, which is
 usually considered as the essential part of the phenomena, or
 at least that to which attention is to be chiefly directed, be
 comes on this hypothesis merely the last stage of the process,
 which consists of a propagation from the surrounding dielectric
 towards the wire of electric and magnetic induction, which we
 may symbolize by the motion inwards of two sets of tubes, the
 electric tubes being, on the whole, more or less in the direction
 of the wire, the magnetic tubes being closed rings surrounding
 it. The wire plays the part of the refrigerator in a heat-engine,
 turning the energy it receives into heat—a necessary condition
 for the working of the machinery.
     Let us now take the case of a condenser in which the
 dielectric, though homogeneous, is imperfectly insulating, so
 that the charge gradually disappears. According to Maxwell,
 in this case " induction and conduction are going on at the
 same time." Though Maxwell gave no precise account of
 the process of discharge, his theory and the mechanical illus
  tration accompanying it are based on the supposition that two
 processes are going on at the same time in every part of the
 medium, viz. :— (1) a yielding of the electric strain or "dis
 placement" in the dielectric equivalent to a displacement

              of Electricity in an Imperfect Insulator.        423
current from the negative towards the positive plate, and (2)
a conduction-current from the positive plate to the negative
equal to (1) in amount. This latter is accompanied by dissi
pation of energy. The two equal and opposite currents, being
superposed, have no external magnetic effect.
    But it seems to me that we may equally well and more
simply represent the facts by considering the first process
alone, viz. the yielding of the electric strain, the medium
being incapable of bearing it permanently. The electric
energy is gradually converted into heat in the same part of
the dielectric where it was previously electric, t. e. there is
here no transfer of energy. The decrease of induction in the
medium is accompanied by a corresponding decrease of charge
on the plates, not by conduction of + or — electricity either
way through the medium, but simply because there is a de
crease of the induction in the medium of which the charges
on the plates are the surface manifestations. The induction
decreases equally through the whole length of a tube, so thai
the tube " weakens " at the same rate throughout its length.
    There will be no magnetic effect in the surrounding space,
for there is no movement inwards of electric induction-tubes
to supply the place of those which decay.
    Perhaps we may take the following as illustrating the two
modes oi regarding the process. Suppose that a solid is sub
mitted to some strain and kept in the strained position, but
 that the energy of the strain gradually dissipates ; then we
 may confine ourselves simply to the statement that, owing to
 some rearrangement of the molecules, they cease to have
 molecular-strain energy, the energy in each portion of the
 mass being transformed to heat in that portion ; or we may
 imagine that there is a continual return from the strained
towards the original position, accompanied by an equal reverse
 flow of the matter towards the strained position, this latter
 not storing up energy, but dissipating the energy given up
 by the yielding of the strain. The ultimate result according
 to each is the same, but the latter account is purely hypothe
 tical. We may at once obtain the equation giving the value
 of the charge at any time in terms of the initial charge when
 the condenser is left insulated.
    Let a be the charge per unit area, this being equal to the
           electric induction across unit area in the dielectric ;
        a be the thickness of the dielectric ;
        K be the specific induction-capacity ;
         c be the capacity per unit area ;
        X be the electric intensity in the dielectric, »". e. force
           per unit electricity on a small electrified body.

424           Prof. J. H. Poynting on the Discharge
    We have
                             X=^                               (1)
    Now we know that the rate of decrease of charge on the
ends is proportional to the charge a, and therefore to X.
    The decrease of charge or of induction in the medium is
 therefore
                          - = --            .               .  (2)
 where r is a constant, which we may term the specific
 resistance.
    Hence from (1),
 or
                          S+fr*                                <3>
                           a=aye Kr                            (4)
    If we use p to denote the decrease of induction per second,
                              da       K dX                     .,,
                       *=-*"-£?-*                              (5)
                                      KX2
    The energy per unit volume is -s— ; its rate of decrease
 is therefore                           w
                               KX rfX                           . .
                             ~~5r~dt                            (6)
 Substituting from (2) and (5), we get the expression which
 here corresponds to Joule's law for the heating effect, viz.
 rate of decrease of electric energy per unit volume =prr.
     If at any moment the two end plates be connected by a
  wire, transfer of induction will at once take place into the
 wire, and the whole system will be completely discharged.
  During this discharge there will be magnetic energy accom
 panying the motion of electric induction.
     We will now investigate the more complicated case of a
 stratified dielectric in which the different layers have different
  specific resistances. Before proceeding to the mathematical
  account, we shall consider the process generally, taking the
  simple case in which K is the same throughout. Let the
  condenser be charged very rapidly and then insulated. At
  the first moment there will be equal and opposite charges on
  the two end plates, and the number of induction-tubes running
  through unit area parallel to the plates will be the same in
  each layer. But decay of induction and dissipation of energy

                of Electricity in an Imperfect Insulator.        425
at once sets in, the rate of decay varying in different layers,
so that after a time the nnmber of induction-tubes in conti
guous layers will differ and there will bo charges on the
separating surfaces. In those layers where the rate of decay
is most rapid, there will be negative charges on the surface
nearer the 4- plate, and + charges on the surface nearer the
 — plate ; but still the induction in all is in the same direction.
    Now let the two end plates be connected by a wire. At
 once induction is propagated into the wire and transference
takes place from the space between the plates until they are
 at the same potential, i. e. until the line-integral of the electric
 intensity, or, since K is constant, that of the induction from
 plate to plate is zero. The same number of tubes must have
 entered all parts of the wire, otherwise there would be charges
 at points along its length. Hence the same number of tubes
 running in the positive direction must have passed out from
 each of the layers. The result must be a reversal of the
 induction of some of the layers, viz. those in which the induc
 tion decayed most rapidly. This, of course, means that after
 their positive induction has all flowed out and they are quite
 discharged, tubes from the other layers have bent round and
 entered them, now charging them in the opposite direction.
 We may imagine the process to be somewhat as in figs. 2 and
  3, representing a condenser with three layers, A, B, C, the
  decay having been most rapid in the middle one, so that it
 has become completely discharged, while there is still positive
  induction in A and C. 1, 2, 3, 4 (fig. 2) represent successive
                                   Fig. 2.
  positions of a tube moving out from A towards the wire :
  1', 2', 3', 4'' successive positions of a tube moving out from C.
  When they have taken up the positions 4 4' they come in
 contact, and where they overlap they will neutralize each
 other and break up into two portions, the outer part of each

426          Prof. J. H. Poynting on the Discharge
forming one positive tube, as 5 (fig. 3), which will move off
                               Fiar. 3.
                                                    WIRE
to the wire, the inner parts uniting to form a negative tube 6
in B.
    When the difference of potential between the end plates is
 zero, suppose the wire to be removed. The induction still
 remaining decays. If it decayed in the same proportion
 throughout, the difference of potential would always remain
 zero. But it decays in greater proportion in the negative
 layers, since in these the dissipation is by hypothesis most
 rapid. Hence in the line-integral of the induction from plate
 to plate the negative terms decrease more rapidly than the
 positive, and so the total value becomes positive. Then on
 again connecting with a wire, another positive discharge
 occurs. The process may evidently be repeated, the discharge
 alwaj's being positive, until finally it becomes insensible.
    The analogy between the residual discharge and the phe
 nomenon of elastic recovery in strained solids, pointed out by
 Kohlrausch, suggests a simple illustration.
    Suppose that we build up a cube with successive layers of
 substances with the same instantaneous rigidity but with dif
 ferent viscosities. Let this be placed between two plates,
 A, B (fig. 4), the lower plate being fixed. Let rigid trans
 verse partitions, r, r, be passed through the layers and attached

             of Electricity in an Imperfect Insulator.        427
by hinges to the two plates, and then let the upper plate be
acted on by a force in a direction perpendicular to the par
titions, so that a shearing-strain is given to the whole cube.
The partitions r, r are merely put so that the distortion from
the original position shall always be the same throughout.
When a given strain has been produced, let the upper plate be
also fixed. Now if the rate of dissipation of strain-energy
were the same throughout the layers the stress would also be
the same throughout, though gradually decreasing, and on
removing the constraint the upper plate would return by a
certain amount and then remain in its new position. But the
dissipation is not uniform, and after a time the stress in some
of the layers is greater than in others. Hence, on removing
the constraint from A and allowing it to return, when those
in which dissipation has been most rapid have become entirely
free from strain-energy, there is still some remaining in the
other layers. These latter will therefore strain the former,
and we shall have a reverse stress in some of the layers. Thus
 A will come to a new position of equilibrium ; not so far,
however, as its first position. Suppose that it is now again
 fixed. At first no force is necessary to keep it in position ;
 but the stress exerted by the negative layers decays more
 rapidly than that exerted by the positive, and soon, on releasing
 A, it will return still further towards its original position.
 The process may be repeated, the successive discharges of
 momentum imparted to A being always in the same direction.
     [Added April 15, 1886.— The supposition of stratification
 made by Maxwell is, no doubt, very artificial, and was made
 for the sake of simplicity in the mathematical treatment. He
 states that "an investigation of the cases in which materials
 are arranged otherwise than in strata would lead to similar
 results, though the calculations would be more complicated ;
 so that we may conclude that the phenomena of electric ab
 sorption may be expected in the case of substances composed
  of parts of different kinds, even though these individual parts
  should be microscopically small.
     " It by no means follows that every substance which
 exhibits this phenomenon is so composed             " {Electricity
 and Magnetism, 2nd ed. vol. i. p. 4 It).)
     Probably in the case of blown glass or any dielectric made
 up of heterogeneous parts, which has been flattened by rolling,
 there is more or less approach to the stratified condition; but
 in other cases, such as shellac or paraffin, we might fairly
 expect the dielectric to be similarly constituted in all direc
  tions. We can only therefore take Maxwell's investigation

428          Prof. J. H. Poynting on the Discharge
as showing in a general way that heterogeneity wonld intro
duce absorption phenomena ; and we cannot expectthe results
obtained on the supposition of such a special arrangement to
agree with those of experiment. We may regard the stra
tified arrangement as giving a superior limit, as it were, this
being the constitution most favourable to the production of
the phenomena in the way supposed. The inferior limit would
be given by an arrangement in which each portion of the
substance of the same kind stretched from plate to plate with
the same cross section throughout. In this case there would
be no residual discharge produced. Using Maxwell's notation
 (see below), the resistance per unit cross section may be
shown to be
                      fiy_ (ai + Oi + --')i
                              r,    r3 " '
instead of
and R' is always less than R. In any intermediate compo
sition, in which portions of more conducting matter are insu
lated from each other by less conducting matter, we shall have
residual discharge.
   It appears probable, from experiments of Dr. Schulze-Berge
 ('Nature,' March 4, 1886, p. 432), that the resistance of
 certain dielectrics is not proportional to the thickness^ but is
much less for thin layers than might be expected. May this
 not possibly arise from the size of the heterogeneous portions
 being comparable with the thickness of the dielectric, so that
 the more easily conducting portious may stretch in some parts
 from plate to plate ? If so, we approximate more nearly to
 the inferior limit.]
    The mathematical account of the residual discharge on this
hypothesis is practically the same as Maxwell's ; but it may
perhaps be worth while to give it with the necessary altera
tions, as these seem to make it somewhat more straightforward
and evident.
    We shall suppose with Maxwell, " for the sake of simplicity,
that the dielectric consists of a number of plane strata of
different materials and of area unity," and that the induction
is in the direction of the normal to the strata.
    Let «„ Oj, &c, be the thickness of the different strata ;
        X1( X2, &c, be the electric intensity within each stratum;
       Pi> Pii &c-> De the amount of decay of induction per
                 second in each stratum ;

             of Electricity in an Imperfect Insulator.         429
   Let fi, fi} &c, be the induction in each stratum ;
       «i, tii, &c, be the total number of tubes of electric
                 induction entering each layer sideways, i. e.
                 crossing in through its boundary per second ;
       ri> rn &c-> he the specific resistance referred to unit of
                 volume ;
       Ki,K3, &c, be the specific inductive capacity ;
       &!, /%, &c, be the reciprocal of the specific inductive
                 capacity ;
           E       be the electromotive force due to a voltaic
                 battery placed in the part of the circuit leading
                 from the last stratum towards the first, which
                 we shall suppose good conductors ;
          Q       be the total number of induction-tubes which
                 have left the battery and entered the wires and
                 dielectric up to the time t.
   Then, since the same number of tubes enter all parts of the
circuit in a given time,
                     Ml=ui! = U3=       =« say                 (1)
   These tubes tend to increase the induction in the layers.
But at the same time decay is going on, so that we have
                 u'=P*+d§> «*-A+^,*o., • • • (2)
whence
                 *-+f =^+f = &c                                <3>
   We also have by Ohm's law,
                          Pi=—S Ac.;                            (4)
and by the relation between induction and intensity,
                         X1=4ttA1/1,                            (5)
whence
                             X,       1 dX,
                         u~n +^h~df                             <6)
   Let us suppose that at first there is no charge, and that
suddenly the E.M.F., E is made to act. Then, if at once
Q tubes enter the dielectric,
                         X1=4ttA;1Q, &c. ;                     (7)
and since
                         E=a1X1 + flJX2 + ...; .... (8)
                    E = 47r(Aja! + £,as + . . . )Q.

430     Discharge of Electricity in an Imperfect Insulator.
   The instantaneous capacity C, which is equal to ^, is given
                    q_                x                          (OA
                        47r(it1«1 + A2a!! + . ..)"'"'
But dissipation at once sets in, and if the electromotive force
E be continued uniform, a steady state will ultimately be
reached in which the dissipation in each layer is equal to the
number of fresh tubes reaching that layer. The number of
tubes entering being the same throughout, the dissipation p
is also the same throughout.
   We have then
                       p=^. = ^ = &c                           (10)
and substituting in (8)
                   E = (r1a1 + rsai             )p.
Hence, if R=r1a14-. . .            -p
                             p=n                               <">
In this state we have the induction given by
                   f — _?L — J±. — ^r'                   •     n%\
                   Jl~ 4^ ~ 4ttV'_ 4tt^R ' *                 ' K   '
   If we now suddenly connect the extreme strata by means of
a conductor of small resistance, E will be suddenly changed
from the value E0 to zero, and Q' tubes will pass out from
each layer of the dielectric into the wire. If then X1 be the
new value of the intensity,
                        <y- Xl           Xl'
                              47T/-J    Airkx '
whence
                        X11 = X,-47rA1Q'                       (13)
    Since, then, the difference of potential is zero,
                     ajXj1— aiKi1 + . . . =0;
substituting from (13) we get
        a1X1 + a2X2 +            =4ir(a1kl+ajc2 -(-. . .)Q' ;
or
Hence the instantaneous discharge is equal to the instantaneous
charge.
   By (10) and (11) we may put (13) in the form
                        X11=pr1—iwk1Q,
                            = ^-4tt^Q                          (15)

          Critical Temperatures and Thermal Expansions.             431
    Let us next suppose the connection broken immediately
after the discharge. No fresh tubes enter any layer; so that
putting m = 0, we have from (6)
                                 rt   &irkx dt '
or                      X1= X,1* - ,
where Xj is now the value of the electric intensity at any time
t after the connection is broken.
    Substituting from (15) and putting B0 for the initial value
ofE,                          f              , ink,
                     X1=E(/J-47rA,Cj« i                            (16)
The value of E at any time is
      E = <XjXi 4- a^X-j + . . .
   =E°{(¥ -4wai*«C)r^'' + (°fp -4*™A0) •""*?' + &c.
              J -4**,C j axf '. + Q--47r*2CJalKf~>T ' + . . . j . (17)
                                    4irt1 <,
   -*{(?-**")*
    The instantaneous discharge obtained at any time t will be,
as before, CE.
    If the terms be arranged in descending order of magnitude
of -j-, then the exponentials are also in descending order of
      1 .
magnitude, or the negative terms decrease more rapidly than
 the positive, and E is positive.
LVIII. Note on a "Relation between the Critical Temperatures
    of Bodies and their Thermal Expansions as Liquids." By
    T. E. Thorpe, Ph.D., F.R.S., and A.W. Ruckeh, M.A.,
    F.R.S.*
 A PAPER bearing the above title was published by us
           in the Journal of the Chemical Society of London for
 April 1884, and has recently been discussed by MM. A. Bar-
 toli and E. Stracciatif. As these gentlemen have done us
 the honour to make use of a formula deduced by us from the
      * Communicated bv the Physical Society : read April 10, 1886.
      t Ann. Chim. Phyi. Marn 1886, p. 384.

432    Messrs. Thorpe and Riicker on the Relations between
simple expression given by Mendelejeff for the expansion of
liquids, we should like to state exactly the position which we
ourselves think ought to be assigned to it, and the use which
may legitimately be made of it.
   Prof. Mendelejeff has shown* that the expansion of liquids
under constant pressure between 0° 0. and their boiling-
points may be expressed by means of the very simple formula
where V< is the volume at t° (that at 0° C. being unity'), and
k is a quantity which differs for different substances, but
which may for any one substance be considered invariable
between 0° 0. and the neighbourhood of the boiling-point.
   The great merit of Mendelejeff's law is that it is proved by
him to express the law of expansion to within the limits of
the differences between the results of different observers ex
perimenting on the same liquid. Thus, if the results of any
one observer alone are considered, they may no doubt be most
accurately expressed by a formula of the type
                      Yt=\+a't+ve+ce.
Another equally reliable observer will, however, obtain for the
same liquid a formula
                    Yt = l + a"t + b"t2 + c"t>,
where a', V, c' differ appreciably from a", b", c". These
 slight differences depend on the unavoidable errors of exjjeri-
ment, which may perhaps in the future be diminished, but
which at present affect the work of the best observers using
 the best known methods. Hence formulae such as those given
 above can only be considered as approximations to the true
 law of the expansion of the liquid to which they refer. That
 law will be most nearly given by combining the results of
 several physicists whose methods and observations are equally
 good, rather than of relying upon those of any one.
    Now Mendelejeff has shown that the volumes calculated at
 different temperatures by means of the formula
 differ less from the results of good observers .than they do
 from one another. It might in any given case be possible to
 obtain another more complex formula which would express
 the mean result more accurately, but it would remain very
 doubtful whether the greater mathematical accuracy obtained
                  * Journ. Chum. Soc. April 1884.

          Critical Temperatures and Thermal Expansions.      433
represented the physical facts more closely. Mendelejeff (as
we think rightly) considers that the simplicity of the formula
which he has suggested gives it a special claim upon our
attention ; and he proves that it expresses, at all events as a
first but very close approximation, all that we certainly know
about the expansion of liquids.
    It is therefore no argument against Mendelejeff's formula
to remark, as MM. Bartoli and Stracciati have done, that
              V(= j-^ = l + fc + *V + iV + &o.;
and that in the formulas given by Pierre, Kopp, Hirn, Thorpe,
&c, the constants a, b, and c do not differ by a constant ratio,
as the expression would require. This criticism would only
hold good if all these observers had obtained the same, or
closely identical, values of a, b, and c ; whereas, as a matter
of fact, the values of b and c given by different observers may
differ very widely. The very merit of Mendelejeff's remark
is that, although the results of no one physicist are expressed
bv                    V,= l+ At + *¥ + *¥,
yet that this formula in its simpler form,
expresses the results of all as accurately as those results will
allow ; and that since it is thus sufficiently accurate and ex
traordinarily simple, it may claim to be the best general
formula hitherto proposed for expressing the laws of liquid
expansion.
    These remarks are subject to the conditions which Mende
lejeff made clear, that the formula was only applied to the
 range of temperature between 0° and the neighbourhood of
the boiling-point, and that the constant k increases slightly as
the temperature rises. This latter fact indicates that the law,
though very accurately expressing the known facte, is only
an approximation to the truth.
    Mendelejeff's formula, then, appears to us to stand in some
what the same position as Boyle's or Charles's laws. It is a
 first approximation, which expresses the facte, under given
conditions of temperature and pressure, with great accuracy.
The difference between the cases is that, whereas the devia
tion of each of the principal gases from Boyle's law has been
 studied, Mendelejeff has shown that the most careful researches
 do not enable us to state with certainty what is the magnitude
 of the error caused by applying his formula to any particular
liquid. They show only that k increases very slightly as the
temperature rises.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 132. May 1886.        2H

434      Critical Temperatures and Tliermal Expansions.
   Having thus defined as accurately as we can the position
which we think that Mendelejeff's law holds, we need hardly
say that we do not claim any higher status for our own formula
connecting the law of expansion and the critical teiri]>erature.
We were most careful to express in our paper our appreciation
of the iact that our expression was based upon Mendelejeff's,
and therefore it ranked only as a theoretical deduction from
an extremely close approximation to the truth, and is to be
employed only under the conditions for which that approxi
mation was valid.
   Thus we have shown that the critical temperature of a
liquid (Tc) is given very approximately by the formula
                          _ TV, -273
                       ±c_ a(Vt-l) '
where V< is the volume at t° C, T=273-M, and a is a con
stant which we proved is nearly = 2.
   We should, however, never have thought of applying this
formula to determine the critical temperature of water from
the expansion up to 200° C. We have not applied it to water
at all, on account of the well-known peculiarities of the ex
pansion of that substance ; but had we done so, we should
have regarded it as holding only between 0° C. and the boil
ing-point. We have distinctly laid it down that it is under
these conditions k is to be determined*. In proving, there
fore, that the values of the critical temperature, calculated
from the expansions at temperatures above the boiling-point,
vary very widely from those' obtained under the conditions
adopted by Mendelejeff and ourselves, MM. Bartoli and Strac-
ciati have only shown that the formula does not hold good
under circumstances to which its authors never intended it to
be applied.
   We are, however, gratified to find that these gentlemen,
notwithstanding their criticisms, show a reliance upon our
formula even greater than that which we feel ourselves. The
values of the constant a given in our paper prove that its true
value is uncertain, at all events to 1 per cent, or more.
MM. Bartoli and Stracciati, however, give in their second
paper a number of critical temperatures calculated by the
formula to tenths of a degree. If the tenth of a degree is to
be determined with accuracy, the constant a must be known
to 0'025 per cent. Wo beg, therefore, those who may do us
the honour to use our formula, neither to outrage it under
conditions to which it does not apply, nor to use it as though
it were more accurate than it pretends to be.
                  * Journ. Chem. Soc. foe. cit. p. 139.

                              [   435    J
 LIX. On the Cause of the Solar-Diurnal Variations of Ter
    restrial Magnetism. By Professor Balfour Stewart,
    LL.D., F.R.S.*
 IN attempting to account for the Solar-diurnal inequalities
       of Terrestrial Magnetism, scientific speculators have
 ranged over the whole field of likely explanations. Some of
them think that they have now finally driven the truth into a
 corner, and are in hopes of ultimately securing the object of
their pursuit.
   I shall begin by enumerating the chief hypotheses which
have been proposed.
   (1) There is, first, that of the direct magnetic action of the
Sun upon the Earth. There are, however, many serious
objections to this hypothesis. One of these is the great
difficulty attending the supposition that the Sun is capable of
acting as a powerful magnet, since terrestrial analogies would
lead us to infer that matter at the high temperature of the
Sun is quite incapable of possessing magnetic properties.
Again, we have strong evidence that changes in the range of
the daily variation of magnetic declination lag behind corre
sponding solar changes in point of time. This kind of
behaviour is apparently inconsistent with direct magnetic
action, and points rather to some indirect influence probably
caused by the radiant energy of the Sun, inasmuch as the
changes and turning-points of such indirect influences due
to radiation are well known to lag in respect of time behind
the corresponding changes and turning-points in their cause.
Finally, Dr. Lloyd and Mr. C. Chambers f have both shown
that direct solar magnetic action will not account for the
peculiarities of the diurnal magnetic variation. We may
therefore perhaps dimiss this hypothesis.
   (2) The next hypothesis which I shall introduce is that of
Faraday. Reasoning from his discovery that oxygen is
magnetic and becomes weaker in its power when heated, he
concludes that when the Sun heats a certain portion of the
Earth's atmosphere, this renders that portion less magnetic
than those other portions not subjected to solar influence.
This kind of action is thus seen to be equivalent to a displace
ment by means of solar influence of the magnetic matter of
the Earth, and hence implies a corresponding displacement
of the lines of magnetic force.            Now there is unques
tionably truth in this hypothesis, but yet there is very great
  • Communicated by the Physical Society : read April 10, 1886.
  t Proc. Royal Irish* Academy, Feb. 22, IMS, and Phil. Trans. 1663.
                                2H2

436           Prof. Balfour Stewart on the Cause of tlie
doubt whether it will account for the diurnal oscillation as we
know it. It will form a cause, but yet it will not be the chief
cause. It is obviously one prominent peculiarity of Faraday's
hypothesis, that in it the action of the Sun must, to ensure its
probability, be associated with the great mass of the Earth's
atmosphere, that is to say with the lower strata as well as
with the upper ; or rather with the lower strata in preference
to the upper, bearing in mind the superior mass of the former
and their greater nearness to the magnetic Earth. Now we
know both from observations of the declination and horizontal
force (Proc. Roy. Soc. March 22, 1877, and Phil. Trans.
1880, p. 541) that the action of the Sun in producing diurnal
variations of these elements is one and a half times as
powerful at epochs of maximum as it is at epochs of minimum
sun-spot frequency.
   But it is very difficult, if not impossible, to imagine that the
great mass of the atmosphere can be heated by the Sun one
and a half times as much at epochs of maximum sun-spot
frequency as it is at epochs of minimum sun-spot frequency;
and yet we must imagine this if we suppose that Faraday's
hypothesis accounts for the diurnal variation. Certainly
the facts of meteorology are strongly against any such
belief. Again, during our summer the heating influence of
the Sun is considerably greater in the Northern than in the
Southern Hemisphere, while during our winter the reverse
will be the case. Totally apart from the diurnal variation we
ought therefore, if Faraday s hypothesis be true, to find a very
perceptible difference in the mean magnetic condition of the
Northern Hemisphere between summer and winter, and a like
difference too in the Southern Hemisphere, the one being at
the same moment differently affected from the other. But
there are no traces of such a phenomenon, the annual and
semi-annual variations being quite of a different nature and
none of them very large.
   (3) Let me now discuss the hypothesis that these variations
are caused by earth-currents. These currents were first
detected by W. H. Barlow, and were at a later period
observed and studied by C. V. Walker. They are now
continuously recorded by photography at the Royal Obser
vatory, Greenwich, and at the Central Russian Observatory.
   With respect to these currents, I have always maintained
that in type they bear all the marks of being secondary
currents generated in the moist conducting crust of the
Earth, and caused by small but abrupt changes in the mag
netism of the Earth. Whether this be the true explanation
or not, it is at any rate, I venture to think, consistent with what

      Solar-Diurnal Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism.         437
 we know of electrical action. But while I should thus feel
 disposed to regard these phenomena as effects rather than
 causes, in their primary sense at least, it is manifest that, when
 once generated, such currents will influence the needle; and
 the results of the Greenwich observers induce us to think that
 such influence is very great and forms perhaps the chief
 immediate cause of those oscillations of the needle called
 disturbances, which are quite different from the solar diurnal
 variation. In one sense therefore such currents may be
 effects, while in another they are causes, but causes of dis
 turbances rather than of the daily variation.
    It may, however, be replied that earth-currents may be
  complex phenomena, and that while their most important
 manifestations may be due to induction, thus being primarily
 effects rather than causes, yet another portion of them may
 operate as a true cause producing the solar-diurnal variation.
 Now there are two objections to this hypothesis ; and one of
 these is, that we know of no physical agency that will produce
 in the Earth's crust currents of this nature, which, in order to
 account for the solar-diurnal variation, must be one and a half
 times more powerful at times of maximum than at times of
 minimum sun-spot frequency. Another objection is that Sir
 George Airy has not been able to detect any resemblance in form
 between the regular diurnal progress of the magnet and that
 of the earth-currents. We think therefore that we may dismiss
 this hypothesis.
     Now, if it be unlikely that these magnetic variations
 are caused either by the direct magnetic action of the Sun,
 or by earth-currents, or by the heating effect of the Sun
 on the chief mass of the Earth's atmosphere, we seem to be
 driven by the method of exhaustion to look for their cause
 in the upper atmospheric regions. We shall, however, have
 to show that there is no improbability in locating their cause
in these elevated regions, otherwise our method of exhaustion
-will have clone us no service. In the first place, I need
hardly say that if the cause we are in search of be in these
upper regions, it must either be in the shape of a set of elec
trical currents, or in some other shape with which we are
quite unacquainted; but the nature of this discussion precludes
xis from entertaining the latter supposition; and we are there
fore driven to regard electrical currents as being the only
conceivable cause, if this cause is to be located in the upper
atmospheric regions.
    I shall now attempt to reply to two imaginary objec
tions that may be raised as to the possibility of such cur
rents. In the first place, it may be said that while un

438          Prof. Balfour Stewart on the Cause of the
doubtedly rarified air is a conductor of electricity, yet it is
not a good conductor ; and where can we look for sufficient
potential to drive currents through these upper atmospheric
regions? To this I would reply that as a matter of fact we
know that there are visible electric currents in the upper
atmospheric regions which occur occasionally at ordinary
latitudes, and which are very frequent, if not continuous, in
certain regions of the Earth. I allude to the Aurora, which
is unquestionably an electric current, and must therefore
influence the magnetic needle. Furthermore, both with
respect to its times of occurrence and to the disposition of its
beams, the Aurora manifests a close connection with the phe
 nomena of terrestrial magnetism, occurring at ordinary
 latitudes only when there are great magnetic disturbances,
and the disposition of its beams having a distinct reference to
lines of magnetic force. We are therefore justified in asserting
 that there is no impossibility in conceiving a set of electrical
 currents, intimately associated with certain phenomena of
 terrestrial magnetism, to exist in the upper region of the
Earth's atmosphere,.
    In the next place, the objection may be raised, How is it
possible to suppose any cause that will make such currents
one and a half times more powerful at times of maximum
than at times of minimum sun-spot frequency ? Can it be
imagined that the radiant energy of our luminary varies in
this proportion ? Now it has been remarked by Professor
Stokes that an increase in the radiative power of the Sun would
most probably imply, not only an increase in general radia
tion, but a special and predominant increase in such actinic
rays as are probably absorbed in the upper regions of the
Earth's atmosphere. These regions will therefore greedily
absorb the new rays, their temperature will rise, and, as is
known to be the case for gases, the electrical conductivity of
the strata will be increased *. Thus, even if we imagine the
general atmospheric current to remain constant, a greater
Eroportion of it would be thrown at such times into those
  eated regions which had become good conductors ; but then
it is likewise probable that the current itself would be in
creased as well as increasingly diverted into a particular
channel.
    Such an explanation appears to receive support from the
curious and suggestive fact that the lunar influence on the
   * It seems not impossible, too, that the constitution of these strata
with respect to aqueous vapour, may be different at times of maximum
and at times of minimum sun-spot frequency; hence their absorbing-
power may be different.

    Solar-Diurnal Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism.         439
Earth's magnetism, as observed at Trevandrum, is greater
during the day than during the night, and greater perhaps,
too, at times of maximum than at times of minimum sun-spot
frequency. If the arguments now advanced be generally
assented to, we may presume that, while it is unlikely that the
cause of the daily variation exists anywhere else than in the
upper regions of the Earth's atmosphere, there is no objection
to our imagining that it resides there in the form of a set of
electric currents. Such currents will of course affect the
needle directly, but they will also affect the magnetic earth,
and any affection of the magnetic earth will again influence
the needle. The question thus arises, To what extent do
these hypothetical currents act directly upon the needle, and
to what extent do they act upon it indirectly by influencing
the magnetism of the Earth ? That this question is not un
important will be manifest by considering what takes place
when a powerful electromagnet influences a needle. In this
case probably only a small portion of the influence is due to
the direct action of the current, while a large portion is due
to the iron of the electromagnet that has been magnetized by
the current. In order to study this point it will perhaps be
desirable that we limit ourselves to the solar diurnal varia
tions of declination, as these are of a simple definite type in
each hemisphere, the type in the one hemisphere being the
reverse of that in the other. Let us therefore consider the
peculiarities of this variation, particularly in the regions on
either side of the magnetic equator.
    Here we find, speaking generally, that north of the equator
the extreme westerly deflection of the marked pole of the
needle is reached at 2 p.m., while south of the equator this
pole reaches its extreme easterly deflection at the same hour.
 Now, if we attempt to picture to ourselves any general
change in the magnetic system of the Earth that will produce
 these results, it will be one of a very artificial character. On
 the other hand, these motions of the needle, which cannot well
 be explained by any easily conceivable temporary change of
 the Earth's magnetic system, can very easily be explained by
 a system of atmospheric currents. In the northern hemi
 sphere we should have a set of positive currents flowing from
 the equator northwards, while in the southern we should
 have in like manner a similar set of positive currents flowing
 southwards. And, therefore, since positive currents flow out
 from the equator on both sides of it, we should have to con
 template a vertical stream of positive electricity at the equator
which there splits itself up into two portions—one for each
hemisphere.

440            Prof. Balfour Stewart on the Cause of the
     The argument as I have now advanced it is of a general
nature and is twofold.
     (1) In the first place it brings forward objections to the
localization of the cause of the diurnal variations anywhere
 else than in the higher regions of the Earth's atmosphere ;
 then points out that if this cause exist in these regions it.
 must be in the shape of a system of electric currents ; and
 finally endeavours to show that there are no valid objections
 to such a system of currents.
      (2) It endeavours to show that, if we take the diurnal
  variation of the declination-needle, which is of a remarkably
  simple type, wo have great difficulty in imagining that it can
  be brought about by any temporarily induced displacement of
  the magnetic system of the earth, while we can with the
  greatest ease account for it by means of a system of currents
  in the upper regions of the Earth's atmosphere.
      At this point Dr. Schuster has endeavoured to apply mathe
  matical analysis to the subject, and he has obtained results
  which are very satisfactory and encouraging *. He had pre
  viously, in the Report of the Magnetic Committee of the
  British Association for the year 1885, pointed out the existence
  of a test f which will enable us to decide whether or not the
  diurnal variation can be caused by a series of electric currents
  which embrace both the upper atmospheric regions and the
  Earth, and complete themselves by electric discharges through
  the lower regions of the Earth's atmosphere into the ground ;
  and he now endeavoured to ascertain whether the supposed
  vertical currents at the equator, to which allusion has been
  made, could possibly be of this nature. If this were the case,
  he argues, and if a unit pole were carried from a position A
  at the Earth's surface in a path which should return again to
  A, and in the centre of which there should exist such a ver
  tical current, then through all its course work would be done
  either by or against this pole, inasmuch as there would be a
  continued effort of the vertical current to turn the pole round
  it in one direction. In other words, the pole and the point A
  being immersed in the system of currents, there would be a
  potential having multiple values. On the other hand, if the
  system which produces the daily variation be outside of A,
  whether above or below it, there will be at A a true potential,
  and if the unit pole be carried as before, in any path from A
  and back to A again, as much work will be done against the
  pole as will be done by it. Let us consider, now, a Tittle path
  embraced between two parallels of latitude near each other,
     * Proc. Lit. & Phil. Society of Manchester, January 12, 1880 : Phil
  Mag. April 1880, p. 349.
     t The reader will find a complete discussion of this subject in Maxwell's
  ' Electricity and Magnetism.'

    Solar-Diurnal Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism.       441
and two meridians of longitude likewise near each other, and
imagine our pole to be carried round this boundary. On the
supposition that there is no vertical current in the centre of
the path, the work done upon the pole will be equal to that
done by it. This will at once give us an equation between
X and Y ; that is to say, between the components of the solar-
diurnal periodic force towards the geographical north and
west respectively. From this equation, and by means of
certain legitimate assumptions regarding the type of Y, which
represents very nearly the force influencing the declination
(and this we know to be of a simple uniform type), Dr.
Schuster is able to obtain certain relations between the solar-
diurnal variations of the declination and of the horizontal
force which ought to hold, if there be no vertical currents
between the upper regions and the Earth, or, rather, if such
vertical currents are inoperative as an element in producing
the solar-diurnal variation. One of these is that the northerly
or horizontal-force component of the daily variation ought to
have a maximum or a minimum at the time when the westerly
or declination component vanishes, that is to say attains its
mean position.
   Now at Greenwich, X or the horizontal-force component
has a maximum at 7 o'clock in the evening and a minimum
at noon ; while Y or the declination component vanishes a
little after 7 o'clock and between 12 and 1 in the afternoon.
At Bombay the declination-needle is at its mean value on an
average a little after 10 in the morning and about 10 in
the evening. The horizontal force has its maximum a little
after 11 in the morning and the minimum at a quarter past 9
in the evening.
   The observations at Lisbon and Hobarton show an equally
food agreement, those at St. Helena and the Cape of Good
  [ope less so ; but in these two latter places the observations
taken at different months show a considerable difference of
behaviour. On the whole, Dr. Schuster regards the agreement
as satisfactory, and as so far tending to disprove the existence
of vertical currents through the Earth's surface. Pursuing
his analysis, he comes to the conclusion, from certain ap
proximate expressions which he obtains, that the northerly
force ought to be a maximum in the morning and a minimum
in the afternoon in the equatorial regions ; while in latitudes
above 45° the minimum ought to take place in the morning.
Now this is almost exactl}- what happens. At Bombay, for
instance, the maximum of horizontal force takes place at 11
A.M., while at Greenwich the minimum takes place a little
after that time.
   Having thus obtained results which lead him to infer that

 442         Prof. Balfour Stewart on the Cause of the
 the unit pole we are observing is not immersed in the attract
 ing system, Dr. Schuster next proceeds to discuss the question
 whether this system is above us or beneath us. To do this it
 is necessary first of all to obtain an approximate value for the
 potential at the surface of the earth, and from it to derive the
 general potential. To aid in determining this we must bear
 in mind that, since the unit pole is now assumed not to be
 immersed in the attracting system, the potential V will be
  subject to the condition
                       da? + ~df + rf?~U
 or to an equivalent condition adapted to the system of coor
 dinates employed. From this Dr. Schuster deduces two
 possible expressions for the potential ; the one referring to a
 system above our heads and having powers of (r) the radius
 in its numerator, the other referring to a system beneath our
 feet and having powers of the radius in its denominator.
 Now the expression for the vertical force as derived from the
                       dY
 potential will be — -3— , the sign of which will be manifestly
 different according as r appears in the numerator or in the
 denominator of the potential in question. Which, therefore,
 of these two possible (approximate) forms of V agrees best
 with observation ? In the first place, both expressions found
by Dr. Schuster have their turning-points coincident in epoch
 with those for X, or the northerly component of the disturb
ing force ; and this is a fact confirmed by actual observation.
 But while the expression for the vertical force derived from a
system above us has its maxima and minima coincident with
 those of horizontal force at latitudes greater than 45°, in the
equatorial regions the maximum of horizontal force ought to
 bo coincident with the minimum of vertical force, and vice
 versa. Precisely the opposite arrangement should hold if the
attracting system be beneath our feet.
    Now at Greenwich the maximum of northerly force takes
place at 7 p.m. and the minimum at noon ; while the maxi
mum of vertical force takes place at 7 p.m. and the minimum
at 11 a.m.
    At Bombay the maximum of northerly force takes place at
11 a.m. and the minimum at 9 p.m.; there is a very decided
minimum of vertical force at 11 A.M., but there is no pro
nounced maximum ; two minor maxima, however, occur, one
at 6 A.M. and the other at midnight.
    On the whole it must be said that the results of this first
and praiseworthy attempt are very encouraging, and point to

     Solar Diurnal Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism.      443
the supposition that the greater portion of the disturbing
currents lies outside the Earth's surface.
    I now come to consider another aspect of the subject. It
seems quite possible to conceive a set of currents to exist in
the Earth's atmosphere without exhibiting a considerable
diurnal variation. Let us take, for instance, an ordinary
electric circuit, say of a circular shape and horizontal, and
heat it by causing some source of heat, such as a lamp, to
travel slowly around it with a definite rate of progress. It
will be evident that we shall have (assuming the current to
be otherwise constant) no variation in flow duo to this heating
effect. In like manner, if there be electric currents in the
atmosphere which circulate round the Earth in the direction
of parallels of latitude, such currents will not be subject to a
considerable solar diurnal variation. For while the conduc
tivity of a given region would vary according to the position
 of the Sun with regard to it, yet the whole circuit round
 the Earth, which would always embrace a region affected by
 the Sun, would not have its total resistance altered, at least
 not greatly altered ; and as there would be no cause for much
 alteration of the total electromotive force, there would be no
 great reason for inconstancy of current—in other words, no
 great solar diurnal variation.
     It may, however, be asked if there are any grounds for
 imagining the existence of such a set of currents. To this I
 would reply that, assuming the existence of currents in the
 upper regions of the atmosphere, their disposition would cer
 tainly be to some extent subject to magneto-electric conside
 rations. If we bear in mind the distinct connection between
 auroral beams and lines of magnetic force, we must certainly,
  I think, be prepared to admit, the possibility of perhaps even
 a marked reference to magneto-electric considerations in the
 disposition of the currents in question.
      For the purpose of the following argument we may consider
  the Earth to be at rest (i. e. devoid of rotation), and imagine
  that the Sun circulates round the equator in twenty-four
  hours. As a consequence of solar influence, we shall have
  convection-currents in the upper regions of the atmosphere
  flowing from the equator northwards and southwards towards
  the poles. Whether these currents reach the poles or come
  down in some intermediate region may be left an open ques
  tion. Now such currents will not only be conductors, but
  they will form a movable system of conductors, which we may
  suppose to be created at the equator when they rise into the
  upper regions, and destroyed at the poles or those interme
  diate regions where they descend.

444    Solar-Diurnal Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism.
   Again, for the purpose of this argument we may, without
sensible error, look upon the magnetic Earth as similar to the
class model that is sometimes used to represent it ; that is
to say, as a globe wrapped round continuously with insulated
wires in the same direction which convey an electric current,
the circles of such wires being small near the poles, and of
course large at the equator. Now if an external insulated
circuit of wire a trifle larger than the diameter of this globe
be supposed to travel from the equator to either of the poles,
it will leave behind more convolutions of the primary globe-
current than it approaches, and will therefore be traversed
by an induced current in the same direction as that of the
primary ; and the continuous travelling of such an external
insulated system might be supposed to increase the magnetic
power of the globe. Applying the same sort of reasoning to
the Earth and to the convection-currents under consideration,
these may be imagined to be traversed by equatorial currents,
the tendency of which in both hemispheres would be to in
crease the general magnetism of the globe. From the reason
already given such currents would have no solar-diurnal
variation, but yet they would be dependent upon the state of
the Sun and would vary with it. For imagine a change to
take place in the radiation of our luminary producing an
excess of such rays as are greedily absorbed by the upper
atmospheric regions ; there would be (as I have before re
marked) a sensible increase in the conductivity of these
regions even if the electromotive force remained altered, and
hence there would be an increase in the supposed equatorial
current. In other words, such currents, while presenting no
great diurnal variation, due to the carriage of a constant Sun
round the Earth, would yet be eminently susceptible to any
inconstancy in the sun itself. Now have we any such pheno
menon connected with terrestrial magnetism ? I think we have.
The late John Allan Broun has, I believe, proved that we
have changes in the mean daily value of the horizontal force
which are simultaneous, and in the same direction at places
on the Earth's surface very far removed from each other ; and
I have endeavoured to show that the changes of this nature
recorded by him depend, as far as we can judge from some
what imperfect records, upon the state of the Sun's surface,
an increased area of spotted surface coinciding apparently
with increased values of the daily means of horizontal force
all over the Earth. But my chief object in giving prominence
to this part of the subject is with the view of advocating that
the Gaussian method of analysis should not be applied merely
to the solar diurnal variations of the three magnetic elements,

                  Notices respecting New Books.                   445
but that they should likewise embrace a consideration of the
simultaneous variations in the mean daily values of the ele
ments at various stations. We must, in fine, consider the
possibility at least of there being in the upper atmospheric
regions, not merely currents which present a solar-diurnal
variation, but others that have no such variation, while yet
they may be highly susceptible to changes in the Sun. The
double method of treating mathematically not merely the
solar-diurnal variation, but likewise the simultaneous changes
in the mean daily values of the elements, would thus appear to bo
necessary, and sufficient for giving us the required informa
tion. Already the Greenwich scheme of publication embraces
not merely information connected with the solar-diurnal
variation, but gives us likewise the mean daily values of the
three elements ; and if a complete system of this nature be
pursued by a sufficient number of well-equipped magnetical
observatories, we may hope soon to obtain reasonably complete
information regarding the existence and distribution of
currents in the upper regions of the Earth's atmosphere.
               LX. Notices respecting New Books.
On the Sensations of Tone as a Physiological Basis for the Theory of
   Music. By IT. L. F. Helmholtz, M.D., Sfc. Second English
   Edition. Translated with additions by A. J. Ellis, F.R.S., #c,
   4fc. Longmans, Green, & Co. : 1885.
TT is now nearly a quarter of a century since the first appearance
¦*¦ of this book, the most recent English edition of which lies before
us. It ought to be possible by this time to form a fairly grounded
judgment as to the permanent position the work is likely to occupy
in the discussion of the matters of which it treats. And the
verdict must, as it seems, be, that while errors have been committed
on a certain number of points, and there are deficiencies here and
there in detail such as must be inevitable in a work of such mag
nitude, yet the great bulk of the book holds its own to a most
surprising extent, and bears minute investigation in a manner
characteristic of the work of a master hand. Within the limits of
a notice it would be impossible to attempt to convey an analysis of
the work, and I will only endeavour to emphasize a few points of
present importance.
   The first great controverted point is that dealt with at pp. 125-6.
This purports to be an experimental proof of the law that " the
quality of the musical portion of a compound tone depends solely
on the number and relative strength of its partial simple tones,
and in no respect on their differences of phase." Now I do not
think that the experiments described in support of this law are
sufficient, if opposed by other experiments, in which apparent

446                Notices respecting New Books.
differences in quality due to phase can be shown. Koenig has, ]
believe, attacked the supposed law in this way. And it can un
doubtedly be shown by very simple experiments that apparent
differences of quality do arise from the differences of phase. Take
two notes sounding an octave, and put them very slightly out of
tune ; then there will be a slow heavy beat consisting of variations
of intensity of the lower note (if the tones are pure). By putting
the notes in tune again the effect at any instant may be arrested
and maintained ; and thus we may obtain either a combination with
a heavy lower note, or one with a light lower note, according to
the relative phase. Whether we explain this phenomenon by
difference tones or by Koenig's hypothesis of beat notes is a
question on which I do not enter. But I point out the fact that
this supposed law of non-dependence of quality on phase is
certainly not true in fact ; for the combinations with heavy and
light lower notes obtained as above, by varying the phase, present
quite different qualities in the resulting compound, as might be
expected.
   And yet I have no doubt that the above law of Helmholtz
divines correctly what would happen if we could get rid of the
difference tones ; that is, if we could reduce the case to one of
infinitely small displacements, in which terms of the second order
could be entirely neglected. But I suppose that those who take
Koenig's view would not admit this.
   While on this point I may mention that the absence of formulae
accompanying the little tables which deal with the mathematics of
sympathy makes it very difficult to find out how they were
calculated, notwithstanding the explanations in the Appendix. In
the table of Besonance and Phase for instance (p. 125) it would be
convenient to add, " If x be the number in the column for resonance,
and r the angle, then .r2=cos r." According to the notation in the
Appendix (p. 401), the amplitude is taken to represent the reso
nance (evidently by a slip of the pen), whereas the square is
intended.
   This whole question of representing intensity of sound by the
square of the amplitude of a stationary vibration seems very
doubtful. There is perhaps hardly any other mode of treatmeut
actually ready for use ; but there can be no doubt that a correct
treatment of the question of loudness of sound must (1) deal with
the portion of sonud that reaches the ear, and not merely with the
vibration of the vibrating body (which may and generally does give
to the surrounding medium vibrations very much less than its own),
and (2) must base the theory of perception of loudness on assump
tion consistent with Fechner's law. such as the arrangement of
sounds in magnitudes, in a manner analogous to that practised in
the case of stars.
   I have long thought that the best basis for the hypothesis as to
the constitution of the resonant mechanism of the ear is afforded
by the complete explanation of the musical phenomena thus attain
able. No doubt, however, great interest attaches to the connection

                   Notices respecting New Books.                  447
of this with the actual anatomy of the ear, and the hypothesis as
to the function of the basilar membrane. I was, therefore, inter
ested to hear not long ago from an eminent physiologist that
Helmholtz's main hypothesis in this direction must be abandoned,
on the ground that birds have no cochlea ; and we know that birds
have an accurate perception of musical pitch, as they can sing tunes.
I have therefore made inquiry, and I am satisfied that the most
recent work on the subject presents accounts of such essential
organs, including the membrana basilaris in remarkably complete
development, in the case of birds, as are at all events sufficient to
prevent this point being taken as a conclusive objection in limine.
 Of course on the detail of an anatomical question I should not
venture an opinion.
    I have always thought that the account of the origin of difference
tones of the higher orders given in the text is unsatisfactory. It
is inconceivable that where, for instance, the primary difference
tone is so faint as to be inaudible, a higher tone should be due to
its reaction with one of the original notes. Elsewhere I have
attempted to give what I believe to be a correct account of this
matter. This point has certainly been one of those which have
been seized upon with most success by those who have objected to
Helmholtz's doctrines in general.
    Passing over many points which deserve mention, we may
endeavour to form an opinion as to the nature of the general
results, as embodied in ch. six., headed " Besults of the Investi
gation," and " Esthetical Relations." I cannot help feeling that on
this ground the results of the physical investigation, highly inter
esting as they are in themselves, seem to fail us. After all we
cannot get behind the natural feeling for the beauty of melodic
phrase. Or, as Helmholtz says (pp. 306-7), " What is esthetically
 beautiful is recognized by the immediate judgment of a cultivated
taste, which declares it pleasing or displeasing, without comparison
with any law or any independent conception." This last phrase
 represents the meaning of the original as 1 understand it. The
 version in the present edition seems to me not quite correct ; and
 it is hard to understand, as the sense in which the word ' concep
 tion ' is used is not sufficiently indicated by the context. I think
 that the education of the ear by custom plays a much more
 important part in the whole subject than is assigned to it in this
 work. And important as the esthetics of melody may be as
 expounded in ch. xix., I cannot feel that I am much the wiser
 for them, in the sense of knowing to which of the endowments of
 the organism I am to look for the secret of the perception of
 melodic beauty as expressed in the above quotation.
     Mr. Ellis's part of the work is, as usual, very complete. If a
  remark is admissible, I should say that the notes are a little over
  done. However, no doubt it is better to err on the side of copious
  information. Mr. Ellis's Appendix contains a quantity of matter
  of interest. I may particularly mention the complete history of
  musical pitch, well known as a paper read before the Society of

448                       Geological Society.
Arte. Also on temperament, the combination or beat note con
troversy, and other matters, very full information is given.
    A trifling point of translation : —The heading of chap. is. should
be, " Depth and Deepest Tones ; " not " Deep and Deepest Tones."
And on this subject I say, as I have said before, that none of the
experiments here mentioned are comparable for a moment with
such experiments as can be made with large open 32 feet organ-
pipes, on account of the comparatively enormous amounts of power
that can be employed in connection with such pipes. And it can
be shown, by a simple process of analysis by beats of consecutive
semitones, that the notes of such pipes are generally free from
octave, and form something of the nature of sound right down to
the lowest notes (16-17 per second). Even with stopped lC's
which purport to give the same notes, the fundamentals thus tested
generally prove to be absent in the lower octave : and I cannot
believe that with any less amount of power these notes can really
be produced in perceptible magnitude.
     This volume supplies the critical student of the subject not only
with references up to date, but also with a large amount of new
matter. It is a perfect library in itself.
                                               E. H. M. BOBANQTOT.
               LXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 866.]
         March 24, 1886.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.E.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
nTTTF. following communications were read :—
 -*¦     1. " On the Genus DiphyphyUum, Lonsdale." By James
Thomson, Esq., F.G.S.
    2. " On additional Evidence of the Occurrence of Glacial condi
tions in the Palaeozoic Era, and on the Geological Age of the Beds
containing Plants of Mesozoic type in India and Australia." By
Dr. W. T. Blanford, F.E.S., Sec. G.S.
     After recapitulating briefly the principal facts known as to the
correlation of the Karoo formation of South Africa, the Gondwana
system of India, and the Coal-measures and associated beds of
Eastern Australia, and especially noticing those phenomena in the
different strata that had been attributed to the action of ice, the
author proceeded to describe the additions recently made to previous
knowledge by various members, past or present, of the Geological
Survey of India, and especially by Mr. B. Oldham and Dr. Waugcii.
These additions had recently been published in the Records of the
Geological Survey of India.
     Mr. It. Oldham, in a recent visit to Australia, had come to the
same conclusion as all other geologists who had visited the country,
and clearly showed, as the Bev. W. B. Clarke and many others had
done, that beds containing Olossopteris, Phyllotheca and Noeggera-
thiopsis were intercalated among marine beds with Carboniferous

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            449
fossils. The age of these marine beds was shown by Dr. Waagen
to be that of the European Coal-measures. Mr. Oldham had, how
ever, further ascertained the presence in abundance of smoothed
and striated boulders, evidently transported by ice, in the marine
Carboniferous beds north of Newcastle, N.S.W., and he consequently
considered these beds, and not the overlying Hawkesbury, the equi
valents of the Bacchus-marsh beds of Victoria, and of the Talchirs
of India, a view which was in accordance with the relations of the
fossil flora.
    Meantime Dr. Waagen had received from Dr. H. Warth some
fossils from the Salt-range of the Punjab. The fossils came from
the upper part of a boulder-bed, tho resemblance of which to the
Talchir group at the base of the Gondwana system had long been
recognized, but which had hitherto been classed with a stage im
mediately overlying, containing Upper Cretaceous fossils. The
fossils now found by Dr. Warth included two forms of Conularia
found in the Australian Carboniferous rocks, besides some other
species evidently of Carboniferous age. Dr. Waagen consequently
classod the boulder-bed together with other similar formations in
other parts of the Salt-range as Carboniferous. There was one
difficulty : the fossils just referred to were considered by Mr. Wynne
to be contained in pebbles derivative from another bed. It was,
however, shown that this did not affect the age of other boulder-
beds in the Salt-range, and that tho latter were connected with the
 Talchir beds in Central India by another discovery of Mr. K.
Oldham's that a boulder-bed in the Indian deserts was also pro
bably of Talchir age, and that the question as to whether the
 nodules containing the Conularice, &c. were concretions or pebbles
 might await further examination in the field.
    Another contribution to the question had been made by Mr. Gries-
bach, who had recently found a boulder-bed which, from its character
and fossils, he considered as Talchir, in the neighbourhood of Herat.
    It was pointed out that the existence, over such extensive areas,
 of boulder-beds, all of which might, without any improbability, bo
 of approximately the same age, rendered it highly probable that all
 were really contemporaneous and due to one Glacial period ; that
 this period must have been towards the close of the Palaeozoic era,
 which it may possibly have terminated by exterminating many of the
 principal forms of life. Tho peculiar flora of the Australian New
 castle beds and of the Indian Damudas, having nothing in common
 with the contemporaneous European Carboniferous flora, afforded
 an important proof of distinct botanical provinces in past times.
          LXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
         MAGNETIC INVESTIGATIONS.           BT G. WIEDEMANN.
  A      APER on this subject appears in the March number of
¦**- Wiedemann's Annalen, a translation of which will appear in
an early number of this Journal.
    The principal results of this research are as follows :—
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 132. May 1886.                    2I

450          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   1. The theory of magnetism put forth by Mr. Hughes as new is
only a repetition of the author's far older theory.
   2. The mutual relations between torsion and magnetism may, as
has already been set forth by the author, be referred to a rotation
of the magnetic molecules ; but they cannot, as argued by Maxwell
and by Chrystal, be explained solely by an extension and compres
sion of the twisted wires.
   3. The rotations of the molecules produced by torsion in nickel
are exactly opposite to the rotations which they undergo in iron.
   4. When temporarily magnetized wires have attained their stage
of accommodation by being repeatedly twisted backwards and
forwards on their fixed limits, the degree of magnetization is
almost exactly the same at both limits ; but the magnetization at
the two limits of twisting differs in the case of temporary transverse
circular magnetization, or permanent magnetization of either kind.
   5. In all cases, by the torsion or detorsion of wires from one or
the other limit, the magnetic moment changes in nearly the same
way, and at first more quickly than by further twisting, so that the
maximum or minimum, and accordingly the average magnetization,
does not lie in the middle between the two limits.
   6. The latter values, moreover, do not coincide with the permanent
positions of equilibrium of the wires after removal of the twisting
forces.
   7. When a wire is twisted backwards and forwards by given
forces between certain limits, after accommodation, the temporary
torsion corresponding to a mean force is less with increasing than
with decreasing forces.
   8. According to Eighi, Fromme, and Warburg an analogous be
haviour is likewise exhibited as regards the temporary magnetization
produced by increasing and decreasing magnetizing forces. This
subsists also after the complete accommodation of the molecules.
   9. The thermoelectric behaviour between alternately stretched
and unstretched wires and unaltered wires, observed by Cohn, agrees
generally with the results mentioned under 4 and 8 ; so also does
the thermoelectric behaviour of alternately twisted and untwisted
wires, as well as the corresponding changes in their conductivity.
   10. By repeated temporary torsion up to a fixed limit the per
manent torsion of a wire gradually rises to a maximum. In like
manner, on repeated temporary magnetizations to the same degree,
the permanent magnetic moment rises to a maximum.
   11. Accordingly the molecules only attain their final positions of
equilibrium after repeated turnings and shifting between certain
limits, whether as the result of changes of figure, or as the result
of magnetization. Hence they do not at once yield completely to
the forces acting upon them at each instant. If a force opposite
in direction to the first one afterwards acts, the same thing happens ;
the lagging of the molecules in respect of the position due to the
original force can thus be always recognized. These further
analogies between changes of form and magnetization are a further
evidence for the mechanical theory of the latter.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              451
    12. The behaviour of mechanically deformed or magnetized bodies
is different in changes of temperature, in which relations of this
kind after accommodation of the molecules are no longer clearly
apparent.
      A LECT0RE EXPERIMENT ON THE DIFFUSION OF OASES.
                         BY A. WINKELMANN.
    On the occasion of experiments which were intended to deter
mine the tension of elastic vapour in spaces filled with gas, I
made the observation that the pressure of the vapour only became
constant after the lapse of a very long time. If into a tube over
mercury containing air under a pressure of about 0*300 millim. an
excess of liquid be introduced, the vapour does not at once fill the
space above the mercury. This only takes place slowly in accord
ance with the progress of the diffusion of vapours in the air above.
As long as the density of the vapour is not everywhere the same,
the pressure of the mixture of gas and vapour is not a maximum.
   This method may be well used to show the difference between the
velocity of diffusion in various gases, for instance air and hydrogen.
With this view air and hydrogen are filled into two equally long
barometer-tubes so that the mercury is at the same height. If
then ether in excess is added to each tube, the mercury sinks more
rapidly in the tube containing hydrogen, and after a few minutes
the tubes show a marked difference in pressure, as is seen from the
following numbers, which were obtained at a temperature of about
 15°:—
                                    Height of the Mercury.
                                    *          *         -^
   Time, in                           Air,       Hydrogen,   Difference,
   minutes.                        millim.        millim.      millim.
       0 without the ether           449            449           0
       2 with the ether              361            346          16
       4     „     „                 359            332          27
       8     „                       355            316          40
     18      „     „                 332            280          52
    Hence ether vapour diffuses far more rapidly in hydrogen than
in air..
    Ultimately the difference of pressure in the two tubes diminishes
and becomes zero. This lasts some time, for after two hours the
difference was still 30 mm.—Wiedemann's Annalen, No. 3, 1886.
       ON VAPOUR AND MIST.       BY ROBERT VON HELMHOLTZ.
    The final results of the experiments and arguments on the for
 mation of mist are stated by the author as follows :—
   The formation of mist in moist air does not exactly coincide with
the occurrence of normal saturation, but with one somewhat
greater. This is partly due to the fact that there is greater tension
over convex vesicles than over plane surfaces.
    The formation of mist, at any rate after introducing a correction,

452            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
is a sensitive and accurate criterion of saturation if care be taken
that
    First, the air contains approximately a normal quantity of
solid particles of dust ; it is sufficient for this that it is not filtered,
and is renewed from time to time.
    Secondly, the air must be free from any bodies which act chemi
cally on aqueous vapour ; solids and vapours of acids are most to
be feared in this way.
    If these conditions are fulfilled, adiabatic cooling furnishes a
convenient way of determining the degree of saturation of air j for
instance, of calculating the vapour-pressure of solutions.
   This calculation gives at lower temperatures, that is below
30° C, values for the depression of tension, which are freer from
errors of observation than direct measurements by means of mer
curial columns.
    In order, however, to anticipate a similar degree of accuracy at
higher temperatures, the ratio of the specific heats of aqueous
vapour should be determined with greater accuracy than it has
hitherto been.—Wiedemann's Annalen, No. 4, 1886.
ON THE WEIGHT AND THE CAUSE OF THE LATER OF WATER ON
    GLASS AND OTHER BODIES. BY E. WARBURG AND T. IHMOBI,
    FROM JAPAN.
   The results of this investigation are thus given :—
    1. Above the dew-point no weighable deposit of water could
be observed on bodies with smooth surfaces insoluble in water
(platinum, glass with a coating of silicic acid, glass free from
a Ikali) ; from- the sensitiveness of the balance used, the thickness of
any such layer could not exceed one or two millionths of a
millimetre.
   2. The film of water which forms above the dew-point on alkaline
glass arises from a small quantity of free or loosely combined
alkali on the surface of the glass. This must each time absorb
water until the pressure of the vapour above the solution of alkali
found is equal to the pressure in the place of experiment.
   3. This deposit on alkaline glass, which can be weighed, is the
cause of the electrical surface-conductivity which such glass shows
in moist air when tried by the electroscope ; any glass, which, with
the balance in question, showed no weighable deposit of water,
was found to be a good insulator when tested by the electroscope.
    4. Bock-salt showed a deposit of moisture some millionths of a
millimetre in thickness at temperatures for which the pressure of
vapour was greater over a saturated solution of chloride of sodium
than the pressure in the place of experiment. There was, however,
in the rock-salt used a small quantity of magnesium chloride, which
must attract moisture, until the pressure of vapour over the solu
tion of magnesium chloride formed was equal to the pressure of
vapour in the place of experiment.—Wiedemann's Annalen, No. 4,
1886.

                                  THE
         LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                  AND
      JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                           JUNE 1886.
    LXIII. On tlie Conservation of Energy in tlie Earth's
               Atmosphere. By Werner Siemens *.
 IN my communication to the Academy, " On the Admissi
      bility of the Assumption of a Solar Electric Potential,
and its Importance for the Explanation of Terrestrial Pheno
mena " t, I have endeavoured to refer certain still enigmatical
meteorological phenomena to disturbances of the equilibrium
of the atmosphere. Further consideration of these interest
ing questions has shown me that a consistent application of
the fundamental law of conservation of energy in the atmo
sphere leads to a much more complete explanation of them
than I had recognized.
   The interdependence of meteorological phenomena has been
minutely studied by meteorologists of late years.
   There exists upon this subject an almost immeasurable mass
of observations, upon which many ingenious theories have
been founded. These are, however, for the most part con
cerned with secondary phenomena, and rest therefore upon a
narrow foundation. It would even appear as if modern
meteorology had somewhat neglected, for these special studies,
the inquiry into the primary causes of the phenomena ob
served. Dove, in his theory of winds and storms, does, how
ever, seek their cause altogether in the ascending currents of
  • Translated from the Sitzungsberichte der Koniglich preussischen Aka-
demie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, March 4, 1886, vol. xiii.
  t Sitzungsberichte, March 31, 1883 ; Phil. Mag. September 1883.
Phil. May. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 133. June 1886.                  2K

454          Dr. Werner Siemens on tlie Conservation
the torrid zone which form an expanded ring of air above it,
which must flow over towards the poles, and he accounts for
the constant change in direction and strength of the winds
by the conflict between this equatorial current and the masses
of air returning from the poles towards the equator. Even
if there were no true ground to be found for this contest of
opposed currents of air, and although it was not easy to
understand why, with the great uniformity of the mean pres
sure of the whole atmosphere, the air should move with such
great energy from the polar regions towards the equator, so
distant in comparison with the height of the atmosphere, yet
his explanation was at any rate more satisfactory than the
usual almost exclusive reference of the motions in the at
mosphere in high latitudes to maxima and minima of atmo
spheric pressure, of which one is absolutely unable to say
whence they come and whither they go. These explanations
of the direction and strength of winds can be regarded as
having a scientific foundation only when it is shown where
the forces act and are located which accumulate such enormous
energy in maxima and minima, in a manner often not at all
evident, and which then, in turn, produce storms and
cyclones.
   An attempt is made in the following pages to supply these
gaps from the Theory of the Conservation of Energy.
   It is universally admitted that all life and all motion on
the earth originates in the sun's radiation. Without a supply
of heat from the solar radiations the atmosphere would be
without motion, or rather would follow the earth's rotation
without any proper relative change of place and temperature,
if wo neglect the radiation of the stars and the earth's in
ternal heat. The rotation of the earth would give to the
atmosphere the form of an ellipsoid of revolution, assuming
 that at the temperature of space it was still gaseous and
 obeyed Mariotte's law, but could not produce any permanent
circulation of air. Since the mean temperature and mean
motion of the atmosphere change in any definite time just as
little as the rotation of the earth itself, there must be stored
up in the earth's atmosphere a constant quantity of solar
 energy in the form of sensible and latent heat, potential
 energy of masses of air in motion or local accumulations of
pressure. Consequently the supply of heat from the radiation
 of the sun and stars must be equal to the loss of heat by
 radiation into space. The supply of heat is effected partly by
 the direct absorption by the atmosphere of the rays which
 traverse it, but chiefly by the heating of the earth's surface,
 and the heat thus absorbed is chiefly used up in warming the

                    of Energy in the Atmospliere.               455
 lower layers of air and in evaporating water. The loss of
 heat by radiation into space also takes place chiefly from the
 solid and liquid surface of the earth, and only to a very small
 extent directly from the mass of air. There are here two
 important considerations to be taken into account. Whilst
 the solar radiation, regarded as radiated from one point, falls
 chiefly upon low latitudes, the radiation from the earth into
 all parts of space is independent of latitude, and depends
 only on the differences between the temperature of the radia
 ting portions of the earth's surface and that of space. Since
 the radiation of the stars, which apparently gives heat to
 space, is under precisely the same conditions for all parts of
 the earth's surface as its radiation, it may be neglected, and
 the temperature of space is to be taken as absolute zero. Of
 the radiation it is further to be observed that the direct loss by
 radiation of the higher and more rarefied layers of air must
 be greater than that of the lower layers, since radiation is
 greater in vacuo than in a space filled with air.
    This having been premised, the following conditions for
 the equilibrium of the atmosphere may be stated :—
    1. The condition of equilibrium of the atmosphere at rest
 is indifferent, the corresponding curve of temperature adia-
 batic. This amounts to saying that the transference of a
 mass of air from one height to another—disregarding any
 loss from friction—is accompanied neither by loss nor gain
of work.
    2. A disturbance of the indifferent equilibrium of the at
 mosphere, corresponding to a local accumulation of energy,
is produced by the heating of the masses of air lying nearer
 the earth's surface by means of the sun's rays above the
appropriate adiabatic temperature, as well as by the cooling
of the higher layers of air through increased radiation. The
heat employed in the evaporation of water increases this dis
turbance of equilibrium in the same direction and ratio, since
aqueous vapour has a smaller specific heat than air, and since
the latent heat ofthe vapour condensed by the adiabatic cooling
of the air as it rises is used in the heating and expansion of
air.
   3. The energy accumulated in the disturbance of the neutral
equilibrium of the atmosphere by excessive heating of the
lower layers, and excessive cooling of the upper layers, must
distribute itself by means of ascending and descending cur
rents of air. In accordance with Glausius's second law of
the mechanical theory of heat, the excess of heat of the ex
panding air is chiefly transformed into the vis viva of moving
air ; to a smaller extent it is distributed in larger and com
                                2K2

456         Dr. Werner Siemens on the Conservation
paratively cooler masses of air. The current of air rising
with increasing velocity must therefore retain a positive
excess of heat up to the highest rarefaction, the descending
stream a negative excess above the adiabatic temperature
corresponding to the height.
    4. The energy accumulated in the ascending and descend
ing currents of air can only be destroyed again by being
again transformed into heat by internal or external friction,
or by local increase of pressure.
    5. The mechanical energy accumulated in the rotation of
 the atmosphere round the earth's axis must be constant, and
 in the condition of relative rest must correspond to the
velocity of rotation of that part of the earth's surface upon
 which it rests. Since, in consequence of polar and equatorial
currents, a constant change in the geographical position of
 the air-masses takes place, the velocity of rotation of the
 whole atmosphere must lag behind the velocity of rotation of
 the earth's surface in low latitudes, and must gain upon it
 in higher latitudes. The magnitude of the friction with the
 earth, which diminishes these differences in velocity, must be
 as great in equatorial latitudes as in the polar latitudes, in
 order that the constancy of the mean velocity of rotation of
 the whole atmosphere may be preserved. The velocity lost
 by friction influences, therefore, only the local magnitude of
 the difference in velocity.
     6. At the boundaries of currents of different velocities there
 takes place a constant mixing of neighbouring portions of
 air having different velocities. By this process, analogous to
  friction, there is caused a retardation of the more swiftly
 moving currents, and an acceleration of the slower ones pro
  portional to the difference in velocity. There is thus pro
  duced in the boundaries an increase of pressure in the swifter,
  and a decrease of pressure in the slower, currents of air.
     Of these fundamental statements only the last two require
 special explanation.
     If we suppose the whole atmosphere in relative rest, and if
 we neglect its height as small in comparison with the radius
 of the earth, then its vis viva is
                 ._4rV£f+£ nna ,         16 rV?
 where K is the sum of the vis viva, q the weight of the air
  resting on the unit area, T the time of revolution of the earth
  in seconds, and a the angle of latitude. This gives for the

                     of Energy in the Atmosphere.                       457
mean velocity of the air, corresponding to this value of vis
viva'                    /¥ 2rrr
                 C=<\/o # -~-=379m. per second.
This is the velocity corresponding to the 35th degree of
latitude.
    If we now imagine the whole atmosphere suddenly in
timately mixed in such a way that each particle should have
assumed the above mean velocity, then the air from the
equator up to the 35th degree of latitude must rotate slower
than the earth's surface, but in higher latitudes, on the con
trary, faster ; under the equator itself this difference in
velocity would be 84 metres in the direction from east to
west, at 45°, 59 metres, and under the 54th degree of latitude
107 metres in the direction from west to east. By friction
with the earth's surface this difference of velocity would
gradually be destroyed again if no currents of air in the
direction from the equator to the poles, and in the opposite
direction, were produced. Since these currents, however,
 always do occur, a condition of equilibrium must result, in
 which the mixture of the more rapidly rotating equatorial air
 with the more slowly rotating polar air is so far accomplished
 that the accelerating friction of' the equatorial zone up to the
 35th degree of north and south latitude is equal to the re
 tarding friction of the rest of the earth's surface. Hence in
 the whole atmosphere of the equatorial zone east winds must
 prevail, and west winds in the regions lying north and south
 from 35°, and moreover the preponderance of the west winds
 must increase with the latitude *.
     We will now consider the hypothetical case, that the earth
is a smooth solid globe of homogeneous surface, and that the
water.contained in the atmosphere is vanishingly small. Then
    * I regret that the recently published Handbook of Dr. A. Sprung has
 only reached me a short time ago, from which I learn that Ferrel, from
 similar observations, has also designated the 35th. degree of latitude as
 that above which the whole of the air-currents must have a meridional
 direction. I cannot, however, adopt his view, that in consequence of
 the retarding friction of the air on the surface of the earth the position
 of this zone must be displaced towards the equator. Friction at the
 earth's surface can, according to my view, only diminish the difference
 in velocity, that of the lower equatorially directed current of air, but not
 the place where this difference between the velocity of the earth and air
 is zero. It is evidently the endeavour of the author of this important
 work to furnish a mechanico-physical foundation for meteorological
 phenomena, and he has therefore frequently arrived at conclusions
 similar to those presented here. It is unfortunately not possible for me
 to examine further the, in some respects important, differences between
 us.

458         Dr. Werner Siemens on the Conservation
the neutral equilibrium and the adiabatic temperature of the
strata at different heights of the atmosphere can bo influenced
only by the currents of air which are caused by the various
heating of the air by the sun's rays and by the various cooling of
the same bjr radiation. The heating of the air, and especially of
the lower strata, is by far the greatest in the equatorial zone,
 and from there decreases approximately as the cosine of the
 latitude. Consequently, the transformation of solar energy
 into the kinetic energy of air in motion must be greatest at the
 equator, and decrease towards the poles. This transforma
 tion takes place in the ascending current. If, moreover, we
 disregard, for the present, the displacement of the hot zone,
 due to the change of seasons, we have present the conditions
 for a universal and continuous up-current of air. In fact, we
 have in the lower trade-winds a continuous flow of air from
 regions near the pole towards the equator. This current of
 air must have here a smaller velocity of rotation than the
 earth's surface situated under it, and must therefore have the
 direction from east to west, for the reason already mentioned,
 of the maintenance of the mean velocity of rotation of the
 atmosphere.
     Since the northern and southern components of the two
 lower trade-currents, regarded as of equal strength, as they
 approach the equator rise from opposite sides, their vis viva
 increases the upward drift of the air. There must therefore
  take place an upward motion of the whole mass of air of the
  hot zone in spirals of opposite direction to the rotation of the
  earth. Only over the equator itself will there be left a ring
  of air which cannot take part in this upward motion, and
  whose northern and southern surfaces are grazed by the
  spirally-rising trade-winds. These, carrying with, them the
  surface-layers of the relatively quiescent equatorial mass of
  air, must produce in it vortices which communicate to the
  centre of this mass of air an opposite velocity thus opposed
  to the rotation of the earth. This is the region of calms. The
  portions of the trade-winds lying next to the earth's surface,
  and thus more strongly heated, unite above the wedge-shaped
  ring of calms and form the central portion of the great equa
  torial upward-current. The velocity with which these masses
  of air ascend must increase in proportion with the rarefaction
  of the air brought about by decrease in pressure ; since equal
  masses of air must pass through every horizontal section in
  unit time, and the vis viva thus obtained must drive the cur
  rent high above the upper surface of the atmosphere until
  its weight, no longer balanced by the pressure of the sur
  rounding strata of air, has destroyed the vertical component
  of its velocity. Hence we have formed above the centre of

                  of Energy in the Atmosphere.                   459
the hot zone the equatorial ring of air, as described by Dove,
obviously similar to the solar prominences and flames which
must continually flow over towards the poles.
   This overflow is produced by the increasing pressure of
the air-masses driven out by the velocity gained in the ascent
over the pressure-equilibrium ; the velocity which this pres
sure communicates to the poleward-flowing highly rarefied
masses of air must therefore be equivalent to the maximum
velocity gained in the ascent. It is, however, only the
central strata, nearest to the equator, of the extensive region
of the equatorial up-current which can preserve the vertical
direction so as to destroy the vertical component of their
motion by gravitation. This follows at once from the con
sideration that everywhere in the earth's atmosphere the
masses of air which flow towards the poles and towards the
equator must be equal for each latitude, unless local differ
ences of pressure take place. The part of a mass of air rising
with accelerated velocity in the hot zone must therefore be
the sooner deflected polewards, the more distant it is from the
equator. If we trace the paths of these different air-currents,
we see that the strata of the masses of air streaming towards
the equator which lie nearest the earth's surface—which also
are the most heated by the sun's rays, in the neighbourhood of
the equator—stream upwards vertically, up to the greatest
height, and from thence are driven with the greatest velocity
towards the poles ; that the higher strata of the trade-winds do
not reach the greatest heights of the atmosphere, and are driven
so much the sooner polewards from the equator the greater
their distance from it, and the greater at the same time their
original height above the earth's surface.
   The course of the air-currents in the hot zone will then be
as follows :—The lower trade-wind, retarded at the earth's
surface by friction with the earth, increases in velocity as its
height above the earth's surface increases. Then at an unknown
height we have a space between the upper and lower trade-
winds filled with horizontal cyclones. Above that, the current
towards the pole prevails up to the greatest height of the
atmosphere, and moreover the velocity of this current increases
in rapid proportion with the height.
   It must here be observed that ascending and descending
masses of air retain their local velocity of rotation, and that with
increasing latitude the bed of the pole-directed current narrows
whilst that of the equatorial current enlarges. Hence there
results a constant increase of pressure in the pole-directed
current, and a decrease in the equatorial current. In conse
quence of this combined action, a general return-flow, in
creasing with the cosine of the latitude of the upper pole

460         Dr. Werner Siemens on the Conservation
directed current, into the lower equatorial current must take
(>lace. The partial change of the upper current into the
 ower one will take place by means of the tract of horizontal
cyclones separating the two regions without any important
loss of vis viva. If there were no earth-rotation, this return-
flow would take place up to the poles without disturbance.
The loss of vis viva by internal friction can only be small in
the higher strata of air, on account of their great dimensions.
They will therefore flow into the polar regions from all sides
 with little loss of velocity, there produce a blockade and sink to
 the earth's surface, in order to return to the equator as a polar
 current. This process would take place partially in all lati
 tudes, and the final result would be a system of cyclones
 taking place in meridional planes, embracing the whole
 atmosphere, in which the vis viva obtained by the impulse in
 lower latitudes is again destroyed by friction with the earth's
 surface and by internal friction communicating the same to
 the higher strata of air, or is converted into heat.
    This representation of the circulation is, however, essentially
 altered by the rotation of the earth.
    In consequence of the continual transference of air from
 lower latitudes to higher ones, and conversely, the atmosphere
 must assume a mean velocity of rotation, so that the kinetic
 energy accumulated in the whole rotation may remain un
 altered. As already shown, this mean velocity of rotation cor
 responds to that of the 35th degree of latitude. Consequently,
 the courses of all air-currents must be displaced. Between the
 35th degrees of north and south latitude, both the upper and
 under currents will lag behind the earth, and thus acquire a
 westerly direction ; whilst between the 35th degrees and the
 poles a velocity increasing rapidly with the latitude, over
 taking the earth's rotation, and thus eastward, must prevail
 in both currents. The return of the upper pole-directed
 current to the equator takes place therefore below the 35th
 degree in westerly paths as strengthening of the lower trade-
 wind, and the cyclonic motions separating the upper from the
 under current must also assume this figure of motion.
    The motions of the air beyond the 35th degree assume a
 more complicated form ; whilst the upper air-current, here
  wholly directed to the pole, will retain its eastward velocity
  of about 380 m. almost without, alteration—since the re
  tardation of the same by internal friction can only be very
  small in the higher regions of the air—the returning lower
  current will be very considerably retarded by friction with
 the earth's surface, and the more so the longer this lower
  course is.

                  of Energy in the Atmosphere.                461
   The same holds good of the meridional velocity, which in
the higher strata is very little diminished by friction, but in
the lower strata very much diminished.
   If, now, with increase of latitude the upper current-bed has
become so contracted that a block takes place, the resulting
local increase of pressure produces at the same time a disturb
ance in the curve of neutral equilibrium of the atmosphere.
The excess of air flowing in must therefore at first compress
the lower strata of air in such a way that the curve of equili
brium shall be reestablished down to the earth's surface.
There results therefore a descending current of air, and an
increase of pressure on the earth's surface depending upon
 the ratio of the increase of pressure in the higher regions of
the air to its normal pressure—that is, a local maximum of
atmospheric pressure. From this region of higher pressure
currents will issue in radial directions along the earth's sur
 face, which prevent the complete reestablishment of the neutral
equilibrium corresponding to the increase of pressure in the
higher rarefied strata of air.
    Such a maximum of pressure may therefore persist for a
 long time ; and, since it continuously supplies the excess of
 the inflowing equatorial air to the lower return-current, may
 even hinder for a long time the formation of a regular deflec
 tion of the upper current into the lower one. This must,
 however, finally take place, and with the cessation of the
 block in the upper strata of air ceases also the cause of the
 maximum.
    The formation of the return-branch of the equatorial cur
 rent is to be conceived as occurring in consequence of the
 continually increasing deflection towards the east of the cur
 rent hemmed in, in consequence of the block in its progress
 towards the pole, so that it carries with it by internal friction
 the lower strata of air, relatively quiescent or moving in the
 opposite direction. It will therefore approach the earth's
 surface on a wide curve of gentle fall, until it finally unites
 with the polar current and enters upon its return journey to
 the equator. But by thus "carrving with it" the lower
 strata of air, it will produce a rarefaction of the bounding
 strata of air under it, and consequently one of the already-
 described opposite disturbances of the neutral equilibrium.
 There must therefore result an up-current of the lower strata
of air to restore the neutral equilibrium, and a local minimum
of atmospheric pressure on the surface of the earth results.
The magnitude of the decrease of atmospheric pressure here
 observed is, just as with the maximum, not equal to the
 actual decrease of pressure caused by the carrying-power of

 462         Dr. Werner Siemens on the Conservation
 the more rapidly-moving upper current of air, bnt to the
 ratio of this to the pressure corresponding to that height in
 the curve of neutral equilibrium. We have thus a complete
 explanation of the otherwise enigmatical magnitude of the
 observed variations in the barometer in medium and high
 latitudes.
    On the earth's surface the local minimum so produced will
 draw in air from all sides, which ascends in cyclonic move
 ment and is finally carried away with the equatorial current.
 It is thus here also the vis viva of the equatorial current
 which produces and maintains the minimum, and thus also
 puts the air into motion which streams in along the surface
 of the ground towards the minimum ; since the maximum of
 pressure is thus, in consequence of the geographical compres
 sion of the upper current, the cause of a resulting partial
 return-current of the equatorial current, and the path which
 this return-current describes in the upper regions gradually
 sinking is marked by a division of low pressure on the earth s
 surface. Maxima and minima thus stand in a causal connec
 tion, and therefore, as a rule, are produced simultaneously and
 in geographical neighbourhood.
    The air-currents caused by these two in the lower strata of
 air must therefore combine into currents which pass essentially
 from maximum to minimum, but the direction of which is
altered in known manner by the earth's rotation. This system
of local winds must, however, finally yield to the equatorial
current itself when it reaches the earth's surface in its gradual
descent. As a rule (i. e. with insignificant blocking in the
upper current-bed) this will in fact not occur. The return-
stream which has been begun is completed by accumulation
upon the higher strata of the polar return-current, and maxima
and minima disappear after constant current-conditions have
been again established in the higher strata of the atmosphere.
If, however, any considerable block takes place, it brings about
powerful maxima of pressure and a more rapid descent of the
equatorial return-current. Over a tract of low pressure this
will fall to the ground with a velocity but little diminished by
carrying with it relatively tranquil air, and will here produce
storms, which in the northern hemisphere begin as south-west,
in accordance with Dove's law of rotation, through west and
north-west, gradually becoming weaker by friction with the
ground and carrying on with it relatively quiescent air, finally
are absorbed in the prevailing return-current to the equator.
These storm-winds must now, by convection of neighbouring
strata of air, produce cyclonic aerial movement far beyond
their own limits, which make it very much more difficult to
trace the regular course of the atmospheric disturbance.

                      of Energy in the Atmosphere.                      463
    That the barometer, as a rule, still stands low when the
equatorial current itself has already reached the ground is
explained for the most part by the fact that, in consequence
of convective power of the moving air, all the quiescent
masses of air in the neighbourhood of the current suffer rare
faction. But the barometer shows the pressure of the sur
rounding quiescent air, and not the true pressure of the air
entangled in the movement. A barometer in the car of a
balloon moving rapidly with a storm must therefore indicate
a perceptibly higher pressure than a stationary one*.
     The vis viva active in winds and storms has thus its origin
 essentially in the acceleration which the air rising in the tropics
 attains in consequence of superheating at the earth's surface.
 The vis viva equivalent to this is transferred especially to the
 upper highly rarefied strata of air. In consequence of their
 momentum these are driven, with small loss of velocity by
 internal friction, to the polar regions of the earth. They
 retain the mean velocity of rotation which they possessed
  when raised in the equatorial latitudes. They must therefore,
  when they pass to higher latitudes, move more rapidly than
 the more slowly rotating earth, and hence, as seen from the
  earth, must approach the poles in spirals of decreasing incli
  nation. If on this course they turn still earlier towards the
  earth's surface, in consequence of the narrowing of the upper
  current-bed, and so return to the equator united with the
  returning masses of air from higher latitudes, they strike
  these, and with more rapid descent the earth's surface itself,
  with a velocity combined of their own proper velocity and the
  difference between their velocity of rotation and that of the
  earth's surface at the point of contact. The source from
  which the storms of high latitude really draw their destructive
  energy is therefore the momentum of the earth itself. In
   order that its rotation may remain unchanged, the law must
   hold good that the acceleration which the earth receives from
   the difference in velocity in high latitudes is compensated by
   the retardation which it suffers in low latitudes, in which the
   mean rotation of the air is smaller than that of the earth's surface.
      • Experiments that I have made, and of which I reserve a fuller
   account, have shown that a current of air, which passes by the mouth of
   a narrow tube placed at right angles to its direction, produces in this
  tube a rarefaction proportional to the velocity of the air, which corre
   sponds, within wide limits of velocity, to the pressure of a mercury-
   column of 0-025millim. for each metre of air-velocity. I have constructed
   an anemometer upon this principle, which shows the velocity of the air
   very simply and without complicated apparatus. It consists essentially
   of a narrow vertical tube, which is carried as high as possible above the
   roof of the house. Any simple arrangement for measuring pressure
   placed in the room then gives directly the velocity of the air in metres.

464         Dr. Werner Siemens on the Conservation
   It follows at once from these considerations that with in
creasing geographical latitude the frequency and strength of
the air-currents in the direction of the earth's rotation—that
is, in our hemisphere, the west winds—must increase rapidly.
In the arctic regions themselves, the highest strata of the
equatorial current, which alone can reach so far without
having been compelled to return, must flow downwards to
the earth's surface in north-easterly spirals. Hence, and
from the rush on all sides towards the pole, they mnst pro
duce an arctic maximum, and after sinking with preservation
of their velocity must commence their return to the equator
as a lower north-west wind. It is therefore again the vis viva
obtained in the equatorial impulse which also drives back the
air from the polar regions to the equator, and not the action
of doubtful gradients of air-pressure, which are by no means
sufficient for the explanation of the phenomena. By friction
with the earth's surface the south-east velocity which this
return-branch of the equatorial current everywhere possesses
is soon considerably diminished, and at the surface of the
earth itself would soon be altogether destroyed if the higher
strata of air of the return-current did not maintain it. In con
sequence of the expansion of the lower current-bed, which
takes place rapidly in the higher latitudes, a rarefaction is
produced in the mean strata of air, advancing more rapidly
towards the equator, which brings about an inflow of the re
latively quiet lower strata of air into the higher ones rarefied
beyond the condition of neutral equilibrium. This inflow
must take place from lower latitudes, because in them the
difference of pressure causing the impulse, in consequence of
expansion of the current-bed, is a smaller one. Hence the
current on the earth's surface, even in the northern hemi
sphere, must acquire a southerly component. This explains
why, as experience shows is the case, the south-west, and not
 the north-west, has here the mastery, as must be the case in
the higher strata of the return-current.
    Also in the hypothetical case so far discussed, of a homo
geneous smooth and dry earth's surface, the motions of the
air in mean and high latitudes must be altogether irregular,
and by no means to be determined beforehand, since the
maxima and minima commenced and maintained by blocking,
 and the carrying on of relatively quiescent air by that in
 more rapid motion, serve as accumulators of the kinetic energy
 of the upper air-current, the charging and discharging of which
 must always cause new disturbances of the equilibrium of the
atmosphere, and must produce air-currents circling up and
down in it. In fact, the very unequal distribution of land

                  of Energy in the Atmosphere.                 465
and sea, together with the unequal moisture of the air pro
duced by it, the orographic conditions of the earth's surface,
and the diverse qualities of the soil of extensive connected
tracts of the same, form a chain of further disturbances in the
equilibrium of the temperature, pressure, moisture, and local
disturbances of motion of strata of air accumulated upon or
beside each other as currents, which will no doubt always
render any reliable weather-prophecies impossible.
    If, moreover, the aqueous vapour contained in the ascend
ing air exerts no important influence on the magnitude of the
kinetic energy of the air iu motion into which the energy of the
solar radiations, for the most part, is converted, it at any rate
produces this effect, that the atmosphere ceases to be homo
geneous, since alternate strata of warm moist air and of
colder drier air are formed. I must refrain from entering
upon the local influence of these varying conditions, since
they belong to the domain of observational meteorology.
 The same holds good of the large subject of local cyclones,
 produced, on the one hand, by local maxima ard minima on
 the earth's surface ; on the other hand, directly by local dis
 turbances of the neutral equilibriu.n. I will make only a
 few remarks on the dynamics of the latter class : ascending
 cyclones with a vertical axis of rota.ion.
     I have already shown that the violent motions of the air
 which occur in local cyclones cannot be well explained as the
 result of simple acceleration of the ascending air by over
 heating of the lower strata and by the aqueous vapour they
 contain. It appears altogether inadmissible to take account
 of the rarefaction produced at the centre of a cyclone by the
 centrifugal force of the masses of air circulating round it as
 an accelerating force acting upon it.
     The comparative vacuum formed can produce suction only in
 the direction of the axis of the cyclone, thus either raising the
 water upon the surface over which it rotates, or drawing down
 air from the higher regions of the atmosphere. The existence of
  such a descending current of air within a tornado is confirmed
  by the clear sky and quiet air often observed at its centre. We
  must assume that the vis viva of the air hastening with
  enormous velocity into the cyclone, and ascending in it, is
  accumulated in repeated accelerating impulses, and that it
  results from the greater velocity of the air in the higher
  strata. We must then imagine a local cyclone ps produced
  by an impulse of superheated air, due to some local cause or
  other, given at the boundaries of an upper and lower tract of
  disturbance of the neutral equilibrium of an atmosphere at
  rest, which reaches the boundary of the upper cooled strata

 466              Lord Rayleigh's Notes on some
 of air, which have acquired a tendency to descend. We must
 thus have an outer descending current formed around the
 ascending one, by means of which as much air descends as
 has been carried up by the ascending current. If the dis
 turbance of equilibrium embraces extended upper and lower
 strata of air, the descending masses will produce an increase
 of pressure in the neighbourhood of the cyclone, gradually ex
 tending to the surface of the earth, and on the other hand into
 the highest regions of the air, and transfer its vis viva con
 tinually to new superheated masses of air which ascend in
 the cyclone, whilst a part of the descending external cyclone
 circulating in the same direction ascends again with the inner,
and transfers to it a part of the vis viva gained in the higher
 regions of the air. The course of the centre of the cyclone
is then determined by the direction of the mean velocity of
all the air-masses forming the cyclone, and its duration is that
 of the disturbance of the neutral equilibrium of the atmosphere
which called it forth and maintains it.
    In conclusion I will only mention that the suspicion which
I have previously expressed that aqueous vapour can be cooled
beyond its usual condensing-point without condensation
taking place, in the same way as water can be cooled below
its freezing-point without solidifying, has been confirmed by
recent investigations of Robert von Helmholtz. We have
thus the explanation of the remarkable fact that the ascent of
air containing so much aqueous vapour from the tropical seas
is not followed by ceaseless rain. We may now assume that
the aqueous vapour in the absence of dust and particles of
water reaches the higher regions of the air without con
densing.
   It follows, further, that a local ascent, like a solar pro
minence, which must reach the higher regions and carry
with it dust and particles of water, may, by condensation of
the aqueous vapour of these strata of air, bring about the
tremendous rainfall which we observe. Further, we have the
explanation of the quantity of water which the equatorial
current conveys to the temperate zones.
LXIV. Notes, chiefly Historical, on some Fundamental Propo
   sitions in Optics. By Lord Rayleiuh, Sec. R.S., DC.L*
IT is little to the credit of English science that the funda
      mental optical theorems of Cotes and Smith should have
passed almost into oblivion, until rediscovered in a somewhat
                   * Communicated by the Author.

               Fundamental Propositions in Optics.                 467
different form by Lagrange, Kirchhoff, and von Helinholtz.
Even now the general law governing apparent brightness
seems to be very little understood, although it has acquired
additional importance in connection with the theory of ex
changes and the second law of Thermodynamics. In seeking
the most natural basis for the law of magnifying, usually
attributed to Lagrange, I was struck with the utility of Smith's
phrase " apparent distance," which has never been quite for
gotten, and was thus induced to read his ch. v. book ii.*,
founded upon Cotes's " noble and beautiful theorem." I
think that it may be of service to present a re-statement, as
nearly as may be in his own words, of the more important of
the laws deduced by Smith, accompanied by some remarks
upon the subject regarded from a more modern point of view.
    The general problem is thus stated :—
   " To determine the apparent distance, magnitude, situation,
degree of distinctness and brightness, the greatest angle of
vision and visible area, of an object seen by rays successively
reflected from any number of plane or spherical surfaces, or
successively refracted through any number of lenses of any
sort, or through any number of different mediums whose sur
faces are plane or spherical. With an application to Telescopes
and Microscopes."
    It is divided into three propositions, of which the first is:—
    " Having the focal distances and apertures of any number
of lenses of any sort, placed at any given distances from one
another and from the eye and object, it is required to find the
apparent distance, magnitude, situation, degree of distinctness
and brightness of the object seen through all the lenses ; to
gether with the greatest angle of vision and visible area of the
object, and the particular aperture which limits them both."
    Apparent distance means the distance at which the object
would have to be placed so as to appear by direct vision of
the same apparent magnitude as through the lenses.
    Let PL (fig. 1) be an object viewed by the eye at 0 through
                                  Fig. 1.
O                A           B            C          P              n
any number of lenses placed at A, B, 0, . . . . whose focal
   * Smith's 'Compleat System of Opticks,' Cambridge, 1738. French
translations were published by P. Perzenas, Avignon, 1767, and by Duval
Leroy, Brest, 1767.

468                 Lord Bayleigh's Notes on some
 distances are the lines a, b, c, . . . . and whose common axis is
the line 0 A B C P. In the standard case the lenses are sup
posed to be concaves. Then if 0 tr be the apparent distance,
               OA.AP           OB BP OC.CP OA AB.BP
 Ott=OP+-                   +                                  ab
            , OA.AC.CP OB.BC.CP , OA.AB.BC.CP
                       ac                be       '        abc
    The statement is for three lenses, but the law of formation
of the terms is general. If a, b, c are infinite, we fall back on
direct vision, and 07r = OP. If any of the lenses are convex,
the focal distances of such lenses must be looked upon as
negative.
    " § 262. Corol. 1. While the glasses are fixt, if the eye and
object be supposed to change places, the apparent distance,
 magnitude, and situation of the object will be the same as
 before. For the interval OP being the same, and being divided
by the same glasses into the same parts, will give the same
theorem for the apparent distance as before." This is a pro
position of the utmost importance, from which follows without
much difficulty :—
    " § 263. Corol. 2. When an object PL is seen through any
number of glasses, the breadth of the principal pencil where it
falls on the eye at 0, is to its breadth at the object-glass C, as
the apparent distance of the object to its real distance from
the object-glass ; aud consequently in Telescopes, as the true
magnitude of the object to the apparent."
    True magnitude here means apparent magnitude as seen
directly, and the theorem is identical with that enunciated
more than half a century later by Lagrange *.
    In the investigation of apparent brightness the extreme ray
P<«rK from the central point P of the image is considered
(fig. 2):-
                                   Fig. 2.
        O             A            B            C            F
    " If 0 K be not less than 0 N, the area of the pupil will be
totally inlightened by the pencil which flows from P. Let
P t s r N be a ray of that pencil, cutting the object-glass C t
   * " Sur une loi g6n<5rale d'Optique," Afimoires deVAcadtmie de Berlin,
1803.

                 Fundamental Propositions in Optics.               469
in t ; and supposing the glasses were removed, let an unre
fracted ray PMN cut the line C t in M. Then the quantity
 of refracted rays which fall upon the line N 0 is to the quan
tity of unrefracted rays which would fall upon it as the angle
 C P t to the angle CPM, that is as the apparent magnitude
of the line N 0 seen from P, to the true. And therefore, by
turning the figure round the axis 0 P, the quantity of refracted
rays which fill the pupil is to the quantity of unrefracted rays
 which would fill it (as the apparent magnitude of any surface
at 0 seen from P, to the true ; or as the apparent magnitude
of any surface at P seen from 0 to the true ; and consequently)
as the apparent magnitude of the least surface, or physical
point P, to the true ; that is as the picture of the point P
formed upon the retina by those refracted rays, to its picture
formed by the unrefracted rays. These pictures of the point
 P are therefore equally bright and cause the appearance of P
to be equally bright in both cases. Now let the pupil be
larger than the greatest area inlightened at 0 by the pencil
that flows from P ; and supposing a smaller pupil equal to this
area, we have shown that the pictures of P made upon the retina
by refracted and unrefracted rays would be equally bright ;
and consequently each of them would be less bright than
when the larger pupil is filled with unrefracted rays, in the
same proportion as the smaller pupil, or area inlightened by
the refracted rays, is less than the larger pupil, inlightened by
unrefracted rays."
    " § 267. Corol. 6. It is evident that an object seen through
glasses may appear as bright as to the naked eye ; but never
brighter, even though all the incident light be transmitted
through the glasses. '
    Smith's splendid work was evidently unknown to Helm-
holtz, when, after establishing the law of apparent brightness,
he remarks * :—
    " Diese Folgerung ist schon von Lagrange gezogen wor-
den. Leider hat er den zweiten Fall, der gerade bei starken
Vergrosserungen der gewohnliche ist, nicht besprochen, nam-
lich den, wo das in die Pupille eindringende Strahlenbiindel
diese nicht ganz ausfullt. Das mag nicht wenig zu der
Vergessenheit beigetragen haben, in welche seine wichtige
Abhandlung gefallen ist." It is indeed astonishing that a
theorem of such obvious importance should need to be dis
covered three times t-
   * Pogg. Ann., Jubelband, 1874, p. 50(3.
  t In his biography of Lagrange (Suppl. Enc. Brit. ; Young's Works,
vol. ii. p. 576) Young, with some want of appreciation, thus refers to
the memoir ' On a General Law of Optics, 1803 :—" A demonstration of
    Phil Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 133. June 1886.            2L

470                Lord Rayleigh's Notes on some
   The first advance upon the position attained by Smith is to
be found in KirchhofTs celebrated (but perhaps little read)
memoir, " Ueber das Verhaltniss zwischen dem Emissions-
vermogen und dem Absorptionsvermogen der Korper fur
Warme und Licht."* The Theory of Exchanges renders it
evident that the law of apparent brightness must have an even
higher generality than Smith had claimed for it. No limita
tion can be admitted to systems of optical surfaces centred
upon an axis, to which the rays are supposed to be but slightly
inclined. KirchhofTs investigation is founded upon Hamilton's
characteristic function T, which we may here take to represent
the reduced optical distance (\fi ds) along a ray between any
two points. At the extremities 0, C, of the central ray of a
pencil undergoing any number of reflections and refractions,
planes are drawn perpendicular to the final directions of the
ray, and in these planes rectangular coordinate axes #„ yu
xs, i/i are taken. T expresses the reduced distance between
a point a?j, yl} in the first plane and a point x2, ya in the
second plane, as a function of these four variables. In Smith's
terminology KirchhofTs result may be thus stated :—The in
verse square of the apparent distance between 0 and 0' is
                    JT       d?T          <PT       <PT
                 das-i dx3 dyi dy3 dwi dy3 d<r2 dy\
the apparent distance being the same whether O be seen
from 0, or 0 be seen from 0'.
the foundation of the method long since used by English opticians
for determining thi> magnifying powers of telescopes of all kinds, which
form an image of the object-gloss beyond the eye-glass, by measuring
the diameter of that imago. The author hazards, in this paper, the
very singular assertion, that the illumination of the object must
be the same in all telescopes whatever, notwithstanding the common
opinion that it depends upon the magnitude of the object-glass ; and his
reasoning would be correct, if the pupil of the eye were always less than
the image of the object-glass in question ; since, as he observes, the
density of the light in this image is always inversely as the magnifying
power ; but ho forgets to consider that the illumination on the retina,
when the whole pencil is taken in, is in the joint ratio of the density and
the extent; a consideration which justifies the common opinion on this
subject, and shows that a most profound mathematician may be egro-
giously mistaken in his conclusions, if he proceeds to calculate upon
erroneous grounds. It deserves, however, to be remembered that the
brightness of any given angular portion of a magnified image must
always be somewhat less than that of an equal portion of the object seen
by the naked eye, because it can be no greater if the pencil fills the pupil,
and will be less in proportion as the pencil is smaller than the pupil,
besides the unavoidable loss of light at the refracting surfaces."
  In his Theorie det Lunettes, Berlin, 1778, Lagrange himself refers to
Smith's Optics, Ch. v. Book ii.
  » Pogg. Ann. t. cix. p. 275 (1860).

                Fundamental Propositions in Optics                   471
   A nearly similar investigation in terms of the corpuscular
theory is to be found in Thomson and Tait's ' Natural Philo
sophy1 (1867), §§ 326, 327, where the authors emphasize
strongly the optical importance of their conclusions. " The
most obvious optical application of this remarkable result is,
that in the use of any optical apparatus whatever, if the eye
and the object be interchanged without altering the position
of the instrument, the magnifying power is unaltered." And
again, "Let the points 0, O7 be the optic centres of the eyes
of two persons looking at each other through any set of
lenses, prisms, or transparent media arranged in any way
between them. If their pupils are of equal sizes in reality,
they will be seen as similar ellipses of equal apparent dimen
sions by the two observers."
   It will be remarked that in general the " magnifying
power " varies in different directions, a circle being seen as an
ellipse. This phrase and that of " apparent distance " may
be understood in an extended sense. Thus the apparent dis
tance may be taken to mean the distance at which the object,
if seen direct, would present the same angular area as when
seen through the lenses &c.
   The demonstration of the law of apparent distance upon
the basis of Hamilton's characteristic function, is of course
satisfactory, and perhaps indispensable to a complete investi
gation ; but it is not unimportant to remark that the essential
part of the law is really included in the vastly more general
reciprocal theorem, established in the first instance by v. Helm-
holtz for vibrations in a uniform gaseous medium*, and
capable of extension to all vibrating systems, even though
subject to dissipative forces f.
   Let ^ denote the intensity of a radiant source at 0, i/r the
corresponding amplitude of luminous vibration at 0'. By
the doctrine of rays, the energy transmitted across any section
of a pencil is the same, and thus if a± be the area of the cross
sections at 0' of a thin pencil of rays from 0 whose angular
magnitude is there <ou we have
where H is an absolute constant.
   In like manner if as be the area at 0 of a pencil starting
from 0' with angular opening <ot,
  * Theorie der Luftschwingungen in Hohren mit offenen Endcn. Crelle,
Bd. lvii., 1860.
  t Proc. Math. Soc. June 1873 ; ' Theory of Sound,' vol. i. §§ 107, 108,
109.
                              2L2

472               Lord Bayleigh's Notes on some
where "V now measures the source at 0', and yfr' the luminous
amplitude at O. But by the reciprocal theorem
and thus
 or the " apparent distance " of 0' from 0 is the same as of
 0 from 0 .
     If we now assume the reciprocal character of apparent dis
 tance, there is no difficulty in deducing the law of apparent
 brightness in a perfectly general manner. For consider the
 whole light received over a small area al at 0' (perpendicular
 to the ray) from a small luminous area a2 at 0 (also perpen
 dicular to the ray). If, as before, w^ denote the angular
 opening at 0 of the pencil which corresponds to alt this light
 is proportional to coyo-^. But <B1<rs=«i)2cr1, if a>2 be the appa
 rent magnitude of a2 seen from 0'. Hence the whole quantity
 of light received by ax is proportional to (o2(Ti ; so that if o-t
 be given, representing, for example,_the area of the pupil,
 the whole light received at 0' from a small area cr3 at 0 is
 proportional to the apparent magnitude of that area. In
  other words the apparent brightness is constant.
     In this way of regarding the matter the law of apparent
 brightness becomes a deduction from the general reciprocal
 theorem. The argument may, of course, be reversed, so as
 to exhibit the reciprocal character of apparent distance as a
 consequence of the law respecting brightness. And this view
  of the subject may perhaps commend itself to those who
  appreciate the independent evidence for the law of brightness
  derived from the theory of enclosures as based upon tho
  second law of thermodynamics.
      In any case the law connecting magnifying power with the
  section of the pencil follows as an immediate consequence.
  If Oj be given, its apparent magnitude, as seen from 0', is
  given by
                             a>. — o"2 — ;
                                       °l
   and is, therefore, inversely proportional to the section at O'
   of a pencil of given angular magnitude issuing from 0. This
   principle is of great use in the design of optical instruments.
   The application to the telescope is fully stated by Smith. By
   means of it the one-dimensional magnifying power of prisms,

               Fundamental Propositions in Optics.             473
so placed that the emergence is more nearly grazing than the
incidence, is readily traced*.
   There is, of coarse, no limit, either in telescopes or in
microscopes, to the magnifying which may be obtained by
sufficiently diminishing the section of the emergent pencil ;
but, as is now well known, the resolving power cannot thus
be indefinitely augmented. It is interesting to note that
Smith was aware of the fact, though he could nave no know
ledge of the reasons for it. He points out that in examining
objects of great intrinsic brightness, there would appear to be
advantage in diminishing the aperture of the object-glass.
For by this means the disturbing influence of aberration, both
spherical and chromatic, would be mitigated. " But f in
reality it is quite otherwise ; and that for two reasons. First
because the minute parts . . . may be better discerned when
all the light remains in the telescope than when it is reduced
to yoq part, though not in the same proportion. The other
reason is that when the aperture is too much contracted the
outlines that circumscribe the pictures in the eye become con
fused, which is carefully to be minded, and also what are the
limits of this confusion. This is certain, that as the aperture
is contracted the slender pencils or cylinders of rays that
emerge from the eye-glass into the eye are also contracted in
the same proportion. Now if the breadth of one of these
!>encils be less . . . than ^ or JU part of an inch, the out-
 ines of the pictures are spoiled, for some unknown reason in
the make of the eye . . . For by looking through a hole in
a thin plate, narrower than ^ or ^ of a line, the edges of
objects begin to appear confused, and so much the more as
the hole is made narrower." If we assume that a given ap
parent definition requires a given diameter of emergent pencil,
it follows that the resolving power of telescopes is propor
tional to aperture.
    The theory of the microscopic limit has been much dis
cussed in recent years, and has been placed upon a satisfactory
basis by Abbe, and by v. Helmholtz, who treats the subject in
his usual masterly style. But I think that due credit has
not been given to Frauenhofer, whose argument appears
substantially correct. In his discussion on gratings Frauen
hofer| remarks:—"Es istnicht wohl denkbar, das die Politur,
welche wir durch Kunst auf Grlas etc. hervorbringen konnen,
mathematisch vollkommen sey. Besteht diese Politur aus
   * See " Investigations in Optics," Phil. Mag. January 1880.
   t Book 2, Ch. 7, p. 144. Smith is here expounding the views of
Huyghens (bioptrica).
   X Gilbert, Ann. 1823, p. 337.

 474               Lord Rayleigh's Notes on some
  Unebenheiten, welche, in Hinsicht ihren Entfernung von
 einander, kleiner als w sind [<» denotes the wave-length], so
 sind sie sowohl fur durchfahrendes als zuriickgeworfenes
 Licht ohne Nachtheil, und es konnen dadurch keine Farben
 irgend einer Art entstehen ; auch ware es durch kein Mittel
 moglich diese Unebenheiten sichtbar zu machen." And here
 he appends the very pregnant note :—" Man kann daraus
 schliessen, was moglicher Weise durch Mikroskope noch zn
 sehen ist. Ein mikroskopischer Gegenstand z. B., dessen
 Durchmesser = to ist, und der aus zwei Theilen besteht, kann
 nicht mehr als aus zwei Theilen bestehend erkannt werden.
 Dieses zeigt uns eine Granze des Sehevermogens durch
 Mikroskope."
    Frauenhofer's views did not commend themselves to Her-
 schel *, who regarded the " alleged limit to the powers of
 microscopes " as not " following from the premises." It so
 happens that I can give an independent opinion npon the
persuasiveness of Frauenhofer's reasoning, for I had occasion
in 1870, in connection with my own work upon the repro
 duction of gratings, and before the publication of the investi
 gations of Abbe and v. Helmholtz, to consult his writings, when
the note above quoted attracted my attention and fully con
vinced me of the general truth of the doctrine of the micro
scopic limit. It seemed evident, at any rate, that two radiant
 points, separated by only a small fraction of the wave-length,
could not be optically distinguished.
    It is worthy of notice that while Frauenhofer speaks of the
whole wave-length, modern investigation fixes the half wave
length rather, as the limit of microscopic vision. It seems,
however, that, on his own principles, Frauenhofer should have
arrived at the latter result ; for a grating whose period
is equal to the wave-length can show colours when sufficiently
inclined t- It is easy to see that when the angular aperture
of a microscope is nearly 180°, a displacement of the radiant
f)oint amounting to half a wave-length, perpendicularly to the
  ine of vision, will entail on one side of the pencil an acceler
ation and on the other a retardation of that amount, so that
at the original focal point upon the retina the phases will now
range just over a complete period. The displacement of half
a wave-length corresponds therefore to something rather less
than the half width of the best possible image of a mathema
tical point.
    A definite limit to an operation such as visual resolution
   • Enc. Met., ' Light,' § 758, 1830.
   t Frauenhofer seems to have gone wrong in his formula for the case of
oblique incidence.

               Fundamental Propositions in Optics.          475
(involving in some degree a mental judgment) is, of course,
not to be expected. For the microscope, the purely physical
question of the distribution of light in the ultimate image of
a mathematical point cannot be definitely solved without some
assumption as to the manner in which the light is radiated in
different directions. Even if the radiation were uniformly
distributed, it does not follow that the light emerging from
the eye-piece consists of ordinary plane waves, equally intense
over the area of section. It would seem, indeed, that such a
uniform distribution of rays is inconsistent with good defini
tion, except at the very centre of the field of the microscope.
For, in accordance with principles already discussed, it im
plies at all points an equal magnifying power, which however
is to be reckoned always in relation to an object supposed to
be perpendicular to the initial direction of the ray. But in
asmuch as the extreme rays of the pencil start in a direction
oblique to the axis, it is evident that in relation to a given
external object different parts of the system have different
magnifying powers. In order that the efficient magnifying
power (in the radial direction) may be alike for the whole of
the emergent pencil, the rays must be concentrated towards
the outer parts according to a law which will be obvious. In
this way the resolving power might perhaps come to be a
little greater than that estimated by v. Helmholtz, the concen
tration of rays towards the circumference playing somewhat
the same part as a central stop.
    Much more might be said upon this subject, but probably
without results of practical importance. My main purpose
has been to emphasize fundamental optical principles which
have met with strange neglect, and to show how much
excellent work had been done in this direction by some early
writers.
   April 18.
    P.S. Reference should have been made above to an inter
esting paper of Clausius*, in which the author develops very
fully the analytical theory of radiation, as based upon Hamil
ton s function. One general theorem, previously established
with rather less generality by v. Helmholtz, may here be
noticed. The angles of the cones formed by the pencil of ra}rs
at an object and at its image (supposed to be astigmatic)
stand simply in the inverse ratio of the areas of the corre
sponding elements of object and image.
    In terms of apparent distance the argument may be put
thus. Consider a cross section of the pencil at any interme-
                  * Pogg. Ann. t. exxi. p. 1 (18C4).

476            Prof. Silvanus P. Thompson's Notes
diate point P. Then the squares of the apparent distances of
P from the object and image are as the solid angles of the
cones. Again, consider a pencil of rays passing through P,
which must mark out corresponding portions of object and
image, and it is evident that these areas are also in the ratio
of the squares of the same apparent distances. Hence the
proposition, which is thus seen to be intimately connected
with the notion of apparent distance.
  Terling Place, Witham,
           May 7.
          LXV. Notes on some New Polarizing Prisms.
             By Professor Silvanus P. Thompson*.
                             [Plate VI.]
         I. On a New Polarizer devised by Mr. Ahrens.
THE new Polarizer constructed by Mr. Ahrens is a rectan
       gular parallelopipedon of calc spar having square end-
faces, and having its long sides in the proportion of about
1*6 : 1 relatively to the short sides. The actual dimensions
of the prism which, at the request of Mr. Ahrens, I exhibited
to Section A of the British Association, are :—
   Side of nearly square end-face . 17*5 millim. (nearly) ;
   Long side of prism                     27 millim.
   The square end-faces are principal planes of section of the
crystal.
   Two oblique sections are cut in the prism, and run from the
highest and lowest edges, a b and c dot fig. 1 (PI. VI.), to the
middle of tho other face, where they meet in the line S S'.
The dihedral angle between these planes of section is nearly
32°; the angle between either of them and the principal axis
of vision through the prism being therefore nearly 1 6°. Mr.
Ahrens also uses a dihedral angle as small as 30° in some of
his prisms. The faces of these sections are polished and
united with balsam in the usual manner.
   It will thus be seen that the new prism consists of three
wedge-shaped pieces of spar, and that one face of the prism
is traversed by a line of junction.
   On looking through the prism, the polarized field formed
by extraordinary rays is observed to be bounded perfectly
symmetrically by two regions into which the ordinary ray
intrudes, the edges of both these regions being marked by
                    • Communicated bv the Author.

                 on some New Polarizing Prisms.                477
the usual faint red iris of interference-bands (fig. 2). The
breadth of the available polarized field at its narrowest part
is about 28°. Right and left there is no intrusion of ordinary
rays, the field extending to an angular breadth exceeding
100°. The blue iris, which in the ordinary Nicol prism is so
annoying at the limit of the field where the extraordinary ray
vanishes by total reflection, is entirely absent in this prism.
There is very little distortion, as might be expected from the
tetragonal form of the prism.
    The one disadvantage of the new prism is the presence of
the line of section S S' right across the face. This prevents
its being used, in some cases, as an analyzer, for which purpose
 indeed other more suitable prisms exist, and for which this
prism was not designed. But it serves admirably as a polarizer,
 the end A B C D, which is crossed by the section-line, being
 turned towards the source of light. For use as a polarizer
 with the optical lantern, or with the microscope, it is prefer
 able to the prisms of Nicol, Foucault, or Glan, as it has a wider
 angle than any of these, and does not lose light by oblique
 reflection at its end-faces as the Nicol and Foucault do. Its
 angle is not so wide as that of the prism described* by the
 author of this note ; but it uses less spar than either that
 prism or Hartnack's prism. Figs. 3 and 4 show Nicol and
 Ahrens prisms of equal area of aperture-section.
    Since the limitation of the available field is due to the
 intrusion of the ordinary ray, and does not depend on the
 vanishing by total reflection of the extraordinary ray, there
 is nothing to be gained by substituting in this prism any
 cement such as linseed oil having a higher refractive index.
 On the contrary, since the critical angle of total reflection for
 ordinary rays increases as the index of refraction of the
 cement-film decreases, it would be a gain to use, instead of
 balsam, a cement of lower index.
    On suggesting to Mr. Ahrens that the prism might be cut
 so that the section-line 8 S' bisected the face A B C D vertically
 instead of horizontally (so making the section-planes principal
 planes of section, as in the plan suggested by the writer for
 polarizing prisms in 1881, at the York meeting of the British
  Association) , Mr. Ahrens replied that he had already tried the
 plan and that the result was the same. This should be so,
 and should be so for any position of the line S S' across the
 face, provided the dihedral angle between the section-planes
 is constant, because the effective field depends only on the
 ordinary rays whose properties are symmetrical in all directions.
 Nevertheless there is some advantage in making the films he
                     * Phil. Mag. November 1881.

 478            Prof. Silvanus P. Thompson's Notes
 in principal planes of section, for then, using a cement of
 given index, the dihedral angle may be made wider (and the
 prism correspondingly shorter) without risk of having the
 centre of the field spoiled by total reflection of the extra
 ordinary ray.
    To sum up, the advantages of the new prism are :—
       (1) Decrease in length.
       (2) Increase in angular aperture.
       (3) Saving of light consequent on non-obliquity of end-
             faces.
       (4) Minimum of distortion.
       (5) Requires less spar than Hartnack, Glan, or Thompson
             prism of same section.
    Against this are the slight disadvantages—
       (1) Line of section across end face.
      (2) Uses more spar than Nicol of equal section.
    Mr. Ahrens has recently added a thin covering-glass at the
 end- face crossed by the line S S', thereby making this line
 almost imperceptible, as well as affording protection against
 scratches. Mr. Ahrens has also succeeded in finding a new
 method of cutting the prism in which there is extremely little
 waste of spar.
    II. On a Simple Modification of the Nicol Prism, giving
                       wider angle offield.
   As remarked above, in the ordinary Nicol prism the avail
able polarized field is limited, on the one side by the intrusion
of the ordinary ray, on the other by the vanishing of the
extraordinary ray by total reflection. Of the various methods
suggested from time to time for widening the available
angular aperture, some have affected one side of the field,
some the other, some both. For example, the suggestion
made by the writer in 1881 (and by Mr. Glazebrook in 1882)
to alter the prism in such a way as to make the balsam-film
a principal plane of section, has the effect (irrespective of the
external shape of the prism, which we may suppose given) of
throwing back to its furthest possible limit (for any given
cement) the point at which the extraordinary ray vanishes by
total reflection. The obliquity of the end lace (other things
being given) affects the limit of intrusion of the ordinary ray
to a much greater degree than it affects the extraordinary
ray : hence by increasing the slope of the end-faces we may
add to the available width of field, but this involves increased
distortion of the field as well as loss of light. The use of a
more highly refringent cement than Canada balsam causes a

                 on some New Polarizing Prisma.                479
gain on the side of the extraordinary ray—it thrusts the blue
iris further back—but causes a slight loss on the side of the
ordinary ray, which intrudes a little more than before.
    Now, taking the Nicol prism as it is ordinarily made, there
would be a real gain, if it could, without additional labour or
cost, be so cut as either to widen the field (using the same
length of prism as before) or to shorten the length of the
prism (if obtaining the same angular aperture as before).
The method of cutting adopted by Hartnack, and that sug
gested in 1881 by the present writer, both add to the cost of
spar and to the labour of cutting. In Hartnack's construc
tion the width of field is gained partly by employing linseed
oil, partly by the device of making the plane of the film lie
at right angles to the crystallographic axis of the spar. In
the writer's own construction of 1881 the balsam-film was
made to lie in a principal plane of section, whilst the prin
cipal axis of vision through the prism was made to lie at
right angles to the crystallographic axis. A gain of about
 9 in the width of the field over that of a Nicol of the same
 external form was the result ; being a little less for flat-
ended prisms, a little more for oblique-ended prisms.
    The author has now devised a simple modification of the
mode of cutting the Nicol prism, which possesses several of
the advantages of these costlier methods of construction, but
without adding appreciably to the cost.
    Fig. 5 shows the ordinary Nicol prism as usually cut, the
 end-faces A B and C D being natural faces of the crystal
 polished up. The books assert that makers of Nicol prisms
 cut down these faces, making them still more oblique by 3°.
 I have not found any constructor who does this, Mr. Ahrens
 does not ; Messrs. Steeg and Reuter do not ; M. Liitz does
 not. The natural angle between the face A B and the arrete
 A D is about 109°. The crystallographic axis makes about
 45° with the end -face A B. The balsam-section is at about
 90° (it is exactly 90° in all Mr. Ahren's prisms ; it is a little
 less in some of Dr. Steeg's) to the plane of the end-face.
 The consequence of this is that there are about 45° between
 the plane of the balsam-film and the crystallographic axis.
 This limits the field : those rays which traverse the prism at
 small angles to the film, and which would traverse the film
 if the crystallographic axis were at right angles to it (as in the
 Hartnack prism) are totally reflected out, because the crystal
 lographic axis slopes at 45°.
    To remedy this I cut the crystal in the manner shown in
 fig. 6 or fig. 7. Fig. 6 represents a piece of spar of the same
 size as fig. 5. The end-faces are first cut away about 40°

480          Notes on some New Polarizing Prisms.
each, making the ends of the prism A E and F C reversed in
position, but inclined at about 69° instead of 71° to the long
edges. The prism is then cut across E F, which makes about
89° with the end-faces. The result is a shortened and " re
versed " Nicol, in which the crystallographic axis lies very
 nearly in the plane of the end-face, and in which the balsam-
film is very nearly at right angles to the crystallographic
 axis. Or, comparing the two :—
                                                      Reversed
                                         Ordinary    Shortened
                                          Nicol.        Nicol.
      Obliquity of end-face      ... 71°                 69°
      Angle between end-face and
         crystallographic axis ... 45                     5
      Angle between balsam-film and
         crystallographic axis ... 45                    94
    The result is that the blue-iris limit is thrown right back,
and a shorter prism is obtained, having an equally wide field
 or wider.
    Fig. 7 shows the same method applied to a slightly longer
piece of spar, producing a " reversed " prism of precisely the
same external form as the ordinary Nicol, and having indeed
everything the same save the direction of the crystallographic
 axis, as a comparison of figs. 5 and 7 will show.
    The method of " reversing " the section is of course equally
applicable to flat-ended Nicols. If a piece of spar is first cut
 so that the terminators are orthogonal to the long edges of
the prism, it is obviously just as easy to slice the prism with
a section that is very nearly perpendicular to the crystallo
graphic axis as to slice it with one that makes only 45°
 with it.
    This new method of construction may be regarded as a
 compromise, for the sake of cheapness, between the method
 of Hartnack and the older method of Nicol.
    The prisms exhibited by the author at the British Associa
tion Meeting at Aberdeen consisted of a " reversed " and of
 a " reversed-shortened " prism; both of them cut for the
 author by Messrs. Steeg and Reuter, of Homburg.

                            [ 481     ]
LXVI. The Foundations ofthe Kinetic Theory of Gases. Note
   on Professor Taitfs paper (No. 131, p. 343). By S. H.
   BuRBURY*.
I THINK Professor Tait (p. 345, A, B, and C) has postu
      lated rather more than is necessary. There may, as it
appears to me, be a set of spheres which never collide with
each other, and one other sphere which collides with the first
set, and it will be found that this single sphere will knock the
others into " the special state." I prove it as follows :—
   Let there be a number of elastic spheres moving in any
space, each of mass P, but of infinitely small radius, so that
they never collide with each other. Into this system intro
duce one elastic sphere of mass Q, and of considerable radius,
so that collisions will occur between it and the P spheres.
   Assume Maxwell's distribution to exist ; that is, that the
number of P spheres whose component velocity in given
direction lies between x and x + dx is proportional to e~hP*2dx,
and the time during which, on the average of any long time,
the sphere Q has component velocity between x and #-f dx is
proportional to e-hQx dx. When the sphere Q collides with
one of the P spheres, let V, represented by pOg in the figure,
be the relative velocity of the two spheres, and V', represented
in the figure by 0 C, be the velocity of their common centre
of gravity.
 Le%0       P
    Consider all the collisions which take place in unit time in
 which V and V have these values before collision. The
                  * Communicated by the Author

 482      The Foundations of the Kinetic Theory of Gases.
 actual velocity of the P sphere before collision is represented
 by pC and that of Q by qC Then I propose to prove
     (1) If Maxwell's distribution prevail, for any given direc
 tion ofpOq, OC is on average of all the collisions in question
 as likely to have any direction in space as any other.
     (2) Therefore on average of all these collisions the differ
 ence between the kinetic energies of the spheres before
 collision is
               iPtoz+ocn-iQW+oc2}.
    (3) After collision V remains unaltered in magnitude and
 direction. V remains unaltered in magnitude, but by the law
 of impacts between elastic spheres is as likely to have any
 direction in space as any other. Therefore after collision the
 difference of energies on the average of all the collisions in
 question is
                ±p{<V+oc2}-±Q{cy+oc2},
 or the same as before collision. Therefore the difference of
 energies is on average unaffected by collisions. It follows that
 Maxwell's distribution, if existing, is not affected by collisions.
    It remains to give a proof of (1). About 0 as centre
 describe two concentric spheres, of radii OC and OC + dV'.
 Between them at C form an element of volume
                       OOW\ sin (f>d<f>d»,
 where <f> is the angle COp, and a the angle between the plane
of COp and a fixed plane through pOq. Then, according to
Maxwell's law (which we assume to prevail), the chance that
the velocity of P shall be represented by a line drawn from p
to some point or other within that element of volume is
proportional to
                   e-*p • <>2OCW sin <M<£ d«-
And the chance that the velocity of Q shall be represented by
a Hue drawn from q to some point or other within that element
of volume is proportional to
                   e-w-WO&dV'suKlHfyda.
And therefore the chance that the velocities of P and Q shall
be represented by lines drawn from p and q both to the same
point within the element of volume is proportional to
                 (¦-ACP.Cp-'+Q.c^ocW sin <j>d$da.
And this measures the chance that the angle COp shall lie
between <f> and <f> + d<f>.
   Now since S- =^§, P.Cp2 + Q.C}2 is independent of </>.

                 Remarks on a new Theory of Dew.              483
 Therefore the chance that the angle C0/> shall lie between <f>
 and <f> + d<f> is proportional to sin <p dj>. And therefore, as
  stated in (1), for any given direction of pOq all directions of
  OC are in Maxwell's distribution equally probable.
     If Maxwell's distribution does not exist, then for any direc
 tion of pOq some directions of OC are more probable than
  others before collision. After collision all are equally pro
 bable ; I think it follows that collisions tend to bring about
  Maxwell's distribution.
           LXVII. Remarks on a new Theory of Dew.
                By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S.*
  MR. AITKEN read before the Royal Society of Edin
          burgh, on the 21st of December last, a paper in which
  a new theory of Dew is promulgated in opposition to that of
  Dr. Wells, " who," he says, "has justly been considered the
  great master of this subject." An abstract of the paper,
  presumably by the author himself, was given in the number
  of ' Nature ' for the 14th of January last, preparatory to the
  publication of the memoir in the ' Edinburgh Transactions.'
     Many years ago I showed that the chief points which Dr.
  Wells is said to have established had already been demon
  strated by his predecessors ; and in noticing his essay in the
  ' Quarterly Review ' for 1814, Dr. Thomas Young enters a
  protest against " the total novelty of the opinions which Dr.
   Wells's laborious series of experiments had so amply illus
  trated and confirmed ; for while the author affords us complete
  information respecting the sentiments of Aristotle and Theo-
  phrastus as to the nature and causes of dew, some of the works
  of the most distinguished philosophers of modern times have
  most unaccountably escaped his attention."
      The fact is there is a considerable difference between a
  scientific worker and a scientific writer. The worker is gene
   rally too intent on his own share in discovery to do more
' than accept the conditions of the question in hand from some
   writer who may have compiled from earlier books and not
   taken the trouble to consult original memoirs. There are
   not many writers who work at scientific literature with the
   same zeal with which literary men pursue their labours ;
   and the reason is to be found in the marked difference be
   tween literature and science. A literary work bears the
   impress of mind, scientific work bears the stamp of nature.
                     * Communicated by the Author.

484            Mr. Charles Tomlinson's Remarks
The one is individual and proper to the man ; the other is
general and has no individuality. A work by Sbakspere re
mains for all time untouched, unchanged (except to make the
text more correct, and thus augment the author's individuality) ;
a work by Davy may be taken up by Faraday, and Faraday's
work may be carried forward by his contemporaries or suc
cessors. And this is probably what Lord Bacon meant when
he said that his inductive method of philosophizing tended
rather " to level wit and intellect."
   The interest that is felt in literary history, contrasted with
the comparative indifference to scientific history, rests on the
fact that a Chaucer, a Sbakspere, a Dryden, a Gibbon is each
an intellect rounded, complete, fixed, and final. But, without
meaning the slightest disrespect to such great men as Newton,
Davy, and Faraday, it must bo admitted that they are but
parts of a great whole, and that whole is Nature. We care
more about the laws of Nature than about their discoverers ;
but every one feels an interest in a great writer because he and
his works are inseparably connected. An unpublished poem
or letter by one of the great writers of the past would excite
the ardour of the literary world ; a new fact in the history
of oxygen or of the composition of water would fail to receive
more than a passing glance from scientific men. They
consider that all the main known facts arc embodied in text
books, while that which is not so embodied is of no con
sequence. They consider that we have the names of the
discoverers and the dates of all important facts in the main
correct. They want to pursue discovery, not its history ;
and hence they feel but little interest in the light thrown by
old memoirs on the progress of the past.
   Sir John Herschel, writing a scientific treatise, refers to
Wells's Essay as " one of the most beautiful specimens of
inductive experimental inquiry," and earnestly recommends
it to the student " as a model with which he will do well to
become familiar." Dr. Whewell, writing scientific history,
is more cautious : he refers to Wells's Essay as " one of those
books which most drew attention to the true doctrine."
   Wells, in his essay, writes with an air of authority. His
tone is everywhere that of a man announcing his own disco
veries. For example, he says :—" I have frequently seen,
during nights that were generally clear, a thermometer lying
on the grass-plat rise several degrees upon the zenith being
occupied only a few minutes by a cloud." Most of the im
portant steps in the theory are thus stated as if for the first
time, and we find only a loose and general reference to autho
rities, and a very scant acknowledgment of other men's

                       on a new Theory of Dew.                       485
labours. Nevertheless, most of Wells's results had been pub
lished long before the author commenced his labours, and the
theory for which he has obtained so much credit was also
similarly indicated, in brief but unmistakable terms *.
    The chief points which Dr. Wells is said to have established
may be thus stated :—
    I. That on clear and serene nights the surface of the earth
is colder than the air some feet above it.
    II. That on such nights dew or hoar-frost is formed.
    III. That in cloudy weather the temperature of the ground
approaches, and is often identical with, that of the air ; and
under such circumstances little or no dew is formed.
    IV. That screens, even of the lightest material, interposed
between the ground and the clear sky, and, in general, what
ever interrupts the view of the sky, prevents that portion of
the ground thus protected from cooling below the temperature
of the air.
    V. That different bodies exposed to the clear sky become
colder than the air ; the times and amounts of cooling being,
in general, different in different bodies.
    VI. That all these varied phenomena are to be accounted for
on the principles of radiation and condensation, by the first
of which the surface of the earth after sunset, provided the
sky be clear, cools down below the temperature of the air ;
and by the second of which, the vapour suspended in the air
is reduced to the liquid state by contact with a body cooler
than itself. But should the sky be clouded or the ground be
protected by means of screens, the heat radiated from the earth
 is reflected back again, and thus maintains the surface at or
about the same temperature as that of the air.
    Mr. Aitken, in his theory of dew, states :—
    I.. That the ground below the surface is always hotter than
 the air over it, and that, so long as this excess keeps the
 surface above the dew-point of the air, it will, if moist, give
 off vapour, which will condense on the grass and form dew,
 and not the vapour that was previously present in the air.
     II. That vapours rising from the ground during dewy
 nights are thus trapped by the herbage, or within tin trays
inverted on the ground.
    III. That on weighing a small area of the exposed surface
    * The details are given in my essay, " On the Claim of Dr. Wells to be
 regarded as the Author of the Theory of Dew," published in the ' Edin
 burgh New Philosophical Journal,' for January leSOlj and in a somewhat
 enlarged form in ' Experimental Essays,' published m 18li3, in Weale's
 Series. See also a notice from my pen in the ' Chemical News ' of the
 12th April, 1867, of a reprint of VVelhrs Essay.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. V66. June 1886.              2M

486              Mr. Charles Tomlinson's Remarks
of the around, such as a turf six inches square that had been
exposed for some hours while dew was forming, it was always
found to have lost weight.
   IV. That bare soil loses nearly as much in weight as grass
land.
   V. That pieces of blackened glass placed on the ground
remain clear of vapour, thereby showing the soil to be always
giving off vapour because the surface is above the dew-
point.
   VI. That even where radiation is strong and vapour is con
densed on the soil, such vapour is supposed to proceed from
below, and to be trapped by the cold surface-soil. Thus the
under surface of clods are often covered with hoar-frost, while
there is little on the upper surface ; and in roads the under
surface of stones may be wet as well as the under sides of
slates placed on gravelly roads.
   VII. Thft the leaves of plants apparently wet with dew are
not really so, but the moisture is an exudation from the plants
themselves *.
   VIII. That the radiating powers of different bodies have
hitherto been erroneously stated. Black and white cloths
were found to radiate equally well ; soil and grass were
also almost exactly equal to each other ; lampblack was
equal to whitening ; sulphur was about two thirds that of
 black paint ; snow in the shade on a bright day was at mid
 day 7 colder than the air, while a black surface at the same
 time was only 4° colder ; but at night both radiated almost
equally well.
    Such is the new theory of dew, which, if accepted, must go
 far to render nugatory the results obtained by some of the
 most celebrated observers. It would occupy too much time
 and space to examine the above eight propositions minutely,
 and to compare their statements with already received results.
 It will, perhaps, be sufficient for our purpose to give a few
 details from those researches upon which we have hitherto
 most relied, and leave the reader to contrast them with Mr.
Aitken's ingenious speculations.
    That " the ground at a short distance below the surface is
 always hotter than the air over it," is not a new observation.
 In 1779 Pictet t found that a thermometer suspended 5 feet
 from the ground marked a lower temperature on clear nights
 than one suspended at the height of 75 feet ; he also placed a
thermometer with its bulb buried in the earth, and found it to
   * Muschenbroeck reprarded dew as a real perspiration of plants.
   t Lelfres Phyniquet <!ir. of M. de Luc, La Ilaye and Pans, 1779 ; also
Essai* de Physique, by M. Pictet, Geneva, 1790.

                     on a new Theory of Dew.                  487
indicate a higher temperature than the air above it. He had
supposed the cold of evening to descend from above, and could
scarcely believe his eyes when he found the thermometer at
the height of 75 feet to read more than 2° R. above one at
5 feet. " It is then from the ground that this coldness proceeds,
for the thermometer at 4 lines from the ground generally read
lower than the one at 5 feet." All this is correctly observed ;
but the buried thermometer led him astray; for this naturally
indicating a higher temperature than any of the other instru
ments, he supposed that the earth retained a considerable
portion of the heat it had acquired during the day, that a layer
of air cooled by evaporation from the surface produced the
cold to the height of four lines, while at higher elevations the
warmer air escaped this chilling influence.
    In January 1781 Professor Patrick Wilson noticed at the
Glasgow Observatory, between 1 and 3 a.m., the temperature
of the air 24 feet from the ground to be 7° F., while the snow
in the Park at the depth of 6 inches was 24°. He also noticed
the effect of clouds and screens in raising the temperature,
and Dr. Black suggested a screen of gauze, which was tried,
 with a like effect.
    That dew rose out of the ground is a very old notion. Mr.
 Aitken refers it to Gersten ; but his Treatise appeared so
 lately as 1748, under the title Escercitationes recentiores circa
 Roris meteora. In a volume in my library, entitled De Rore
 disquisitio phyrica D. Joannis Nardil (Florentia?, 1642), it is
 stated :—" Rorem obseruant hi fieri exhalitu e terra eleuato,
 silente vento, celo sereno, anni tempore, loco, et regione tempe-
 ratis."
    The Florentine Academicians were the first to show that the
 moisture which supplied dew already existed in the air. The
 Hon. Robert Boyle, in his ' Experimental History of Cold '
 (1665), showed that the beautiful exhibition of frost on the
 window-pane is condensed from the vapour of the air in the
 room, and he attempted to estimate, by weighing, the amount
 of vapour condensed within a given time upon a phial con
 taining a mixture of salt and snow. Boyle distinctly recog
  nized the fa'ct that dew and hoar-frost are formed by the
 precipitation of the vapour of the air upon a colder body.
     In 1752 M. le Roi, of Montpellier, doubting the received
  notion that dew rose from the ground, sealed up a bottle of
 white glass containing air at 20° R. (77° F.), and he noticed
  that as the temperature cooled down there was a considerable
  deposit of dew within the bottle, which again disappeared as
  the temperature became higher. Le Roi made a number of
  admirable observations, among others the method of deter
                                 2M2

488              Mr. Charles Tomlinson's Remarks
mining the dew-point, which has generally been assigned to
Dalton under the date 1801.
    Bnt probably among all the researches into the phenomena
of dew those of M. Melloni are best adapted to furnish an
answer to Mr. Aitken. His observations were made in the
 autumn of 1846 in the valley of La Lava, situate between
 Naples and Salerno. It is curious to note that the Austrian
and Bourbon Governments, in their dread of novelty, would
not allow a new text-book on Physics to be introduced into
colleges and schools ; so that the old theory was taught,
namely, that dew rose from the earth. Melloni, in order to
show that the laws of radiation are the same in Italy as in
other countries, where there is more political liberty, under
took these researches *.
   The early experimentalists seemed to pride themselves
on the great differences between the thermometers on the
grass and other substances, and the thermometer suspended
in the air above them, sis when Wells assumes a kind of
injured tone in noticing that Six had obtained a greater dif
ference than he had done, viz. 16° F. f; whereas Melloni rather
prides himself on the smallness of this difference, and main
tains tbat the great depression of temperature, as observed by
Wells and others, arose quite as much from the radiation of
the glass and other materials of the thermometers, as from
that of the substance under examination f . Nor does he find
it necessary, in the economy of nature, that vegetation should
cool down so much below the temperature of the air as had
hitherto been supposed ; since a difference of one or two de
grees C. would, in most cases, suffice to condense the moisture
of the air upon grass and the tender surfaces of leaves. He
answers the theory which supposes that, as the cold varies
from 1° to 10° C. with the amount of shelter or exposure, so
certain plants are bedewed while others are quite dry, by
denying the fact ; for we have either the entire absence of
   * " On the Nocturnal Cooling of Bodies exposed to a Free Atmosphere
in Calm and Serene Weather, and on the resulting Phenomena near the
Earth's Surface," read to the Royal Academy of Naples on the 23rd
February, and 0th and 16th March, 1847. A French translation of
these Memoirs was made under the Author's superintendence for the
Annates de C'himie el de Physique for February and April 1848. An
excellent English translation appeared in Taylor's ' Scientific Memoirs,'
vol. v. 1852.
   t Mr. Aitken also notices a difference on dewy nights of from 10° to
18° F. between two thermometers, one placed on the grass and the other
under the surface among the stems, but on the top of the soil.
   % Melloni took extraordinary pains to prevent his thermometers from
sharing in the radiation of the bodies, the amount of whose cooling they
had to measure.

                     on a new Theory of Dew.                    489
 dew, or its diffusion in quantities sensibly equal on all low-
 growing plants, whatever their position with respect to the
 sky. He also insists that dew is never formed except when
 the air is nearly saturated : also that radiation under a clear
 sky is always a fixed quantity, whatever the temperature may
 he ; so that in nights equally serene the same substance
 always cools to the same extent, whatever the temperature of
 the air at the time.
    The nocturnal differences in heat, moisture, and aqueous
 condensation do not proceed, as hitherto supposed, from the
 direct action of the cold due to the radiation of plants and of
 exposed portions of the soil, but most of the phenomena which
 precede and accompany the formation of dew result from the
  more or less prolonged sojourn of the air around the radiating
 surfaces. In a meadow while dew is forming under a clear
  sky and a calm air, let us divide the lower region of the
  atmosphere into two strata—the lower, which scarcely rises
  above the grass ; the higher, which extends upwards from it
  30 or 40 metres ; and suppose the cold due to the nocturnal
  radiation of the herbage to be only 1° ; this degree of cold
  will always remain the same whatever the temperature of the
  atmosphere. If the air be at 20°, the higher portions of the
  grass will descend to 19° a few minutes after sunset ; the air
  in contact with them will be cooled, will descend into the
  interior of the meadow, and reach the ground. This move
  ment of descent along the leaves and stems will necessarily
  restore to the air a portion of the lost heat, and will force it
  to reascend towards the higher part of the meadow, where it
  will undergo a fresh cooling which will cause a second descent,
  and so on ; so that the air of the meadow or of the lower stratum,
  impelled by two opposite influences, will soon take a circulating
  or convective motion. The cold produced at the surface of
. the meadow will be gradually transmitted by this aerial circu
  lation to the lower parts, which will also be cooled ; and, on
  the other hand, both by radiation and by their contact with
  the superior portion of the stems, the temperature of the whole
  mass of air which is put in motion will fall. If it be at 19°'5,
  the grass will sink to 180,5. By repeating the process the
  air will fall to 19°, and the grass to 18° ; the air to 18°-5, the
  grass to 170,5, and so on ; so that by the action of the grass on
  the air and the reaction of the air on the grass, the temperature
  of the lower stratum will be gradually diminished by several
  degrees, and the space occupied by the herbage retaining its
  vapour will approach the state of saturation. A thermometer
  introduced into this space will mark a temperature much
  lower than that of the higher stratum ; the hygrometer will

490            Mr. Charles Tomlinson's Remarks
there be kept near its- maximum of humidity ; and the slightest
degree of cold will suffice to precipitate the aqueous vapour
on the bodies which are immersed therein.
    In the same way may be explained the large amount of
cooling which takes place when a thermometer loosely en
veloped in wool, or cotton-wool, is exposed to the clear noc
turnal sky. The air cooled by coming in contact with these
 envelopes penetrates into them, and tends to fall by virtue of
 its greater density ; but the mechanical resistance and the
 attraction offered by the innumerable tangled fibres retain it
 for some time in the midst of those parts which are radiating
 towards the sky. A series of actions and reactions similar to
 those just described then takes place, and the mixture of air
 and of wool cools much more than a simple layer of varnish
 or of lampblack applied to the thermometer. In the same
 way plants with velvety leaves acquire a somewhat lower
 temperature than plants with smooth ones, and consequently
 become covered with a greater quantity of dew. Now in
studying the phenomena of cooling in the meadow, if the
greatest cold be produced at the top of the grass, the cooler
air would, by its superior density, soon sink to a lower level.
We may imagine three layers of air—one in contact with the
points of the grass ; the second immediately below it, where
 the blades are more numerous, and more or less exposed to
 the zenith ; and the third entangled in the matted portion,
 which is entirely sheltered from the sky. The points of the
 grass are in a condition most favourable for free radiation,
 but the blades are there fewer in number, and the air is ex
 posed to slight disturbances which diminish the radiating
 effect ; but the middle portion, where the blades are most
 numerous and the disturbance less, radiates most powerfully
 and produces the greatest cooling. The lowest layer of air
 being sheltered, will at first have a higher temperature than •
 the other two ; but these, being cooler and denser, will descend
 and react on the radiating portions of the grass, and the .more
 so in proportion as the movement is slow. In time the middle
 portion will contract the greatest cold, and in descending will
 displace the somewhat warmer air, and in the end the Tower
 stratum will be colder than the first, so that the blades and
 stems which are least exposed to the aspect of the sky will be
 colder than the points of the blades, and the thermometer
 buried in the grass will mark a lower temperature than one in
 contact with the surface. And here, too, the formation of dew
 will be most abundant, not on the surface, but just below it.
 But as the cooling goes on, the lower layer of air will be
 again displaced, and radiation continuing from the soil, a

                    on a new Tlieory of Dew.                  491
certain amount of dryness will be produced, evaporation will
take place, and the vapour thus formed will be again precipi
tated on the upper parts of the blade. But in order to effect
this, the ground must be comparatively dry. This appearance
of dew on the upper parts of plants led to the idea that dew
rose out of the earth.
    The process above described will of course be disturbed or
destroyed by wind. On the other hand, what is called " a
perfectly calm night " does not exist in nature. Air is so
very mobile a fluid, that the least difference in temperature sets
it in motion in the form of imperceptible currents ; and there
are always numerous inequalities of temperature depending
on the nature of the soil, the greater or less amount of vege
tation, the degree of cultivation, the presence of houses, all
of which prevent equilibrium from being attained in the air.
 But supposing the air to be tranquil so far as our perceptions
are concerned, then the processes of radiation, convection,
 and condensation sufficiently account for the presence of dew,
whether on the herbage or on the inner surface of Mr.
 Aitken's thin metal trays.
    But let us hear Melloni. He says :—" Some have pre
 tended to discover proofs of the existence of a current of
 icarm vapour exhaled by the earth, and an objection against the
principle of nocturnal radiation in the different proportions of
 water deposited during calm and clear nights on the two
 surfaces of a bell-glass inverted on the ground ; for it often
 happens that the dew is more copiously formed on the inside
 than on the outside of the vessel. But this fact by no means
justifies the conclusion; for the phenomena of circulation and
 aqueous precipitation just described with reference to the air
 and grass of a meadow are also produced in the interior of
 the vessel, the sides of which are cooled by radiation. These
 actions become even more intense in this case, because the
 imprisoned air is sheltered from the least atmospheric dis
 turbance; and we have just seen that the quantity of water
 condensed on the outside depends, on the contrary, on the
 degree of calm in the atmosphere. Hence the slightest
 degree of wind will suffice to render more abundant the
 precipitation on the interior of the bell-glass, without leading
 to the conclusion of an increase favouring the pretence of an
 exhalation of vapour from the earth, and contrary to the
 theory of dew founded on the cold produced by nocturnal
  radiation.
     " Nothing, then, is simpler now than to comprehend why a
  radiating body such as a piece of wood or stone, placed on a
  moist soil towards sunset, is abundantly covered with dew on

492            Mr. Charles Tomlinson's Remarks
its lower side before a single drop of liquid appears on the
upper surface. The body submitted to the frigorific action
of the sky is in contact with two masses of air—the one at
rest and humid, because it is sheltered and situated close to
the earth's surface ; the other less humid and exposed to the
changes of the atmosphere. The former then will be more
disposed than the latter for the precipitation of vapour, and
the dew ought to show itself first on the side turned towards
the soil; it may even exist only on this surface, if the air
has but little moisture, or is agitated by wind. Hence the
experiment of a plate covered with waxed cloth, which being
placed on the grass was found sometimes to be moistened
 only on its lower surface, by no means proves that the dew is
exhaled from the ground like those clouds of vapour which
are seen to arise from a vessel full of hot water."
   Melloni, in two letters to Arago, describes some experiments
with thin tin plates in which the surface looking towards the
ground is covered with dew while the upper portions remain dry.
   While Melloni insists on the influence of radiation in the
formation of dew, whereby bodies become colder than the air
and so condense its vapour, he claims to have first pointed
out the great influence exerted by the reaction of the air on
the radiating body; and he defines dew, not as an immediate
effect of the cooling produced by nocturnal radiation, but as a
consequence of a series of actions and reactions between the
cold due to the radiation of plants &c. and the cold trans
mitted to the surrounding air. The grass becomes slightly
cooled below the temperature of the air, but it soon imparts
to it a portion of the cold thus acquired ; and as the difference
in temperature between the radiating body and the air is
independent of the absolute temperature at the time, grass
surrounded by the colder air becomes lower in temperature
and imparts a fresh amount of cold to the air, which in its turn
reacts on the grass and gives to it a still lower temperature,
and so on. In the mean time the air acquires a kind of vertical
circulatory movement, the upper portions condensed by cold
descending and those at the surface ascending. As this
gradual cooling goes on, the surface air gradually becomes
saturated with moisture and the slight amount of cold pro
duced by the direct action of radiation is sufficient to
condense the vapour contained in the air.
   If in the above statement we read a thin metal tray instead
of grass, the process and its result remain the same.
   If we now turn from the grass meadow to grander natural
objects, abundant proof will be found that dew is condensed
from the air and does not rise out of the ground. The

                   on a new Tlieory of Dew.                493
interior of Persia is characterized by the absence of dew.
In this region there are no rivers of any magnitude, and no
rain falls from May to the end of November. But on
approaching the Persian Gulf nocturnal dews are heavy and
the coverings of beds on the house roofs become saturated
with wet. In the African desert of Sahara, the traveller
Denham suffered from the dryness of the air until within a
certain distance of Lake Tchad, where, though there was no
appearance of water at any part of the horizon, the dews were
so abundant as to wet the clothes of people outside the tent.
When Dr. J. D. Hooker was in East Nepal he noticed that
the sun in many places did not reach the bottom of the valleys
until 10 A.M., and was off again by 3 p.m., while the radiation
towards a clear sky was so powerful that dew frequent!}'
formed in the shade throughout the day. Such, too, was the
clearness of the sky that at night our traveller found the
upper blanket of his bed coated with moisture from the rapid
abstraction of heat by the tarpaulin of his tent, which had
become frozen by its own radiation.
   In equatorial regions, where the nights are long, dews are
so abundant that Humboldt compares their effects to those of
rain, and they become more and more abundant in ap
proaching the equator ; whereas in the great assemblage of
islands known as Polynesia, the dew is feeble or absent, in
consequence of the trade and other warm winds from the sea
preserving a nearly uniform temperature.
   There is such a vast consensus of scientific opinion in
favour of the received theory of dew, that any attempt to set
it aside in favour of another must be supported by the
strongest experimental evidence.       And yet some of Mr.
Aitken's proofs seem to bear testimony to the received theory
rather than to the one now advocated. For example, when
Mr. Aitken exposes a turf six inches square to the air in a
scale-pan and finds it to have lost weight, he does not touch
the question whether the vapour that forms dew is not already
in the air before it is condensed and deposited. He only
proves that a moist soil is constantly giving off vapour under
a clear sky. Snow and ice behave in like manner: 100
grains of light snow have been known to lose 60 grains in
weight duringone night when the temperature was below 25° ;
and Patrick Wilson, exposing various objects on a balanced
board (named by him a " snow-scalo"), noticed that as they
cooled down by radiation, they became covered with hoar
frost and increased in weight, and the vapour which supplied
the rime was derived from the air, seeing that the scale-board
was elevated 24 feet above the ground.

  494           Mr. H. Wilde on the Efflux of Air as
      When Mr. Aitken places his shallow trays of thin metal
  "over the ground to be tested," are we to understand that
  the edges of the trays are in contact with the ground ? If so,
  the results are not in harmony with another set of obser
  vations, in which two slates or two iron weights are placed
  one on the ground and the other elevated a few inches above
  it. That on the ground, " and in heat communication with
  it," is said to have remained dry, while the elevated one
  was bedewed all over. Surely this result is in favour of the
  received theory.
     Perhaps the most startling portion of the new theory is
  that which relates to plants, whose very existence would
  seem in many cases to depend on the formation of dew. If
  the moisture on plants were " the excretion of liquid " by
  the plants themselves, and not dew, for what purpose are
 plants endowed with such high radiating powers, in some
 cases superior to that of lampblack? Taking this at 100,
 Melloni, by his careful method, found the radiating power of
 different herbs with flexible leaves to bo 103, the leaves of
  the elm and poplar to be 101, that of vegetable mould 92.
     Enough, however, has been said on this subject; but we
  cannot conclude without offering an apology to the readers
 of the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for the very elementary
 details of this article.
  LXVIII.— On the Efflux of Air a* modified by the Form of
       the Discharging Orifice. By Henry Wilde, Esq.*
 IN my former paper on the Efflux of Air, the hydraulic
       coefficient "62, as commonly applied to the discharge of
 elastic fluids through an orifice in a thin plate, was taken
 as the value of the contraction of such orifice, and from this
 coefficient the highest velocities shown in the several tables
 were deduced. A review of the results of my experiments
by Prof. Osborne Reynolds t led me to doubt the value of this
 coefficient, and to make further experiments with the object
 of determining the maximum rate of discharge from an
orifice of the best form.
     Five disks of brass had each a hole drilled through its
centre two hundredths of an inch in diameter. Equality in
the size of the holes was accurately determined by means of
a standard cylindrical gauge. These disks I shall designate
A, B, 0, D,'E.
    * Communicated by the Author, having been read at a Meeting of the
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, March 23rd, 1886.
    t Proceedings Manchester Lit. and Phil. Society, vol. xxv. p. 66 ; Phil.
Mag. March 1886, p. 186.

                     modified by the Form of the Discharging Orifice.                                                                                        495
      The disk Awas three diameters of the orifice in thickness,and
was equal to a plain cylindrical tube three diameters in length.
       Disk B was the same thickness as A, but the hole was coned
out on one side to a depth of one diameter and a half.
  • C was six diameters in thickness, and was coned out on
one side to a depth of three diameters.
       D had a thickness of twelve diameters of the orifice, and
was coned out on one side to a depth of six diameters.
       E was eighteen diameters of the hole in thickness, and was
coned out on both sides to a depth of six diameters, which left
a plain tube in the centre of the disk six diameters in length.
       The wide sides of the coned orifices were equal to two
diameters, and their outer edges were rounded off to a
conoidal form.
       The thin iron disk 0 was "007 of an inch in thickness, or
nearly one third the diameter of the orifice, which was two
hundredths of an inch. One side of the orifice was cham
fered to reduce the cylindrical part of the hole as much as
possible to a sharp edge. The chamfering had, however, so
small an effect in diminishing the rate of discharge, that
the determinations might have been taken from the cylin
drical orifice without interfering with the general accuracy
of the results.
        The mode of experimenting was similar to that already
described. Air of an initial absolute pressure of 135 lb. was
discharged into the atmosphere through the orifice in the
thin plate 0, and through the orifices in A, B, 0, D, E
successively, and the times were recorded for the reduction of
 10 lb. from each of the atmospheres of pressure, as shown in
the following table :—
                           Table I.—Discharge into the Atmosphere.
       inchsquare          in thin
                           Orifice plate.               Couoidal                 Conoidal                 Conoidal
 Lb.per absolute pres ure.                                       orifice inside.          orifice inside.          orifice inside. Double conoidal orifice. °8
                                               = 8
                                              •3StS
                                                                                                                                                            If
                                                                                                                                                            a h
                                              5
                                   O              A                 B                        O                       D                       E               O
                                sec.             sec.            sec.                      sec. 1                   sec.                   sec.
              135             15-5              14-5             145                      14-6                     150                   155                •935
              120             17-5              16-5             16-5                     16-5                     170                   175                ¦943
              106             20-5              190              19-0                     19-0                     20-0                  20-5               •927
                  90          250               235              23-5                     23-5                     24-5                  25-0               •940
                  75         31-5               29-5             29-5                     29-5                     305                   315                ¦936
                  60          420               39-5             39-5                     39-5                     410                   420                •940
                  45          580               54-5             54-5                     545                      56-5                   580               •940
                                          Mean coefficient for orifice in thin plate, -937.

496            Mr. H. Wilde on the Efflux of Air as
   An examination of this table will show that the form of
the orifice has very little influence on the rate of discharge
of elastic fluids compared with what it has on those which
are inelastic.
   No difference was observable in these experiments in the
rates of discharge through the orifices A, B, and C, notwith
standing that A was a plain cylinder, and B and C were
coned to a depth of half their thickness and formed tubes
from three to six diameters in length. Moreover, although
the results shown in the tables were obtained with the coned
sides of the orifices inside the vessel, yet, when the sides
were reversed, the rate of discharge through A, B, and C was
only diminished by one thirtieth part, and there wa3 no dif
ference in the rate of discharge through D whether the coned
side of the orifice was inside or outside the vessel.
   Taking A, B, and C as the orifices producing the maximum
rate of discharge, we have -935 as the value of the coefficient
of discharge from an orifice in a thin plate for the highest
pressure ot 135 lb. This value, as will be seen, is the same
for all the pressures in the table within errors of observation
and experiment, and the mean value of the coefficient for all
the pressures is #937.
   Applying this coefficient to the velocity deduced in Table I.
of my former paper for an orifice in a thin plate, we have for
the maximum velocity with which air of 135 lb. pressure
                                                  750
rushes into a vacuum, before expansion, V = ^^ = 800 feet
                                                 'vol
per second.
   Some anomalous rates of efflux from the same orifice, which
were obtained when air of less than 15 lb. effective pressure
was discharged into the atmosphere, induced me to make a
series of experiments on the discharge of air of an initial
pressure of 15 lb. through the same orifices as in the last
experiments, and the times were recorded for each reduction
of 2 lb. of pressure.
   All the discharges were made with the conoidal orifices
inside the vessel, but they were also made through C and D
with these orifices outside the vessel. The results are shown
in the following table (II.).
   On comparing the times of discharge through the several
orifices among themselves, and with those in Table I., a
marked difference is observable in them. Thus the ratio of
discharge through the tube-orifice A and the orifice in a thin
plate is greater than that for the same orifices in Table I.,

                           modified by the Form of the Discharging Orifice.                                                                                                                                    497
                                                                            Table II.
                                    Discharge into the Atmosphere.
                  ective
     inohsquareef pres              Plain
                                    tube-          Conoidal                 Conoidal                 Conoidal                  Conoidal                 Conoidal                        conoidal
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Coef icients ofor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                rifice.
  per
 Lb.                            5S        orifice.          orifice inside.          orifice inside.          orifice outside.          orifice inside.          orifice outside. Double orifice.
                         sure. 'si
                               •E.S
                               OS
                                 O       A                    B                        C                        C                         1)                      D                       E                  0
                               sec.  sec.               sec.                      sec.                    sec.                      sec.                      sec.                    sec.
            15                 160   13-5                14-0                     140                      140 1 14-5 14-5                                                             150          •829
            13                 17-5  14-5                15-0                     150                      150 16-5 160                                                                160          •829
            11                 195   160                 165                      16-5                     16-5 18-5 ( 180                                                             17-5         •820
                9              22-5  18-0                18-5                     18-5                     18-5 205                                            195                     190          •818
                7              260  21-0                 21-5                     22-0                     21-5 240 21-6                                                               220          •808
                5              330  26-0                 26-5                     275                      28-5 300 255                                                                270           •788
                3              61-0 39-0                40-5                      42-5                     40-5 470 38-5                                                               42-5          •765
the coefficients for the highest and lowest pressures in this
table being *935 and '940 respectively ; whereas the co
efficients for the same orifices in Table II. are "829 and '765
respectively. Again, while there is little difference in the
times of discharge from the tubular orifices among themselves,
a remarkable change occurs during the fall of pressure from
15 lb. to 1 lb. when the discharge is made through C and D
with the conoidal orifices outside the vessel.
      The discharge through D from 15 lb. to 13 lb. is the same
whether the conoidal orifice is inside or outside ; but in the
latter position, as the pressure diminishes, the rate of discharge
increases, till at the lowest pressure this increase amounts to
8-5 seconds, and exceeds the maximum discharge from the
tube-orifice A. A similar change is also noticeable in the
rate of discharge through reversing the orifice C ; but as the
 change does not come on before the pressure is below 7 lb.,
it is less marked than when the discharge is made through D.
       Suspecting that the phenomenal change in the rate of
 discharge for the same orifice was due to the varying resist
 ances of the discharging and receiving atmospheres of pres
 sure described in my former paper, the discharges from the
 orifices 0, A, and D were made into a vacuum of 1*5 inch
 of mercury instead of into the atmosphere, and the times of
 discharge were recorded for each reduction of 1 lb. of pressure.
       The results are shown in the table.

498            Mr. H. Wilde on the Efflux of Air as
                             Table III.
            Discharge into a Vacuum 1*5 inch Mercury.
      Lb. per                        Conoidal Conoidal Coefficient
                 Hole in Plain tube- orifice
   square inch thin                            orifice      for
     absolute       plate. oriGce.    inside. outside.   orifice.
     pressure.                A          D        D          O
                    0
        15        160        150        16-0     16-0       •937
        14        17-5       165        18-0     180        ¦943
        13        19-0       175        20-0     200        •921
        12        210        19-5       22-5     220        •928
         11       23-0       21-5       24-5     240        ¦935
         10       25-5       240        27-5     270        •941
          9       28-5       27«        310      30-5       •947
          8       32'5       31-0       35-5     350        •954
          7       37-6       35-5       41-0     40O        •947
          6       450        42-5       49-5     48-5       •944
          5       550        62-5       630      61-5       •955
          4       70-0       67-0       81-0     790       mean
                            1010                1200      coeffi
          3      1020                  125-0               cient
          2      1800       1920       2410    2240         •941
    A comparison of the times of discharge through D with the
conoidal orifice in both positions will show that they approach
nearly to a ratio of equality. The phenomenal change in the
rate of discharge from the same orifice was consequently due
to the diminished resistance of the external atmosphere, the
conoidal form of the orifice increasing the amount of rare
 faction above that obtained with a plain tube-orifice. This
 conclusion is further evident on comparing the times of
discharge from D in reversed position ;from a pressure of
 3 lb. to 1 lb. ; for as the rarefaction in the vacuum-chamber
 was only reduced to 1*5 inch of mercury, the phenomenal
 change in the rate of discharge again presents itself, making
 a difference of 1 7 seconds in the times of discharge between
 the reversed position of the orifice for the lowest pressure.
    Comparing the times of discharge through the tube-orifice
 A and the orifice 0 in the thin plate, it will be seen that
there is much less difference between them than for the
same orifices in Table II., the ratio agreeing very closely
with those shown in Table I. for similar times of discharge.
 The approaching equality in the times of discharge through

       modified by the Form of tlie Discharging Orifice.      499
the tube-orifice A and the orifice in the thin plate for the
lower pressures is no doubt due to the friction of the issuing
stream of air against the sides of the tube-orifice. The effect
of this friction for the lowest pressure, as will be seen, reduces
the rate of discharge from the orifice A below that from the
orifice in the thin plate.
   From the results of my previous experiments on the dis
charge of atmospheres of higher into atmospheres of lower
density, the times and coefficients in Table 1. and Table III.
for the higher pressure may well be considered as having been
obtained for discharges into a perfect vacuum, the difference
in the coefficients for pressures below 10 lb. in Table III.
being entirely due to friction of the issuing stream of air
against the sides of the orifices.
   From the results shown in Tables I. and II. the maximum
rate of efflux is obtained from the orifices A, B, and C, and
taking the efflux from these orifices as unity, the value of the
coefficient for the efflux of air into a vacuum through an
orifice in a thin plate is -937.
   These experiments also prove conclusively that the co
efficients which have hitherto been applied to the efflux of air
below 15 lb. effective pressure derive nearly the whole of
their value from the phenomenal changes of resistance
between the discharging and receiving atmospheres, and not
from the forms of the orifice and length of the adjutages, as
in the discharge of inelastic fluids.
   Applying the coefficient -937 to the velocity with which the
atmosphere of 15 lb. absolute pressure rushes into a vacuum
before expansion, as deduced in table ii. in my former
                            633
paper, we have V = -„„-_ = 677 feet per second, or ap-
Eroximately one half the velocity due to the height of the
  omogeneous atmosphere.
   The following approximate velocities with which atmo
spheres of several gases of 15 lb. absolute pressure rush into a
vacuum through an orifice of the best form, before expansion,
have been calculated on the basis of Graham's law of the
velocities of efflux for equal pressures being inversely as the
square roots of the specific gravities.
    Air                    1-000x677= 677 feet per second.
     Oxygen .... 0-950x677= 643                    „       „
    Nitrogen. . . .1-015x677=687                   „      „
     Hydrogen . . . 3-800x677 = 2572               „       „
     Saturated steam .1-445x677= 978               „       ,.

                                  [   500    ]
LXIX. On the Determination of the Modulus of Errors.
     By F. Y. Edgewobth, M.A., Lecturer on Logic, King's
     College, London*.
FOR most of the applications of the Law of Errors t there
          is required the determination of a constant which may
be described as the mean-square-of-error upon the supposition
that the centre-of-gravity is the point of null error—in short
the radius of gyration—for a certain plane curve. This curve
is the facility-curve under which a given observation ranges J :
the curve which would be generated if we registered an inde
finite number of observations made under unaltered conditions.
Take, for example, Laplace's proof§ that the difference be
tween the mean of 400 barometrical observations taken at
4 P.M. and the mean of observations || taken at 9 A.M. is not
accidental, but indicative of a cause. The reasoning turns
upon the incident that the mean of 400 observations may be
regarded as ranging under a probability-curve, whatever the
curve under which the individual observations range. In
Laplace's example it is supposed to be given that an observa
tion is as likely to occur at one point as another of a line
measuring 8 millimetres, but cannot occur outside that range.
The facility-curve then for each of the individual observations
is a rectangle of base 8 and of height fa inch. The mean-
                                                        1 fi
square-of-error for this facility-locus being -=-, we know that
                                                         o
the modulus-squared of the probability-curve under which the
                                                         ic              i
 mean of 400 observations ranges is 2x —- -r-400 = s— .
                                                          3            37-5
Whence it is deducible that the observed difference, namely
one millimetre, being about six times the modulus, is very
unlikely to have occurred by mere chance.
     The object of this paper is to soften the difficulty which the
 calculation of this constant is apt to present. The cases which
it is proposed to treat are intermediate between the least and
 the most perfect data : between those which admit, and those
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t For some account of these see the references given at the beginning
 of rav paper in the April Number of this Journal.
   % "Mr. Todhunter's y=/(=). (Hist, of Prob. art. 1001.)
    § Thtorie Analytique, Book II. ch. v.
    || It will be found, I think, that Laplace's reasoning assumes the morn
ing mean (which also rests upon 400 observations) as * fixed point. It
might have appeared more natural to find the modulus for the difference
between the two means on the supposition that neither was perfectly
determined by 400 observations.

              Determination of tlie Modulus of Errors.              501
which require, no remedy. On the one hand are the problems
in which it is required to determine the constant in question,
not from an ample registry of observations*, but from a few
samples. On the other hand are problems which follow the
analogy of games-of-chance ; where the constant is predeter
mined, and does not require to be elicited from a register of
observations. The intermediate case, where the modulus is
to be determined empirically and the material for determining
it is copious, is the most frequent in practical statistics. Sup
pose, for instance, it has been observed that the death-rate in
a certain occupation exceeds by a certain amount the rate in
other occupations. To determine whether or not that excess
is accidental, we require to know the modulus of the proba
bility-curve under which such death-rates range. Or, if it
is observed that the mean height of a certain classf, the Royal
Society for instance, exceeds the general mean, to complete
the argument based on that excess it may be requisite to know
what degree of excess would be likely or unlikely to be pre
sented by the mean height of a batch of men taken at random
from the general population. The latter example may be con
trasted with the former in this respect, that the quantity with
which it deals —linear dimension—is continuous, not discrete.
It follows that, in examples of the latter type, the data for the
calculation of our constant are apt not to possess the perfec
tion of which they are theoretically susceptible. We are
usually given the number of men corresponding to each
degree of height ; but the scale is not finely graduated. For
example, in the statistics just referred to the unit is an inch.
 In the copious statistics given by Dr. Baxter in the Report
of the Sanitary Commission of the United States, the unit is
two inches. To treat such finite differences as differentials may
introduce error.
     The cases which present this difficulty may be divided,
according as wc have, or have not, preliminary knowledge of
the form or family of the curve whose radius of gyration is
required. In the former case we may proceed by first redu
cing our imperfect data to the known form, and then calcu
lating for the curve thus determined the radius of gyration.
The second part of the operation is particularly easy in the
case of most frequent occurrence, namely where the presumed
   • In this case the required constant must be elicited by Inverse Pro
bability, as explained in my paper on Observations and Statistics
(Cambridge Philosophical Journal) under the heading 7
   t Cf. Report of the Anthropometrical Coimnissipn of the British
Association.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 133. June 1886.             2 N

502        Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Determination
form is that of the probability-curve. For, in determining
what member of this family our facility-curve is, we at the
same time find its mean-square-of-error. Anthropometrical
statistics exemplify this case. It is known by a copious
induction that the height-measurements of a homogeneous
population correspond to a probability-curve, or at least a
 Binomial (to use Mr. Galton's phrase) not materially different
 from that form. Take, for instance, Dr. Baxter's statistics
 referred to above and cited in full below. Prof. Unwin, to
 whom I submitted these figures, has by an elegant method
 found for the reduced curve,
                      y=4770 (1-074)-**.
 Identifying the right-hand member with the expression
                            V7TC
 where N is the total number of observations, namely 315,620,
 and c is the sought modulus, we find c=3"7 (inches), the same
 value which Signor Perozzo found for the ten Italian pro
 vinces, and which I have found for many other groups.
 Similarly, if we were given the mortality of a stationary
 population, not for each year of age but for periods of five
 years, as in the example given below, we might first construct
 a continuous curve from these imperfect data according to the
 hypothesis of Gompertz, and then find the radius of gyration
 for that curve.
     When we have no previous knowledge of the form of the
 curve, the operation of quadrature becomes indeterminate.
  In this case it is proposed to proceed as follows :—What is
 required for the purpose in hand—the use of the Theory of
  Errors as an aid to Induction by the Elimination of Chance—
  is not so much an exact determination of the modulus, as a
  superior, but not very wide, limit. For, by using a modulus
  larger than the real one, we shall be on the safe side ; we
  shall be underrating the evidence in favour of what is usually
  the demonstrandum, the proposition that some observed tcart
  (as in the example cited from Laplace at the beginning of
  this paper) is due to law rather than chance. And, on the
  other hand, if our assumed constant is not very much larger
  than the real one, we shall not require a materially larger
  number of observations to get up to the same degree of
  evidence. In short, we do not want to conduct our reasoning
  along the very edge of fallacy, but rather to keep at a safe
  distance, without, however, having to make a laborious
 detour.

                    of the Modulus of Errors.                 503
   Such being our quwaitum, let us represent our imperfectly
graduated data by the accompanying figure. The divisions
                                »0
                       1-1
                                         ni
             n-a
   »-3                                            "a       n>
                                 -
             P-2                0
of the horizontal line correspond to the degrees employed in
the given statistics—e. g. two inches in the case of Dr.
Baxter's statistics—degrees usually, but not necessarily, equal.
They are here at first supposed equal, each of length 2i. The
symbols no, nlt n_i, &c. represent the number of observations
corresponding to each degree, e. g. the number of men between
two heights differing by two inches. Let Aq, h1} h-i be the
heights of the corresponding columns, so that n = 2ixh.
Take a point 0 at the middle (or, if it seem better, at
one of the extremities) of the base of the highest compart
ment. The sum of the squares of errors measured from the
real centre of gravity is less than the sum of squares of errors
measured from any other point, in particular 0. The latter
quantity is less than what it becomes, if we suppose the
observations in each of the compartments outside the central
one to be disposed, not as, doubtless in fact, under a descen
ding curve, but in a rectangle as represented in the figure.
This quantity
        =«1OP1l + %OPsJ+ &c, +n.,OP.i!+ Ac,
(where Pj, P2, P_„ &c. bisect the bases of the corresponding
compartments) +Sft3A (exclusive of h0) + the contribution of
the central compartment. It remains to find a superior limit for
the last term of this expression. Assuming, as we have done all
along, that the curve with which we are concerned has only one
maximum, we may be sure that the points at which the curve
strikes the upright boundaries of the highest compartment are
higher than Av the height of that one of its immediate neigh
bours which is lowest. The contents of the highest compart
ment then consist of a rectangle at least as high as hi, sur
mounted by a figure which terminates in a cap (much like,
but not in general so regular as, the vertical section of a
conical rifle-ball. The contribution to the errors about 0
which the solid rectangle of height h\ makes is $i3A,. The
                               2N2

504         Mr. F. Y. Edgeworth on the Determination
contribution of the remaining contents is a maximum, when
they are all massed at a point as remote as possible from 0,
that is at one of the corners. The maximum contribution of
the residue is then
                   i8 x area of residue =2i3(Ao— A,).
Hence, as a superior limit for the whole compartment, we
have 2i3(/t0—f^i). And as a superior limit of the sum of
squares of error for the whole curve,
         SOP* X A+Sf t8* (inclusive of ho) + ^{fio—h^.
This quantity must be divided by Sh, and multiplied by 2, in
order to obtain a superior limit for the square of modulus-
constant.
    But what we require is not merely a superior limit, but one
which is not very much superior. The value which we have
found will possess this additional property, provided that the
highest of the given compartments (Jlo) is in the neighbour
hood of the Greatest Ordinate of the real facility-curve with
which we are concerned, and that the real Greatest Ordinate
is in the neighbourhood of the real Centre of Gravity. For
then the assumed centre of gravity will be in the neighbour
hood of the real one. The first condition may be taken for
granted. And there is reason to think that the second is very
generally fulfilled. It is true of facility-curves which are of
the Probability form, and that form is always tending to arise
 in rerum naturd. It is true* of symmetrical Binomials,
 which, according to Mr. Galton, are very prevalent. It is
 true * also of unsymmetrical Binomials—a form which there
 is some reason for attributing to many of the unsymmetrical
 facility-curves which occur. For the hypotheses made by
 Mr. Galton with regard to symmetrical Binomials, mutatis
 mutandis, may, I think, be applied to the unsymmetrical
 species. Again, the simple hypothesis by which Quetelet and
 others have explained the rise of the Probability-curve, or
 infinite symmetrical Binomial, slightly t modified, will ex
 plain the rise of unsymmetrical Binomials.
    So far, then, as Binomials, infinite or finite, symmetrical or
unsymmetrical, prevail, our method is serviceable. For ex
ample, it is applicable to anthropometrical statistics ; I have
applied it to Dr. Baxter's statistics of human stature, above
   * See note to p. 320 of my paper " On the Law of Error " &c. in
 the last No. of this Journal.
   t A form of the modified hypothesis will be fuund at p. 317 of my
paper on the Law of Error.

                      of the Modulus of Errors.                   505
alluded to. Here the interval represented by our 2i is two
inches, and the remaining data are :—:
                  n1= 64591,            n_! = 76157,
                  n,= 25500,             n_a = 36989,
                  n3= 6358,              n_3= 9871,
                                         n_4= 1674,
                  «o= 94450,
                 S«= 315620.
    Taking 0 as the centre of the highest compartment, I find,
as a superior limit of the mean-square-of-error, 7" 6. This is
a very serviceable approximation, considering that the real
value of this quantity (as given directly by Prof. Unwin's
reduction, and indirectly from a copious anthropometrical
experience) is 6*9. Instead of the real modulus 3*7, we have
the assumed modulus 3"9. In employing the latter constant to
investigate whether certain classes, e. g. savants or artizans, are
materially taller or shorter than the general population, we
shall neither overrate nor seriously underrate the evidence in
favour of a significant distinction.
    As an example of i variable, I have taken the following
summary of anthropometrical observations, cited fromM. Bodio
by Dr. Baxter:—
                                        .170
                                                             87
  88         60   61            64              67      «9        71   73
     Here the figures below the horizontal line represent inches
of height*; the figures above the corresponding numbers of
 men. There are, for instance, 370 men whose height is
 between 64 and 67 inches. The total number of men is
 1000. An inspection of the data suggests the advisability of
 taking O at the extreme left corner of the highest compart
 ment. Employing the formula, mutatis mutandis, I find, as a
 superior limit for the assumed modulus, 4-2.
     Our method requires modification when the Centre of
 Gravity and Greatest Ordinate are far from coinciding, as when
 the data assume the accompanying form. In this case it is
    * It should be observed that in this and the preceding example the
 bases of the outmost compartments have not been given. I have assumed
 that they may be regarded as each equal to 2 inches.

506            Determination of tlu Modulus of Errors.
best to take 0 in the neighbourhood of the apparent centre
of gravity, that which "is obtained from the unreduced dis
continuous data. Between 0 and the highest compartment
    P,    P"      p   o    p,    P,
 inclusive we must calculate superior limits for the contribution
 of each compartment upon the principle above employed for
 the highest compartment ; and for the rest, proceed as before.
     Suppose, for instance, we are given the number of deaths
 in each quinquennium after the age of 65 of a certain number
 of persons who have attained that age, the population being
 supposed stationary—in short, part of a very imperfect
 column dx of a life-table. We want to know the constant
 which governs investigations like the following*:—The mean
 age-at^death of a certain number of total abstainers being less
 than the general mean, is the difference accidental or signi
 ficant?
                     H5-5
            70-75   7-W9            86-89 90-M
     The accompanying figure represents an imperfectly gra
 duated column dz. Each of the divisions of the base-line
 corresponds to a quinquennium, except the one on the extreme
  left, which is limited to four years in order that the result may
 be compared with what I have elsewhere given, obtained byn
  more accurate calculation. The apparent centre of gravity-
  occurs in the third compartment, corresponding to the period
  75-79. I take for 0 the left corner of that compartment, and
  for the unit of length one of the equal divisions of the abscissa.
  Here /i1 = 35'5 ; Aj=431, is a Ifttle larger. Hence the maxi
  mum distribution is afforded by supposing the highest com-
     * See my paper on "Methods of Determining Bates," Journal of
 Statistical Society, Jan. 1866.

                   Notices respecting New Books.              507
partment fall up to the height of the next compartment, as
shown by the dotted line in the figure ; and the rest of the
contents of the highest compartment massed at its left corner.
The quantity SOPto is
  i(2x35-5) + f(31 + 25) + ^xl3 + ^x4 + flJx-7 = 288.
To this is to be added S § £A (35*5 being substituted for h0)
                   =1J2(S»-4-5)=1V145 = 12.
Lastly, there is to be added the contribution of the upper
layer of the highest compartment on the most unfavourable
supposition ; =4*5. Thus the limit of the sum of the squares
of error is 305. This is to be divided by Sn for the modulus-
constant. The result is 204. This must be multiplied by 58
for the mean-square-of-error in terms of a single year ; and
again by 2 for the modulus-constant. The result is 102. By
a more accurate calculation, founded upon the discrete column
dx, from which the above data were compressed, I found for
the corresponding constant 90. We have therefore a very
serviceable approximation. The method may be extended to
cases where the facility-curve has more than one maximum.
   In conclusion, it may be observed that the procedure which
has been indicated is appropriate also to cases where a more
exact determination of the constant is theoretically possible.
The rough-and-ready method is sufficiently accurate for the
purposes of statistical induction. It is therefore the most
serviceable method whenever it is the most convenient.
               LXX. Notices respecting New Books.
Select Metliods in Chemical Analysis (chiefly Inorganic). By
   William. Cbookes, F.R.S., V.P.C.S. Second Edition. London:
   Longmans, 1886. Demy 8vo ; pp. xxii and 725.
IP it were allowable for a science to be provided with a motto,
      " Crescit eundo " might well be that of Chemistry. In the
early years of this ceutury, a single treatise of somewhat modest
dimensions was sufficiently large to " carry all we knew " ; but
modern chemistry has as many departments, and is as varied in
its applications, as modern mathematics. Two journals, indeed,
are devoted exclusively to analysis,—a department which also
occupies a prominent place in many others.
   The ' Chemical News,' of which Mr. Crookes is Editor, has for
many years past reserved a portion of its pages for abstracts of
papers in foreign chemical periodicals. These abstracts refer in
many cases to new or modified analytical methods ; and it for

508                Notices respecting New Books.
tunately occurred to Mr. Crookes that a selection of the beet of
these—proved to be the best by actual trial in his own laboratory
—would be of service to chemists generally. The first edition,
accordingly, of ' Select Methods ' appeared in 1871 ; and, after an
interval of fifteen years, we are now presented with its much
enlarged successor. It need hardly be said that this, the second
edition, has been to a great extent rewritten ; and the distinguished
compiler of the work still continues to vouch personally for the
value of the processes he describes. Few chemists, probably,
would be disposed to undertake such a laborious task of literary
filtration ; and Mr. Crookes undoubtedly deserves the thanks of all
his confreres for a sustained effort, unique in the history of this
science. On the other hand, the scheme is, from its very nature,
tinctured with some disadvantage.          Some methods, not less
efficient than those here selected, must have been passed over
from sheer lack of opportunity to try them ; others,—omitted as
 " universally known, " untrustworthy," or " doubtful,"—might
 (legitimately perhaps) have been inserted by a second author, also
 possessed of competent ability. And so deeply is this stamp of a
 personal judgment impressed upon the work, that it lies almost
 without the province of logical review. When an able analyst has,
 after experiment, stated his opinion of a given process, the attitude
of others must long continue to be one of simple receptivity.
    The general features of the first edition will be found to charac
 terize the second. There is the same perfectly just stress laid
 on the inclusion of "rare" elements (after all, not rare) ; the same
 range through the various departments of gravimetric and volu
 metric analysis (including that of gases) and what is known as
 " technical " analysis. Volumetric processes no longer (excepting
 for gases) occupy a separate chapter ; this is a distinct systematic
 improvement. There is a separate section devoted to " New
 Processes and General Methods of Manipulation " ; and the " Useful
 Tables " are naturally more numerous than previously.
    The special aspects of Mr. Crookes's work would require more
 space than we have at our disposal for their complete summary ; a
 few comments will, however, suffice. The order mainly observed
 is :—(1) lighter metals, (2) heavier metals, (3) metalloids. Take
 Potassium. Under this heading, ten or eleven new methods or
 modifications are adduced as meeting various conditions. Much
 stress is laid on the platino-chloride process and the limits of its
 accuracy, an abstract being given of the Eeport of the British
 Association's Committee upon this subject. It would have been
 an advantage here to have given some simple plan for obtaining a
 platinum solution free from iridium. To the chapter on Sodium
 little has been added ; indeed, there has been little to add. A good
 direct gravimetric method for estimating sodium is still a deside
 ratum. There is a good deal of new matter under Magnesium. The
 intricate topic of the Cerium Metals receives very ample treatment,
 as might have been expected from the Author's special acquaintance
 with the subject. Here the reader will find the process of fractional

                    Notices respecting New Books.                 509
precipitation duly in prominence, and may form a fair estimate of
the work that lies before him if he essays their separation. Since
this chapter was written, much doubt has been thrown upon the
homogeneousness of Didymium. Samarium is, of course, a new
feature here ; and Thorium is an additional entry. Under Qlucinum
we wish it could have been possible to say something of Mr. Greville
"Williams's experiments. The detailed exposition of Mr. Crookes's
own researches on the detection and wide distribution of Yttrium
 is extremely interesting, and constitutes an admirable guide for a
 young investigator. Other rare earth-metals are referred to in
 considerable detail, none in fact being omitted. One can hardly
 read the account of Titanium and Zirconium without seeing that
 pure compounds of the former metal can hardly have been yet
 prepared. The results of Pierre and Thorpe as to the combining
 weight of the former element are hopelessly discordant, and yet,
 on the face of them, equally trustworthy. The volumetric esti
 mation of Chromic Acid by adding an iodide and hydric chloride is
 liable to considerable error if allowed to consume " a few hours," as
 stated in the text. The reviewer uses strong hydrochloric acid
 diluted with an equal bulk of water and heated to 50° : titration
 can then be proceeded with at once. Manganese ores can be valued
 in the same way, after a contact seldom exceeding 15 minutes.
 The whole section on Iron (nearly 90 pages) is admirably written,
 the requirements of technologists being evidently borne well in
 mind. Here the Author appears to us to have been adding and
  selecting at his best. The entire chapter deserves the most careful
  perusal. As regards Eggertz's method, we have always considered
  its weak point to be the dilution, which necessarily affects the
  constitution of all liquids, and may be the source of grave error.
  The best colorimeter to employ in this case is one of the forms
  for which dilution is not necessarily required. Clark's method of
  analyzing chrome-iron ore is certainly the best. Many of the
  failures in analyzing this ore are not the fault of any particular
  method, but of overheating. In the separation of Cobalt from
  Nickel, it would have been an advantage if Gibbs's simple and per
  fectly accurate plan of boiling the aqueous sulphates with plumbic
   peroxide could have been inserted. As regards Copper, we could
   wish the volumetric cyanide process were a thing of the past.
   Sulphur in pyrites has been the bete noire of many analysts. Mr.
   Crookes commends Pearson's method, which is doubtless the best ;
   the reviewer, however, prefers to carry out the early stages of the
   attack at 30°-40°, not at 100"J. It is curious that Nakamura's
   method should fail for pyrites. We are glad to see Gibbs's elegant
   phosphate process given for Manganese, Few analysts practise it ;
   but we hope Mr. Crookes's description may induce many to use it
   habitually.. We have nothing but praise for the section on Oas
   Analysis, which is quite full enough, though succinctly written. In
   the Tables, we could have wished that Captain Clarke's figures had
   been employed as the basis of metric equivalence.
      Some omissions ought perhaps to be noticed. In our opinion, a

510                Notices respecting New Books.
future edition might advantageously contain more copious reference
to colorimetric methods. These (though it is true they have a
probable error of about 2 per cent, per single determination) are
nevertheless quite accurate enough in numerous cases, and par
ticularly for small quantities. The subject also of probable error is
a vital one in connection with accurate measurement. It would be
a great advantage to state the principal formula? required in quanti
tative investigation.     Though given in Merriman's and Airy's
special treatises and in Clarke's [Recalculation of the Atomic
Weights, they are not yet easily accessible to chemical inquirers.
 Occasionally, also, the reader is desirous of forming an independent
judgment, and referring to an original memoir on a particular
process. It is much to be desired that in a future edition full
references be given.
   Any one who, like ourselves, has made a careful perusal of Mr.
Crookes's ' Select Methods,' has before him the necessary data for
answering the question, What are the general characteristics of
a good analytical process ? If, however, he should be inclined to
ask, " What is the general method of analytical discovery'?'' the
answer must be sought elsewhere. Laboratory work, laboratory
tradition, chemical environment, and a native chemical mind are
the necessary factors of a reply. But the idea of the ' Select
 Methods' will be always at hand ; and the volume itself will remain,
as we have said, unique in the history of chemical science.
 Fourth Anrmal Report of the United States Geological Survey, for
   1882-83. By J. W. Powell, Director. 4to. ' Pages i-xxxn
   and 1-473, with 48 maps and plates. Washington, 1884.
The Director's Eeport and the Eeports from the Heads of
Departments give general and in some respects special infor
mation as to work and progress in the topographical, geological,
palseontological, chemical, and statistical branches of this extensive
and well-conducted Geological Survey. Plate I. indicates the extent
of work already done. The " Accompanying Papers " in this fine
volume are of great interest in many aspects,—the geographer,
miner, palaeontologist, and geologist finding useful matter to hand,
Capt. C. E. Dutton gives a full and richly illustrated account of
the Hawaiian Volcanoes (pp. 81-219, with 29 maps and plates).
Chapter XI., on " the Volcanic Problem," carefully thought out, is
very suggestive. An " Abstract of a Eeport on the Mining Geology
of the Eureka District, Nevada," by Mr. J. S. Curtis (pages 225-
251, with 3 plates of sections), comes next. The ores and their
position in Prospect Mountain and its spurs (Euby Hill in
particular) are treated of practically as to their occurrence and
hypothetically as to their sources and origin, whether as sulphurets,
oxides, carbonates, &c., or in a metallic state—the various ores
of lead, zinc, and iron, with silver and gold, being the subjects of
remark.
   Mr. Albert Williams, Jun., supplies a concise article on " Popular

                   Notices respecting New Boohs.                  511
Fallacies regarding Precious-metal Ore-deposits " (pages 257-271).
This controverts some of the many prejudices held by " the
practical miner," such as " against certain formations and in
favour of others," arising from unfavourable results in some local
workings, or vice versd, unchecked by subsequent experience.
Also against mines having unusually rich ores, in some instances,—
for or against veins with certain strikes, and other circumstances,
particularly as to the " appearance of ores." A hopeful view of
advance in mining knowledge with both miners and geologists is
held in this Eeport.
   The next memoir is "a Review of the Fossil OstreidsB of
North America ; and a Comparison of the fossil with the living
forms; by C. A. White, M.D., with Appendices by Prof. A.
Heilprin and Mr. J. A. Eyder " (pages 273-430, including 39 plates
of the fossil and 10 of the recent Oysters of North America). Dr.
White treats of the group generally, and of the successional forms
of Ostrea and its immediate allies, from the Carboniferous to the
Cretaceous, inclusive. Prof. Heilprin notices the Tertiary species ;
and Mr. Eyder supplies an account of the life-history of the
Oyster as known in the living state in North America. " A
Geological Eeconnaissance in Southern Oregon," by Mr. I. C.
Eussell (pp. 431-464, with 3 plates and 10 woodcuts of maps,
sections, &c.), is more particularly interesting as showing the
extent and changes of the great lake-system of that country, and
the immediate relationship of the faults and displacements of strata
to the water-areas of the several valleys at successive periods, and
of the climatic oscillations during their history.
   A good Index enhances the value of this useful volume.
     " Photo-rdief" Maps, published by the Society for Promoting
                    Christian Knowledge : London.
We have received specimens of a scries of the Eelief-maps to be
issued as " photo-lithograph." This new adaptation of relief-maps,
photographed from models, to education, as an aid in realizing
the surface-configuration of a country, will, we think, be largely
appreciated by both teachers and students, especially as the maps
 are published at a low cost. Looking at the specimens bofore us,—
those of a map of Scotland, which has tho slight defect of too even
 a shore-line for the West Coast,—we arc forcibly impressed by the
 valley-systems as a leading feature, and are reminded of tho
 immense denudation which, during terrestrial history, has carved out
 the surface, and left us the hills as vestiges of the old land. Tho
 relative positions of watersheds, and of the tracks of roads and
 canals, and the sites of battles, as well as of early occupation, are
 hereby readily recognized and their reasons understood. These
 maps are to be issued in three forms :—(1) Plain, with the physical
 configuration only, besides parellels of latitude and longitude and
 sites of some chief towns. (2) In addition, the names of the chief
 mountains, rivers, towns, &c, and the divisions of counties. (3) In

512                      Geological Society :—
 addition, the counties marked out with colours. The vertical scale,
being six times that of the horizontal, exaggerates the heights ; but
the relative altitudes of the mountains are preserved. The further
issue of this series will be a great aid to both geographer and
geologist ; and to the meteorologist these maps will facilitate the
study of rainfall and other phenomena.
             LXXI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                       [Continued from p. 449.]
        April 7, 1880.— Prof. J. W. Judd, F.ll.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
THE following communications were read :—
      1. " On Glacial .Shell-beds in British Columbia." . By <J. W.
Lamplugh, Esq.
   This paper was divided into two parts, relating respectively to
Vancouver Island and the Fraser V'alley. Having to spend nearly
a month at the city of Victoria in 1 S84, the author had leisure for
the investigation of the geological features of the district, but he
expressed his regret that, at the time, he was unacquainted with the
publications of Mr. Bauerman and Dr. Dawson on the subject.
   The most important shell-beds were disclosed in an excavation
for a dry dock at Esquimault, V.I. Here a fissure in an igneous
rock had been filled in by glacial beds. Shells were most numerous
on the north side of the dock in Boulder-clay, associated with irre
gular sandy seams, the whole being softer than the general mass.
The containing rock was not glaciated at this point. Leda, Nucula,
Cardium, Tellina, Mija, and >S<t.cicava are the principal genera.
   There was great difference in the state of preservation according
to position ; the shells below the waterline being remarkably fresh,
while acidulous waters, engendered by vegetable decay, had attacked
the upper portions.
   The author concludes that the whole mass of drift, including the
shells, had been pushed up by ice in its passage southwards. The
general mode of occurrence was very similar to that at Bridlington.
He further observed that the rocks were not striated in the first in
stance by these shelly clays, but he believed the glaciation to have
taken place through the action of harder substances, and that
afterwards a milder term set in, when an arctic fauna established
itself in the neighbourhood, after which fresh ice pushed the sea-
bottom along with other accumulations into its present position.
   The shell-beds in the Fraser Valley are about 100 feet above sea-
level. Three sections of glacial beds were given. The stratified clay
in which the shells were found contains no pebbles, and, though
somewhat disturbed, has evidently been deposited where it now
occurs.

             Fossiliferous Pebble-band in the Punjab.               513
   2. " On a Lower Jaw of Macfuerodus from the ' Forest-Bed,'
Kessingland." By James Backhouse, Esq., F.G.S.
   3. " A contribution to the History of the Cetacea of the Norfolk
' Fores^Bed.' " By E. Tulley Newton, Esq., F.G.S.
     April 21.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.8., President, in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
    1. " On a certain Fossiliferous Pebble-band in the ' Olive group '
of the Eastern Salt Range, Punjab." By A. B. Wynne, Esq., F.G.S.
   The principal object of this paper was to oppose the views recently
published by Dr. Waagen as to the age of certain boulder-beds in
the Salt Range of the Punjab. By that author these beds had been
considered contemporaneous with each other, and assigned to the
epoch of the Coal-measures, in consequence of the discovery by Dr. H.
Warth of carboniferous fossils, especially Australian forms of Conu-
laria, in nodules restricted to a particular layer in the upper part of
 a boulder-bed in the eastern Salt Range. Mr. Wynne adduced evi
 dence to show that the fossils in question occur, not in concretions,
 as supposed by Dr. Waagen, but in pebbles evidently derived from
 an older series ; and consequently there was no proof that the
 boulder-bed in question was older than the Cretaceous Olive beds
 with which it had hitherto been associated.
    The principal boulder-beds in the Salt Range were then briefly
noticed; those beneath the Carboniferous Limestone west of the Indus,
those near Amb and Sakesir peak, associated with the "purple
sandstone," " Obolus-bedia," and " speckled sandstone," and those in
the eastern portion of the Salt Range, amongst the beds of the
" Salt pseudomorph zone " and " Olive group," being successively
passed in review, and their relations to overlying and underlying
strata explained. It was shown that boulder-beds and conglo
merates containing pebbles and boulders of the same crystalline
rocks are not confined to one horizon.
   In conclusion, the resemblance of the rock, of which the pebbles
 containing ConularuF &c. were formed, to that forming some of the
 "magnesian sandstone" and " OW««-beds " was pointed out, and it
 was suggested that the pebbles in question may have been derived
 from representatives of those beds formerly existing to the south
ward.
    2. " On the Phosphatic Beds in the neighbourhood of Mous."
 By M. F. L. Cornet, For. Corr. G.S.
    These beds are situate in the province of Hainault, near the town
 of Mons (Belgium) ; the workings have increased of lato years, and
 in 1884 yielded 85,000 tons of phosphate.
   They occur in the Upper Cretaceous, which is exceptionally well
developed in the district, filling a trou gh in the Carboniferous rocks,

514                       Geological Society.
and itself denuded for the reception of Tertiary and Quaternary
beds.
   Omitting all Cretaceous groups below the middle of the fifth stage,
the following is the sequence of the Cretaceous beds whioh contain
the phosphatic series :—
   C. Tufaceous Chalk of Ciply, with the Poudingue de la Malogne
         at its base.
   D. Brawn Phosphatic Chalk of Ciply.
   E. Coarse Chalk of Spiennes.
   F. White Chalk of Nouvelles.
   F is a pure white chalk with some flints and containing BelemnittUa
mucronata, Rhynchonella octoplicata, Terebratula cornea, Ananchytes
ovatus, &c.—an horizon well known throughout North-western
Europe. Series F and F' represent one geological horizon characterized
by Ostraxe, Brachiopoda, &c. in great numbers, but also containing
Belemnitella mucronata, and lying between two distinct planes of
erosion.
   The Lower Phosphatic Chalk (D), which forms the upper division
of the series, is about 70 feet thick, and may be described as con
sisting of three parts ; the upper is tolerably pure carbonate of lime,
but in its lower portion becomes charged with brown granules mainly
consisting of phosphate of lime ; these continue to increase towards
the central or main phosphatic mass, which is also highly fossili-
ferous in places. This central portion constitutes the main phos
phatic beds, but the amount of phosphoric acid (dry) is not more
than 12 per cent.
   Hence, it is necessary to increase the richness in phosphate of
the deposit in order that it may be available for conversion into a
superphosphate. This may be done by mechanical means.
   But uaturo has already partially anticipated this process, and the
result has been a deposit known as " rich phosphate," containing
about 25 per cent, of phosphoric acid. This occurs in wide cracks
and holes in the ordinary phosphatic chalk. It usually occurs as
a fine sand-like powder, and is evidently the result of the action
of carbonated waters upon the phosphatic chalk, whereby the
amount of carbonate of lime is reduced. This is especially the case
where the phosphatic chalk is not protected by the tufaceous chalk
of Ciply, but is only covered by Tertiary or Quaternary beds.
   The author calculates that each square foot of the phosphatic
basin, which he estimates approximately at 5 miles by 3, contains
355 lb. of tribasic phosphate of lime. Finally he intimates how
the phosphatization of the chalk may have been brought about.

                               [  515    j
        LXXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
               ON MAGNETIZATION.        BY M. MASCART.
~\X^HEN an isotropic and feebly magnetic substance is placed in
  ' * a uniform field, it acquires a magnetization parallel to the field,
and its coefficient of magnetization is the ratio of the magnetic
moment for unit volume, or intensity of magnetization, to the
intensity of the field.
    "With highly magnetic substances, on the contrary, such as iron,
nickel, cobalt, the reaction due to the induced magnetism must be
allowed for, and the preceding definition is only applicable for
infinitely long cylinders magnetized longitudinally or for closed
rings.
    The calculation of the magnetizing force as a function of the
external field is very simple in the case of the sphere or the
ellipsoid, or of an infinitely long cylinder magnetized transversely ;
but except in the case of very elongated ellipsoids, the co
efficient of magnetization may vary within very extensive limits
without the magnetic moment of the body being sensibly modified.
The slightest want of homogeneity has in that case a considerable
influence.
    The coefficient of magnetization is often determined by using
cylinders arranged parallel to the field, and which are assimilated to
infinite cylinders, or to ellipsoids of the same length and the same
median section ; the magnetic moment is theu measured, or the
discharge, induced in a coil surrounding the central section, when
 the magnetization is reversed. With rings, induced charges can
alone be used, and the coefficients of magnetization are generally
found too high. It may then be asked if one of the methods is at
fault ; and if, for instance, a special phenomenon is produced in the
 case of closed rings which exaggerates the effects of induction. In
 order to solve this question, I used with the same metal closed
 rings, and a series of cylinders in which the ratio of the length to
 the diameter varied within very wide limits.
    The cylinders were placed in the axis of a cylindrical coil of
 1-20 metre in length, and O03 metre in diameter, so that the internal
field of the current may be considered as sensibly uniform over a
 length of more than O80 metre. This coil was at right angles to
the magnetic meridian, and its action on an adjacent declinometer
 was compensated by that of an external coil. The magnetic moment
 of the cylinder is deduced from the deflection produced in the
 declinometer. Further, a coil of several turns, wound on the
 mean portion of the magnetized cylinder, was connected with a
 ballistic galvanometer, and the induced charge produced by the
inversion of the magnetization, eliminating the effect produced by
the field itself.

516             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    The measurement of the magnetic moment by the deflection of
the declinometer requires in strictness that the position of the poles
be known, or at any rate that the experiments be, made at two
different distances so as to eliminate the factor of correction ; but
with very narrow cylinders. Coulomb's rules furnish a sufficient
approximation for the degree of exactitude I had in view. Finally,
the field F of the magnetizing coil is determined by the intensity I
of the current, and the number n of turns of the wire for unit
length,
                               F=4jrn1I.
The quotient of the magnetic moment M of the cyb'nder by its
volume V gives the mean intensity of magnetization A, and we
may denote as the mean coefficient of magnetization,
                                A_ M
                            /_F 4^n,IV'
    On the other hand, if 8 is the section of the cylinder, A the
 intensity of magnetization in the median region, F the action of
 the magnetism induced in this region, p the number of turns of
 the small coil, B. the resistance of the circuit of which it forms
 part, and Q the discharge induced by the reversal of the magneti
 zation, we have
                  QR=2pS(4,rA, -F,)=8p^A-|j \
 Putting
                            /.-**.-£>
 we shall obtain by experiment two mean coefficients / and /, which
 have slightly different significations.
     Experiment shows in the first place that we have always/1 >/.
 These two quantities, which are very different for short cylinders,
 approximate more and more, and this ratio tends to unity as the
 length of the cylinder increases. At the same time, the greatest
 values of the coefficients / and /, correspond to fields which are
 gradually weaker. Lastly, the values of/ and of/, furnished by
 very long cylinders are equal to the coefficient h given by closed
  rings.
     With the iron which 1 used, when the ratio of the length to the
 diameter varied from 40 to 500 or 600, the maximum value of the
  coefficients /or/, varied from 25 to 190, or from 40 to 220, while
  the corresponding fields diminished from 20 to 25 C.G-.S. units to 3
  units ; the same wires used as rings gave for the maximum of the
  coefficient k, a value of about 200 with a field of 3 units. The
 agreement of these results is sufficient, if we allow for the difficulty
 of obtaining specimens which are identical.
     The method of cylinders, provided their length is at least 500

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              517
times the diameter, is then equivalent to that of the rings ; it has
this advantage, that we can ascertain at any moment the real
magnetic condition of the metal, and demagnetize it so as to subject
it to fresh tests.
   The mean coefficient of magnetization diminishes very rapidly
with the ratio X of the length of the cylinder to its diameter, and
soon becomes of the same order as the coefficient /,, relative to the
transverse magnetization. Further, the magnetization is propor
tional to the intensity of the external field, within much more
extended limits.
    By forming short cylinders with packets of the same iron
wire as before, we have obtained as mean values in fields of 1 to
10 units :
                    X.                 /•             /,
                 12-3                3-40           0-13
                    7-5               1-90          0-14
                    50                120           0-14
                    3-3               0-73          014
    Rectangular bars of soft iron gave in like manner for the mean
coefficients of magnetization /, /„ /2, parallel to the three edges :—
         Dimensions.
         c.   c. c.                /.           fv            fr
          9   1 1                20           015
          9   2 1                1-34         0-22          0-10
          9   2 2                0-88          015
          9   3 2                0-72         0-20          0-13
     Theory shows that in the case of infinitely long cylinders the
 coefficient / for transverse magnetization is expressed by
                          1c _         1     _ 0-159
                        1+2tt^
                               H1+^) 1+^
 and should be below 0-159 ; it will be seen that experiment gives
 values near this limit, even with very short cylinders.
     A knowledge of these coefficients of magnetization is of particular
 interest, as furnishing a correct means of calculating the effect of
 the magnetization induced by the Earth in a magnetized bar, in
  observations relative to the absolute measurement of the terrestrial
 field.
     More generally, when a body is isotropic and of any given form,
 there are three rectangular directions for which the magnetization
 is parallel to the external field, with different coefficients /, /,, and
 ft ; these coefficients have the same properties as the coefficients
 of magnetization of a feebly magnetic anisotropic substance.
   , Suppose, for instance, that />/j and that the body is movable
 about an axis parallel to the direction /, in a field whose component
      Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 21. No. 133. June 1886.              20

518           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
perpendicular to this axis is H. If V is the volume of the body
and the angle of the Held with the direction/, the moment of the
couple due to the action of the field is
                      C=V (/•-/,) H2 sin a cos a.
   It is readily seen that magnetization may be regarded as the
superposition of two other magnetizations—the one constant, /,H,,
parallel to the field and producing no couple ; the other, (/—/,) H
cos a, connected with the body, and parallel to the direction of
greatest magnetization. This latter is sensibly constant for feeble
deflections.
   This is the case of a magnet which oscillates under the influence
of the Earth. If we take into account the induced magnetization,
we should strictly add to the rigid magnetization a magnetization in
the same direction (/—/,) H proportional to the difference of the
longitudinal and transverse coefficients.
   We may add that for steel the mean coefficient of longitudinal
magnetization is much weaker than for soft iron, which greatly
tends to increase the importance of transverse magnetization.—
Comptes Hendus, May 5, 1886.
ON AN INSTRUMENT FOK REPRODUCING AN INVARIABLE QUANTITY
             OF ELECTRICITY. BY M. MARCEL DEPREZ.
   The object of this instrument is to reproduce readily and under
any given conditions of temperature and pressure the unitquanlity
of electricity which is known as a Coulomb.
   It consists of a U-tube the two limbs of which end in glass bulbs
the volume of which is far greater than that of the cylindrical parts,
the whole being hermetically sealed. One of the bulbs and the
corresponding limb is completely filled with water acidulated by
phosphoric acid ; in the other limb it is filled with air at a definite
pressure as well as the bulb in which it ends. In the branch filled
with liquid are four platinum wires facing each other in pairs, two
at the top of the bulb and two others in the cylindrical part a little
below the lowest point of the bulb. If an electrical current is
passed through these latter, water is decomposed, and the detonating
gas arising from this decomposition accumulates in the upper bulb,
while the liquid driven into the second limb ascends in this,
compressing the air in the second bulb. If we take care to note
the point of departure of the column of liquid in the second limb,
which is divided into parts of equal capacity, as well as the point
at which it stops when the current is suppressed, we have all the
elements necessary for knowing the quantity of electricity expended
in producing the detonating mixture. It is readily seen that, if the
volume of this liquid measured by the rise of the liquid in the
second limb is constantly the same, the quantity of electricity

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            519
necessary to produce it will be always the same, and that also what
ever be the temperature of the instrument, provided it is the same
in both limbs—a condition which is easily realized. The barometric
pressure and the hygrometric state of the air clearly do not affect the
results, for the apparatus is hermetically sealed. Finally, as the
liquid is always the same, we can reproduce by this instrument at
any time a quantity of gas corresponding to an invariable quantity
of electricity taken as standard, the whole operation resolving itself
into reading a volume which is always the same, without the
necessity of any correction, while with the ordinary voltameter the
corrections for temperature, pressure, and the tension of vapour are
far from being negligible.
    In order that the instrument may be used over and over again,
the water decomposed must be re-formed at each operation ; this is
the object of the platinum wires at the top of the bulb where
 the detonating gas accumulates.         When a spark is passed,
 the gases reunite, the acidulated water again fills the bulb, and the
instrument is ready for a new operation. The apparatus may be
 made more or less sensitive by filling it before sealing with air
 below the atmospheric pressure.— Comptes Rendus, March 22, 1886.
                EXPERIMENTS IN THERMOELECTRICITY.
                  BY MM. PILLEUR AND E. JANNETAZ.
    We have endeavoured to ascertain if, when we heat a given
 point of a conductor having a schistous texture, thermoelectric
 currents are produced in it.
     Our experiments extended to zinc, tin, iron, and copper. The
 schistous or long-grain texture was imparted to them by carefully
 drawing them out, an operation performed under our superintend
 ence in the workshops of M. Pirot.
    A point A at the centre of the plate is heated and one contact is
 made on the other side of the plate, at the end of the line which
 connects this point with A across the long grain, the other taken at
 a point C on the end of the line joining the point A along the long
 grain.
     In all cases a current was obtained from B to C. The strength
 of the current for the same metal appeared connected with the
 development of the long grain. Thus, that zinc which had passed
 four times- through the draw-plate gave a feebler current than zinc
 which had been drawn out six times. But copper with a good
 deal of long grain, that is much more fragile in one direction than
 another, gave a feebler current than tin, which seemed to have no
 appreciable grain. It must moreover be observed that this tin had
  passed six times through the plate ; hence the thermoelectric action
  shows the action of the draw-plate, even when the fracture does
 not show it.

520            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   The strongest currents were shown by zinc, and the feeblest by
copper.
   The currents are, however, difficult to observe, doubtless owing
to the facility with which they unite across the plates themselves ;
 more powerful effects may be obtained by cutting a knee-piece in
the metal plate, in one branch of which the long grain is across
 and in the other in the direction of the length, and then joining
 the two ends of the kuee-piece to the external circuit. —Journal de
Physique, April 1886.
 ON THE ORIGIN AND THE LAWS OF ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.
                       BY PROF. FRANZ EXNEU.
    After a critical historical discussion of previous theories, the
author communicates the results of his experiments on this subject,
which have extended over several years. They refer chiefly to an
examination of the electrical field of the earth under normal atmo
 spheric conditions. It has appeared that the equipotential surfacea
are continually ns if the Earth had a negative charge. Over a
plane the fall of potential is always linear, and its absolute value
is constant if the condition" of the atmosphere does not change.
Such changes are due to the greater or less quantity of aqueous
vapour in the air, for this leaves the Earth charged with negative
electricity.
   The greatest fall of potential amounts to 600 volts per metre in
the complete absence of aqueous vapour, and sinks to below 10U
volts in the height of summer. These numbers hold, however, only
for continuous fine weather. A measurement of the fall of poten
tial in summer at great heights, by means of air-balloons, has
proved that this increases considerably with the height ; that is,
that aqueous wpour in air is really negative.
   All the phenomena of negative electricity are completely explained
on the assumption already made by Peltier that the Earth contains
a negative charge. Starting from Franklin's theory, this charge
appears as a necessary consequence of the gradual formation of the
Earth, and would correspond to an excess of electricity above the
normal amount. Bodies which are in the condition last named
would thus appear negatively electrified. From the magnitude of
the fall of potential at the surface of the Earth, the absolute poten
tial of the Earth may be dete"mined. This is found to be = — 4-10*
volt; that is to say, a point in space which is infinitely distant
from all electrical masses has a potential which is 4- 10" volts higher
than that of the Earth. The repulsive force which is exerted by
the charge of the Earth on a square centimetre of surface is equal
to 16-10-9 grams, and is thus extremely small.— SitzungsbcricliU der
kaiserlichen Akadtmie der Wissenschaften in Wien, February 1S86.

                                   [   521     ]
                    INDEX to VOL. XXI.
ABSORPTION-cell, on a new form            Brown (J. A.) on Thames Valley
  of, 80.                                    surface-deposits, 283.
Acids, on the constitution of, 127.       Burbury (S. II.) on the foundations
Ahrens (Mr.), on a new polarizer             of the kinetic theory of gases, 481.
  devised by, 476.                        Calorimetric work, on experimental
Air, on the effect of temperature on         error in, 324.
  the viscosity of, 199 ; on the efflux    Carbon dioxide, on the effect of tem
   of, as modified by the form of the        perature on the viscosity of, 199.
   discharging orifice, 494.               Chambers (Miss J. M.) on a simple
Atmosphere, on the conservation of           way of explaining Clerk Maxwell's
   energy in the earth's, 453.               electromagnetic theory of light,
Atmospheric electricity, on the origin        102.
   and the laws of, 520.                   Chree (C.) on bars and wires of
Ayrton (Prof.) on the seat of the             varying elasticity, 81.
   electromotive forces of a voltaic       Clayden (A. W.) on the determina
   cell, 51 ; on the winding of volt         tion of the volume of mercury in a
   meters, 100; on some thermody-            thermometer, 248.
   namical relations, 255.                 Climates, on geological, 223.
Baily (W.) on a map of the world           Cole (G. A. J.) on spherulitic rocks,
   on Flamsteed's projection, 415.           304.
Basalts of Tertiary age, on the, 160.      Conductors, on the self-induction
Bell (R. G.) on the Pliocene beds of          and resistance of straight, .'581.
   St. Erth, 363.                          Conic, on the differential equation of
Blanford (Dr. W. T.) on the occur            a, 143.
   rence of glacial conditions in the     Cornet (F. L.) on phosphatic beds
   Palaeozoic era, 448.                      near Mons, 513.
Bohr (C.) on the deviation of oxygen      Croll's (Dr.) hypotheses on geological
   from Boyle and Mariotte's law,            climates, on, 223.
   308.                                   Cunynghame (II.) on. a mechanical
Books, new : — Ketteler's Theore-            method of solving quadratic and
   tischo Optik, 158; Morley's Out           cubic equations, 200.
   lines of Organic Chemistry, 217 ;      Deprez (M.) on an instrument for
   Clerke's Popular History of Astro         producing an invariable quantity
  nomy, 279; Helmholtz's Sensa               of electricity, 518.
  tions of Tone, 445 ; Orookes's Se       Dew, on a new theory of, 483.
  lect Methods in Chemical Analysis,      Diaphragms, on the permeability of
  507 ; Fourth Annual Report of the          various, 288.
  United States Geological Survey,        Dixon (W. A.) on the constitution
  510; Photo-relief Maps, 511.               of acids, 127.
Boys (C. V.) on a machine for sol         Dolerites of Tertiary age, on the, 160.
  ving equations, 241.                    Dorn (E.) on a proof of the law that
Brodie (Rev. P. B.) on two Rhietic           both electricities are developed at
  sections in Warwickshire, 302.             the s.ime time and in the same

522                                 INDEX.
   quantities for pyroelectricity, 78;   Explosions, on the theory of, 165.
  on the cooling of a wire when          Functions, on the mechanical inte
   stretched, 80.                          gration of the product of two, 141.
Dynamo, on the law of the, 1 ; a         Gabbros of Tertiary age, on the, 160.
  generator and motor, 20.               Galvanometers, on the calibration of,
Edgeworth (F. Y.) on the law of            by a constant current, 20.
  error and the elimination of chance,   Gases, on the flow of, 185; on the
  308; on the determination of the         foundations of the kinetic theory
  modulus of errors, 500.                  of, 343, 481 ; on the diffusion of,
Edlund (Prof. E.) on the resistance        451.
   in the voltaic arc, 306.              Geological Societv, proceedings of
Elasticity, on bars, and wires of vary     the, 77, 160, 281, 362, 448, 512.
   ing, 81.                              Gore (Dr. G.) on transfer-resistance
Electric currents, on a new apparatus       in electrolytic cells, 130, 249; on
   for measuring, 103.                      surface-resistance at electrodes to
Electricity, on applications to, of the     various electrical phenomena, 145 ;
   reaction upon the driving-point of       on the Peltier-effect at different
   a system executing forced harmonic       temperatures, 359.
  oscillations, 30!) ; on the discharge  Harmonic oscillations of various
   of, in an imperfect insulator, 419;     periods, on the reaction upon the
   on an instrument for producing           driving-point of a system execu
   an invariable quantity of, 518 ;         ting, 369.
   on the origin and laws of atmo        Heat-spectra, on invisible, 394.
   spheric, 520.                         Helmholtz (R. von) on vapour and
Electrodes, on surface-resistance at,       mist, 451.
   to various electrical phenomena,      Herroun (E. F. ) on the electromo
   145.                                     tive, force of certain tin cells, 13.
Electrolytic cells, on transfer-resist   Hill (W.) on the beds between the
   ance in, 130; on resistance at the       upper and lower chalk of Dover,
   surfaces of electrodes in, 240.          284.
Electromagnet, on the law of the, 1.     Ilirasted's determination of the ohm,
Electromotive force, of certain tin         on, 10.
   cells, on the, 13; on the seat of     Holman (Prof. S. W.) on the effect,
   the, in voltaic and thermoelectric      of temperature on the viscosity of
   piles, 61, 203; developed duriug        air and carbon dioxide, 199.
   the combination of zinc and iron      Hood (Dr. J. J.) on the theory of
   in the presence of water, 280 ; of      fractional precipitation, 119.
   a constant voltaic cell with moving   Ilndleston (W. II.) on the London
   plates, on measurements of the,          Clay at Walton Common, 281.
   40! I.                                Ihmori (T.) on the weight and the
Electromotors, observations on, 20.         cause of the layer of water on glass
Elements, on the numerics of the,           and other bodies, 452.
   151 ; on a new secondary, 104.        Jnnuetaz (E.) on tome experiments
Energy, on the conservation of, in         in thermoelectricity, 519.
   the earth's atmosphere, 453.          Judd (Prof. J. W.) on the gabbros,
Equations, on the integration of par        dolerites, and basalts of Tertiary
   tial differential, of the third and      age, 160.
   higher orders, 63 ; on a machine      Kalischer (M.) on a new secondary
   for solving, 241 : on a mechanical       element. 164.
   method of solving quadratic and       Kendall (P. F ) on the Pliocene beds
   cubic, 200.                              of St. Erth, 363.
Error, on the law of, and the elimi      Lalande (M. de) on a new apparatus
   nation of chance, 308.                  for measuring electric currents, 163.
Errors, on the determination of the      Laruplugh (G. YV.) on glacial shell-
   modulus of, 500.                         beds in British Columbia, 512.
Exner(Prof.F.)on the origin and the      Langley (Prof. S. P.) on invisible
   laws of atmospheric electricity, 520.    heat-spectra, 394.

                                    INDEX.                                    523
Laurie (A. P.) on the electromotive        electromotive forces of a voltaic
  forces developed during the com          cell, 51 ; on the winding of volt
  bination of zinc and iodine in the       meters, 100 ; on some thermo-
  presence of water, 28!) ; on mea         dynamical relations, 255.
  surements of the electromotive        Pickering (Prof. S. U. ) on the standar
  force of a constant voltaic cell with    dizing and calibration of mercurial
   moving plates, 409.                     thermometers, 180; on experi
Light, on Clerk Maxwell's electro          mental error in calorimetric work,
   magnetic theory of, 102.                324 ; on delicate calorimetric ther
Liquids, on the velocity of efflux of,     mometers, 330.
   285.                                 Pilleur (M.) on some thermoelectric
Lodge (Dr. 0.) on the seat of the          experiments, 519.
   electromotive forces in voltaic and  Polarizing prisms, on some new, 470.
   thermoelectric piles, 203.           Poynting (Prof. J. II.) on the dis
Madan (II. G.) on some organic             charge of electricity in an imper
  Bubstancesof high refractive power,      fect insulator, 419.
  245.                                  Precipitation, on the theory of frac
Magnetic investigations, 449.              tional, 119.
Magnetism, on the diurnal period of     Pyroelectricity, experimental proof
   terrestrial, 349; on the cause of       of the law that both electricities
   the solar-diurnal variations of ter     are developed at the same time and
   restrial, 435.                          in the same quantities for, 78.
Magnetization, on, 515.                 Ramsay (Dr. W.) on some thermo-
Mascart (M.) on magnetization, 515.        dynamical relations, 33, 135.
Mather (T.) on the calibration of       Rayleigh (Lord) on Himstedt's de
   galvanometers bv a constant cur         termination of the ohm, 10; on
   rent, 29.                               the reaction upon the driving-
Mayer (Prof. A. M.) on a method of         point of a system executing har
   measuring the vibratory periods of      monic oscillations of various pe
   tuning-forks, 285.                       riods, 309 ; on the self-induction
Mercury, on the vapour-pressures of,        and resistance of straight conduc
   49.                                      tors, 381 ; on some fundamental
Mills (Dr. E. J.) on the numerics of        propositions in optics, 400.
   the elements, 151.                    Reynolds (Prof. O.) on the flow of
Mist and vapour, observations on,           gases, 185.
   451.                                  Riicker (A.W.) on a relation between
Moon (R.) on the integration of par         the critical temperatures of bodies
   tial differential equations, 03.         and their thermal expansions as
Mordey (W. M.) on the dynamo as             liquids, 431.
   a generator and motor, 20.           Salt-solutions, on saturation of, 70,
Muir (Dr. T.) on the differential          417.
   equation of a conic, 143.            Schuster (A.) on the diurnal period
Nicol (Dr. W. W. J.) on saturation          of terrestrial magnetism, 349.
   of salt-solutions, 70.                Siemens"(W.) on the conservation of
Nicol prism, on a simple modification       energy in the earth's atmosphere,
   of the, 478.                             453.
Ohm, on the determination of the,        Stewart (Prof. B.) on the solnr-
   10.                                      diurnal variations of terrestrial
Optics, on some fundamental propo           magnetism, 435.
   sitions in, 400.                      Sutherland (W.) on the mechanical
Ormerod (G. VV.) on old sea-beaches         integration of the product of two
   at Teignmouth, 160.                      functions, 141.
Oxygen, on the deviation of, from        Tait (Prof.) on the foundations of
   Boyle and Mariotte's law, 308.           the kinetic theory of gases, 313, 481 j
Peltier-effect at different tempera      Temperatures, on a relation between
   tures, on the, 359.                      the critical, of bodies and their
Perry (Prof. J.) on the seat of the         thermal expansions as liquids, 431.

524                               INDEX.
Thermodynamical relations, on some,       Voltaic arc, on the resistance in the,
  33, 135, 255.                              366.
Thermoelectricity, experiments in,               cell, on the seat of the electro
  519.                                       motive forces of a, 51, 203; on
Thermometers, on the verification of,        measurements of the electromotive
  at the freezing-point of mercury,          force of a constant, 409.
  27 ; on the calibration and stan        Voltmeters, on the winding of, 100. ¦
  dardizing of mercurial, 180; on         Warburg (E.) on the weight and the
  the determination of the volume of         cause of the layer of water on glass
  mercury in, 248 ; on delicate calo-        and other bodies, 452.
  rimetric, 330.                          Whipple (G. W.) on the verification
Thompson (Dr. S. P.) on the law of           of thermometers, 27.
  the electromagnet and the law of        Whitaker (W.) on the deep-seated
  the dynamo, 1 ; on some new po             geology of the London Basin, 77.
   larizing prisms, 470.                  Wiedemann (Prof. G.), magnetic ob
Thorpe (Dr. T. E.) on a relation             servations by, 449.
  between the critical temperatures       Wilde (H.) on the efflux of air a9
   of bodies and their thermal expan         modified by the form of the dis
   sions as liquids, 431.                    charging orifice, 494.
Threlfall (R.) on the theory of ex        Winkelmann (A.) on the diffusion of
   plosions, 165.                            gases, 451.
Tin cells, on the electromotive force     Wire, on the cooling of a, when
  of certain, 13.                            stretched, 80.
Tomlinson (C.) on supersaturated          Witchell ("E.") on the basement-beds
   saline solutions, 417; on a new           of the Inferior Oolite of Glouces
   theory of dew, 483.                       tershire, 363.
Tuning-forks, on measuring the vi         Woeikoff (Dr. A.) on Dr. Croll's
   bratory periods of, 285.                   hypotheses on geological climates,
 Unwin (W. 0.) on the relations of
   pressure, temperature, and volume      World, map of the, on Flamsteed's
   in saturated vapours, 290.                projection, 415.
Vapour and mist, observations on,          Wynne (A. B.) on a fossiliferous
                                              pebble-band in the Punjab, 513.
Vapours, on the relations of pressure,     Young (Dr. S.) on some thermody
   temperature, and volume in satu           namical relations, 33, 135.
   rated, 299.                             Zott (A.) on the permeability of
Vautier (M.) on the velocity of efflux        various diaphragms, 288.
   of liquids, 285.
                END OF THE TWENTY-FIRST VOLUME.
           Printed by Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

                 Phil.Mag.S.fi.Vbl.21.Pl.
                                          ¦
                                            ->d
Miiilttm Broe. rmp .

524
Thermi
   as, i
Thermi
   519.
Therm'
   at tl
   27;
   dard
   the <
    nierc
    rime
 Thomj
    the <
    the <
    lariz
 Thorp*
    bet*
     ofb<
     Bioni
 Threlfi
     plod
 Tin ca
     of ce
 Tomlii
     saliE
     theo
 Tuninj
     brat
  Unwii
      pres
      InsJ
  Vapou
      451.
  Vapou
      tern
       rate
  Vautie
       ofli

     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 2]. PI. J;
           $-U*c-oo367)o-n
                      V Cbeimtiiirr
200°
                  250°
                                      ->D

s
T
1
T
T.
Ti
Tl
Ti
Tc
Ti
IT:
Vi

           Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. El. Pi. IV.
                                             ->D
jBros 1,lk

5
T
T
T
T
n
 Ti
 Tc
 Ti
  U:
  Vi
  VI
  Vi

                 ¦5. Vol.20. Pl.V
£
           20 39
                                    ->D
                                  *
iBroe lu'h

s
T
T
X
T
 T
 1
 a

                Phil. Mag S.5 Vol. 21. PI VI.
Mini. em. Brob . htk






  DOES NOT cmu/urt
                MEZZANINE
•
  ^W
          1W5 m sz

                     SW»^•.
                  y
                  W
         V"7
    ^
   4K
 *
1^
            **8
            ^
            V•«W
             ^>*v
              uv
                  ^Ww
      VV
      *l
      vj

