This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

science
of
journal
magazine
philosophical
Dublin
and
Edinburgh
London,
The

                                 , iff*
  $arbarti (College fLtbrarg
         FROM THE IIECU/EST OF
MRS. ANNE E. P. SEVER,
           OF BOSTON,
  Widow ok Col. James Wakken Sever,
           lOlKM or 1WI7 .





                                     THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL                                     MAGAZINE
                                     AND                 ^-
                                               0.       x        -
      JOURNAL                         OF        SCIENCE.
                                 CONDUCTED BY
   SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &o.
   GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. F.R.S.
                                       AND
  WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
    " Nec aranearum sane lextus icleo melior quia ex se fila gignunl, nec nostet
 vilior quia ex alienis libamua ut apes." Just. Lm. Polit. lib. i. cap. I. Not.
                   VOL. XXIX.— FIFTH SERIES.
                       JANUARY—JUNE 1890.
                                 LONDON:
   TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, BED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
  BOLD BY 8IMPKIN, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT, AND CO., LD.; AND WIIITTAKER
        AND CO.; AND BY ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK, AND T. AND T. CLARK,
          EDINBURGH ; SMITH AND SON, GLASGOW ;—HODGES, HGGIS,
           AND CO., DUBLIN;—PUTNAM, NEW YOKF.;--VEUVE J. BOYVEAU,
                        PARIS ;—AND ASH KB AND CO., BERLIN.

    -WW**
   " Meditationis est perscrutari occulta ; conteniplationis est adniirari
perspicua .... Adiniratio generat quaestioneui, queestio investigationem,
investigatio inventionem."—Hugo de S. Victore.
                 " Cur spirent venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur mare turgescat, pelago cur tantus auiaror,
             Cur caput obscura Thcebus ferrugine condat,
             Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas,
             Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulmina coelo,
             Quo micet igne Iris, superos quia conciat orbes
             Tarn vario motu."
                                                 J. B. Pinelli ad Mazmium.

           CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIX.
                         (FIFTH SERIES).
             NUMBER CLXXVL—JANUARY 1890.
                                                                   Pago
Lord Rayleigh on Bells                                                1
Ladislaus Natanson on the Kinetic Theory of the Phenomena
   of Dissociation in Gases                                          18
Prof. S. P. Langley and Mr. F. W. Very on the Temperature
  of the Moon                                                        31
Mr. W. G. Gregory on a New Electric Radiation Meter . .              54
Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due to the Contact of Gases
  with Liquids                                                       56
Mr. Herbert Tomlinson on the Effect of Repeated Heating
   and Cooling on the Electrical Resistance of Iron                  77
Prof. Tait on the Importance of Quaternions in Physics ....          84
Prof. T. Carnelley on an Approximate Algebraic Expression of
  the Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements. (Plate I.) . .          97
Mr. A. L. Selby on two Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid                113
H. Nagaoka on Transient Electric Current produced by
   suddenly twisting Magnetized Iron and Nickel Wires.
   With Note by Sir W. Thomson. (Plate II.)                         123
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Mons. F. M. Corpi on the Catastrophe of Kantzorik,
        Armenia                                                     133
     Mr. R. N. Worth on the Igneous Constituents of the
        Triassic Breccias and Conglomerates of South Devon .        134
      Capt. A. W. Stiffe on the Glaciation of parts of the Valleys
        of the Jhelam and Sind Rivers, Kashmir                      135
The Magnetism of Nickel and Tungsten Alloys, by John
   Trowbridge and Samuel Sheldon                                    136
Note on the Application of Hydraulic Power to Mercurial
   Pumps, by Rev. Frederick J. Smith                                138
On Evaporation and Solution as Processes of Diffusion, by
   Prof. J. Stefan                                                  139
On the Changes of Temperature resulting from the Torsion
  and Detorsion of Metal Wires, by Dr. A. Wassmuth                  140

IV             CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIX.       FIFTH SERIES.
           NUMBER CLXXVIL—FEBRUARY.
                                                               Page
Mr. Carl Barus on the Pressure-Variations of certain High-
   Temperature Boiling-Points                                  141
Mr. Shelford Bidwell on the Electrification of a Steam-jet . . 158
Prof. Hermann Karsten on the Geological Age of the Moun
   tains of Santa Marta                                         163
Mr. James C. McConnel on Diffraction-Colours, with special
   reference to Coronae and Iridescent Clouds                  167
Lord Rayleigh on the Vibrations of an Atmosphere               173
Eric Gerard on a Process of Plotting Curves by the Aid of
   Photography                                                 180
Mr. Arthur Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge of Electri
   city through Gases                                          182
Mr. C. A. Carus-Wilson on the Behaviour of Steel under
   Mechanical Stress. (Plates III.-V.)                         200
Prof. A. Gray on Sensitive Galvanometers                       208
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Rev. O. Fisher's Physics of the Earth's Crust            211
On the Resistance of Hydrogen and other Gases to the Current
   and to Electrical Discharges, and on the Heat developed in
   the Spark, by E. Villari                                    214
Further Investigations on the Inert Space in Chemical Reac
   tions, by 0. Liebreich                                      216
Lecture Experiment to prove the Existence of the Direct and
   Inverse Extra Currents, by M. C. Daguenet                   216
                 NUMBER CLXXVIIL—MARCH.
Mr. A. "W. Flux on the Form of Newton's Rings                  217
Prof. John Perry on Twisted Strips                             244
Mr. Spencer U. Pickering on a New Form of Mixing-Calori
   meter. (Plate VII.)                                         247
H. E. J. G. du Bois on Kerr's Magneto-optic Phenomenon . .     253
Mr. Fred. T. Trouton on the Acceleration of Secondary Elec
   tromagnetic "Waves. (Plate VI.)                             268
Sir William Thomson on the Time-Integral of a Transient
   Electromagnetically Induced Current                         276
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Prof. J. Prestwich on the Relation of the Westleton Beds
         or « Pebbly Sands ' of Suffolk to those of Norfolk    280
      Prof. C. Lloyd Morgan on the Pebidian Volcanic Series
         of St. Davids                                         282
      Prof. T. G. Bonney on the Crystalline Schists and their
        Relation to the Mesozoic Rocks in the Lepontine Alps   284

               CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIX.      FIFTH SERIES.            V
                                                                 Page
      Messrs. G. A. J. Cole and J. W. Gregory on the Vario-
         litic Eocks of Mont-Genevre                             286
      Prof. John W. Judd on the Propylites of the Western
         Isles of Scotland, and their Relations to the Andesites
         and Diorites of the District                            287
Note on the Gradual Alteration in Glass produced by altering
   its Temperature a few Degrees, by Spencer U. Pickering. .     289
On a Telethermometer, by Prof. Dr. J. Puluj                      291
On the Measurement of Electromotive Contact Forces of
   Metals in Different Gases by Means of the Ultra-Violet
   Ears, by A. Righi                     ;                       291
Mr. Enright's Experiments, by Oliver J. Lodge                    292
                   NUMBER CLXXIX.—APRIL.
H. E. J. G. du Bois on Magnetization in Strong Fields at
   Different Temperatures. (Plate VIII.)                         293
Messrs. J. S. Haldane and M. S. Pembrey on an Improved
   Method of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air       306
Dr.tJ. R. Rydberg on the Structure of the Line-Spectra of the
   Chemical Elements                                             331
Mr. Carl Barus on the Change of the Order of Absolute Vis
   cosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid             337
Profs. T. Gray and C. L. Mees on the Effect of Permanent
   Elongation on the Cross Section of Hard-drawn Wires ....      355
Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Passage of Electricity through
   Hot Gases                                                     358
Prof. Wyndham R. Dunstan and Mr. T. S. Dymond on an
   Apparatus for the Distillation of Mercury in a Vacuum . .     367
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, Vol. VI.
        Part 1                                                   372
On Electrical Vibrations in Straight Conductors, by Prof. J.
   Stefan                                                        373
Electrical Vibrations in Rarefied Air without Electrodes, by
   James Moser                                                   375
On the Formation of Ozone by the Contact of Air with Ignited
   Platinum, and on the Electrical Conductivity of Air ozonized
   by Phosphorus, by Profs. Elster and Geitel                    376
Note in Connexion with Dropping-Mercury Electrodes, by J.
   Brown                                                         376

vi            CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIX.      FIFTH SERIES.
                   NUMBER CLXXX.—MAT.                             Page
Rev. Frederick J. Smith on a New Form of Electric Chrono
   graph. (Plate IX.)                                              377
Mr. Ward Coldridge on the Electrical and Chemical Properties
   of Stannic Chloride ; together with the Bearing of the Results
   therein obtained on the Problems of Electrolytic Conduction
   and Chemical Action.—Part I. Experimental Observations. 383
Mr. Herbert Tomlinson on the Villari Critical Points of
   Nickel and Iron                                                394
Dr. G. Gore on a New Method and Department of Chemical
   Research                                                       401
Mr. Spencer U. Pickering on the Nature of Solutions               427
Mr. T. Mather on the Shape of Movable Coils used in
   Electrical Measuring-Instruments                               434
Mr. Shelford Bidwell on the Magnetization of Iron in Strong
   Fields                                                         440
Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Passage of Electricity through
   Hot Gases                                                       441
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Dr. G. Chrystal's Algebra : an elementary Textbook for
         the higher classes of Secondary Schools and for Col
         leges                                                    449
On Electrical Oscillations in Straight Conductors, by Prof.
   Stefan                                                         450
On the Oscillations of Periodically Heated Air, by Dr. Mar-
   gules                                                          452
                   NUMBER CLXXXI.—JUNE.
Mr. James C. McConnel on the Theory of Fog-Bows.
   (Plate X.)                                                     453
Prof. C. Runge on a Method of Discriminating Real from
   Accidental Coincidences between the Lines of Different
   Spectra                                                        462
Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney on Texture in Media, and on the
   Non-existence of Density in the Elemental ./Ether               467
 Prof. W. Ostwald on the Theory of Dropping Electrodes.—
   Reply to Mr. Brown                                              479
Mr. Ward Coldridge on the Electrical and Chemical Properties
   of Stannic Chloride; together with the Bearing of the
    Results therein obtained on the Problems of Electrolytic
   Conduction and Chemical Action.—Part II. Theoretical
   Considerations                                                 480
Mr. Spencer U. Pickering on the Theory of Osmotic Pressure
   and its bearing on the Nature of Solutions                      490

             CONTENTS OF VOL. XXIX.           FIFTH 8ERIES.             Vii
                                                                       Pnge
Eev. Frederick J. Smith on a Mercury-still for the Rapid Dis
   tillation of Mercury in a Vacuum                                    501
Mr. Charles A. Carus-Wilson on the Distribution of Plow in a
   Strained Elastic Solid                                              503
Prof. R. Threlfall on Sensitive Galvanometers                          508
M. F. Osmond's Considerations on Permanent Magnetism . .               511
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Dr. A. Irving's Chemical and Physical Studies in the
         Metamorphism of Bocks                                         514
The Badiant Energy of the Standard Candle ; Mass of Meteors,
   by C. C. Hutchins                                                   518
Observations on Atmospheric Electricity in the Tropics, by
   F. Exner                                                            520
Index                                                                  521
                                   PLATES.
     I. Illustrative of Prof. Carnelley's Paper on an Approximate Algebraic
           Expression of the Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements.
    II. Illustrative of H. Nagaoka's Paper on Transient Electric Current
           produced by suddenly twisting Iron and Nickel Wires.
   ILL-V. Illustrative of Mr. C. A. Carus-Wilson's Paper on the Be
           haviour of Steel under Mechanical Stress.
   VI. Illustrative of Mr. Fred. T. Trouton's Paper on the Acceleration
           of Secondary Electromagnetic Waves.
  VII. Illustrative of Mr. Spencer V. Pickering's Paper on a New Form
           of Mixing-Calorimeter.
 VHI. Illustrative of H. E. J. G. du Bois's Paper on Magnetization in
           Strong Fields at Different Temperatures.
   IX. Illustrative of Rev. F. J. Smith's Paper on a new Form of Electric
           Chronograph.
    X. Illustrative of Mr. J. C. McConnel's Paper on the Theory of Fog-
           Bows.

             ERRATA.
Page 10, column 1, for/'" read/"
    11       II *1 » °     11 °
    »        »i "» » y     » j
    11      II  '! 11 ^    71 ?"
   »        ii  °i » y     ii g'

 Vol. 29.                  JANUARY 1890.                                No. 176.
                    Published the First Day of every Month.
                                       THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
                                       AND
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's ' Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholson t 'Journal,'' and Thomson's l Annals of Philosophy.'
                                  CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.RS. M.RI.A. F.O.S.
         SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
                                       AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Fh.D. F.L.S. F.RA.S. F.C.S.
                           FIFTH SERIES.
                      N° 176.-JANUARY 1890.
                            WITH TWO PLATES.
   Illustrative of Prof. Cahnelley's Paper on an Approximate Algebraic
      Expression of the Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements, and H.
      Nagaoka's on Transient Electric Currents produced by suddenly
      twisting Iron and Nickel Wires.
                              /^LONDON:
        PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, BED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
   Sold by Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. j —
     and by A. and C. Black, and T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
      Glasgow: Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin: —Putnam, Hew York: — Veuve J.
      Bottom, Paris :—and Ashcr and Co., Berlin.
          Double Number. Price Five Shillings.
V

                      Second Edition, foolscap 8vo, cloth, !is.
                            SUNLIGHT.
                                By H. P. MALET,
                      Author of ' The Interior of the Earth.'
  rioneer:—"Partisans and opponents of Laplace should examine Mr. Malet's
arguments."
   Guardian:—"A delightful little book."
   Quiver:— " A curiously interesting volume."
   Journal of Microscopy :—"This clever little work."
   Kurthcrn Whig ;—"Will at once instruct and interest readers iu general."
                 London: TRUBNER AND CO., Ludgate Hill.
                            15 Parts, demy 8vo, 37s. 6d.
                               Publications of the
               /ELFRIC SOCIETY.
                                    Consisting of
                 HOMILIES OF ANGLO-SAXON CHURCH.
                 SALOMON AND SATURN DIALOGUES.
                  POETRY OF CODEX VERCELLENSIS.
            Taylor, and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.G.
                 Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. Orf.
               PHYSICAL                         MEMOIRS,
     SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                          UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THF.
                   PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
           Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                          JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                     OF THE LATK
                    J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
             Volume IE, published by the Physical Society of Loudon.
     Uniform with the above, price £1, •with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                       and Portrait.
    Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                     D.C.L., F.R.S.
              Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                   Price £7 10s. Od.
                 TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
  Selected from the Transactions of Foreign Academies of Science aud Learned
  Societies, and from Foreign Journals. First Series, August 1830 to September
  1852 : 21 parts. New Series, Natural History : 4 parts. Natural Philosophy :
  4 parts.
     A complete set of this valuahlo W'ork, containing memoirs by Arago, Balard,
  Recuperet, Berzelius, Bessel, Biot, Botto, Bunsen, Burmeister, Carus, Cauchv,
  Chevreul, Clausius, Clapeyron, Cruger, Danielssen, Dove, Ehrenberg, Emmerich,
  Encke, Fresnel, Gauss, Goldsehmidt, Hansen, Helmholtz, Henry, Hoffmann,
  Iloffmeister, Holtzmann, Jacobi, Jamin, Knoblauch, Koene, Koren, Krohn,
  Lamont, Lenz, Le Verrier, Liebig, Lowig, Magnus, Melloni, Menabrea, Meyen,
  Mitscherlich, Mohl, Moser, Mossotti, Miiller, Neumann, Nobili, Ohm, Ostro-
   gradsky, Pelouze, Peltier, Plateau, I'liicker, Poggendorff, Poisson, Pouillet,
   Provostaye, Redtenbacher, Regnault, Riess, Romer, Rose, Rudberg, Savart,
   Schleiden, Schmidt, Schultess, Seebeck, Sefstrom, Senannont, Siebold, Verany,
   Vogt, Von Baer, Von Wrede, Walckenaer, Wartman, Wichura, Wiedemann,
   Weber.
              Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court Fleet Street, E.C.

                   ./". i' I 0  I'-
                               THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
     PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               AND
         JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                       JANUARY 1890.
        I. On Bells. By Lord Rayleigh, Sec. R.S.*
TIIHE theory of the vibrations of bells is of considerable
 A difficulty. Even when the thickness of the shell may
be treated as very small, as in the case of air-pump re
ceivers, finger-bowls, claret glasses, &c, the question has given
rise to a difference of opinion. The more difficult problem
presented by church bells, where the thickness of the metal
in the region of the sound-bow (where the clapper strikes) is
by no means small, has not yet been attacked. A complete
theoretical investigation is indeed scarcely to be hoped for ;
but one of the principal objects of the present paper is to
report the results of an experimental examination of several
church bells, in the course of which some curious facts have
disclosed themselves.
   In practice bolls are designed to be symmetrical about an
axis, and we shall accordingly suppose that the figures
are of revolution, or at least differ but little from such.
Under these circumstances the possible vibrations divide
themselves into classes, according to the number of times the
motion repeats itself round the circumference. In the gravest
mode, where the originally circular boundary becomes ellip
tical, the motion is once repeated, that is it occurs twice. The
number of nodal meridians, determined by the points where
the circle intersects the ellipse, is four, the meridians corre
sponding (for example) to longitudes 0° and 180° being
reckoned separately. In like manner we may have b", 8, 10 . .
                  * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.            B

2                      Lord Rayleigh on Bells.
nodal meridians, corresponding to 3, 4, 5 . . . cycles of
motion. A class of vibrations is also possible which are
symmetrical about the axis, the motion at any point being
either in or perpendicular to the meridional plane. But these
are of no acoustical importance.
   The meaning here attached to the word nodal must be
care."ully observed. The meridians are not nodal in the sense
that there is no motion, but only that there is no motion
normal to the surface. This can be best illustrated by the
simplest case, that of an infinitely long thin circular cylinder
vibrating in two dimensions*. The graver vibrations are
here parely flexural, the circumference remaining everywhere
unstretched during the motion. If we fix our attention upon
one mode of vibration of n cycles, the motion at the surface
is usually both radial and tangential. There are, however, 2n
points distributed at equal intervals where the motion is
purely tangential, and other 2n points, bisecting the intervals
of the former, where the motion is purely radial. There are
thus no places of complete rest ; but tLe first set of points, or
the lines through them parallel to the axis, are called nodal,
in the sense that there is at these places no normal motion.
    The two systems of points have important relations to the
place where the vibrations are excited. "When a bell-
shaped body is sounded by a blow, the point of application of
the blow is a place of maximum normal motion of the re
sulting vibrations, and the same is true when the vibrations are
e: cited by a violin-bow, as generally in lectnre-room experi
ments. Bells of glass, such as finger-glasses, are, however,
more easily thrown into regular vibration by friction with
the wetted finger carried round the circumference. The pitch
of the resulting sound is the same as that elicited by a tap
with the soft part of the finger ; but inasmuch as the tan
gential motion of a vibrating bell has been very generally
ignored, the production of sound in this manner has been
felt as a difficulty. It is now scarcely necessary to point out
that the effect of the friction is in the first instance to excite
tangential motion, and that the point of application of the
friction is t^e place where the tangential motion is greatest,
and therefore where the normal motion vanishes "f.
    When the symmetry is complete, the system of nodal
meridians has no fixed position, and may adapt itself so as to
suit the place at which a normal blow is delivered. If the
   • ' Theory of Sound,' § 232.
   t ' Theory of Sound,' § 234. That the rubbing finger and the violin-
bow must be applied at different points in order to obtain the same
vibration was known to Chladni.

                      Lord Rayleigh on Bells.                  3
point of application of the blow be conceived to travel ronnd
a circle symmetrical with respect to the axis, say, for brevity,
a circle of latitude, the displacement will make no difference
to the vibration considered as a whole, but the effect upon an
observer who retains a fixed position will vary. If the bell
be situated in an open space, or if the ear of the observer be
so close that reflexions are relatively unimportant, the sound
disappears as nodes pass by him, swelling to a maximum
 when the part nearest to the ear is one of the places of
maximum normal motion, which for brevity we will call
loops. In listening to a particular note it would thus be
possible to determine the number of nodal meridians by
watching the variations of intensity which occur as the place
of the blow travels round a circle of latitude.
   In practice the symmetry is seldom so complete that this
account of the matter is sufficient. Theoretically the slightest
departure from symmetry will in general render determinate
the positions of the nodal systems. For each number of
cycles n, there is one determinate mode of vibration with 2n
nodes and 2n intermediate loops, and a second determinate
mode in which the nodes and loops of the first mode exchange
functions. Moreover the frequencies of the vibrations in the
two modes are slightly different.
   In accordance with the general theory, the vibrations of the
two modes as dependent upon the situation and magnitude of
the initiating blow are to be considered separately. The
vibrations of the first mode will be excited, unless the blow
occur at a node of this system ; and in various degrees,
reaching a maximum when the blow is delivered at a loop.
The intensity, as appreciated by an observer, depends also
upon the position of his ear, and will be greatest when a
loop is immediately opposite. As regards the vibrations of
the second mode, they reach a maximum when those of the
first mode disappear, and conversely.
   Thus in the case of n cycles, there are 2n places where the
first vibration is not excited and 2n places, midway between the
former, where the second vibration is not excited. At all 4n
places the resulting sound is free from beats. In all other
cases both kinds of vibration are excited, and the sound will
be affected by beats. But the prominence of the beats
depends upon more than one circumstance. The intensities
of the two vibrations will be equal when the place of the blow
is midway between those which give no beats. But it does
not follow that the audible beats are then most distinct. The
condition to be satisfied is that the intensities shall be equal
as tliey reach the ear, and this will depend upon the situation
                                B2

4                      Lord Bayleigh on Bells.
of the observer as well as upon the vigour of the vibrations
themselves. Indeed, by suitably choosing the place of
observation it would be theoretically possible to obtain beats
with perfect silences, wherever (in relation to the nodal sys
tems) the blow may be delivered.
   There will now be no difficulty in understanding the proce
dure adopted in order to fix the number of cycles corresponding
to a given tone. If, in consequence of a near approach to
symmetry, beats are not audible, they are introduced by
suitably loading the vibrating body. By tapping cautiously
round a circle of latitude the places are then investigated
where the beats disappear. But here a decision must not
be made too hastily. The inaudibility of the beats may be
favoured by an unsuitable position of the ear, or of the mouth
of the resonator in connexion with the ear. By travelling
round, a situation is soon found where the observation can
be made with the best advantage. In the neighbourhood of
the place where the blow is being tried there is a loop of
the vibration which is most excited and a (coincident) node
of the vibration which is least excited. When the ear is
opposite to a node of the first vibration, and therefore to a loop
of the second, the original inequality is redressed, and dis
tinct beats may be heard even although the deviation of the
blow from a nodal point may be very small. The accurate
determination in this way of two consecutive places where
no beats are generated is all that is absolutely necessary.
The ratio of the entire circumference of the circle of latitude
to the arc between the points represents 4n, that is four times
the number of cycles. Thus, if the arc between consecutive
points proved to be 45°, we should infer that we were dealing
with a vibration of two cycles— the one in which the defor
mation is elliptical. As a greater security against error, it
is advisable in practice to determine a larger number of
points where no beats occur. Unless the deviation from
symmetry be considerable, these points should be uniformly
distributed along the circle of latitude*.
   In the above process for determining nodes we are sup
posed to hear distinctly the tone corresponding to the vibra
tion under investigation. For this purpose the beats are of
assistance in directing the attention ; but with the more
difficult subjects, such as church bells, it is advisable to have
recourse to resonators. A set of Helmholtz's pattern, manu
factured by Koenig, are very convenient. The one next higher
   * The bells, or gongs, as they are sometimes called, of striking clocks
often give disagreeable beats. A remedy may be found in a suitable
rotation of the bell about its axis.

                        Lord Rayleigh on Bells.                         5
   in pitch to the tone under examination is chosen and tuned by
   advancing the finger across the aperture. Without the security
   afforded by resonators, the determination of the octave is in
   my experience very uncertain. Thus pure tones are often
   estimated by musicians an octave too low.
      Some years ago I made observations upon the tones of
  various glass bells, of which the walls were tolerably thin.
  A few examples may be given :—
                      I.       <!,     e'\>,    c"%
                    II.       a,       d%       b".
                  III.        f%       b".
     The value of n. for the gravest tone is 2, for the second 3,
  and for the third 4. On account of the irregular shape and
  thickness only a very rough comparison with theory is
  possible ; but it maybe worth mention that for a thin uniform
  hemispherical bell the frequencies of the three slowest vibra
 tions should be in the ratios
                         1 : 2-8102 : 5'4316 ;
 so that the tones might be
                   c,    /%      /"> approximately.
    More recently, through the kindness of Messrs. Mears and
 Stainbank, I have had an opportunity of examining a so-
 called hemispherical metal bell, weighing about 3 cwt. A
 section is shown in fig. 1. Four tones could be plainly heard,
                         e\>, f%              V,
 the pitch being taken from a harmonium. The gravest tone
                                  Fig. 1.
has a long duration. When the bell is struck by a hard
body, the higher tones are at first predominant, but after a
time they die away, and leave               in possession of the field.
If the striking body be soft, the original preponderance of the
higher elements is less marked.

6                    Lord Rayleigh on Bells.
    By the method above described there was no difficulty in
showing that the four tones correspond respectively to n = 2,
3, 4, 5. Thus for the gravest tone the vibration is elliptical
with 4 nodal meridians, for the next tone there are 6 nodal
 meridians, and so on. Tapping along a meridian showed
 that the sounds became less clear as the edge was departed
 from, and this in a continuous manner with no suggestion of
 a nodal circle of latitude.
     A question, to which we shall recur in connexion with
 church bells, here suggests itself. Which of the various co
 existing tones characterizes the pitch of the bell as a whole ?
 It would appear to be the third in order, for the founders give
 the pitch as E nat.
     My first attempts upon church bells were made in Sep
 tember 1879, upon the second bell (reckoned from the
 highest) of the Terling peal ; and I was much puzzled to
  reconcile the pitch of the various tones, determined by reso
  nators, with the effective pitch of the bell, when heard from
  a distance in conjunction with the other bolls of the peal.
 There was a general agreement that the five notes of the
 peal were
  according to harmonium pitch, so that the note of the second
  bell was b. A tone of pitch aft could be heard, but at that
  time nothing coincident with b or its octaves. Subsequently,
  in January 1880, the b was found among the tones of the
  bell, but at much higher pitch than had been expected. The
  five gravest tones were determined to be
                A',    d%      d",     g"$+,      b";
  so that the nominal note of the bell agreed with the fifth
  component tone, and with no graver one. The octaves are
  here indicated by dashes in the usual way, the d immediately
  below the d' being the middle c of the musical scale.
     Attempts were then made to identify the modes of vibra
   tion corresponding to the various tones, but with only partial
   success. By tapping round the sound-bow it appeared that
   the minima of beats for d' occurred at intervals equal to J of
   the circumference, indicating that the deformation in this
   mode was elliptical (n=2), as had been expected. In like
   manner g"$ gaven=3; but on account of the difficulty of
   experimenting in the belfry, the results were not wholly
   satisfactory, and I was unable to determine the modes for the
   other tones. One observation, however, of importance could
   be made. All five tones were affected with beats, from which

                        Lord Rayleigh on Bells.                              7
 it was concluded that none of them could be due to symme
 trical vibrations, as, till then, had been thought not un
  likely.
     Nothing further worthy of record was effected until last
 Jrear, when I obtained from Messrs. Mears and Stainbank the
  oan of a 6-cwt. bell. Hung in the laboratory at a convenient
 height, and with freedom of access to all parts of the cir
 cumference, this bell afforded a more convenient subject for
 experiment, and I was able to make the observations by
 which before I had been baffled. Former experience having
 shown me the difficulty of estimating the pitch of an isolated
 bell, I was anxious to have the judgment of the founders
 expressed in a definite form, and they were good enough to
 supply me with a fork tuned to the piteh of the bell. By my
 harmonium the fork is d'.
    By tapp:ng the bell in various places with a hammer or
 mallet, and listening with resonators, it was not difficult to
 detect 6 tones. They were identified with the following
 notes of the harmonium*:—
            e',     c",      /»+,         b'%        d'«,       f".
           (4)      (4)        (6)        (6)        (8)
    As in the former case, the nominal pitch is governed by
 the fifth component tone, whose pitch is, however, an octave
 higher than that of the representative fork. It is to be un
derstood, of course, that each of the 6 tones in the above
series is really double, and that in some cases the components
of a pair differ sufficiently to give rise to somewhat rapid
beats. The sign + affixed to /" indicates that the tone of
the bell was decidedly sharp in comparison with the note of
the instrument.
    I now proceeded to determine, as far as possible, the cha
racters of the various modes of vibration by observations
upon the dependence of the sounds upon the place of tapping
in the manner already described. By tapping round a circle
of latitiide it was easy to prove that for (each of the approxi
mately coincident tones of) ef there were 4 nodal meridians.
Again, on tapping along a meridian to find whether there
were any nodal circles of latitude, it became evident that
there were none such. At the same time differences of in
tensity were observed. This tone is more fully developed
   * In comparisons of this kind the observer must bear in mind the
highly compound character of the notes of a reed instrument. It is
usually a wise precaution to ascertain that a similar effect is not produced
by the octave (or twelfth) above.

8                     Lord Rayleigh on Bells.
 when the blow is delivered about midway between the crown
 and rim of the bell than at other places.
    The next tone is c". Observation showed that for this
 vibration also there are four, and but four, nodal meridians.
 But now there is a well-defined nodal circle of latitude,
 situated about a quarter of the way up from the rim towards
the crown. As heard with the resonator, this tone disappears
 when the blow is accurately delivered at some point of this
circle, but revives with a very small displacement on either
side. The nodal circle and the four meridians divide the
surface into segments, over each of which the normal motion
is of one sign.
    To the tone f correspond 6 nodal meridians. There is no
 well-defined nodal circle. The sound is indeed very faint, when
 the tap is much removed from the sound-bow ; it was thought
 to fall to a minimum when the tap was about halfway up.
    The three graver tones are heard loudly from the sound-
 bow. But the next in order,            is there scarcely audible,
unless the blow be delivered to the rim itself in a tangential
direction. The maximum effect occurs at about halfway up.
Tapping round the circle, we find that there are 6 nodal
meridians.
    The fifth tone, d'", is heard loudly from the sound-bow, but
soon falls off when the locality of the blow is varied, and in
the upper three fourths of the bell it is very faint. No
distinct circular node could be detected. Tapping round the
circumference showed that there were here 8 nodal meridians.
    The highest tone recorded, f", was not easy of observation,
and I did not succeed in satisfying myself as to the character
of the vibration. The tone was perhaps best heard when
the blow was delivered at a point a little below the crown.
   All the above tones, except /", were tolerably close in pitch
to the corresponding notes of the harmonium.
   Although the above results seemed perfectly unambiguous,
I was glad to have an opportunity of confirming them by ex
amination of another bell. This was afforded by a loan of a
bell cast by Taylor, of Loughborough, and destined for the
church of Ampton, Suffolk, where it now hangs. Its weight
is somewhat less than 4 cwt., and the nominal pitch is d.
The observations were entirely confirmatory of the results
obtained from Messrs. Mears's bell. The tones were
       <fy-2,    d"-G,       f' + 4,   y\>—U',    d'»,   </';
         (4)       (4)         (6)       (6)       (8)
the correspondence between the order of the tone and the
number of nodal meridians being as before. In the case of
d" there was the same well-defined nodal circle. The highest

                     Lord Rayleigh on Bells.                   9
tone, cf", was but imperfectly heard, and no investigation could
be made of the corresponding mode of vibration.
   In the specification of pitch the numerals following the
note indicate by how much the frequency for the bell dif
fered from that of the harmonium. Thus the gravest tone
d\> gave 2 beats per second, and was flat. When the number
exceeds 3, it is the result of somewhat rough estimation and
cannot be trusted to be quite accurate. Moreover, as has
been explained, there are in strictness two frequencies under
each head, and these often differ sensibly. In the case of
the 4th tone, &"b—V means that, as nearly as could be judged,
the pitch of the bell was midway between the two specified
notes of the harmonium.
   The sounds of bells may be elicited otherwise than by
blows. Advantage may often be taken of the response to
the notes of the harmonium, to the voice, or to organ-pipes
sounded in the neighbourhood. In these cases the subsequent
resonance of the bell has the character of a pure tone. Per
haps the most striking experiment is with a tuning-fork. A
massive et> (** on the c' = 256 scale) fork, tuned with wax, and
placed upon the waist of the Ampton bell, called forth a
magnificent resonance, which lasted for some time after re
moval and damping of the fork. The sound is so utterly
unlike that usually associated with bells tbat an air of mystery
envelops the phenomenon. The fork may be excited either
by a preliminary blow upon a pad (in practice it was the bent
knee of the observer), or by bowing when in contact with
the bell. In either case the adjustment of pitch should be
very precise, and it is usually necessary to distinguish the
two nearly coincident tones of the bell. One of these is to
be chosen, and the fork is to be held near a loop of the cor
responding mode of vibration. In practice the simplest way
to effect the tuning is to watch the course of things after the
vibrating fork has been brought into contact with the bell.
When the tuning is good the sound swells continuously.
Any beats that are heard must be gradually slowed down by
adjustment of wax, until they disappear.
   Observations upon the two bells in the laboratory having
settled the modes of vibration corresponding to the five
gravest tones, other bells of the church pattern can be suf
ficiently investigated by simple determinations of pitch. I
give in tabular form results of this kind for a Belgian bell,
kindly placed at my disposal by Mr. Haweis, and for the five
bells of the Terling peal. For completeness' sake the Table
includes also the corresponding results for the two bells
already described.

10                           Lord Rayleigh on Bells.
           Warner,           IN
                                               eo
                                            + +
                                                              IN
   (1 1863.
   Terling                                                     + +          •# eo
                             + +               *%                            +C>1 +to
   ST
   >-^
             c
             ©        .                        IM             co        X   00    IN
                             5C
   .fig                        1
                                    1  + + +                  J2
                                                                 1    1 + +e +to
                                   a   "* **   -O              V         V
   SO
       „
           Graye, 1623.      05                                    to       CD
   erling
   (3                        + CO+             **             CO
                              a    a
                                       i?
                                        «   «>
                                                              + -a+ +^. +
                                                                            S,     «
   H
                         a§
                        •fl                                3
   /-^                                                    CO
                          o                    CO         ao  CO        10  ** —
   (4 Mean, 1810.
   Terling
                          9
                             +0   %*1  +J      XX
                                                 1
                                               "fe>
                                                              +     1   +
                                                                        -e   rt
                                           "8
                                                         c«
                                                          o
                                                         T3
                         Q                                CD
    iQ                  +*
                                  t    CO CO
                                               IN         u   co   <*   co °?
   (Osbom 1783.
   erling               P4   CO                                                   IN
                                    1  + 1       1              1   1   +
                                1              u          ID  «*        x;
                          c3            B  "fe            U    to   5
                          C3
   H                                                      CJ>
                          o
                        <
         e                             ll  CO
                                1   | + 1
                             'is  « X e
       M
         s         .         <N   -..- -«f "O                 IN
                                1 J    t1      ^    "«9l
                                                                1
                                                               to
                                                                    1   +    T
       •0
                               to >    "-» 3l                            t>  e     "
         Cod                                                            + S »
         (d OQ                                                     -C
                              "» "to           "fe C,         -8        XI
                                                                         V

                    Lord Rayleigh on Bella.                    11
   It will be seen that in every case where the test can be
applied, it is the fifth tone in order which agrees with the
nominal pitch of the bell. The reader will not be more sur
prised at this conclusion than I was, but there seems to be no
escape from it. Even apart from estimates of pitch, an ex
amination of the tones of the bells of tbe Terling peal proves
that it is only from the third and fifth tones that a tolerable
diatonic scale can be constructed. Observations in the neigh
bourhood of bells do not suggest any special predominance of
the fifth tone, but the effect is a good deal modified by
distance.
    It has been suggested, I think by Helmholtz, that the aim
of the original designers of bells may have been to bring into
harmonic relations tones which might otherwise cause a dis
agreeable effect. If this be so, the result cannot be con
sidered very successful. A glance at the Table shows that
in almost every case there occur intervals which would
 usually be counted intolerable, such as the false octave.
 Terling (5) is the only bell which avoids this false interval
 between the two first tones ; but the improvement here shown
 in this respect still leaves much to be desired, when we con
 sider the relation of these two tones to the fifth tone, and the
 nominal pitch of the bell. Upon the assumption that the
 nominal pitch is governed by that of the fifth tone, I have
 exhibited in the second part of the above Table the relation
 ship in each case of the various tones to this one.
     One of my objects in this investigation having been to find
 out, if possible, wherein lay the difference between good and
 bad bells, I was anxious to interpret in accordance with my
 results the observations of Mr. Haweis, who has given so
 much attention to the subject. The comparison is, however,
 not free from difficulty. Mr. Haweis says * :—" The true
 Belgian bell when struck a little above the rim gives the
 dominant note of the bell ; when struck two-thirds up it gives
 the third ; and near the top the fifth ; and the ' true ' bell is
 that in which the third ana fifth (to leave out a multitude of
  other partials) are heard in right relative subordination to the
  dominant note."
     If I am right in respect of the dominant note, the third
  spoken of by Mr. Haweis must bo the minor third (or, rather,
  major sixth) presented by the tone third in order, which it so
  happens is nearly the same interval in all cases. The only
 fifth which occurs is that of the tone fourth in order. Thus,
  according to Mr. Haweis's views, the best bell in the series
  would be Terling (1), for which the minor chord of the last
                      * 'Times,' October 29, 1878.

   12                  Lord Rayleigh on Bells.
  three tones is very nearly true. It must be remarked, how
  ever, that the tone fourth in order is scarcely heard in the
  normal use of the bell, so that its pitch can hardly be of
  importance directly, although it may afford a useful criterion
  of the character of the bell as a whole. It is evident that the
  first and second tones of Terling (1) are quite out of relation
  with the higher ones. If the first could be depressed a semi
  tone and the second raised a whole tone, harmonic relations
  would prevail throughout.
      Judging from the variety presented in the Table, it would
  seem not a hopeless task so to construct a bell that all the
  important tones should be brought into harmonic relation ;
  but it would require so much tentative work that it could
  only be undertaken advantageously by one in connexion with
  a foundry. As to what advantage would be gained in the
  event of success, I find it difficult to form an opinion. All I
  can say is that the dissonant effect of the inharmonious
  intervals actually met with is less than one would have ex
  pected from a musical point of view; although the fact is to a
  great extent explained by Helmholtz's theory of dissonance.
     One other point I will touch upon, though with great diffi
 dence. If there is anything well established in theoretical
 acoustics it is that the frequencies of vibration of similar bodies
 formed of similar material are inversely as the linear dimen
 sions—a law which extends to all the possible modes of vibra
 tion. Hence, if the dimensions are halved, all the tones should
 rise in pitch by an exact octave. I have been given to under
 stand, however, that bells are not designed upon this principle
 of similarity, and that the attempt to do so would result in
 failure. It is just possible that differences in cooling may
 influence the hardness, and so interfere with the similarity of
 corresponding parts, in spite of uniformity in the chemical
composition of the metal ; but this explanation does not
appear adequate. Can it be that when the scale of a bell is
altered it is desirable at the same time to modify the relative
intensities, or even the relative frequencies, of the various
partials ?
    Observations conducted about ten years ago upon the
manner of bending of bell-shaped bodies—waste-paper baskets
and various structures of flexible material—led me to think
that these shapes were especially stiff as regards the principal
mode of bending (with four nodal meridians) to forces applied
normally and near the rim, and that possibly one of the
objects of the particular form adopted for bells might be to
diminish the preponderance of the gravest tone. To illustrate
this I made calculations, according to the theory of the paper

                       Lord Rayleigh on Bells.                     id
  already alluded to, of the deformation by pure bending of
  thin shells in the form of hyperboloids of revolution, and in
  certain composite forms built up of cylinders and cones so as
  to represent approximately the actual shape of bells. In the
  case of the hyperboloid of one sheet (fig. 2) , completed by a
                                Fig. 2.
  crown in the form of a circular disk through the centre, and
¦ extending across the aperture, it appeared that there was no
  nodal circle for ?i = 2. Tho investigation is appended to this
  paper.
     The composite forms, figs. 4 and 5, represent the actual bell
  (fig. 3 *) as nearly as may be. At the top is a circular disk,
                                Fig. 3.
  and to this is attached a cylindrical segment. The expanding
  part of the bell is represented by one (fig. 4), or with better
  approximation by two (fig. 5), segments of cones. The cal
  culations are too tedious to be reproduced here, but the results
  are shown upon the figures. In both cases there is a circular
  node N for n = 2, not far removed from the rim, and in fig. 5
  very nearly at the place which represents the sound-bow of an
  actual bell. In the latter case there is a node N* for n=3
  near the middle of the intermediate conical segment,
    * Copied from Zamminer, Die [Musik und die musikalisefteti Instru
  ments Giessen, 1866.

14                     Lord Bayleigh on Bells.
   The nodal circle for n — 2 has been verified experimentally
upon a bell constructed of thin sheet zinc in the form of fig. 5.
The gravest note, G#, and the corresponding mode of vibra
tion, could be investigated exactly in the manner already
described. In each mode of this kind there were four nodal
                                Fig. 4.
meridians, and a very well defined nodal circle. The situation
of this circle was not quite so low as according to calculation ;
it was almost exactly in the middle of the lower conical
segment. By merely handling the model it was easy to
recognize that it was stiff" to forces applied at N, but flexible
higher up, in the neighbourhood of N .
   It is clear that the actual behaviour of a church bell differs
widely from that of a bell infinitely thin ; and that this should
be the case need not surprise us when we consider the actual
ratio of the thickness at the sound-bow to the interval
between consecutive nodal meridians. I think, however, that
the form of the bell does really tend to render the gravest
tone less prominent.
                              Appendix.
         On the Bending of a Hyperboloid of Revolution.
   The deformation of the general surface of revolution was
briefly treated in a former paper *. The point whose original
  * "On the Infinitesimal Bending of Surfaces of Revolution," Proc.
Math. Soc. xiii. p. 4 (1881).

                    Lord Rayleigh on Bells.                       15
cylindrical coordinates are z, r, <j>, is supposed to undergo
such a displacement that its coordinates become
                      z+8z,     r + Sr,     +
   The altered value (ds + dSs) of the element of length traced
upon the surface is given by
  (ds + d8s) *=(dz + d8z)* + (r + Sr)2 (ty + d8<f>) 2 + (dr + dSrf.
Hence, if the displacement be such that the element is un-
extended,
            dz d8z + r*d<f> rfo> + r8r(<ty)2 + dr dbr=0.
Now
                         ,s dSz         dSz
                        dSz=^dz+^d<f>,
                          sj dSr , dS?'
                        dSr=dz~dz+di> d*>
and by the equation to the surface
                          dr=%dz+d\d*>
in which, by hypothesis, dr/d<}>=0.        Thus
   If the displacement be of such a character that no line
traced upon the surface is altered in length, the coefficients
of (dz)2, (dQ)1, dz dip, in the above equation, must vanish
separately, so that
                                                                  m
                            r                                     00
                       „ d$d>    dr dSr

 16                   Lord Rayleigh on Bells.
 From those, by elimination of oV,
                         dSz dr d r d8d>\ n                     ...
                         -dz-dzdzV-djr0'              ••••(*)
                   d^+r dr-rdzW=0'' •                  • • •   (5)
 from which again, by elimination of St,
                    dzV     dz )   rdJ dp ~U                   W
    For the purposes of the present problem we may assume
that d<f> varies as cos s<f>, or as sin .s<£; thus,
                  ^ff)+iV£*-0                        • • • •  <7>
is the equation by which the form of S<p as .1 Sanction of z is
to be determined.
   When application is made to the hyperboloid of one sheet
                               r1 z2
                               a~^ = 1                         («)
we find, since
                       dr _a2z       a<Pr _a*
                     rdz-~F'
                 "i("^y>=0-                        •¦;••«
   The solution of this equation is expressed by an auxiliary
variable x> sucn that
                       z=b tan x,     r=a sec x     ....     (10)
in the form
                    8cj> = A cos sx + B sin »x               (11)
In order to verify this it is only necessary to observe that
by (10)
                           ^ d _ a9 d
                              dz~ b dx
   "We will now apply this solution to an inextensible surface

                     Lord Rayleigh on Bells.                       17
formed by half the hyperboloid and a crown stretching across
in the plane of symmetry z=0 (fig. 2). The deformation of
this crown can take place only in the direction perpendicular to
its plane, so that 6> = 0, 8<f> = 0. These conditions must apply
also to the hyperboloid at the place of attachment to the
crown. Hence 8<f> must vanish with z, or, which is the samo,
with x- Accordingly A = 0 in (11) ; and dropping the con
stant multiplier we may take as the solution
                      8<f> = sin $x cos s<f>>                    (12)
and in correspondence therewith by (2) and (3)
            Sr—sr sin «^ sin s<f>                                (13)
                    a2
            8z = — r- {cos s% + s tan x sin s%} sin s<f>. .    . (14)
It is evident from these equations that, whatever may bo
the value of «, there is no circle of latitude over which both
8(f> (or 8r) and 8z vanish *. Hence there can be no circu
lar nodal line in the absolute sense. But just as there are
meridians (sin s<f> = 0) on which the normal motion vanishes,
so there may be nodal circles in this more limited sense. The
condition to be satisfied is obviously
                            8r/8z = dr/dz ;
or in the present case
              sin2X+2stan*X(sinsx + &7a:')=0.             .  .   (15)
In this equation the range of x ig from 0 to \ir ; and thus
there can be solutions only when tan tsx is negative.
    In the case s = 2 the equation reduces to
                      l + 2sin2x + 46!,/a!,=0,
which can never bo satisfied.
    When s='i, the roots, if any, must lie between ^=30°
and x = 60°. A more detailed consideration shows that
there is but one root, and that it occurs when ^isa little
short of 60°.
   * A corresponding proposition may be proved more generally, that is
without limitation to the hyperboloid.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 2D. No. 176. Jan. 1890.              C

                              [   18  ]
   II. On the Kinetic Theory of the Phenomena of Dissociation
              in Gases. By Ladislaus Natanson*.
 IT is well known that the problem of the dissociation of
        gaseous bodies has been successfully attacked by several
 physicists by thermodynamic methods. If one attempts to
 apply the kinetic theory, it will be found difficult to make a
 complete calculation without introducing certain assumptions
 as to the mode of combination of the atoms in gaseous mole
 cules. Therefore the first task of the theory consists in making
 such assumptions as are either in agreement with experiment,
 or else, on the other hand, the most general possible. As this
 object does not appear to be sufficiently evident, I have allowed
 myself to enter into a more detailed consideration of a simple
 case.
     § 1. In the space v there are present Nx free atoms and Ns
 diatomic molecules ; every atom has the same properties.
 The total number of atoms is N=N1 + 2N2. If m is the mass
 of an atom, the mass of the gas will be mN ; I shall assume
 henceforth that we are always dealing with unit mass. The
 problem which was usually considered was the determination
 of the ratio      (the dissociation ratio) as a function of the
 pressure and temperature ; and its object was attained some
 what after the following manner.
    Let pl and p3 denote the partial pressures of the two gases
 (molecular and atomic) ; let p be the total pressure, t the
 common temperature, and Ex and E2 the mean values of the
 kinetic energy of a free atom and of the centre of mass of a
 molecule respectively. Apart from phenomena of dissociation
 let both gases be considered perfect. Then we may write
          §/>i»=N1B1;      |j91c=N,E,;     p=pi+ps.      .   .  (A)
Further, according to Maxwell's law, E, = Ea; and we use
the magnitude of this energy as a measure of the temperature
by assuming
                          E,=Ei=H                               (B)
where \ is some constant. From (A) and (B) it will be
found that
                       ipv = (Sl + 'St)Xt                       (1)
    Now let us introduce the condition for equilibrium. This
   * Translated from Wiedemann's Annalen, xxxviii. p. 288 (1889) by
James L. Howard, D.Sc.

                Kinetic Theory of Dissociation in Gases.                   19
will be reached when the number of molecules decomposed
during any period of time is equal to the number formed
during the same period. As shown in previous theories*,
this equality is expressed by the equation
                                      = N8,                              (C)
                                 V
and hence (C) expresses the condition of equilibrium. Here
/(<) is a function of the temperature whose form has never
 been successfully determined, so far as I am aware, either by
 kinetic or thermodynamic methods. From (1) and (C) we
 have further
                   p-      vm?          - nf{t)<? >        •  •    ¦  •   w
                                             N
 (j denoting the dissociation ratio jJ.             If d is the density
 of the partly dissociated gas, corresponding to the state q, and
 8 the density of the completely dissociated body, then if the
 formula (1) holds good, we have
                              l~ Ni + N,'                                 w
 whence, substituting in (2),
                          _ Sjd-S)            _ 2\t
                        p~a(28-d)2''         a~'6/(ty :        •    •  •  W
 which, for shortness, I shall call " Gibbs's Equation."
     § 2. Gibbs's equation has been verified by various experi
 ments ; among others by those on nitrous acidf. Since we
 leave the function a at present undetermined, we can prove
  the formula by calculating the values of the expression
 p(28 — dy/(d — S) = aS, which should be constant for each
  isotherm. From our data it is clearly seen that the
  value of a does not considerably alter along any isotherm.
  The constancy is of course still more perfect if we calculate
  (for the isotherms B, F, H, J, loc. cit.) the expression
     * To the kinetic or partly kinetic theories belong tho9e of van der
  Waals, Verslagen en Mededeelingen d. kon. Ak. d. Wet. [21 xv. p. 199 (1880) ;
  Boltzmann, Wied. Ann. xxii. p. 39 (1884) ; and J. J. Thomson, Phil.
  Mag. [6] xviii. p. 233 (1884). It is impossible to enter upon these theories
  here ; I only remark that certain conclusions to which I have been led in
  § 3 have already been indicated by Thomson. As for the rest I cannot
  agree with Thomson's calculations.
     t E. and L. Natanson, Wied. Ann. xxiv. p. 454 (1885), and xxvii.
  p. 606(1886).
                                          02

 20           Ladislaus Natanson on the Kinetic Theory
p(2S—dy/{d—Bt), where St may be greater or less than S,
and denotes a new isothermal constant*. Whether these
critical values of the density of N02 are similar to tho critical
densities of chlorine and bromine gases (which, however, were
 found, not for/> = 0, but at atmospheric pressure), as Ostwald
 supposes t; or whether tho proved deviations from Gibbs's
 formula are attributable wholly or partly to the imperfect
 nature of tbe gas t—these appear to me difficult questions to
 decide, inasmuch as there exists no firm basis to work upon.
 It suffices us, for what follows, to know that Gibbs's equation,
 with        left undetermined, is always in general agreement
with experiment.
    § 3. Two atoms collide and form a molecule, which lasts
 for a time t. It is required to know how often this happens
during unit time in a given quantity of gas. The interval t
may depend on certain variables x, y, . . . , which we need not
specify, and in unit time
                           Z$(x,y,.. .)dxdy                               (1)
collisions take place between the atoms, in such a manner that
the variables lie between the limits
                   x and x + dx ; y and y + dy ;                         (2)
Let us assume that x, y, . . . in general have values lying
between the limits
                   xQ and xx ; y0 and yx ;                               (3)
and that Z is the total number of collisions between the atoms
during unit time, so that
                                 ¦ <f>{x,y,...)dxdy...=l.         .   .   (4)
    Let us further assume that a collision of two atoms which
is included in class (2) is followed by the formation of a mole
cule in case x, y, . . . lie between
                       fo and £i 5 Vo and Vii                             (5)
(Each of these classes can also be subdivided into further
simple ones.) Let us write
                              $(x,y,...) dxdy... =tsr,        ...        (6)
               ft-
   * Cf. p. CI 7 of the second paper.
   t Ostwald, Lehrbuch der ally. Chemie, ii. p. 009 (188").
   % Ostwald, oj). eit. ii. p. 734 ; Planck, Wied. Ann. xxxii. p. 484 (1887) :
J. J . Thomson, ' Applications of Dynamics to Physics and Chemistry,'
p. 200.

            of the Phenomena of Dissociation in Gases.                   21
then we can say that in unit time ¦ra-Z molecules are created,
and in is the ratio of the number of associating collisions to
the total number. Now let us suppose that the gas has
reached a state of equilibrium as regards dissociation. During
time t,
                        TZ${x,y,...)dxdy                                (7)
molecules of class (2) will be formed, and they will each last
for a time equal to t, or differing from it by an infinitely
small quantity. Therefore there will exist at any time as
many molecules of class (2) as are given by (7) *.
    Hence the total number N2 of existing molecules is
       N3=ZI        I    . . . T$(x,y . . .) dxdy . . ,
                   ll.. T${x,y...)dxdy...                           )¦ (8)
           =^z^o_«v                                      =wZa. I
                   I ( -..<f>{x,y,...)dxdy...
                  Jto J la
where 3 denotes the mean value of the interval during which
a molecule remains intact.
    The conditions which are necessary in order that a molecule
 should be formed when two atoms collide are very different,
 according to the assumptions made respecting the mutual
 actions of the atoms. As hypothesis (a) we shall designate
every assumption, according to which, as the result of a col
lision of two atoms, two opposite cases arise : either the
collision is " associating," the motion of the atom becoming a
stationary one, and a molecule is formed ; or else " normal,"
in which case the atoms rebound immediately and of their
own accord, as happens in the collision of molecules in
 common gases. With this hypothesis (a) we must also
 assume at the same time, that a molecule which has once been
formed cannot be decomposed of itself, but only by the action
of external force. As hypothesis (y8) we shall, on the con
 trary, designate any assumption in which the above distinction
 is wanting : two colliding atoms will sooner or later leave
 each other ; only the interval during which they form a
system can, according to the circumstances of the collision,
be different in different cases. There is then no sharp dis-
   * The proposition made use of here, that " there exist at any time as
many molecules, belonging to a given class, as are formed during the time
of existence of a molecule (in case all molecules of that class exist for an
equal time),'' is often made use of in the kinetic theory. Cf. Wied. Ann.
xxxiii. p. 683 (1888).

22            Ladislaus Natanson on tlie Kinetic Theory
tinction between a collision and the formation of a molecule ;
during the time of collision the atoms form a molecule.
Every collision is then an " associating " one, every molecule
must exist for a certain time and then decompose of itself.
   In order to bring calculation to bear on both assumptions,
let us consider a new mean value of t, namely 6, which we
define in the following manner :—
                                    t<I>(.i; y,...)dxdy .. .,   •   •  (9)
                       IT
                                 ¦ <f>{x,y,...)da;dy...
                                   6=v$                               (10)
Equation (1.0) will be found on remembering the definition
of w and also equation (4), and considering the condition that
t vanishes outside the limits f0 and f„ i?0 and tilf &c. ; so that
f ' f*'. . .T<f>(.i', y,. ..)dxdy. . . = j        f ...T<f>(x,y,...)dxdy...
From (10) it follows that
                               N2 = Z.0                               (12)
According to the (/3) hypothesis, 8 = 3 and or=l; according
to the (a) hypothesis, 6<$, because in the formation of 3 all
the molecules really formed must be taken into account ; but
in that of 6 every collision, associating and normal, must be
reckoned ; and the latter contribute nothing to the sum of t.
   Let the mean number of impacts of an atom against other
atoms be 0 per unit of time. If we write CT=1, T is
approximately the mean time which elapses between two
successive collisions*. On the other hand, Z = Nj^,                Q and
  * In the space v let there be N equal molecules, whose velocities are
distributed according to Maxwell's law (with modulus «). If It is the
smallest distance within which two molecules can approach each other
without colliding, and if a molecule moving with a given velocity expe
riences 13 impacts per unit of time, the mean value of the time between
successive impacts is
                      I 0^505 ,                       ,
                      B     7T NR3«                NK3«
while
                      i _ .L .      1           = 0-1995,
Of. Tait, Trans. It. S. E. xxxiii. p. 74 (1886).

             of the Phenomena of Dissociation in Gases.               23
therefore
According to the (a) hypothesis, 3 is the mean time during
which the molecules exist, and T/w the mean time during
which a liberated atom remains free. According to the (/8)
hypothesis, on the other hand, 9 has the former and T the latter
meaning. In any case we can easily calculate 0/T or wS/T from
this equation, since          is equal to ^g— rf)*       ^or examplej
we have for N304, according to the experiments quoted in § 2*,
        Isotherm D./»= 26-80        mm.      .  .   <?/T=0-096
        ( + 49°-7C.)\" 497-75                             1-069
        Isotherm E.J p=49 65        mm.      .  .   0/T=O-O58
        ( + 73°-7C.)\ 633-27                              0-396
        Isotherm F./w= 11-73        mm.      .  .   0/T=O"O16
        ( + 99°-8C.)\ 732-51                              0-139
       Isotherm H. Cp = 35-99       mm.      .   .  0/T = O-Oll
     ( + 1293-90C.)t 550-29         mm.                   0-023
At constant temperature we can put C proportional to N            —. If
we write C=                , then Z=        J      5 and, according to
(12),                 v                     Zv
                             N2=^>                                   (14)
 We have thus obtained the condition (C) of § 1, but only in
case 6 depends on the temperature alone, and not on the
pressure or volume. If we assume that the course of an
impact is not affected by the frequency of occurrence of the
 impacts, I do not see how this condition relative to 6 is to be
 reconciled with the hypothesis (a). In that case 6 would
 indeed depend on the volume, in the same way that the time-
 interval between consecutive impacts of a molecule does.
 From the above table, or from Gibbs's equation, regarded as
 the outcome of experiment, it follows that tn-S/T varies greatly
    * For nitrous acid and other dissociable gases the absolute magnitude
 of T is unknown. We can, however, take for granted that it is not essen
 tially different from the length of the same time-period in such gases as
 oxygen, nitrogen, or nitrous oxide. We shall be within the limits when
 we say that the mean time of existence of the N204 molecule in the
 experiments quoted was somewhere between 10" 13 and 10-10 second.

24            Ladislaus Natanson on the Kinetic Theory
                                                                     N
along any isotherm, and must in fact be proportional to — ;
Therefore in-S must be constant, and consequently 3 also, since
¦ro- cannot be regarded as dependent upon v.
     This conclusion can also be arrived at in the following
                    N 2F (t)
manner. Let —'—^-^ new molecules be formed during unit
                         v
time.      In unit time ——-— collisions of two atoms take
                               v
place ; therefore Y\{t)=vrc\^'t, where cx is a constant factor.
 Now let us calculate how many molecules are decomposed in
unit time, if hypothesis (a) be true. During unit time there
take place between the molecules on the one hand, and either
molecules or atoms on the other hand, ——                        '———
                                                 '            v
collisions. Again, if w2 and tsXi denote the ratios of the
number of dissociating collisions to the corresponding total
number of collisions, and assuming that «r2 and w12 are indepen
dent ofthe volume, so that or2e2 v t=Fa(t), and ¦oti2Cj2n/< = F12(/),
the condition for equilibrium expressed in § 1 becomes
                   N12Fl(0=N2sF2(0 + N1N2F12(0,
which is quite different from (C) § 1.
     § 4. The equation (B) of § 1 is also, as I believe, incom
patible with hypothesis (a), and for this reason, that then
Maxwell's law loses its meaning. The true meaning of this
law may be thus expressed :—" If two gases are mixed
together, whoso mean kinetic energies are different, an ex
change of energy takes place until the difference disappears "*.
     If two colliding atoms enter into combination, their energy
divides into motion of the centre of gravity and relative
 motion. The molecules formed have therefore a definite
 mean value for the kinetic energy of the motion of the centre
 of gravity, which we shall call molecular motion.
     Now there are two cases possible :—(i.) The molecular
energy may, just after the formation of the molecule, be
equal to that of the free atoms; tiiis is the case, for example,
when aggregations are formed in imperfect gases, as I have
already pointed outf. Then E, and E2 are equal, because
this follows as a consequence of the laws of collision of atoms,
     * Tuit, Trans. It. S. E. xxxiii. p. 82 (1886) ; cf. Wied. Ann. xxxiv.
p. 070 (1888).
    t Wied. Ann. xxxiii. p. 687 et teq. (1888).

           of the Phenomena of Dissociation in Gases.            25
and not because Maxwell's law makes them equal, (ii.) The
energy of the molecules formed may, on the contrary, be
different from that of the free atoms, and then, according to
Maxwell's law, an interchange of energy will take place
between the molecules and atoms ; every molecule will tend
to regulate its velocity according to Maxwell's law. This
phenomenon happens during the collisions of the molecule ;
after a few collisions the molecule will approximately fulfil
the conditions of Maxwell's law. If the molecule does not
last longer than the time requisite for this process of equaliza
tion of energy, or if it lasts a shorter time, the equalization
can only take place in part, and only a part of the difference
of energy will be equalized. A stationaiy condition may
therefore arise, in which the ratio of the molecular and atomic
energies has a value which is intermediate between unity and
the value obtained from the energy of the molecules formed
and that of the atoms.
   Now I hope to be able to prove that the case (i.) corre
sponds to the hypothesis (/8) of § 3, while case (ii.) corresponds
to the hypothesis (a) of the same section. Let us assume that
a is the most probable velocity of the atoms, so that f jna2 = Ej.
The velocity of the progressive movement of a molecule,
which is formed oiit of two colliding atoms, being V, let us
choose V as one of the independent variables in the collision
of two atoms. According to the rules laid down in § 3 of my
paper " On the Kinetic Theory of Imperfect Gases " {luc. cit.),
there will occur in unit time,
             ^l3lYh-^x{x,y,...)dVdxdy                            (1)
collisions between atoms, in which the velocity of the centre
of gravity of each lies between V and V + dV; and the
remaining variables also lie between certain infinitely close
limits, which we do not need to specify. In (1) N, is,
as before, the number of atoms, v the volume, Rx the charac
teristic distance determining whether a collision will or will not
ensue between two atoms. We shall assume that in every
collision of class (i.) a molecule is formed. (According to
hypothesis (/3) this is always the case ; but on the (a) hypothesis
the variables x, y, . . . must satisfy certain conditions.) There
exist, then, at any time,
             ^2^rVie-*vll'2x{z,!/,...)dYdxdy...              .  (2)
molecules of the class considered, whose duration is t.         The

26           Ladislaus Natanson on the Kinetic Theory
mean value V2 is therefore for all molecules,
              f 00 ff. . . rY'e-W'xix, y, . . . ) dV dx dy . . .
       V2=                                                       ; • (3)
                          . TVe-Wx{*,y, ...)dVdxdy...
             Of-
the limits of integration with respect to x, y, . . . being ,v0, ^ ;
y0,yil ¦ • • according to the hypothesis (/9) , and £„, f,
on the (a) hypothesis. According to the (/3) hypothesis, t is
independent of V ; but on the other assumption (a), t depends
upon the time which elapses between the collisions, and there
fore on V. If we accept the (/3) hypothesis as the true one,
we obtain
                               V5=l«2;                               (4)
whence
                           EJ=mV*=f»Mt,=E1                           (5)
   If, on the contrary, we take the (a) hypothesis, we must
write <T for t, where T denotes the time between two succes
sive collisions of a molecule whose velocity is V ; and i+1 is
the number of collisions which the molecule experiences before
breaking up, reckoning as first collision that in which the
molecule is formed. We can treat t as dependent on V only
as T depends on V, and then i will be determined by the
quantities x, y, . . . . We have then
                      VJ=^                                           (6)
                             Jo
Now since the relation
         j" °° TW2V!/"2 dV = | a2J " TV2e-2V2/"2 dY
holds good for all values of T, and T must be finite at V=0
and equal to zero at V = oo (as follows from the definition of
T), we must have
          V2=f«2(l+ J) and E^E^H- *),                        .    .  (7)

               of the Phenomena ofDissociation in Gases.          27
    in which
                                   ^                             (8)
       It will be seen that e is negative, and consequently, on the
    hypothesis (a) V* < £ a2, and E2 < E, . We shall put E2 = pE,
    and proceed to calculate p.
       § 5. As a first approximation we may make use of the fol
    lowing method. Let a molecule which moves with velocity
    V meet Bj atoms and B2 molecules during the unit of time, so
    thati=Bi + B2. Let us also assume that Maxwell's law
    holds among the molecules, the velocity-modulus being y8,
    which is small ; and that £=£pa2. We have then (taking the
    volume v equal to unity)
           B1=N1RuV^r[«-va/"a+^^JoV'«-«a^]> . (1)
                            ffe-Wfi + P+^L^        r+dm\, . (2)
    where R12, R2 are the characteristic radii for the collision of
    molecules with an atom or a molecule respectively. In order
    to calculate e, let us introduce into the two integrals mean
    values Bj and B2 instead of the variable quantities B, and B3.
    As mean values we take
        B> ^7^J^B1VV^adV=2N1R12V7r(iH^),                        (3)
        ^=0^fo B2VVvWdV = 2N2R2V2^8,* .                      .  (4)
   and obtain
                         c__ 8V2(Jx + ^)
                               aV^B. + B,)'                    W
   where
= N1R12V^jo"[^-v^ + (2- fy£"e-*d^V*e-^dV, (6)
 N,B,' V        [| e-^lP + (2 - I*j           W] VV-2^ dV,        . (7)

28         Ladislaus Natanson on the Kinetic Theory
If we obtain the expression for the differential coefficient
J\r i VV2Va/0,F (V) } and apply it to the cases F(V) » \ e-z2dx
and F(V)= 1 e~x*dx, we shall be able to calculate J, and J2
easily.  Their values are
                   J-^NJ^V;                                  (8)
                    3    8  8    vV' + 2/32                   1 '
and substituting the values of Bj and Bs from (3) and (4) in
the expression (5) for e,
            e=                  "  * r/"               . .  (10)
It follows from the definition of fi (§ 4) that e = 3(l—fi), and
therefore equation (10) gives us a means of calculating the
value of (i. As the general expression for ft is complicated
we shall content ourselves with taking the two extreme cases.
It can be shown that the minimum value of fi corresponds to
1^=0, the maximum value to Ns=0. In the first case the
equation for fi is
                      18/*(1 +M)(1 -,*)»= 1;
and in the second case,
                       27(2+/t)(l-/i)2=l;
from which the value of ft must always lie between 0-805 and
0-886.
   AVe can check this calculation in the following manner.
The probability of a molecule having a velocity between V
and V + (/V is (from § 4) equal to
                        TVi-^rfV
                      i TY'e-™''*' dV
                     J"
Since (B! + BS)T=1, we have
   Bi+B*=W2J>               Where J=J, "B-TB7rfV--          ^

            of the Phenomena of Dissociation in Gases.          29
    If we put Ns = 0 in this equation, the value of Bx is ob
 tained as follows :—Let Jj be the value of J when N2=0.
 It is easy to show that
        Jl=KTrW-                     "tfL^L              . . (13)
             JN &u V irj, xe-# + (2x*+l)\ e-* dx
                                             Jo
 In exactly the same way that Clark calculated the table given
 in Prof. Tait's paper previously quoted, I have found as
 numerical value of the integral in equation (13),
                            0-0605022.
 Hence B1 = 4-2706N,Ri2sa ; while previously (from equa
 tion (3), putting /x= 0*886 since N3 = 0) we found for B, the
 value 4*2584 NjR^2 a. In a similar manner B2 could be cal
 culated. It will therefore be seen that the former method
 gives fairly correct results.
    There is one other method of calculating /*, which I will
 again apply to the case N, = 0. From the equation (6) of
 § 4, we can show that
        Wt_ A Bt                I3 Bt <sv)dW
        V- -r             j^sTi                     •  •   • t14;
               4          \ 1-e-WdY
                          Jo Bi
    The denominator is equal to Jx and is therefore known.
 On writing Y = ax, we obtain
           V    SB!   ^-x3+(2^-l)| e~*dx
                                                              (15)
          Bx 3V                         h— '
                       xe-1' + (2^ +1)1 e-*dx
 whence
r                                [i+       .t e~"d*              ]dx.
J" xe-* + (2**+ 1) \ e~*dx            xe~* + (2x2 + 1) f
                     Jo                               Jo
    Applying Clark's method, I have found for the numerical
 value of the integral (16), 0*088139, which gives
                          V* = 0*67776as.

30            Kinetic Theory of Dissociation in Gases.
The previous calculation, with /x=0'886, gave the value
                        V*~= ^«2= 0-66450 «2.
                                 4
    This calculation can also be extended to the case N, = 0,
and I have worked it out for that case. We may conclude
that if ft represents the ratio of the energy of the molecules
formed to the atomic energy, the value of /j. always lies be
tween ^ and § ; and the final ratio of the two energies, which
remains stationary, lies between /x and 1.
    § 6. The problem dealt with above appears to me to be of
great interest in the theory of dissociation. If the mean
values of the kinetic energies of a molecule and an atom are
different, and do not oven stand in a constant ratio to each
other, it is difficult to decide which mean value should be
taken as a measure of the temperature. As previously in the
case of imperfect gases*, so also here it is seen that in the
kinetic theory of heat we are far from possessing a general
definition of temperature ; the usual one is applicable only to
perfect gases.
    § 7. Now since the hypothesis (a) appears to be at variance
with experiment in actual dissociation phenomena (dissocia
tion of iodine vapour, nitrons acid, &c), and would only be
applicable to phenomena of decomposition, which are due to
secondary causes (e. g. the dissociation of hydriodic acid), it
would bo necessary to suppose that iodine atoms, N02 groups,
&c, only combine into molecules during collision. Since all
gases may probably dissociate under suitable circumstances,
ibis assumption would have to be extended universally to all
gaseous molecules. We should then have to make, for gases
like oxygen, hydrogen, &c, the further supposition that d/T
is very large and nearly constant, or else free atoms would
occur in impossible numbers in these gases. According to
experiments hitherto mado on atomic weights and densities of
gases, it must be assumed that in these cases 6 is far greater
than 500 T.
   * L. Natanson, Wied. Ann. xxxiii. p. 603 (1888). I have formerly
tried to prove that the energy of the "free" molecules should be taken as
a measure of the temperature. In a paper which I know only by an ab
stract (Proc. It. S. E. xvi. p. 09, 1889), Tait arrives at the same conclusion
by quite another line of argument.

                               [    31    ]
III. The Temperature of the Moon. From Studies at the
   Alleghetiy Observatory by S. P. Langley, with the assist
   ance off. W. Vert*.
THIS memoir may be regarded as the completion of the
        investigation commenced in 1883, and continued during
the next four years, and of which previous portions have been
published in the Memoirs of the National Academy of Sci
ences, in a paper read Oct. 17, 1884 (vol. Hi.), and in that
read Nov. 9, 188(5 (vol. iv.), the latter having been published
in ahstract in the American Journal of Sciencef.
   The original memoir, of which the following is a very
succinct abstract, can, from its special character, hardly claim
the attention of the general reader ; but the latter may,
perhaps, be hero reminded that the main questions at issue
are the temperature of an airless planet at the earth's distance
from the sun, the action of the atmosphere in modifying tbo
temperature of such a planet, and, in general, the study of
those conditions of radiation and absorption which have
actually rendered life possible on our own. He may be re
minded also that it has been generally assumed hitherto that
the temperature of the sunlit surface of an airless planet at
such a distance, e. g. of the moon, would be excessively high.
Thus Sir John Herschel, in his latest ' Outlines of Astronomy,'
says : —" The surface of the full moon exposed to us must
necessarily be very much heated, possibly to a degree much
exceeding that of boiling water.'              The only experimental
evidence obtainable appeared to lend support to this view,
for though Lord Ilosse did not undertake to directly deter
mine the lunar temperature (as he is often supposed to have
done), any inference which can be drawn from his experi
ments appears to support the above views of Herschel, which
he also cites %.
    It has also been almost universally supposed that our at
mosphere was nearly impervious to the lunar radiant heat, so
that, if any existed, it could still not be perceived by us at
   • Memoir read to the National Academy of Sciences, November 1887.
Communicated by the Author.
   t For December 1888. See also ' London, Edinburgh, and Dublin
Philosophical Magazine,' December 1888 ; also Ann. de Chemie et de
Physique, July 1889.
   \ See Proc. Royal Society, xvii. 1869, p. 443 ; xix. 1870, p. 12 ; Trans
actions, clxiii. pp. 622—4. Having elsewhere shown that the lunar
radiation consists of a small quantity of reflected heat and a compara
tively large quantity of heat emitted from its soil, Lord Rosae compares

32                    Prof. S. P. Langley on the
tho sea-level. Thus Sir John Herschel says of the moon that
" its heat (conformably to what is observed of that of bodies
heated below the point of luminosity) is much more readily
absorbed in traversing transparent media than direct solar
heat, and is extinguished in the upper regions of the atmo
sphere, never reaching the surface of the earth at all."
   The reader may also be reminded that these statements have
remained unchallenged on account of the hitherto insuperable
difficulties of experimental investigation, arising from the all
but infinitesimal amount of heat which the moon sends us,
and the added fact that this heat, small as it is, is necessarily
of two essentially different kinds—that which the moon, acting
as a mirror, reflects from the sun, and that which directly
emanates from the substance of her own sun-heated soil, while
it is only by an analysis of each of these two kinds of heat,
each in its totality non-existent to the most sensitive ther
mometer, that we can expect to give an experimental answer
to the question *.
    It was Melloni who, on Mt. Vesuvius in 184C, by the
employment of a polyzonal lens, one metre in diameter, and
tho newly invented thermopile and galvanometer, first suc
ceeded in getting any certain indications of heat from tho
moon, though these were of the feeblest kind. It is Lord
Eosse, employing the Parsonstown telescope with improved
thermopiles and galvanometers, who has the credit of abun
dantly confirming Melloni's observation of the fact of the
moon's radiant heat being perceptible, and further tho great
merit of making a preliminary investigation of its character,
by showing by its imperfect passage through glass that it is
chiefly non-reflected heat. Lord ltesse, however, as has been
the total excess of this lunar radiation over that from the sky by means of
that from two blackened vessels, one producing' the same effect on his
thermopile and galvanometer as the sky, the other as the moon, and finds
that the observed galvanometer range is that due to a temperature of
excess in the latter vessel, to be computed at 107o,5 F. if Dulong and
Petit's law of cooling is used, or at a still higher one if Newton's is em
ployed. The effective sky temperature was about + 20° F., so that if
we suppose the result due wholly (instead of mainly) to the emitted
heat, this would indicate a temperature of the lunar soil at any rate above
that of boiling water. Lord Kosse, however, in view of the empirical
character of the formula employed and of other considerations, is careful
to state as his conclusion " that the problem of the determination of the
lunar temperature is nearly as far as ever removed from our grasp."
   * In an appendix (No. 1) of the memoir referred to, will be found a
historical account, believed to be fairly complete, of the labours of previous
thinkers and workers in this subject.

                    Temperature of the Moon.                  33
said, concludes that the problem of the moon's temperature is
still indeterminate.
   At this point the question is taken up by the writer, who,
with the aid of the bolometer, used directly in the lunar
image, had already reached, in the first of the memoirs men
tioned above, the following inference among others of less
importance, viz. that the sunlit surface of the moon is not
far from the freezing temperature.
   This inference resulted both from observations in the direct
beam and from a preliminary and partially successful attempt
to form a heat spectrum, for this gave indications of two
maxima in the heat-curve—the first corresponding to the heat
from the solar reflected rays ; the second (indefinitely lower
down in the spectrum) corresponding to a greater amount of
radiant heat emitted from a source at a far lower temperature,
lower at any rate than that of boiling water, above which the
temperature of the lunar soil has been hitherto supposed to
not improbably be. This statement of the first memoir is put
forward as inferential and probable morely, and not as con
clusively proven.
   The second memoir, on " The Solar and the Lunar Spec
trum," is chiefly devoted to the invisible spectrum of the sun,
but incidentally describes the progress in the improvement of
the apparatus employed so as to better fit it for the delicate
task,
    (1) of measuring the already feeble lunar heat when diffused
by expansion into a lunar spectrum ; and
    (2) of determining the possible existence and the exact
 position of the two heat maxima already described in the first
 memoir.
    We are now prepared to take up the present memoir, and
 give an abstract of its results. It contains researches pursued
 through several years with constantly improving instrumental
 means, and while the writer cannot feel that (owing to the
 extreme experimental difficulty of the subject) the results
 have obtained a certitude corresponding to the great labour
 bestowed upon them, he believes that this labour is justified
 by the fact that it has not been given to a question of merely
 abstract interest, but that the whole subjects of terrestrial
 radiation and the conditions of organic life upon our planet
 are intimately related to the present research.
    Spectroscopy has hitherto dealt almost exclusively with
 Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.            D

34                    Prof. S. P. Langley on the
light, but in this new field we consider chiefly that great in
visible spectral region in which the entire radiation of the soil
of our own planet is to be found, a region of which we have,
until quite recently, known nothing. To see how the question
of the lunar heat affects our knowledge on the whole subject
of our planet's temperature, we must remember that, until a
few years past, it had been assumed by all writers of repute
that the earth's atmosphere acted exactly like the glass cover
of a hot-bed, and kept the planet warm in exactly the same
way that the hot-bed is warmed, by admitting the light-heat
of the sun, which was returned by the soil in the invisible
radiation of greater wave-length to which the atmosphere was
supposed to be impervious, and that thus the heat was stored,
glass being till lately supposed to be practically athermanous
to all infra-red heat. It was a necessary part of this assump
tion that all, or very nearly all, the infra-red was absorbed by
our atmosphere; but in 1881, the observations of the Mount
Whitney expedition, supplementing previous ones made at
this observatory, showed that through the infra-red, as far as it
had then been explored, tbe atmosphere transmitted the invisible
rays with greater facility even than the luminous heat ; so
 that the ordinarily received idea must be essentially modified,
and, if the absorption of tbe telluric radiation did indeed take
place as supposed, it must be in spectral regions then entirely
 unknown. It is in an examination of these, till now, quite
 unknown regions beyond the extreme boundaries of former
 researches on the infra-red, and in the study of the radiations
 of corresponding wave-length emitted from the lunar soil,
 that we find the principal subject-matter of tbe present
memoir*.
    It is, in introduction, again pointed out that the absorption
of the earth's atmosphere for these radiations, as for all others,
 is not simple, but eminently complex, and that the old for
 mulae lead to gross errors in practice. Further, as the amount
 of radiation of a planet is, like that of any other body, de
 pendent on that of its surroundings, reasons are repeated for
 believing that the so-called temperature of space (a term due
 to Fourier and afterwards adopted by Pouillet, who fixed its
    * The reader is reminded that the words " infra-red " have obtained
 an extension of meaning, since we have been able to show in previous
 memoirs, not only the vast amount of the energy in this region (which,
 in the case of the sun, is over 100 times that in the ultra-violet), but
 that in this invisible infra-red there is every variety of condition, greater
 differences than there are e. g. between violet and orange light, and that
 Melloni's anticipatory comparison of varieties of radiant heat to varieties
of colour actually understates the truth.

                         Temperature of the Moan.                     35
 value at — 1 42° Cent.) has no sensible existence, but may be
 here treated as that of the absolute zero.
    There is next given a description of the apparatus, which
 consists essentially of a siderostat, carrying an 18-inch mirror,
 and capable of sending a lunar beam of corresponding capacity
 horizontally into an adjoining dark room and keeping it
 fixed there during the night's observations. In the path of
 the beam can be interposed a large double screen of blackened
 copper, ordinarily filled with water. The beam then falls on
 a condensing mirror, whose ordinary aperture of 8 inches
 does not, as may be seen, utilize the whole of the beam trans
 mitted by the siderostat, but has been selected in reference
 to the capacity of the rock-salt train of lenses and prisms
 which forms the1 spectrum. This train is believed to consist
 of pieces of salt of hitherto unapproached perfection in work
 manship, as at the time our investigation commenced no salt
 prisms were procurable giving a single Fraunhofer line in
 the solar spectrum ; while with the actual rock-salt train, D
 is divided in the spectrum of the moon. The general con
 struction of the spectrobolometer, and of the special bolometer
employed with it, will be found given in previous papers*.
    There are three principal methods of investigation :—
    First, the measurement of the total heat of the moon
 with a concave mirror, admitting the interposition of a sheet
of glass to rudely indicate the quality of lunar rays as com
pared with those of the sun. This method, which was that
employed by Lord Rosse, has been very thoroughly practised
here with results which have been partly given in the previous
memoir.
    Second, a method, practised here for the first time, and
yielding quite peculiar results, has been to form, usually with
this same mirror, an image of the moon, but to now let this
fall upon the slit of a special spectroscope provided with the
rock-salt train referred to ; and after expanding this exces
sively minute heat in this way, it has been found possible,
with late improvements in the apparatus, to measure by the
bolometer the different degrees of heat in the different parts
of this lunar heat-spectrum, both visible and invisible. The
doing of this, with its results, forms the principal subject of
the present memoir.
    Third, since such a mirror as that just mentioned, owing to
its short focus, forms an extremely small lunar image, in cer
tain observations (carried on, however, only during a limited
   * See this Journal, xv. March 1883, and xxi. May 1880. For a descrip
tion of the improved form of bolometer and galvanometer see vol. xxii.
August 1886.

36                   Prof. S. P. Langley on the
time), we have taken advantage of the sensitiveness of our
apparatus to directly explore a large lunar image with the
bolometer, in spite of the diminished heat in such a one. For
this purpose a special mirror, 303 millim. in diameter and
3137 millim. focus, giving a lunar image of about 30 millim.
diameter, has been employed. On the occasion of a lunar
 eclipse the last-named apparatus has also been used.
     We have already alluded (see Memoirs of the National
 Academy, vol. iii. p. 20) to the especial importance of the
action of the screen in these observations. This arises from
 the fact, as will be seen later, that we shall deal with lunar
 heat of a totally different quality from that of moonlight or
 sunlight. It is, in a large part, radiation emanating from the
 lunar soil, and of a quality, as we shall see, approximating
 to that of the screen itself. It must be evident, then, that the
 radiations from this screen assume here a wholly abnormal
 importance.
     An investigation of the theory of the screen accordingly
 occupies a chapter, for which the reader is referred to the
 original. We may remark here, in passing, that the investi
 gation incidentally offers an explanation of the empirically
 known fact, that the velocity of cooling of a hot body at various
 temperatures of excess varies with that of the enclosure itself.
  The discussion also indicates what appears to bo an inde
 pendent method of determining the absolute zero ; but the
  method, although apparently correct in theory, would demand
 observations more accurate than our own casual ones to give
  it practical value. It may be, however, worth mentioning
  that the observations, such as the)' are, indicate by this novel
  method the existence of an absolute zero at a point between
   -250° and -300° Cent.
     A list of all the observations in the lunar spectrum extend
  ing from October 1884 to February 1887 is then given,
  together with some collateral ones upon the " great radiator."
  This latter instrument may be briefly described as analogous
  to an immense Leslie cube, presenting as it does a blackened
   radiating surface at the temperature of boiling water and of
   1 square metre area. The object in giving it this extraordi
  nary dimension is to enable it to still angularly subtend the
  whole field of view of the bolometer, while it is at such a dis
  tance that the intervening column of air may be supposed to
  exercise a measurable absorptive effect. Its actual distance
  was 100 metres, and at this distance the absorption of the
  intervening air on the dark radiant heat, emanating from its
  surface at 100° Cent., was in fact manifest, and gave evidence,
  novel and interesting, both as to the actual absorption by our

                    Temperature of the Moon.                 37
atmosphere for radiations from bodies of low temperature, and
as to the spectral region where it chiefly occurred.
   This list includes, besides the described heat observations
on the moon at every obtainable lunation, the following
others :—
(1) On the heat during a lunar eclipse.
(2) On the quality of the heat in the lunar spectrum at
     different stages of the moon's age.
(3) On the direct heat observable from different regions of
     the moon's face in an enlarged hinar image, and com
     parisons of the heat radiated by the dark and by the
     bright regions of the moon.
(4) A supplementary investigation showing that different
     percentages of the radiations from these dark and bright
     regions were transmitted by glass.
(5) Observations giving the means of comparing the atmo
     spheric absorption of lunar radiations in summer with
     that in winter for equal altitudes.
(6) Very numerous observations of the spectrum of the mid
     night sky.
           (These last are specially important here, where they
        are rendered necessary by the fact that this sky is the
        standard with which the lunar radiations are to be
        compared. These last observations give, for example,
        certain evidence of a great " hot band " in the nega
        tive sky spectrum, corresponding in position to the
        great cold band in the lunar spectrum, which is thus
        sbowu to be produced jointly by the absorption of the
        moon's rays and by the absorption of the radiation of
        the bolometer due to the intervening air-column be
        tween it and the moon.)
(7) Observations supplementary to the last, by comparative
     measurements of the sky radiation from the zenith to the
     horizon.
(8) On further supplementary measurements made by com
     paring the energy in the spectrum of a lampblack
     screen at 100° C. with that of the sky, showing the
     existence of several regions of atmospheric absorption,
     giving " hot bands " in the negative sky spectrum.
           (We only allude here, in passing, to the important
        inference to be drawn with regard to the nocturnal
        radiations from the soil of our own planet, to which
        these observations show that our atmosphere is partially
        diathermanous.)

38                  Prof. S. P. Langley an the
(9) On other measurements giving the means of estimating
      the total lunar radiation in terms of solar ;
but for these and many more subsidiary ones, the reader must
again bo referred to the original memoir.
    The only one of these subsidiary researches which needs
further mention here is the measurement of the heat from
different parts of the eclipsed moon, on the night of September
 23, 1885.
    The diameter of the lunar image was 28"3 millim., and of
this only a limited portion (O08 of the whole) fell upon the
bolometer. As the penumbra came on, the diminution of
heat was marked, being measured by the bolometer even before
 the eye had detected any appearance of shadow. The heat
 continued to diminish rapidly with the progress of the im
mersion in the penumbra, but at no time did the lunar radia
tion from the part in full shadow entirely vanish. At one
hour before the middle of the total eclipse, the deflexion in
the umbra was 3"8 divisions. Fifty minutes after the middle
of the eclipse it had diminished to approximately 1"3 divisions,
less than one per cent, of the heat from a similar portion of
the uneclipsed moon, a deflexion so small that its significance
may be somewhat doubtful. It need hardly be stated that
this heat from the eclipsed moon was almost absolutely cut
off by the interposition of glass. The rise of the temperature
after the passage of the umbra was apparently nearly as rapid
as the previous fall. The vicissitudes of the lunar climate in
dicated by these observations in the short time of a few hours,
must exceed the change from our torrid zone to the greatest
cold of an arctic winter.
    In this connexion it should bo stated that repeated obser
vations on the dark side of the moon have given only the
 same heat-spectrum as shown by the sky away from the
moon, the conclusion being that, so far as our present obser
vation carries us, the moon has no internal heat sensible at
the surface, so that the radiations from the lunar soil, already
 spoken of, are to be understood as due purely to solar heat
which has been absorbed and almost immediately re-radiated.
    The principal method employed in the present research for
determining the temperature of the surface of the moon is
 founded on the fact, already experimentally established by
the writer, that the position of the maximum in a curve,
 representing invisible radiant heat, furnishes a reliable crite
rion as to the temperature of the radiating (solid) body ",
   * Proc. Am. Assoc. for Adv. of Sci., 1885: also Phil. Mag. xxi. May
18S0.

                       Temperature of the Moon.                        39
 and on the further fact, established by Mr. F. W. Very and
 the writer, that two distinct heat-maxima are observable in
 the lunar spectrum, one corresponding to the radiation
 reflected from the soil, the other to that emitted by it. It at
first seemed, in accordance with what has just been said, that
the accurate determination of the wave-length of this latter
 maximum would give a correspondingly accurate determination
 of the temperature of the sunlit surface of the moon ; and,
accordingly, to this object the main portion of the observa
tions were given. We may anticipate what follows by here
 saying that by this method, a perfectly correct one in theory,
the writer believes that the temperature of the lunar soil
 could be determined with great exactness, were it not for the
 intervention of the earth's atmosphere, which exercises, in
this part of the spectrum as in every other, a highly selective
absorption, indicated here, however, not by fine lines like the
 Fraunhofer lines of the solar spectrum, but by enormously
 wide " cold bands," which vary in size and even in position
 from night to night *, rendering the exact position of this
maximum in a corresponding degree indeterminate.
    Another chapter is occupied by an example of a single
night's work in detail, with a statement of some of the pre
cautions and corrections employed in practice. It may be
observed here in general as to the apparatus, that while the
rock-salt train, as already mentioned, is of such perfection
as to show the Fraunhofer lines very completely in the lunar
luminous spectrum, the accompanying bolometer and galva
nometer enable us to measure cold bands in the non-luminous
lunar or air spectrum, whose heat is otherwise so inappre
ciably small that it corresponds to a radiation of toooVooo
of a calorie per second, measured by the generation of a
current of 0"000,000,001 ampere. This is the amount of
heat and current implied in moving the galvanometer image
 over 1 millim. of the scale. In fact, the image is quite
steady enough under favourable conditions to admit of the
observation of less heat than this, giving deflexions of frac
 tional portions of a millimetre ; but owing to fluctuations in
the absorption of our atmosphere which transmits this radia
tion, rather than to any limitations of the instrument itself,
   * That an absorption-band may vary in magnitude will excite no sur
prise, but that it should vary sensibly in position may appear to some in
contradiction with our knowledge of the fixity of lines in the upper
spectrum. An explanation of the anomaly will be found in this Journal
for Dec. 1888.

40                  Prof. S. P. Langley on the
it is generally found best not to note deflexions of less than
1 millim. What has just been said refers particularly to mea
surements of the diffused heat from the moon's soil in the
invisible lunar spectrum and to the corresponding spectral
analysis of the reflected heat. When, however, we place the
bolometer directly in the lunar image formed by the 8-inch
aperture, the deflexion throws the needle at once off the
 scale, and is found on more careful measurement to corre
spond under favourable circumstances to a potential deflexion
 of about 1500 millim. divisions. Melloni, it will be remem
 bered, obtained four or five divisions on his galvanometer
 with the thermopile and the metre polyzonal lens on Vesuvius,
 and the immense difference just noted is some indication of
 the advance of experimental physics in this matter since his
 day.
           Theory of Observation ; with typical example,
                            showing Method.
     Every observation on the moon, whether on its total heat,
 as observed directly in the lunar image, or on its diffused
 heat in the spectrum, should consist in a comparison of its
 radiations with those of the adjacent sky on either side of it.
 If our thermonietric apparatus had an absolute scale, and
 there were no intervening atmosphere, it appears, in accord
 ance with what has already been said, that such apparatus,
 when directed not to the moon but to " space " more or less
 adjacent, should indicate the temperature of this space, which
  is sensibly that of the absolute zero ; and then, when it is
 turned upon the moon, supposing it to receive only the
 emitted and not the reflected heat, it would give, also on the
  absolute scale, the temperature of the lunar soil. In fact,
  with such an absolute thermometer, the preliminary com
  parison with space would be unnecessary. In reality, we use
  not an absolute apparatus with a natural scale, but a differen
  tial apparatus with an arbitrary scale ; and if we could work
  without an intervening atmosphere, we should, even in this
  case, require to let the bolometer radiate to space in order to
  determine the point on our arbitrary scale which corresponds
  to zero. We should then observe a second point correspond
  ing to the temperature of the lunar surface, and having
  determined the value of the units of our arbitrary scale in
  terms of the natural one, we should evidently have the
  quantity sought.

                     Temperature of the Moon.                 41
    The above conditions are still of ideal simplicity. The
great, the almost insuperable difficulty of actual observation,
lies less in the minuteness of the actual radiation, or even in
its two-fold character, than in the fact that it is masked to us
by the changes of an always intervening atmosphere. The
case of observations on the sun is totally different from the
present one, and would be so even if the sun were withdrawn
till it emitted no more heat than the moon; for in this latter
 imaginary case, the greater portion of the solar radiation
 would still lie in a spectral region totally distinct from that
 in which the radiations proper to the obscuring atmosphere
 are found, and it is the peculiar, unavoidable difficulty, at
 every stage of this long investigation, that since the moon
 and the air are both alike cold bodies, their invisible spectra
 are, in general, superposed in the same field. Let us add to
 this, that the (invisible) spectrum of the air is usually not
 fixed but fluctuating, and we shall see the desirability of
 having some separate standard with which to compare it from
 night to night. This we obtain most conveniently by filling
 a vessel of proper shape and size, either with water or with a
 freezing mixture at a temperature constant for the series,
 and making this vessel itself the screen which is interposed
 between the bolometer and the lunar rays. The bolometer
 must remain unmoved, and the direction of the heat^receiving
  apparatus to the east or west of the moon must always be
  understood to be obtained by a slight motion of the siderostat
  mirror.
     That the minute change in the angle of presentation of the
 face of this mirror does not affect its own radiations appre
 ciably might well be anticipated, but is a fact which has not
 been left unproven by direct experiment. The bolometer,
 then, enclosed in a non-conducting case which cuts off
 radiations from every object but the mirror or prism imme
  diately in front of it, practically feels only the radiations
  from the moon, or from the sky immediately on each side of
 it, except when the screen is interposed. Mirrors and prisms
 do indeed radiate heat to it from their own substance, but
  these radiations may be considered as absolutely constant,
  and as therefore absolutely negligible during the brief cycle
  of a single observation.
     We confine ourselves here to the above general explanation,
  referring the reader who may be interested in the details of
  the observations to the original memoir, remarking, however,
 that the actual spectral position of a ray is given by a circle,
  reading to 10" of arc, and that previous measures of our

 42                   Prof. S. P. Langley on the
 own * enable us to convert this arc into wave-length. This
 fixes the position of bands in the spectrum. The amount of
 heat in any portion of the spectrum is, within the narrow
 limits of errors of observation, strictly proportional to the
 deflexion on the galvanometer-scale (the conditions of the
 bolometer, battery-current, galvanometer, &c., remaining
 constant). As these degrees are arbitrary, they are converted
 into thermometric degrees by a process fully detailed in the
 original memoir.
    The preliminary record of the humidity, state of the sky,
 temperature, &c, is nearly self-explanatory. We need only
 explain that " Rock-salt lenses at 37 centim. " refers to the
 fact that the focal length of these lenses increases from 35
 centim. in the visible spectrum to one indefinitely greater
 with heat of great wave-length, and that this focus accord
 ingly needs to be adjusted for the particular part of the heat-
 spectrum under study.
    " Deflexion per degree Centigrade " refers to the use of a
constant determined for each evening, giving the actual
deflexion the galvanometer produces, for each degree of
 excess of temperature in a certain standard Leslie cube at a
 certain standard distance from the bolometer.
    The order of observation consists first in noting the time.
 (We will suppose, in the example which follows, that the time
is 9h-08 M. T., on the evening of February 9, 1887) ; next,
in noting the prismatic deviation corresponding to the actual
 position of the bolometer in the spectrum, which in this
particular case is 41° 08' 30", or that of the D line in the
visible spectrum. Previously to observation the bolometer
has been radiating through the spectroscopic train and mirror
to the special screen described, which, on this particular
evening, is at the constant temperature of +18° Cent.
Under these circumstances, the needle will take up some
position representing radiation to the screen, which at this
first exposure we will call A, its position here on our
arbitrary scale being at the 215th millimetre. During this
time the siderostat-mirror has been so placed as to be sending
towards the bolometer radiations from the sky on the east of
the moon t- Call the effect of these particular sky radia
tions B. They have been intercepted by the screen, but
now the screen is withdrawn, and the bolometer radiating to
this eastern adjacent sky receives less heat than the screen
   * See Phil. Mag. xxii. August 1886.
  t The area of sky observed is virtually the same as that of the moon.

                     Temperature of the Moon.                 43
gave it (213"2). The siderostat-mirror is moved to throw on
the image of the moon. Let us call the resultant deflexion
C. The moon appears in this example very slightly warmer
than the sky, for the image moves on to 213*4. Next, by
another adjustment of the siderostat-mirror, the sky west of
moon is thrown on. Call this result D. The image on the
galvanometer-scale moves back to 211-9, indicating cold.
Finally the screen is interposed the second time. Call this
second interposition E. In an ideally constant apparatus,
the second interposition of the screen should give the same
reading as the first.       Actually 210 divisions is obtained,
instead of 2 1 5 as before, owing to the so-called "drift" of
the needle during observation. The mean of the two readings
for sky-east and sky-west is now subtracted from that for the
moon and gives, under the column C           5— » the difference
between the temperature of the moon and the sky in our
arbitrary degrees. It will be seen from a comparison of all
the numbers in this column that there are fairly accordant
indications of a maximum near the prismatic deviation of
39° 30', which corresponds with the wave-length of 2*"1, and
approximately with the maximum of the solar-heat curve.
There is another maximum of far greater magnitude near
37° 30' (wave-length about 14*), corresponding to the
maximum known to exist in the radiations of bodies at a
temperature of about 0° Cent., and due, it would seem almost
beyond doubt, to radiations from the sun-heated lunar soil.
It will be seen also that all numbers in this column have one
sign, j. e. the positive, indicating that throughout this series,
without exception, the moon has been found warmer than
the adjacent sky. This, indeed, is to be expected, since,
without the atmosphere, the temperature of this sky would bo
nearly that of the absolute zero, and at any rate lower than
 that of the moon. The difference is so considerable that even
the temperature fluctuations due to the interposition of the
 intervening atmosphere in no case this evening hide the fact.
    In order to compare the fluctuating radiation of the atmo
 sphere with a constant source, we take the mean of the sky
observations and compare it with the mean of the readings on
the screen. In this particular case, ?+2 - £+5 ^ a dif.
                                         U        it
 ference of but 0-l division; but this is, as we have already
 observed, when the bolometer is directed towards the orange

44                    Prof. S. P. Langley on the
in the luminous part of the spectrum, and our cold screen, it
need hardly be said, is not emitting any rays of orange light.
We conclude, then, that the apparent deflexion of O'l div.
here has no real significance ; but, as we go down the spec
trum towards the region of the radiation from cold bodies, we
find, beyond de\iation 39° (X=4'*'3), values which indicate a
real excess of screen over sky radiations.
   We have selected the first number in our second series of
Feb. 9, 1887, as the example, because this follows the normal
course without marked instrumental disturbance. The nature
of these fortuitous disturbances and the methods adopted for
their correction are explained in the original memoir. In
many cases, as will be seen, they may cause the sky on one
side or the other of the moon to appear momentarily warmer,
although the mean of the two is colder.
   Comparisons of the sky and screen by directing the bolo
meter to the sky at the zenith and at the east and west horizons
follow, and three double series at the most important points in
the spectrum, made with the moon at a high, a low, and an
intermediate altitude, give indications of the atmospheric ab
sorption. These, however, are not given here, but only the
double series (No. 2), of which a literal transcript from the
book of original entry now follows :—
      Station, Allegheny.
      Date, February 0, 1887.
      "Wet bulb at
      Dry bulb   at 7h 30m= +16°0
                    7k 30ni=  +1P-2 C.      T     ,
                                      C. I( lmemaI-
      Temperature apparatus at Oh 45m= -(-lS^'SC.
      External temperature, near the freezing-point.
      State of sky at 8h 30m clear. Very good sky.
      Aperture of slit =3 millim. = 27'-9.
      Prism used L„ : A=60° 00' 28".
      Rock-salt lenses set at 37 centim.
      Spectrum thrown west.
      Galvanometer No. 3.
      Time single vibration = 12 sec.
      Deflexion per degree Centigrade = 17-8.
      Bolometer No. 1 ; aperture=3 millim. =27'-0.
      Setting on Da=41° 08' 30".
      Battery current = 0'036 ampere.
      Header at circle, J. P.
      Reader at galvanometer, F. W. V.

                             Temperature of the Moon.                    45
  Time.      Devia Screen Sky B. Moon Sky D. Screen c       B+D]B+D       A-f-E
              tion.      A.            0.             E. C      2 2          2
Scries II.
  b m
   9 08 41     08 30   215     213-2  213-4  211-9  210     0-8     +0-1
           40   20     228     233    235-0  234-8  2a3-8   1-7     + .-!-!)
           40  00      1838    183    184-6  181    180     2-6     +01
           39  40      183-8   185    188-2  184-2  184     3-6     4-0-7
                20     192     1935   19S-S  196    197     4-1     +0-2
           39 00       185     185-3  188-4  186    188     2-7     -0-8
   9 20 38 40           197-7  196-2  1983   197-5  197-8   1-5     -09
                30     214     213    214-5  212    212-8   20      -0-9
                20     182-5   183    1836   182-4  184     0-9     -0 6
                10      185    184-6  180 7  1867   189      10     -10
           38 00        191-6  184    189-2  182-8  180-2   5-8     -5-5
           37 50        175    170-8  180    167    170-2  111      -3-7
                40      1674   161    1772   159-4  108    170      -75
                30      1714    165   1818   101-2  172    18-7     -86
                20      171     166-7 182-8  164    1717   174      -5 9
                10      173     169    182    168-8  176-2 131      -5-7
           37 00        173     Kill  176     160    174     97     -75
           36 00        178-2   174   184     172-8  178-2 10-6      -4-8
   9 42 35 00           1832    182   184-3   1790   180 6   3-5     -11
                            Temperature of Screen = 1 8°.
    9 45 35 00          190 185        180-2 178-2 181        4-6     -3 9
           36 00         191    190 201-3 . 191-8 197 6     10-4      -34
           37 00         199-5 193-8 205-5 192-2 200-9      12-5      -7-2
                 10     198-2 190 203 1 186-8 195           14-6      -8-2
                 20     189-5 1815 197-2 178 1871           175       -8-6
                 30     188-2 182-4 200-2 180 189-5         190       -7-9
                 40     189 183-5 200-.") 178 182           194      -44
                 50      181-4 176-3 188-8 1754 176         12-8     -2-7
            38 00        173-6 172-8 1806 175-9 181           63     -30
   10 00         10      185 183-7 185-8 1&5 1*8              1-4    -21
                 20      195 195-9 198 107-8 1997             1-2    -00
                 30      203 203-5 205 201 201                2-8    +0-2
                 40      209-7 208 208-7 206 205-8            17     -0-7
            39 00        200 207 2112 207-4 209               40      -0-3
                 20      210 211-4 215 210-5 210-5            4-0     4-0-7
                 40      200-5 201-5 205 201 202-3            3-7     -01
            40 00        206-4 209-2 215 211-0 211-0          4-8     + 1-2
                 20      214-5 214-7 217 214 215              2-7     -0-4
   10 20 41 08      3(> 221-4 222 2241 223-2 223              1-5     4-0-4
        The observations of this night may serve as a type of a
     great many others. They all show two maxima (see column
     C — —^— ) whose apparent position differs little from that
     already given in the example, and it may b > added that in all
     cases the radically different character of the heat in these two
     maxima bears the proof of the independent test furnished by

46                   Prof. S. P. Langley on the
passing the rays through glass before measurement, the rays
from the" upper maximum passing freely, as rays belonging to
the maximum of solar reflected heat should do ; those in the
 lower maximum, on the contrary, being absolutely cut off by
the glass, as rays of this wave-length from a source at a
temperature below that of boiling water are known to be.
This test of the glass employed by Lord Rosse in the direct
lunar beam, is here, it will be observed, applied at different
parts of the lunar heat-spectrum ; and its result in the latter
case, corroborating that already obtained by the respective
wave-lengths of the maxima, brings evidence of a radiation
of heat from the lunar soil at a temperature at any rate below
that of boiling water.
   Other observations furnish the means of computing the
relative absorption of the earth's atmosphere as exhibited in
extended cold bands in the region of the lower maximum.
Then, from a combination of the two, we are enabled to reach
a certain approximation to the position and magnitude of this
maximum as it would appear if the atmosphere had not inter
vened. The existence of some of the principal atmospheric
cold bands in this region, due to the absorption exercised by
an atmospheric column 100 metres in length, has been quite
independently determined by means of the great radiator
already referred to. During moist summer weather two prin
cipal maxima have been found in its spectrum—the larger at
deviation 37° 15', nearly agreeing with the lunar curve in
summer, a second smaller maximum at deviation 38° 45', and
between them a cold baud with its minimum at deviation
38° 20'. Remembering that the unabsorbed spectrum from a
radiating surface of lampblack, at the temperature of boiling
water, has its maximum at 38° 25', or very near the deepest
depression of the cold band, it will be recogized that we have
evidence of a considerable absorption at this point.
   To this must be added the fact, shown by our observa
tions, that in the case of solids the greater part of the whole
heat is always found below the maximum of the (unabsorbed)
prismatic curve. If this law hold in the case of the sun,
since little heat is found below its actual prismatic maximum
(near deviation 39° 4(X), the inference is that absorption in
that region (i. e. the extreme infra-red), must have been
great.
   Arguments on these different linos, combined with another
derived from a direct comparison of sun and electric-arc
radiation, which will be described farther on, enable us to
present a curve (fig. 1) showing, with the degree of ap
proximation compatible to the first attempt in such a field,
the atmospheric absorption in all parts of the spectrum.

                                                                                                                                                                        1.
                                                                                                                                                                        Percent.
                                                                                                                                                                       Fig.
                                                                                                     90                       40                    60              00
                                                                         35° 0
                                                                        450
                                                                        44°
                                                                        42°
                                                                        4139°
                                                                        43°
                                                                         38°
                                                                         37°
                                                                         40°
                                                                         36°
                                                                                                                         /
                                                                                                                               /s
                                                                                                                                   /'
                                                                              i
                                                                              j"i'»*
                                                                              a
                            TtRbv
                           Aof the
                               ErmaAondD=bsericmvaptksh-iteSs'oranesl.t                                                                  y
POerof
    T=cdaenismutias tgioen.s                                                                                                                                  <*'
                                                                                                                                         iil M1 •
                                                                                                                                       i!I
                                                                                                                 » ii II Il>!       ii
                                                                                                                 ! ji;!;' ,1Pi 11<1 ¦}'<• n,ii11ii1
                                                                                                                !1
                                                                                                             ii
                                                                                                   '1M '1 I»I!'            1)¦ :>'\>"!       ;'!.I     )s
                                                                                           '1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 i' 1 11 i
                                                                                      !    1 1 1 1 1 f ii !]i I 1 1
                                                                                   ,ii ii
                                                                                    / t¦j1
                                                                                     u      iii i        i i i I 1 11 ! j >¦j i
                                                                                                                                          f ) 1 / i<
                                                                                                                                                         1\ / i.
                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                            \\ 1
                                                                                                                                           i i; /
                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                      1v \
                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                                                                                                  \
                                                                                                                                                            \
                                                                                                                                                           /

                                                                                           "42°
                                                                                            33°
                                                                                            35°
                                                                                            34°
                                                                                            39°
                                                                                            41°
                                                                                            38°
                                                                                            36°
                                                                                            37°
                                                                                            40°
                                                                                                OADGRCurve.
                                                                                                     Spectrum.
                                                                                                     Final
                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                     Energy
                                                                                                      Lunar
                                                                                                      arbeoilfvdscitakerni-=xtoasbSmuotenelisot*.rn
                                                                                     ^^--
                                                                            * ¦ ¦^1—-
                                                                    ¦¦„,
                                                                 \.
                                                          \
                                                ^
                                            \
                                        \
.2.                          \
Fig                      \
                   \
          ' " *"'-
                     //
                         / /f f
                           f
                                ii
                                      '  i
                                              i
                                                     ii t  ii    '
                                                                 \
   Pit
       iU               60         50      40     ;in         20         10               n

          Prof. Langley on the Temperature of the Moon.       49
    The final result of the measurements, extending over the
three years from 1884 to 1887, is given in fig. 2, in which
abscissae correspond to deviations of a rock-salt prism of 60°,
vertical ordinates to directly observed heat from radiations,
while the dotted curve indicates what seems to be the most
probable position and amount of the lower maximum, as it
would be observed were there no intervening atmosphere.
The following remarks may serve to make the full meaning
of this curve clearer.
    The heat is a vanishing quantity at deviation 42° at the
left of the scale (42° with a 60° prism at the temperature of
 + 20° Cent., corresponding to a wave-length of 0*'48, or that
of " blue " radiant energy) . Confining our attention to the
solid curve, we observe that it reaches a maximum near
39° 40' = 1^5, corresponding to rays of dark heat which are
yet transmitted by glass, and which must be emitted from a
source at a very high temperature. The maximum of the
solar heat directly observed through the rock-salt train is
found to be at the same point. There is no reason to doubt,
then, that this maximum is due to the solar heat reflected
from the lunar surface, and its actual effect is to produce a
deviation of rather less than 20 degrees on the arbitrary scale
of the galvanometer from the small part of the spectrum
 covered by the bolometer. Continuing to go down the
 spectrum in the direction of greater wave-lengths, and passing
 with casual notice a depression at 39° 15' (\=3'*,1), which,
 it is probable, would be found in the direct lunar spectrum
 were there no intervening atmosphere, we come to a very
large depression at 38° 3Cr (\=Tl), due almost beyond doubt
to the rays emitted from the lunar soil having been here
absorbed by our atmosphere. The conclusive evidence that
 this is due to the atmosphere is derived, first, from the
 constant appearance of an analogous band in the heat spec
trum of the sky away from the moon, and, second, from the
independent observation of the existence of this band in the
 invisible spectrum of a terrestrial object after absorption by
 100 metres of air. In the latter case it is always found
distinctly marked in moist weather and can even be observed
 under circumstances favourable to its development, in the
 tew metres of air within the length of the observing-room.
 It is important here to remark that the maximum of the
 unabsorbed radiation of a Leslie cube, at a temperature a
 little below that of boiling water, is found at the deviation of
 38° 20* (X=8(1), when observed by the same rock-salt train.
    Following the solid curve down the spectrum, we find it
rise into its principal maximum just below deviation 37 30'
    Phil. Mug. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.          E

 50                   Prof. S. P. Langley on the
 (\, about 14"), where it attains a height of about 43 degreos
 of our arbitrary scale *. It is again most important to
 remark that this point, just below 37° 30', corresponds to the
 maximum of the unabsorbed radiation of a lampblackod
Burface at a temperature of about — 10° Cent. Were it not,
 then, for atmospheric absorption, we shotild assert with confi
 dence that, so far as the radiations of a lampblacked surface
and the lunar soil are comparable, the temperature did not
exceed — 10° Cent. Below this point the curve falls off with
 interruptions by several cold bands, until evidence of heat
disappears near deviation 33° of our rock-salt train ; but of
 this latter portion of the solid curve wo will not pause here
to speak. The dotted line is an attempted reconstruction of
the original curve of lunar heat as it would appear before
atmospheric absorption. It is made by allowing for tho
amount of absorption directly observed in the sky radiation,
 and in the radiation from terrestrial objects at a low tem
 perature, already referred to, supplemented by an estimate of
atmospheric absorption in this region inferred from a com
 parison of solar and electric arc radiation, to bo presently
 described ; and this constructive maximum occurs near
 deviation 38° 15', which corresponds to the maximum of
 unabsorbed radiations from a terrestrial source at a tempera
 ture of a little over + 50° Cent.
    Direct observation, then, of the lunar heat-curve indicates
that the probable temperature of the lunar soil is between 0°
and —20 Cent. This is subject to the effect of our atmo
 sphere, which probably is to displace this maximum in some
degree towards the position of greater cold ; but the highest
 temperature we can assign by an allowance for this is + 50°
 Cent. Between these points, we believe it probable that the
temperature of most of the lunar sunlit soil must lie. The
 temperature of the lunar poles has not been specifically
determined, but direct observation indicates that it is still
lower.
    The relative amounts of tho reflected solar and the emitted
 heat could evidently be obtained with satisfactory accuracy
 by measurements within the respective portions of the solid
curve, were it not for the distorting action of the terrestrial
atmosphere already mentioned. We must refer to the original
   * It may be in ten sting to observe that we infer Aoni our bolometric
observations that the ert'ect of the total and unconcentrated lunar radia
tion on a blackened thermometer would he something like j„'0(,° Cent.

                        Temperature of the Moon.                          51
 memoir for reasons for estimating the total amount of the
reflected radiation as little more thnn \ of that emitted *.
    The memoir, of which an abstract is here given, contains
numerous subsidiary researches and observations for which
we must refer the reader to the original, only here mention
ing two :—
    First. Temperature-correction of a rock-salt prism. This
investigation of the change of refrangibility due to tempera
ture was carried only far enough to give such approximate
accuracy as served our immediate purpose, giving a value of
 — 13" of arc for each degree Centigrade; but subsequent
measurements have materially modified this, and I give the
value now adopted, which is — 9"-5, the formula being
                        dr = dKo-(t-20) 10",
 where d = deviation, and t = temperature in Centigrade
degrees.
    Second. Comparison of the intrinsic intensity of solar
radiation with that of the electric arc in different parts of the
spectrum. This observation of the comparative intensity of
the sun and the electric light is given in the original memoir
 only so far as to show that it brings independent evidence of
a large atmospheric absorption of the extreme infra-red rays
and enables us to estimate approximately the amount of this
absorption at each point in the spectrum. The observations
were not repeated to obtain such a thorough comparison as
   * Lord Rosse found that 87 per cent, of all the solar rays were trans
mitted by a particular piece of glass which allowed 92 per cent, of solnr
light to pass, and 12 per cent, of the total lunar beam. lie attempted
from this to determine the relative amounts of the solar and lunar heat,
but felt obliged, in the then state of knowledge, to make the assumption
(which our subsequent researches have shown to be erroneous) that the
glass absorbed all the invisible rays, or that the lunar radiation contains
12 per cent, of luminous rays, instead of less than 5 per cent., which is
more nearly the actual esse ; but when Lord Rosse's own observations
are reduced with the aid of the facts determined by the writers, and
representing the actually large transmissibility by glass of the invisible
ravs of shorter wave-length in the infra-red, his expression for the relative
value (which we will call x) of the emitted part of the lunar radiation
(whose transmission by glass is presumed from observations on a Leslie
                                     0-87 +001(Sx
cube to be l'O per cent.) becomes         Y+x     "tVVi ^Tom wn'cn ^=7-2
times the reflected solar part ; so that if Lord Rosse could have possessed,
at the time his reductions were made, knowledge as to the diathermic
properties of glass which has only been acquired since, his own observa
tions would have given results for the relative amounts of reflected and
radiated heat in somewhat remarkable accordance with our own,
                                     E2

52                  Prof. S. P. Langley on the
would bo desirable. As thoy have never been printed,
however, and since, so far as we know, none other such exist,
we will give them here under the caution that they are to bo
considered only first approximations. The light was that
from the pit of the positive carbon of gas coke, one inch in
diameter, with the current derived from a dynamo, actuated
by an engine of ten horse-power, and therefore certainly at
least as intrinsically hot and bright as any smaller arc-light
in more common use, and presumably much more so. Tho
apparatus was that already described in the memoir " On
hitherto unrecognized Wave-lengths." *
   The following Table gives the observed galvanometer de
flexions after applying a multiplying factor for the shunt,
which had to bo used for the larger readings :—
      1.       2.         3.        4.           5          6.
                                Observed deflexion Observed Calculated
                      Observed             Calculated
  Deviation           deflexion deflexion                           ratio of
  Rock Salt Wave       mm after
                                                        ratio sun unabsorbed
                                          ttun witliout and
 60° Prism. length. absorption. arc.       absorption.       arc. sun and arc.
    O     1  P           div.      div.        div.
   43    53  0-373          7-5      1-3          34      5-77       260
   43    17  0-398        115        1-5          38      7 67       21-8
   41    54  0-489        33-5       5-3          60      6-32        144
   41    05  0 587       104 0      10-5        115       9-90        111
   40    45  0063        2040       22-0        204       9 27        100
   40    27  0-749       4320       43-5        450       9-93         91
   40    05  0-96      1 0730     2150       1 7C3        4-99         8-2
   39    54  113       1 7830     459-0      3 534        388          7-7
   39    20  2-87      1 9050     8820       5 645        216          6-4
   39    00  43          5210     2350       1 363        2-22         5-8
   38    45  50           75-0     157-0        832       0-48         53
   38    00 10-4           195      390         156       0-50         4-0
   Tho result of the comparison of the (of course unabsorbed)
electric arc with the radiation of the sun after absorption, as
shown in the sixth column, is that this solar radiation in the
orange and red is nearly ten times that of the arc, while to
wards the violet end of the spectrum the relative superiority
of the absorbed solar heat diminishes, evidently because of the
progressive increase of the atmospheric absorption in that
direction, which lessens the solar intensity without sensibly-
affecting that of the arc. The solar efficiency continues greatoi
through all the infra-red spectrum known until very lately,
while in the extreme portions, recently investigated, it (ails
below that of the arc. This is partly due to the fact that radia-
                 * See this Journal, xxii. August 188G.

                     Temperature of the Moon.                     53
i tion from a source at a lower temperature (the arc in this case)
  is relatively more powerful in the longer than in the shorter
  waves ; yet it can hardly be doubted that here also (that is, in
  the extreme infra-red) a very large atmospheric absorption has
  taken place.
     There is reason to believe that a considerable part of
  this absorption takes place in the first few metres of air ;
  while we conclude from all the evidence in our possession,
  that the real telluric absorption, being a locally selective one,
  is much greater than the comparison of high and low altitude
  observations alone would indicate.
     The import of this comparison will be still more evident
  from a consideration of the seventh column, where by means
  of the Allegheny tables of the solar absorption we have
  calculated the ratio of the arc heat to that of the sun before
  absorption by the earth's atmosphere. Although a large ab
  sorption by the solar atmosphere has already taken place, we
  see that in the ultra-violet the solar radiation is from 20 to 30
   times that of the arc, while that of the absorbed sun is only
  about 6 or 7 times. When we reach the region of the red and
   upper infra-red, we see that these ratios are nearly the same in
   the absorbed and unabsorbed solar radiation, showing that the
   terrestrial absorption in this region (which was once supposed
   to be its principal seat), is in fact very small, while in the
   regions of the extreme infra-red corresponding to temperatures
   not greatly exceeding that of the terrestrial soil (regions only
   revealed by quite recent investigation) the telluric absorption
  again becomes considerable.
      The general result of this comparison is to enhance our ideas
  as to the rate of solar radiation and as to the solar temperature.
   Comparisons of the total solar radiation with the total arc
   radiation have (it may be observed) been made before, but so
   far as I am aware, comparisons of the heat in different por
   tions of their spectra are here presented for the first time.
                         Principal Conclusion.
      (Y the numerous conclusions to be drawn from this research,
   we here only direct the reader's attention to what we consider
  the most important one, namely :—That the mean temperature
  of the sunlit lunar soil is much lower than has been supposed,
  and is most probably not greatly above zero Centigrade.
                            Post Scriptum.
      I would ask to be allowed here to state that the very con
  siderable expense for the special means and reduction of the

 54                Mr. W. G. Gregory on a New
preceding series of lunar researches was born by one of the
most generous and disinterested friends that Science has had
 in this country, the late William Thaw, of Pittsburgh. By
 his own wish, no mention of his name was made in previous
 publications in connexion with the results so greatly indebted
 to his aid. His recent death seems to remove the restriction
 imposed by such a rare disinterestedness.
 IV. On a New Electric Padiation Meter. {Preliminary Note.)
    By W. G. Gregory, M.A., Demonstrator in Physics at the
    Royal Indian Engineering College, Coopers Hill* .
THE usual mothod of detecting electric radiations by ob
       serving the sparking across an air-gap in iho wire used as
a receiver admits of only a rough estimate of their intensity.
    The object of this paper is to describe an instrument by
 means of which definito quantitative measurements may l>e
made. Jt is based on the measurement of the elongation of a
wire wlien heated by the currents induced in it by the rapidly
 varying field of force.
    It consists of a long glass tube A B cemented to a shorter
piece of brass tubing B D. Within is stretched a platinum
wire W fastened to tbeglass tube at Aand to a Perry magnifying-
spring at M, whore there is a mirror to indicate the rotation
of the spring by the reflexion of a beam of light upon a scale.
At E there is a nut and screw for adjusting the tension. The
brass tube is partially filed away in front of the mirror to
form a window. The object of the brass tube is to compensate
the spring for general changes of temperature, the glass tube
serving the same purpose for the platinum wire.
   The wire employed was -0086 cm. in diameter, and 192 cms.
long. The spring was about 25 cms. long and '007 cm.
in diameter. It was made out of a fine kind of tinsel "04 cm.
wide and '0015 cm. thick, which can be obtained at fancy shops
wound loosely on cotton. When removed from the cotton, it
was already in the form of an irregular helix. It was then
rolled tightly between the fingers to reduce the diameter as
much as possible. A piece of silk was next attached to one
end, and the spring extended almost to breaking-point, the
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read November 1, 1889.

                     Electric Radiation Meter.                 55
 silk allowing it freely to untwist as much as it would. After
this it was rolled between two hard surfaces and again pulled
out. This was repeated till at last 10 revolutions per millimetre
extension were obtained.
    The mirror was a y^-inch worked concave one, and gave
 a very sharp image of a wire on a scale one metre off. Using
an ordinary galvanometer-scale, it was easy to read to one
 division. This would correspond to an elongation of the wire
 of '000005 of a millimetre, and a rise of temperature about
 "003 of a degree Centigrade. In spite of this sensitiveness,
 only one or two divisions' deflexion were obtained with the
 oscillator 4 metres off. The oscillator used consisted of two
 brass rods -53 cm. in diameter supported horizontally and
carrying two zinc plates 40 cm. square, capable of sliding along
them so that the wave-length could be altered at pleasure.
They were usually kept about 25 cm. apart. The terminal
knobs were 2 cm. in diameter and the spark-gap about 2 or 3
millim. It was noticed that one of the knobs blackened very
quickly but remained quite cool, while the other, which altered
little, became very hot.
    The induction-coil employed to work it was 20 cm. long
and 12 cm. diameter, and gave with the battery-power em
ployed sparks 4 cm. long between two points. To obtain
greater regularity in the working of the coil, a tuning-fork
mercury break, vibrating 86 times a second, was used.
    By employing a larger coil larger deflexions could, no
 doubt, be obtained and effects at greater distances observed.
   A method was tried for increasing the sensitiveness by
weighting the mirror so that its centre of gravity was behind
and rather above the axis of suspension. The tension was
adjusted so that the spring kept the mirror near its position
of unstable equilibrium. The effect was to render the smaller
deflexions nearly 10 times as great, while the sensitiveness
diminished as the deflexions became larger. But the diffi
culties of working with it were greatly increased, as the
smallest draught of air would alter the zero-point.
   Wires of different materials were also tried which should
theoretically give better results ; but, probably owing to their
diameters not being sufficiently fine for the tension to which
they were subjected, the results were not satisfactory. The
convenience of being able to compensate the platinum wire by
the glass tube seems, however, a great point in favour of the
use of platinum, and has led me hitherto to keep to it.

                            C   56   ]
    V. On Electrifications due to the Contact of Gases with
               Liquids. By J. Enright, B.Sc*
A STUDY of Helmholtz's theory of atomic charges led
       to the experiments I am about to describe. When one
has got the idea that molecules are kept in their integrity by
the mutual attractions of the oppositely charged atoms or
radicals composing them, a question soon arises as to wbat
part, if any, these charges play in ordinary chemical reactions.
The theory precludes any other form of chemical affinity
than that due to the mutual attractions of the opposite
charges, and it occurred to me that since at the moment of
reaction there must be disturbance and re-arrangeinent of
them, some indication of their existence might be obtained
by allowing reactions to go on in an insulated vessel properly
connected with a quadrant-electrometer. Even if a per
manent electrification could not follow, I thought it just
possible that a momentary flutter of the " spot " might take
place on account of the electric disturbance due to the inter
change of the charged ions.
   This consideration alone was sufficient to excite one to
experiment, but if I tell the whole story I must say that I
had had other expectations. According to theory the charges
on monads are exactly equal. How then does it happen, if
reactions be a result of the charges, that chlorine drives iodine
out of potassic iodide ? How, indeed, does it happen that
any one molecule composed of a particular pair of monad
elements is stronger,—that is to say, more stable than any
other molecule composed of any other pair of monads ? And
so on. After pondering on such questions for some time, I
could not suppress the thought that after all perhaps the
charges might not be equal, and that the experiments I had
determined to carry out might possibly throw some light on
the matter.
   Then there were certain special reactions which appeared
to afford an admirable opportunity for experimental study of
the theory. I refer to cases in which the atomicity of ele
ments undergoes a change during a reaction,
    2Fe»S04 + H,S04 + CI, = Fe,w(S04), + 2HC1 (Roscoe).
   Here four monad charges of positive electricity attached
to the iron on the left change into eight monad charges on
the same quantity of iron on the right. If the increment of
positive electricity be produced by contact an equal charge of
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read November 15, 1889.

  Electrifications due to the Contact of Gases with Liquids.  57
negative ought to be set free, and this ought to be easily
detected by the electrometer.
    On the whole there appeared, to a strong believer in the
theory, a fair and inviting field for experiment. My plan
was to examine in the manner indicated instances of the four
following types of chemical change :—
                 (1) Combination of elements.
                 (2) Displacement.
                 (3) Double decomposition.
                 (4) Change of valency.
    I may as well say at once that from (3) and (4) I got no
 result whatever,, from (1) only an electrification of little
 importance, and that it was from (2) —instances of displace
 ment—that the results I wish to call attention to were obtained.
    The electrometer was made rather sensitive. A high-
resistance Daniell through which a current never passed gave
 a deflexion of 94 divisions either way. An insulated plate on
which the reactions were to proceed was fixed so that it could
be connected or disconnected at pleasure with the insulated
pair of quadrants. The insulation of this plate was tested by
giving to it a small charge, and connecting it then with the
 quadrants. The spot moved and came to rest 200 divisions
 from zero. It was watched for 3 minutes, during which it
 maintained its position.
    A porcelain dish containing about 20 c. c. of a strong
 solution of potassic iodide was placed on the insulated plate.
 About the same volume of a strong solution of chlorine in
 water was placed in a beaker to which was attached a handle
 of insulating material, and by means of this handle the
 chlorine water was poured into the potassic iodide. A heavy
 brown precipitate appeared. The insulated plate was now
 connected to the insulated quadrants. No deflexion resulted.
 The experiment was repeated without producing a movement
 of the spot.
     The porcelain dish was now half filled with distilled water,
 placed on the insulated stand, and a fragment of potassium
 cast into it. The usual reaction ensued and the "spot"
 moved 160 divisions to the left, came to rest, and maintained
 its position. The quadrants were shortecircuited, and the
 spot returned to within 2 divisions of zero.
     At first view this appeared exactly what I had expected to
 occur. On reflection, however, many possibilities suggested
 themselves and each had to be considered. Had I merely
 detected electricity in the air? May not the deflexion be
 due to the inductive action of the charged needle on the

58           Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
quadrants ? Was the escaping hydrogen electrified, and if
so what was the sign of the charge ? I proceeded to repeat
the experiment.
   The quadrants were short-circuited, and the insulated dish,
after being momentarily put to earth, was, as before, con
nected to the insulated quadrants. A second fragment of
potassium was tossed into the water in the dish. The spot
moved 28 divisions to the left, then turned and moved up the
scale to the right, coming to rest at 200 divisions from zero.
The quadrants were once more short-circuited, and the experi
ment again repeated. The spot moved 40 divisions to the
right. I could not possibly explain such irregular behaviour.
I carefully looked up the connexions and tested the instru
ment. It was in good order. I again repeated, but with
similar results.
   Sodium was used instead of potassium, and although the
deflexions with it were also irregular, the tabulated results
showed a contrast. When sodium was used, 40 per cent, of
the deflexions were first to the left; when potassium was used,
70 per cent, were first to the left. Speaking broadly, this
seemed to indicate that when potassium w as used the dish
received a negative charge, when sodium was used the dish
took a positive charge ; and as I fancied that such a result
would enable me to set up some theory with regard to the
atomic charges, I tried very hard to eliminate what I then
believed to be accidental exceptions and to prove that in
reality such was the case.
   The porcelain dish was replaced (1) by a glass beaker, and
(2) by a metallic dish, the experiment being repeated in
every other particular, but without obtaining greater regu
larity in the deflexions.
   I wish to remark here that the method of testing the
electrification by keeping the insulated vessel from which gas
is escaping in connexion with the insulated quadrants daring
the reaction is faulty, inasmuch as that under the circum
stances a deflexion may be caused by the inductive action of
the charged needle on the quadrants. It has, however, this
great advantage, viz., that one can see distinctly every varia
tion that may hike place during any interval. It will be
noticed that throughout the inquiry I use this method for
preliminary testing, and that I conclude nothing until 1
verify by the more rigid process of allowing the reaction to
go on while the insulated plate is disconnected from the
quadrants, aud testing the electrification at its close.
   Having failed to get a definite and constant result with
water, I proceeded to try other liquids. Sodium and dilute
                                                           I

               to the Contact of Gases with Liquids.              59
sulphuric acid, sodium and nitric acid, and many other such
combinations were tried, and eventually I found that sodium
and strong acetic acid gave an invariable result, viz., a
positive charge on the dish in which the reaction took place.
This has not failed hitherto in a single instance.
   I reviewed the state of affairs. The first thing to do, as it
appeared to me, was to ascertain whether or not the hydrogen
carried a charge, and, if so, to determine its sign. I found it
so difficult to work with sodium that after many unsatisfactory
attempts I decided to search for another metal which would
give a similar constant and definite result. One naturally
turned to zinc.
   A piece of zinc was thrown into dilute sulphuric acid
which was put into the insulated dish, the connexions being
as already described. The spot rapidly moved 36 divisions
to the left, turned, went back across zero and up on the other
side 120 divisions. This was not encouraging. It seemed
to be the beginning of another set of irregular deflexions.
It, however, went to show that electrification was an accom
paniment of most chemical reactions. I repeated the experi
ment several times, varying the degree of dilution of the acid,
but failed then to get constant results. I next tried hydro
chloric acid.
    A small portion was placed in the insulated dish and a
particle of zinc thrown into it. The spot rapidly moved off"
the scale to the left, indicating a negative charge on the dish.
The quadrants were short-circuited, and the spot returned
to zero. Repetition was followed by the same result, and
fortunately this turned out to be as constant a deflexion to
 the left as that from sodium and acetic acid was to the right,
 while it was much greater in quantity.
    I now concentrated my attention on zinc and hydrochloric
 acid. In this experiment, as in all others where a gas escaped
into the air, it was possible, though not likely, that the resulting
 deflexions were due to atmospheric electricity, and I thought
it as well to settle this point at once. A piece of sponge was
saturated with alcohol and placed on the insulated plates. It
 was then fired, and burned with a largo flame. The insulated
 plate was connected to the quadrants when the sponge ceased
 to burn, and the spot at once moved 10 divisions to the right,
 indicating a small positive charge on the plate. The experi
ment was repeated in every particular except the burning of
the sponge, but with the result of only a disturbance of the
spot of a few divisions.
    The air in the neighbourhood of the insulated plate
appeared to be slightly electrified, but as it was of opposite

 60           Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
 sign to the charge produced by the action of zinc and hydro
 chloric acid, it wus certain that the latter was not due to any
 atmospheric cause. But a new point of great importance
 had arisen. Whence came the positive charge in the air
 near the instrument ? The idea of its being due to the
 evolved hydrogen at onco suggested itself. For some time
 before testing with the sponge, I had been repeating the
 experiment with zinc and hydrochloric acid in order to satisfy
 myself as to its constancy, and a considerable quantity of
 hydrogen had escaped into the air.
    The charge on the evolved hydrogen opposite in sign to
 that on the insulated generator ! If this were really the case
 I saw that I should have to give up certain ideas which I had
 been fostering while dealing with these experiments. The
 point had to be at once cleared up.
    A zinc goblet was metallically attached, mouth downwards,
 to the insulated plate. A long-necked flask containing zinc
and hydrochloric acid was placed underneath in such position
that the hydrogen found its way into the inverted goblet.
 In two minutes after so placing the hydrogen generator the
 goblet was tested by connecting it with the insulated quad
rants. The spot moved 78 divisions to the right, indicating
that the hydrogen escaped with a positive charge—that is to
say, as already suspected, its charge was opposite in sign to
the acid and generator from which it was evolved.
   The experiment was several times repeated, and always
with the same result, but it was noticeable that the positive
charge on the hydrogen was much less in quantity than the
negative charge on the generator. If they were in reality
oppositely charged, the quantities, as in all such cases, would
be exactly equal. I urged, in explanation, that the hydrogen
moving over the moist glass of the long-necked generator
must lose some of its charge. However, a confirmatory ex
periment was devised.
   A second insulated plate was set up and connected metal
lically with the first. A hydrogen generator, containing zinc
and hydrochloric acid, was placed on one, and a suitable pneu
matic trough was placed on the other, in such manner that
the gas might be generated and collected on the insulated
plates, which were connected to the insulated quadrants. A
stream of hydrogen was allowed to pass, and by means of an
insulating rod the delivery-tube could be placed so that the
hydrogen might get into the air or be collected and retained
on the insulated plates at pleasure. It was found that as long
as the gas did not escape the spot remained motionless, but
that when it escaped from the plates into the air the spot

              to the Contact of Gases with, Liquids.         61
moved. This, I took it, proved that the charges on the
generator and evolved gas were equal in quantity, though
opposite in sign.
   The state of the case was now, so far, pretty clear. When
hydrogen was produced by zinc and hydrochloric acid the
hydrogen became positively, the generator negatively, charged.
I set this fact up before my mind and examined it as care
fully as I could on every side. I turned it round and round,
looking for some information as to the atomic charges, but I
could find none. Had the charge on the escaping gas been
of the same sign as that on the generator, I could have set
up some hypothesis concerning them, but, as things were,
nothing of the kind was possible.
    But what is the cause of this undoubted electrification ?
I repeated the experiment many times. I varied the quan
tities of acid and zinc, and noticed that witb weaker acid
or a larger quantity of zinc the deflexions were not so
strong. During these repetitions I was in the habit of short-
circuiting the quadrants when the spot came to the end of
the scale, lest the suspending fibres of the needle should got
a set from being twisted too much in one direction. On one
occasion, however, being called away suddenly, I neglected
to do so, and the electrification worked its will, so to speak,
on the needle. On returning in about twenty minutes, I
found that all the zinc was dissolved, and to my very great
astonishment the spot was at rest at the extreme right of the
scale.
    Up to that time the deflexion from zinc and hydrochloric
 acid had been to the left ; and, as I had made the experiment
 a great man}- times with this unvarying result, I was much
 perplexed. The uncertain behaviour of sodium and potassium
 was still fresh in my memory.
    However, what to do on the occasion was quite clear: I
 repeated the experiment in every particular, sat down, and
 watched it. The spot went rapidly off" the scale to the left as
 usual. The reaction proceeded. In eleven minutes the snot
 appeared again on the scale, went down 100 divisions rather
 slowly, then more rapidly, crossed the zero, and at a good
 pace went up the other side almost to the end of the scale.
 This was quite a new development. Frequent repetition,
 with the same result, proved that this behaviour, strange as
 it was, had a definite cause. I varied the strength of the
 acid and the quantity of zinc, and found that by either making
 the acid weak or increasing the quantity of zinc I could
 hasten the reversal of the sign of the electrification of the
 generator.

62            Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
   I now concentrated my attention on this reversal of sign.
I contrasted all the circumstances attending the deflexion to
the left with all those attending the deflexion to the right,
and could detect only one difference, and that was the pro
duction of chloride of zinc in the generator, and I could not
fail to see that as the quantity of this salt increased the de
flexions to the right became stronger.
   From this change of sign of the generator, when a certain
quantity of chloride of zinc got into solution, thore suddenly
appeared to come a ray of light which I thought dispelled
the fog which hung round the earlier experiments. The
nature of the liquid through which the hydrogen passed
apparently determined the sign of the electrification. I
paused again to review the events of my little enterprise.
    I set out in quest of some direct evidence as to the atomic
charges. I had tried the four types of chemical change.
From double decomposition and from cases of change of
valency I had got no result whatever. From direct union of
elements—from the combination of phosphorus and iodine,
accompanied by a cloud of Pj06, and, I suppose, iodine vapour
—I had got an electrification. From many cases of dis
placement I had got considerable electrifications ; but from
some, such as the displacement of iodine by chlorine, I had
got nothing whatever. A careful examination of these re
sults disclosed the fact that no electrification was obtained
except when something escaped from the vessel in which the
reaction occurred. This circumstance I thotigbt could not
fail to have some meaning. Then there were the leading
incidents, as I considered, of the inquiry :—(1) The escaping
gases or vapours came off with a charge opposite in sign but
equal in quantity to that on the generator. (2) The reversal
 of the sign of both generator and escaping gas when the liquid
in the generator underwent a definite change.
    Such were the facts to be brought under some theory. I
 was reluctantly compelled to conclude that they had nothing
 to do with atomic charges, but for all that they afforded food
 for the most delightful contemplations, often for hours at a
 stretch, during the last two or three years.
    Reflect as I may on the reversal of sign of the electrification
 when a certain quantity of chloride of zinc gets into solution,
 I can find no explanation for it but the electricity of con
 tact. Hvdrogen is positive to hydrochloric acid, but nega
tive to chloride of zinc. And, indeed, looking at the whole
matter in this light, from my present standpoint, I can per-
coive how, in the earlier experiments, the nature of the liquid

               to the Contact of Gases with Liquids.          63
through which the hydrogen passed decided the sign of the
electrification. From hydrochloric acid it was positive; from
acetic acid (or it may be acetate of sodium) it was negative.
Even the very whimsical deflexions from sodium and water
become intelligible. As a piece of sodium careers about on
the surface of water, the escaping hydrogen is one instant in
contact with water, the next with caustic soda, the next with
the side of the vessel, and, accordingly, on the theory of
contact, the irregular deflexions are at once explained.
   In most of the experiments described above, the hydrogen
was allowed to escape from an open dish or beaker, and not
from a narrow delivery-tube, for it was found that the gas
partially discharged itself when it passed through narrow
openings. Whatever tended to electrically connect tho
charged liquid with tho oppositely charged escaping gas, also
tended to lessen the charges on both. And besides this, there
was the possibility that the contact of tho gas with the de
livery-tube might cause electrification. On the whole, it was
found least ambiguous to half fill an evaporating-dish about
6 inches in diameter and 2 inches high with HOI and drop
into it a few fragments of zinc. The bubbles of gas then shot
straight up through the middle of the liquid, and passed into
the air without coming into contact with anything else. It
was, however, a defect of this mode of proceeding that par
ticles of the acid were projected about in all directions, some
times beyond the dish. In order to get rid of any doubts on
this head, a smaller dish was used and placed at the bottom of
a beaker 7 inches high. I propose to give in detail one of
 several experiments made in this way with all possible care.
   The electrometer was not in a very sensitive state. The
high-resistance Daniell gave a deflexion of 38 divisions on
either side. A glass beaker 7 inches high and 5 inches in
diameter was placed on the insulated plate. A porcelain dish,
2f inches in diameter and 1^ inch high, was nearly filled
 with a 10-per-cent. solution of HOI in distilled water, and
placed at the bottom of the beaker just mentioned. Three
 small fragments of zinc were now dropped into the dilute acid in
the small dish. A very slight effervescence at once appeared,
and it gradually increased, but never became violent. No
trace of spray could be detected at the end of the experiment
above the lower half of the beaker. In 4 minutes fom
dropping the zinc, the spot could be perceived moving, and
in 4£ minutes more it had moved 28 divisions to the left,
indicating the charge on tho dish negative. I append the
notes taken during the time the experiment lasted.

(54              Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
                                                    Ti me.   Reading.
                                                    h m
 Zinc dropped into acid. Insulated quads con
     nected to insu'ated generator                      10  378 (zero)
 Spot moving to left. Generator positive            2 14    377
 Spot moving fnster                                 2 lf>   867
                                                    2 17    yoo
 Insulated quads and insulated generator disoon
     nected                                       }2    18J 349
 Insulated quads and generator reconnected
                                                  ' 2
                                                    2 20
                                                        m   849
                                                            329
                                                    2 21    322
 Spot Btops and appears to return                   2 214   319
                                                    2 23    328
                                                    2 25    340
                                                    2 2»i   3CC.
 Spot crossed zero                              ,   2 2«i   878
                                                    2 28    388
 Quads and generator disconnected                   2 31£   458
                                                    2 33    458
 Quads and generator reconnected                    2 334   518
 Effervescence gets less                            2 35    550
                                                    2 87    562
                                                    2 40    5(18
 Quads short-circuited                              2 42    382 (zero)
    It may yet be urged that when hydrogen passes through
hydrochloric acid, it carries with it both HCI gas and vapour
of water, and that the electrification is due to these, and not to
the hydrogen. In order to test the suggestion, I placed on
the insulated plate a dish nearly filled with boiling concentrated
HCI. In two minutes the plate was connected with the insu
lated quads, but the spot moved only 1 or 2 divisions. It was
then watched for more than 5 minutes, but the spot did not
stir although clouds of vapour were escaping from the acid.
    I cannot help remarking on the difficulty of neutralizing
a gas—at all events, hydrogen. The following experiment is
well calculated to illustrate this properly, while it affords, I
submit, a very stringent verification of the experiment to
which the notes are appended. The large beaker with the
small dish was set up in the manner described in the experi
ment just referred to. The dish was nearly filled with a 16-
per-cent. solution of HCI in distilled water. Three small
fragments of zinc were thrown into it. A disk of sheet zinc
with a circle one inch in diameter, cut from its centre, was
placed as a cover on the beaker. Over the aperture in the
centre were placed, one above the other, 4 flat pieces of per
forated zinc, the perforations being jle of an inch in diameter.
The hydrogen had to fight its way through this barrier, and

                 to the Contact of Gases xoith Liquids.            65
yet it carried with it the greater part of its charge, as the fol
lowing notes of the experiment prove. The high-resistance
Daniell gave a deflexion of 72 divisions either way.
                                                    Time. Beading.
                                                    h  m
  Zinc dropped into acid. Cover placed on beaker. 1 3  23   365
                                                  J 6
                                                    3  25   304
                                                    3  27   303
                                                    3  28   358
                                                    3  29   343
                                                    3  30   333
                                                    3  31   333
                                                    3  32   343
                                                    3  33   353
                                                    3  34   303
                                                    3  35   373
                                                    3  36   383
                                                    3  37    383
                                                    3  39    413
                                                    3  42    413
                                                    3  43    368
    On examining the perforated zincs used in this experiment,
each was found to have either spray or condensed vapour de
 posited on it, but the quantity on the lowest one was greater
 than that on any of the others. I was not, therefore, clear as
 to what part the spray played in the matter, and I set myself
to consider what experiments I could make to clear up the
 point. Eventually I decided to make the following two,
 which I submit as decisive :—
    (a) Every one has noticed that when hydrogen escapes
 from a generator containing acid and zinc, particles of the
 former are projected with considerable force from the vessel.
 I easily succeeded in catching those particles, or some part
 of them, on the metallic part of a proof-plane. I then touched
 the electrode of the insulated quads with the proof-plane, and
 found that the charge produced a deflexion to the left, indi
 cating that the spray was of the same sign as the generator,
 and consequently opposite in sign to the charge carried by the
 gas. It also appears from this experiment that electrical re
 pulsion among the particles themselves constitutes part of the
 force which causes their flight through the air.
     (b) The bottom of a metallic goblet was perforated with
 holes about ^ inch in diameter. ]t was then attached, mouth
 downwards, to the electrode of the insulated quadrants. A
 hydrogen-generator containing zinc and HC1 was placed under
 it in such a position that the evolved gas passed right through
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.              F

66           Mr. J. Enright on Electrification* due
the goblet. Almost instantly the spot moved rapidly to the
right, which I had expected. The generator was now with
drawn. The spot slowly returned to within 5 divisions of zero.
   Now if the electrification were duo to spray, the goblet
would retain its charge (the insulation was good) ; but being
due to the hydrogen, which gradually passed through the
perforations into the air, it very rapidly lost it.
   In the course of these experiments I had often cast about
for means of measuring the difference of potential arising from
the contact of zinc andhydrochloric acid, and on consideration
it appeared to me that this experiment presented a possible
method. Particles of matter charged with electricity, and
impinging on an insulated conductor, to which they give up
part or the whole of their charges, could not raise the conductor
to a higher potential than they had attained ; but they, in the
course of time, ought to bring it up to that level. My notion
was to allow the charged hydrogen to flow through the goblet,
fixed as described, long enough to ensure its reaching the
potential of the gas ; then to remove the generator, and allow
the gas to pass away through the perforations. The perma
nent deflexion then obtained ought, I considered, to be the
measure of the quantity in question. I carried out with all
the care possible several experiments on these lines ; but on
account of the tenacity with which the gas holds its charge, I
failed to get satisfactory determinations.
   At this stage of my inquiry, I felt that I had got a few defi
nite facts, that I had cleared up, at all events to my own
satisfaction, many points which were at first doubtful, and
that the theory of contact which I proposed was consistent
with all the observations I had made. I proceeded to devise
new experiments with the view of testing the truth, and de
termining the scope, of this theory.
   Hydrogen passing through HC1 and H2S04 takes a positive
charge ; passing through the corresponding salts of zinc it
takes a negative charge. Then at any moment it ought to be
possible to reverse the electrification by introducing into the
vessel in which the reaction is going on acid or salt, as the
 case may be. The old experiment was made. Hydrogen
 was escaping from a 16-per-cent. solution of HC1, and the spot
 had travelled 100 divisions when a strong solution of zinc
 chloride was added. The spot went quickly back and up on
 the other side of the scale, showing that reversal had taken
 place. The addition of HC1 produced a second reversal.
    I had found hydrogen positive to two acids, and a question
 as to whether this was general often floated before me. 1 had

               to the Contact of Gases with Liquids.              67
no means of testing with nitric acid, because its action on
metals does not give rise to hydrogen—at all events not in
the final stage. I therefore directed attention to the other
side of the question. Hydrogen was proved to be negative
to chloride and sulphate of zinc. Was it possible that it was
negative to other salts, or to salts in general ?
   I again made the old experiment with Zn + HC1, and when
a deflexion of 50 divisions was obtained a strong solution of
ferric chloride was added, with the effect of reversing the sign
of the electrification. I proceeded to try other salts, such as
NaCl, AmCl, FeS04, MgS04, CaClj, and found that these also
produced reversal. I found, however, a few salts which did
not do so, notably Co(NOs)j.
   A wide principle thus appeared to be foreshadowed, viz.,
that hydrogen is positive to acids but negative to salts ; but
the number of cases examined does not warrant one in laying
it down absolutely. Moreover, I have found the hydrogen
passing from acetic acid, whether by the use of sodium or iron
filings, always comes off with a negative charge. I strongly
suspect, however, that the reversal of sign in these cases takes
place so rapidly that it escapes observation. I have had
several instances of the spot moving a small distance to the
left, suddenly turning, and moving far up on the opposite
side of the scale. Occurrences of this kind leave no doubt on
my mind that the first electrification (that due to the gas
passing through the acid) is often small, owing, I think, to
the rapidity with which the salt produced in the reaction
diffuses.
   Is hydrogen among gases unique in becoming charged when
it passes through acids ? was the question that next presented
itself. I considered what reactions were likely to give any
information with regard to the matter, and made numbers of
experiments in the manner already fully described. I found
that as a rule electrification results from any reaction giving rise
to an escape of any substance into the air. In many cases the
electrification is very trifling, and the electrometer must be in
a sensitive state in order to show it. Of all the reacting com
binations which I have tried, HC1 + Zn give by far the greatest
difference of potential between generator and expelled gas.
On the other hand, from HaS04 + NaCl I failed to get any
trace of electrification. I give in the following Table only
those reactions which by frequent repetition I have found to
give constant results. I also give the estimated difference of
potential, but shall postpone to a later stage a description of
the method of making the measurement.
                                  F 2

 68                Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
                                                 Gas passing
                                                                              Quantity
                             Escaping                                         D. P. in
        Reacting substances.   gas.                        Through salt
                                      Through acid.           solution.         volts.
 1    HCl+Zn                    H            +                                    42
 2.   HCl+CaCO,,               CO,           +
 3    H S0,+Na,C03             00,           +                                     9
 4.   ILSOj+NajSO.,            SO,           +
 5.   H01+NaJS03               so,           +
 6.   H.SOj+Zn (50% acid)        H           +                                    16
 7.   HCl + FeS                 SH2          +
 8.   H SOj+FeS                 SH2          +
 9.    HCl+Bleaohing-powder      CI          +           Could not get
10.    II^SOj+Bleach.-powder     CI          +        (      this to reverse.
                                                          } -
                                      Could not get the
11.    HN03+Bleach.-powder       01 •   usual positive
                                        deflexion.
                                      Oould not get
12.    HN03+CaC03
13. \COHO'
     {SSiV^+Na
                                CO,
                                 Hi
                                        positivedeflex-
                                        ion.
                                      Could not in
                                        either case get
                                                          1 "
                                                          \
                                                           1
                                        the     norma]
H (°JJ*„->-fFe
     \COHOT                      HI     positive deflex
                                        ion.              |
                                                                    -
                                                         Could not get
15     II SO,+CaCO,             00,
16.    II S04+NaCl              HCl
                                              +
                                             Nil
                                                       1     the reversal.
                                                                   Nil
       It will be seen that there are nine instances in which the elec
   trifications occur normally—that is to say, in which the charge
   is of one sign when the ejected gas passes through acid, but of
   the opposite sign when the corresponding salt gets into solu
    tion. I wish to direct special attention to the instances of
    abnormal behaviour, which I believe to be entirely due to the
    solubility of the salts produced in the reaction. When these
    get rapidly into solution and diffuse through the acid, the
    electrification due to the gas passing through acid cannot be
    obtained. There are two cases with HN03 and two with
    acetic acid where this happens, and we know that the salts
    derived from these acids are very soluble. On the other hand,
    there are two cases where H2S04 takes part in the reaction,
    in neither of which could the electrification due to the
    fassage of the gas through the solution of salt be obtained,
     n both instances sulphate of calcium is formed, and we know
    that this is rather insoluble. The ejected gas therefore never
    passed through a solution of salt. My contention here
    derives great support from the fact that when Na2C03 is used
    with H2b04 to give C0S, both deflexions are obtained. The

               to the Contact of Gases with Liquids.            69
only difference between tbe two reactions is that Na2S04 is
very soluble compared with OaS04.
   Taking a broad view of these experiments, they appeared to
me to indicate that, in general, gases were positive to acids,
but negntive to solutions of salts. I could not, however, throw
off a feeling of dissatisfaction which arose from my not being
able to suggest a trace of any a priori reason for such a
thing. I fancied I saw some reason why hydrogen should be
positive to acids and negative to salts ; but that the generaliza
tion should be so wide as to extend to all gases, seemed to me
most improbable. I felt disposed to question my theory of
contact altogether, and resolved to make experiments of a
different kind for the purpose of testing it.
    If hydrogen be positive to hydrochloric acid, then, why not,
I asked, prove it by a straightforward experiment such as
passing a stream of the gas through the strong acid ? Two
insulated plates were sot up near the electrometer and con
nected by a piece of copper wire. A beaker 2 inches in
 diameter and 5 inches high containing strong HC1 was
placed on one, and a hydrogen generator furnished with a
 narrow delivery-tube more than 12 inches long was set on
 the other. The delivery-tube was suitably fixed, and a brisk
 current of hydrogen passed through the strong hydrochloric
 acid. The hydrogen was found to come off with a positive
 charge, but on allowing it to get into the air direct from the
 delivery-tube it also came off charged in the same way. Here,
 then, I was balked. Of course the object of the long delivery-
 tube was to neutralize the gas before it touched the strong
 acid in the beaker. I have often remarked how firmly the
 hydrogen held its charge, but I was quite unprepared to find
 that it passed through more than 12 inches of wet glass
 tubing ^ of an inch in diameter and escaped strongly elec
 trified. I next passed the hydrogen through a wash-bottle,
 but it again came off charged. I passed it through all manner
  of bent tubing, made all possible shifts in fact to de-electrify
  the gas in order to fairly carry out my experiment, but with
  out success. In sheer desperation I snatched up a litre-flask,
  filled it with water, and displaced the latter at the pneumatic
  trough by hydrogen from Zn + HC1. I then placed the flask
  mouth upwards and open on the insulated plate which was
  connected to the quadrants. The spot gradually moved to the
  left, and came to rest at a distance of 180 divisions from zero.
     This experiment yielded more food for thought. At first
  sight the deflexion appeared to be in the wrong direction, and
  I had to consider whether the hydrogen could, by any pos
  sible process, be neutralized.

70            Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
   I refilled the flask with hydrogen from zinc and hydro
chloric acid and corked it before lifting its mouth from under
the water, set it on the table, left it for 1 J hours, then uncorked
it and placed it on the insulated plate. A deflexion to the
left of 100 divisions was gradually produced as the hydrogen
left the flask. By repeated trials I found that it required
from four to six hours to neutralize a flask or even a metallic
vessel filled with hydrogen from zinc and hydrochloric acid.
    But what of the deflexion in the wrong direction? On
reflection, the explanation of the deflexion being to the left—
 that is to say, the insulated quadrants being negatively
 charged—very quickly appeared. The flask was held in the
 hand while being filled with hydrogen holding a positive
 charge. This acted inductively, repelling an equal quantity
 of positive to earth through my hand and body, and binding
 on the outside of the moist flask a charge of negative. When
 the flask was set on the insulated plate the hydrogen, owing
 to its lightness, gradually escaped into the air carrying its
 charge with it ; and for every-portion of the positively charged
 gas which left the flask a corresponding part of the negative
 charge bound on its wet outside was set free and spread over
 the quadrants, causing the deflexion. In fact the wet flask
 containing the charged hydrogen constituted a veritable
 Leyden jar.
    I was anxious to verify this view. A hydrogen generator
 with a long neck and containing Zn + HC1 was placed on the
 table. A Targe wide-mouthed wot flask was attached to an
 insulating handle, and, by means of this handle, was held
 mouth downwards in such position that the hydrogen from
 the long-necked generator filled it by displacing the air. It
 was then taken by means of the insulating handle near the insu
 lated plate (which was connected to the insulated quadrants),
 when the spot moved along the scale to the right, indicating
 that the quadrants were positively charged by the inductive
 action of the charged gas. The flask was next touched on the
 outside by the finger and again held near the insulated plate,
 but the spot did not move. This was quite in accordance
 with the Leyden-jar view, for the bound charge on the out
 side of the flask could have no effect on the insulated plate or
 the quadrants connected with it. The flask was now placed
 on the insulated plate, mouth upwards, and as the hydrogen
 escaped into the air the spot moved up the scale to the left,
 indicating that the bound negative charge on the outside of
 the flask was being liberated and charging the quadrants.
    This afforded an instance of a kind of distribution of static
 electricity rather novel. I could only liken it to ground sul

               to tlie Contact of Gases with Liquids.         71
phur electrified by the grinding. Most instances of charged
bodies are connected with surfaces, but here appeared a case
where electricity pervaded an enclosed space. The only way
in which I could figure it in my mind in connexion with the
hydrogen was by furnishing each molecule of the gas with a
charge with which it could not part until, in the ordinary-
movements of the molecules (according to the dynamical
theory of gases) each came into actual contact with the
moist inner surface of the flask containing the gas. This way
of looking at it enables one to understand the slowness with
which the electrified hydrogen becomes neutral ; and as the
time required to neutralize a vessel of gas of given shape and
dimensions must be a function of the average velocity of its
molecules at the existing pressure, suitable experiments may,
possibly, lead to a direct determination of this quantity.
   Musing over these experiments, the wet flask holding the
charged hydrogen appeared, to me, not to differ materially
from a soap-bubble blown with hydrogen from Zn + HC1.
If there be anything in the notion, such a bubble should con
stitute a charged condenser with the binding charge com
pletely enclosed. During the process of blowing it the
repelled charge would pass to earth through the wet. delivery-
tube and generator. Figuring such a condenser floating
through the air, I speculated as to how it would behave itself.
As long as it remained in its integrity, no manifestation of its
electrical condition could be given. Should the film, how
ever, get fractured its nature would display it.self. The gas
containing the binding charge would instantly pass away,
leaving the bound charge free on the water composing the
shell, and it would pass to earth at the first opportunity.
   Accounts have been given from time to time of curious
bodies which make their way into dwelling-houses during
periods of electrical disturbance in the air. They are de
scribed as gliding about, apparently examining nooks and
corners, and often going up the chimney exploding (as it is
called) on the way. Now if we consider a portion of elec
trified air enclosed by a film of some substance such as water,
it would in most respects behave like a soap-bubble blown
with hydrogen from zinc and hydrochloric acid. Being of
nearly the same density as air, it would not rapidly ascend but
move about, impelled by every slight draught. It would be a
charged condenser, and the moment any rough or sharp
prominence fractured the film, the bound charge would pass
to earth, doing mischief in its track. Such an enclosure of
electrified air might possibly be effected by an abnormal dis
tribution of heat similar to that indicated by the formation

72            Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
of hail during thunderstorms. So close did the resemblance
between my soap-bubbles and those " fire balls," as they are
sometimes called, appear to me that 1 hastened to ascertain
by experiment whether or not my speculations with regard to
them comprised any truth.
    Soap-bubbles were accordingly blown by means of the
generator containing Zn + HCl. Only small ones could be
obtained, and these shot away towards the ceiling so quickly
that it was not easy to touch them with the metallic part of
 the proof plane. Some few, however, were caught and the
 proof plane was found to be very slightly negatively elec
 trified. Some better plan had to be tried. The end of the
 delivery-tube was placed under the surface of the soap solu
 tion while gas was ecaping. A great mass of bubbles were
 produced on the surface, and some of them toppled over the
 side of the dish and fell towards the floor on account of the
 greater quantity of water in them. These were caught on the
 metallic part of the proof plane, and on testing the latter it
 was found to be strongly charged, the sign being negative,
 which bore out the idea of the bubble being a charged
 condenser.
    Another form of the experiment then occurred to me. The
 dish containing the soap solution was attached to an insulating
 handle and then set on the table. The end of the delivery-
 tube was once more dipped into the soap mixture, and a mass
 of bubbles was as before produced. The delivery-tube was
 then withdrawn, and the dish lifted from the table by an insu
 lating handle. It was kept thus insulated until, in the course
 of a few minutes, the bubbles broke up, allowing the hydrogen
 to escape. The dish was then tested and found to have a
 negative charge. The soap-bubble blown as described was
 thus proved to be a charged condenser.
     If by any process a mass of electrified air were enclosed by
 vesicles of water, or any other conducting material, a free
 charge would be developed on the outside which would cause
  the whole mass to be attracted or repelled according to the
  electrical state of proximate objects. In a recent number
  of ' Nature ' I find an account of a thundercloud behaving in
  a manner at once explained by this hypothesis. The observer
  describes it as appearing to detach itself from a mass of cloud,
  gradually descend, and immediately after draw itself up again.
  The descent would lie due partly to the attraction of the earth
  and to the repulsion of similarly electrified clouds above it.
  On touching the earth the free charge would escape, and the
  clouds, which at first repelled, would now attract, it, causing
 its ascent.

               to the Contact of Gases with Liquids.         73
   If such an enclosure of electrified air as I suggest were to
occur at a high temperature in the upper regions of the atmo
sphere, its potential would gradually rise as it cooled and
descended towards the earth ; for the cooling of the mass of
air, and the increase of pressure due to its less elevated
position, would cooperate to lessen its volume, and, therefore,
the surface of the enclosing film, while the quantity of elec
tricity would remain the same.
   Up to this stage I had used glass vessels in these experi
ments, but according to the view just set forth there could be
no reason why a metallic vessel should not behave in precisely
the same way. A tea-canister was accordingly filled with
hydrogen by displacement of water from a generator con
taining zinc and hydrochloric acid. It was then placed on the
insulated plate, mouth upwards, and it was found that as the
hydrogen escaped into the air the spot moved to the left, as
had been expected ; and it was found on trial that everything
that had been done with the glass flask could be done with
one of metal. We have thus a condenser with only one con
ductor, and apparently without a dielectric ; and, from the
 ease with which it can be charged, and most of the properties
 of condensers demonstrated by means of it, one which may
 turn out useful for teaching-purposes.
   A metallic flask filled with hydrogen by displacement of
water from a generator containing Zn-f-HCl i found very
instructive. It proved that hydrogen holds its charge with
 unexampled tenacity, for the vessel could be handled or left
 in communication with the earth for a considerable time
 without becoming neutral. It proved that spray or vapour of
 hydrochloric acid had nothing whatever to do with producing
 the electrification, for these were absorbed by the water over
 which the gas was collected. It also suggested a possible
 means of measuring the difference of potential due to the con
 tact of hydrogen with hydrochloric acid. After a few trials,
 however, I gave it up, and decided to determine the quantity
 by Sir W. Thomson's " Water-dropper."
    A metal funnel with a long stem was fixed to the insulated
 plate, which was as usual connected to insulated quadrants.
 The funnel was filled with water, and a series of drops fell
 from the nozzle of the stem. The drops broke away at a
 distance of 6 or 7 inches from the bod}' of the funnel. An
 uninsulated dish 3 inches in diameter, containing Zn -|- HC1,
 was placed under the nozzle, so that the drops fell into it.
 As the hydrogen passed into the air, enveloping the nozzle
 and falling drops, the spot moved rapidly up the scale to right
 and off it. I withdrew some of the charge from the needle,

74            Mr. J. Enright on Electrifications due
and repeated the experiment. It again went off the scale.
I withdrew a considerable quantity from the needle, and
eventually reduced the sensibility of the instrument to such a
degree that the deflexion never amounted to 300 divisions.
   Fresh zinc and hydrochloric acid were now placed in the
dish. The spot rapidly went up to 130 on the scale, from
zero, and began to return. The " water-dropper " was then
quickly disconnected from the quadrants, and the spot stood
at 125. The dish was again supplied with fresh acid and
zinc and placed in position, and when I could see by the fumes
that the nozzle was enveloped in the escaping gas I again
connected the quadrants to the " water-dropper," when the
spot moved up the scale higher. This was repeated as long
as the spot could be forced to go higher. At 187 from zero
it only oscillated right and left to the extent of 3 or 5 divi
sions, but could not be forced higher by the liberation of
hydrogen near the nozzle from fresh acid and zinc. I took
this number as measuring the potential above earth of the gas
as it escaped from the acid.
   The reason for changing the acid so frequently is to be
found in the fact, which I had already proved, that when
hydrogen passes through a solution of ZnCl2 it comes off with
a negative charge ; and on this account, if the measurement
be not made when the gas is passing through at the first
stage of the reaction, the result cannot be correct. And,
indeed, no matter what precautions are taken the result must
be a little too small.
   Several preliminary experiments of this kind were made,
and when I was satisfied that the result was definite and con
stant I made very carefully the three following determina
tions. In each case the acid was changed nine times :—
                               Zero.   Deflexion.   Division.
                (1)            362       552          190
                (2)            359       544          185
                (3)            358       545          187
                                                   3)562
                                                      187
   I knew that I had reduced the sensibility of the electro
meter very much, and when I proceeded to find the value of
the scale-divisions in volts 1 found that the standard Daniell
gave only a deflexion of from 3 to 6 divisions. Besides, this
being very small I could not be certain of it to within a divi
sion, as the spot did not come precisely to zero. Of course,

             to the Contact of Gases vrith Liquids.           lb
I could not attempt to base a calculation on so uncertain a
quantity.
   To get over this little trouble I set up five Grove cells in
series, which gave a deflexion either way of 40 scale-divisions.
   Therefore,
                     1 ' x ¦ = D. P. in Grove cells.
                        40
              1-8x18-7x5
                             =D. P. in volts.
                    4
                       42-08 = D. P. in volts.
   The other numbers given were found in the same way.
The potential of an electrified body depends on conditions,
and the quantity I have determined may not be what I repre
sent it. At all events, I have found approximately the
potential above earth of a point in space immediately above
the surface of the hydrochloric acid, through which hydrogen
is passing. The distance between the surface of the acid and
the drops where they broke away separately was 2 inches.
If this distance were lessened another source of error would
arise (or increase), for the particles of acid propelled by the
hydrogen from the acid generator would strike the stem of
the funnel and lessen the electrification, because, as has been
proved, they are opposite in sign to the escaping gas.
    But to return to my proposed straightforward experiment.
I had intended to pass a current of neutral hydrogen through
a column of strong hydrochloric acid, but found it impossible
 to neutralize the gas from a generator. However, I had now
 by trial become aware that a flask of hydrogen would become
 neutral after the lapse of some hours.
    Three half Winchester quarts were filled with hydrogen by
 the displacement of water from a generator containing zinc
 and HOI, and were left during the night to lose their charges.
 At 8 o'clock the next morning one was uncorked and placed
 on the insulated plate. The hydrogen escaped, but the spot
 did not move. I was then pretty certain that the gas in the
 other two vessels was neutral.
    A beaker, 7 inches high and 2 inches in diameter, was
 nearly filled with strong HC1, and a very slender delivery-
 tube, which had been attached to one of the vessels containing
 the hydrogen, was placed in it in such manner that any gas
 escaping from the vessel should pass right through a column
 of acid 6 inches high. An inverted metallic goblet was now
 attached to the insulated plate and quadrants, and placed in
 such position that any hydrogen issuing from the beaker con

 76       Electrifications due to Contact of Gases xcith Liquids.
 taining the acid should pass into it and bo retained until it
 got into the air by diffusion. The hydrogen in the half
 Winchester quart was next forced through the acid by a
 stream of water. The spot did not move. No electrification
 was produced by the hydrogen bubbling through the acid.
 The experiment was repeated with the remaining half Win
 chester quart of hydrogen, but with the same result.
     I had then to consider whether, in the face of this failure
 to electrify the neutral gas, I could reasonably stick to my
 theory of contact. I concluded that I could, and urge the
 following as sufficient grounds for my decision :—
     I had proved beyond doubt that hydrogen holds a charge
 with amazing tenacity, and that it only gives it up when each
 molecule individually, it would appear, comes into contact
 with a conducting body.        Such contacts were also proved to
 be most difficult to effect, and whatever difficulty exists in
 discharging the gas, by bringing it into contact with other
 substances, must also exist, and in a magnified form, when
 one tries to make contact between the gas and any substance
 for the purpose of charging. The difficulty of making real
contact is not a new one. In fact, I hold that wrhen the
stream of hydrogen was forced through the pure acid, real
contact was not made.
    A very different state of things obtains when a piece of
 zinc is thrown into a quantity of acid. Here each molecule
 of hydrogen escapes from the chlorine into the acid separately,
 and very likely takes its charge while in the nascent condition.
 One cannot imitate the circumstances attending this condition
 of things by any possible arrangement of delivery-tubes,
 however small.
    If it is proved that hydrogen or gases in general, in their
 nascent condition, take a charge when they come into contact
with acids or solutions of salts, the fact, I should think, cannot
fail to be of importance in the theory of the galvanic battery;
and if it is proved that to make electrical contact between a
gas and cither metals or liquids is extremely difficult, what is
known as " the air effect " in connexion with that theory
appears to be negatived.
    In conclusion, 1 wish to acknowledge the help in making
many of the experiments which I have received from Messrs.
Horsnell and Leach, students at present passing through the
college.
   St. Mary's College, Hammersmith,
             November 188U.

                              [   77    ]
VI. The Effect of repeated Heating and Cooling on the Elec
   trical Resistance of Iron.          By Herbert Tomlinson,
   F.R.S*
SOME of the physical properties of iron wire, even if it
       has been previously well annealed, can be considerably
modified by repeatedly raising the metal to the temperature
of 100° C, and suffering it to cool again. The internal
friction, for instance, of a torsionally oscillating iron wire can
be largely and permanently reduced by this process. Again,
in a paper quite recently presented to the Royal Society, the
author has brought forward an instance of an iron wire, which
when made to go through magnetic cycles of very minute
range, alternately at the temperatures of 100° C. and 17° C,
was found to be permanently reduced, both in its molecular
friction and its magnetic permeability, at each heating and
cooling to such an extent that ultimately the former of these
two physical properties became one quarter, and the latter less
than one half of their respective original amounts. The large
diminution of permeability and friction was also attended by
a considerable lessening of the temporary effects of change of
temperature on these properties. The object of the present
investigation was to ascertain whether the electrical resistance
and temperature-coefficients of iron would also be altered by
the heating and cooling process. According to Matthiessen
the electrical resistance of metals can be expressed by the
formula
                         Rt=R0(l + a* + 6<2),
where R( and Ro are the resistances at t° and 0° C. respec
 tively, and a and b are constants. For most pure metals the
 coefficient a is not very far from "00366, and the resistance
 varies, therefore, approximately as the absolute temperature ;
 but with pure iron this coefficient is much greater. One of the
 questions which the inquiry was designed to answer was—Can
 the temperature-coefficient of iron be reduced by repeated
 heating and cooling to anything like •00366 ? This question
 has been answered in the negative, but, at the same time, it
 appears that the electrical resistance itself suffers a small but
 decided change.
    The iron wire examined formed part of a hank supplied by
    * Communicated by the Physical Society : read November 15, 1889.
   The Author begs to acknowledge, with thanks, the assistance which he
 has received, in this and kindred investigations, from the " Elizabeth
 Thompson Science Fund."

 78       Mr. H. Toinlinson on the Effect of Healing and
 Messrs. Johnson and Nephew, and was specially prepared
and annealed for the author by these makers ; it was again
annealed by the author himself in the following manner :—
The piece of iron wire, together with several others, was
placed in an iron tube about 130 centim. long ; the tube and
its contents were then heated, in one of Fletcher's new tube-
furnaces, to 1000° C. This high temperature was preserved
for several hours, and the wires were then allowed to cool
slowly in the furnace. The above operations were repeated on
three different days, so that eventually the wire was probably
annealed as well as it could be by the ordinary method. In
order to avoid any appreciable effect from the earth's mag
netic force, the furnace was placed in a direction at right
angles to the magnetic meridian. After the annealing the
wire, which was about 120 centim. long and 1 millim. in dia
meter, was wrapped round with strips of paper, and wound
double in a coil 5 centim. in diameter and 12 centim. in length.
It was then placed in an air-chamber consisting of two co-axial
copper cylinders (see fig.) connected at their extremities, and
enclosing between them an annular space filled with water.
The whole arrangement is sufficiently shown in the figure.
      Gas
                                                           Battery
    In this figure 0 0 are two clamps grooved so as to receive
the ends of the iron wire a;*, the clamps themselves being
soldered to stout copper connecting-rods ; a German-silver
wire, y, is similarly connected, and placed in a glass vessel.
   • If the grooves, and the ends of the wire which fit into them, be well
cleaned, clamping serves quite as well, for the purpose of connexion, as
soldering, and is more convenient.

             Cooling on the Electrical Resistance of Iron.             79
n b is a platinum-iridium wire of ^ ohm resistance ; Rj is
a resistance of 100 ohms, and Rj a set of resistances from ^
ohm to 200 ohms ; the india-rubber-covered connecting-wires,
ru r3, have each a resistance of ^ ohm at the temperature
of 17° C; and S is a sliding-piece which, by a suitable spring-
and-catch arrangement, can be kept pressed on any part of
a b. At the temperature of the room, the resistance of y is
nearly equal to that of x, and Rj as well as Rs is nearly 100
ohms ; consequently, any slight changes which may occur
during the experimenting in the temperature of ru r2, and a b
do not sensibly affect the balance. The thermometers Tj and
Ts register the temperatures of x and y respectively * ; Tj has
its bulb in the centre of x, and is enclosed by the glass tube
G ; this tube is lined with india-rubber at the extremity out
side the air-chamber, so that the thermometer can, if necessary
for the purpose of reading, be pulled out to any required ex
tent without causing any cooling ; the glass tube and Tx are
both slightly slanted upwards to prevent the column of mer
cury from breaking when the temperature is falling.
    For the purpose of preserving the temperature inside con
stant, the ends of the air-chamber are closed by corks, d, Cs,
and the vacant spaces inside are stuffed with cotton-wool (not
shown in the figure). The water in the annular space W is
heated by a row of burners, made by piercing pin-holes at
equal intervals in a copper tube, closed at one end, and con
nected at the other with the gas. By adjusting the supply of
gas or by altering the distance of the row of burners from the
air-chamber, any required temperature up to 100° C. could bo
maintained nearly, if not quite, constant for a considerable
length of time. In 15 minutes the water could be raised to
 100 C. ; and then, by diminishing the supply of gas so that
 the water only just boiled, this temperature could be kept up
 for 16 hours without adding more water ; when it was neces
sary to maintain the temperature at 100° C. for longer periods
 of time, the vessel was replenished with boiling water.
     It will be seen from the figure that there is a " Wheatstone's
 Bridge" arrangement for determining the resistance-ratio,
 x : y. The temperature of y varied by only a few degrees
during the whole of the inquiry ; and as both the actual resist-
    • Only one thermometer was used for T, in this particular investiga
 tion, but the author generally employs, in work of this kind, three ther
 mometers in turn. One of these thermometers is graduated from —6° C.
 to 30° C, the second from 30° C. to 66° C, and tie third from 65° C. to
 100° C. ; all three thermometers are divided into tenth degrees, and have
been carefully compared with the Kew standards.

80       Mr. H. Tomlinson on t/ie Effect of Heating and
ance of the coil at 17° C. and its temperature-coefficient were
known, the resistance of y at any other temperature could be
calculated.
   It is usual in experiments with the " bridge " to close first
the battery-circuit, and immediately afterwards that of the
galvanometer ; but the author prefers to keep the galvano
meter-circuit always closed, and to observe the effect of closing
the battery-circuit. It is true that in the latter case there is
always a momentary throw of the needle due to self-induction
in the wires, but this, with the arrangement shown above, is
very slight ; and with no more delay than that of two or
three seconds, it can be easily ascertained whether the act of
closing the battery-circuit causes any alteration in the difference
of potential at the galvanometer-terminals*. If, on the con
trary, the former of the two methods be employed, there
arises more or less inaccuracy from the presence of thermo-
electrical currents set up in one or more branches of the bridge
by slight variations in the temperature of the air at different
parts of the room. Besides, even if the air could be main
tained at perfectly uniform temperature throughout, thermo-
electrical currents are always produced by the act of pressing
down the sliding-piece, S, on the wire a b, and by Peltier
effects.
   The act of bending the wire into the form of the coil pro
duced, as might be expected, a slight permanent change in
its resistance, which was thereby increased by ^ per cent. ;
doubtless a portion, but only a small one, of the whole reduc
tion of resistance, to be presently recorded, is to be attributed
to the partial or complete removal of the effect of coiling.
   When everything was ready, and the wire had been left
undisturbed for several hours, its resistance and temperature
were determined ; the latter was then raised to 100° C, or
very nearly to 100° C, and maintained thereat for at least 8
hours t; and during this period the resistance of the wire was
tested several times. The wire was then permitted to cool
down, and its resistance was again determined about 16 hours
afterwards. The same operations were repeated again and
again, until the metal showed that no sensible change of re
sistance was produced by the heating and cooling. The results
are given in the following Table :—
   * There is always a difference of potential at the galvanometer-
terminals arising from thermo-electrical effects ; see what follows.
   t The deviation from 100° C. never exceeded T*5° C, and could in all
cases he accounted for by changes in the barometric pressure.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              times
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    heated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to
                           12 11 10
                                           9 8 7                                                                            6            5      4      3 2 1 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         100°
                                                                                                                                                                                                        C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in
                                                                                                                                                                                                             units O.GkS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           17°
                                                                                                                                                                                                            C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            at           ance Sprecsifsitc
                         10688           10689 10894 10711                                                               10727 10755 10757 10772 10807 10942 11162
                                                                                                                                                                                                    R,r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       onsecu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ctween
                                                                                                                                                                                                           tive be
                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           values                Dif erences
          of
          uthe
   calcmode  ating
           lFor
                                        5 17 16                                                                        28 2 15 35 135 220                                                           E,7.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               100°
                                                                                                                                                                                                               anceat Sprecsifsitc
                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.
                                 15654           15674 15679                                                         15724                   15747 15789 15796 16029
    seelthese
     in
     nthe
      ouwmsnb.esr,s
fcowhat
                                                4965 4983                                                                            4996 4999 4985 4922 4952
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ^100—
                                                                                                                                                                                                           K17*-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I*ioo—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kit*
                                               •4636 •4629                                                                         •4638 •4633 •4613 -4526' •4527
                     ] Ditto Ditto. Ditto.
                    Ditto.                                       ioapplied
                                                       doisretct.¦j  int ery-cur en;tKept
                                                                   nboneafirst
                                                       the
                                                       in
                                                       then
                                                       and
                                               Ditto.opI                             thfor
                                                                                       8
                                                                                       C.
                                                                                       100°
                                                                                       f
                                                                                       at
                                                                                       oursheopIthe
                                                                                                then
                                                                                                and
                                                                                                odsirtect,ion
                                                                                                in                                 Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto.
                                                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                            hours:
                                                                                                                             26
                                                                                                                             for
                                                                                                                             0.
                                                                                                                             100°
                                                                                                                             at
                                                                                                                            ("Kept
                                                                                                                ery-cur ent
                                                                                                             bain
                                                                                                               onefirst
                                                                                                               t<
                                                                                                           applied
                                                                                                                                                                                             0.
                                                                                                                                                                                             atours
                                                                                                                                                                              ery-cur ent ;Kept
                                                                                                                                                                                            h8
                                                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                                                           bat
                                                                                                                                                                                             100°
                                                                                                                                                                                             for
                                                                                                                                                                            .always
                                                                                                                                                               dsameirectionapplied
                                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                                             tin
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Eemarks.

82        Mr. H. Tomlinson on the Effect of Heating and
   It will be noticed that the specific resistance both at 17° C-
and at 100° 0. is diminished with each repetition of the
heating and cooling process, until, finally, it becomes about
4£ per cent, less than at first. Thus, though the permanent
effect on the electrical resistance is very much less than that
on the permeability for very minute magnetizing forces, it is
quite sensible.
    At the sixth heating the wire was kept at 100° C. for 26
hours and, moreover, the battery-current was applied first in
one direction and then in the opposite. These reversals of the
current served to increase the rate of diminution of the re
sistance.
    The maintaining the temperature at 100° C. for 26 hours
 did not diminish the resistance as much as the next two
 heatings and coolings taken together ; evidently, therefore,
 the cooling exerts an influence as well as the heating. It is
 not, in fact, of much use prolonging each period of heating
 beyond 8 hours, whilst, on the contrary, a less time will hardly
 suffice, heating and cooling in rapid alternation being com
 paratively ineffectual.
    Though the specific resistance of the annealed iron is per
manently diminished by the heating and cooling process, this
is not so with the temporary change of resistance arising from
change of temperature ; the sixth column of the Table shows
that the temporary increase of resistance produced by raising
 the temperature from 17° C. to 100° C. is not affected by the
heating and cooling process, whilst the temporary increase of
resistance per unit becomes greater in proportion as the
 specific resistance itself becomes less.
    The values of R100 — Ri7 and —^          -7 were calculated so
                                       lt17
 as to avoid, as much as possible, error arising from the per
 manent changes consequent on the heating and cooling. Let
 C„ C2, Cj, &c., represent the resistances of the cold wire after
 the first, second, third, &c, heatings, and H„ H2, H3, &c,
 the corresponding resistances of the hot wire, then the num-
 hers in the sixth column were obtained from -~—* — C1;
 H2         —*, — —3 — C3, H3            ^— &c, and those in
 the last column by dividing these by Oj, C              +C
                                                       —i-g—    C3,
 C +C
 —^—*, &c, respectively. Of course, the temperature of the
 room was not always 17° C, but the resistance of x at 17° C.
 could be calculated from its actual resistance at the temperature

             Cooling on the Electrical Resistance of Iron.             83
at the time by means of a formula ultimately obtained for the
resistance of the wire at any temperature*. This formula
was calculated from the results of a number of very careful
observations at 17° C, 60° C, and 100° C., and after the
heating and cooling process had ceased to affect the resistance.
The formula thus obtained was :—
               R(=Ra(l + -005131< + -00000815*s);
whilst the formula deducible from Matthiessen's results for
pure iron annealed in hydrogen is
                R,=Ro (1 + -005425 1+ -0000083
    The specific resistance at 0° C. (R0 . T) of the author's iron
was 9808 eletromagnetic units, whilst that of Matthiessen's
pure iron (R„.M) is given on the authority of the late Prof.
Jenkin as 9718 f. It seems not improbable that this last value
is from 4 to 5 per cent, too high ; for it follows from Mat
 thiessen's researches that the resistances at any temperature of
 a pure metal and its alloy should be in the inverse ratio of
 the rates of increase of resistance at that temperature, so that
                     wz should equal SB'
 which, if the author's result be assumed to be correct, would
 make R„.M equal to 9277.
     Unfortunately, Matthiessen did not determine the absolute
 resistance of iron and many of the other pure metals exa
 mined by him, and it appears from Prof. Jenkin's own state
 ment}: that the calculated results for these metals cannot be
 depended on for any great degree of accuracy. The author,
 therefore, ventures to express the hope that the B. A. Elec
 trical Standards Committee may be induced to determine the
 absolute resistances and the temperature-coefficients of those
 of the pure metals which are in ordinary use.
   • Similarly for the higher temperature of 100° C.
   t The number actually given by Prof. Jenkin has been multiplied by
 ¦9889 (the value of the B.A. unit in terms of the legal ohm).
    % See note on p. 260 of Prof. Jeukin's book on 1 Electricity and Mag
 netism.'
                                    G2

                                [   84    ]
       VII. On the Importance of Quaternions in Physics.
                         By Professor Tait*.
jyjY subject may usefully be treated under three heads,
    1. The importance of mathematics, in general, to the pro
gress of physics.
    2. The special characteristics required to qualify a calculus
for physical applications.
    3. How quaternions meet these requirements.
    The question has often been asked, and frequently answered
(one way or other) in the most decided manner :—Whether
is experiment or mathematics the more important to the pro
gress of physics ? To any one who really knows the subject,
such a question is simply absurd. You might almost as well
ask :—Whether is oxygen or hydrogen the more necessary to
the formation of water ? Alone, either experiment or mathe
matics is comparatively helpless :—to their combined or alter
nate assaults everything penetrable must, some day, give up
its secrets.
    To take but one instance, stated as concisely as possible :—
think of the succession of chief steps by which Electromag-
netism has been developed. You had first the fundamental
experiment of Oersted: —next, the splendid mathematical work
of Ampere, which led to the building up of a magnet of any
assigned description by properly coiling a conducting wire.
 But experiment was again required, to solve the converse
problem:—and it was by one of Faraday's most brilliant dis
coveries that we learned how, starting with a magnet, to
produce an electric current. Next came Joule and v. Helm-
holtz to show (the one by experiment, the other by analysis)
the source of the energy of the current thus produced:—in
the now-a-days familiar language, why a powerful engine is
required to drive a dynamo. Passing over a mass of import
ant contributions mathematical and experimental, due to
 Poisson, Green, Gauss, Weber, Thomson, &c, which, treated
from our present point of view, would furnish a narrative of
extraordinary interest, we come to Faraday's Lines of Force.
These were suggested to him by a long and patient series of
experiments, but conceived and described by him in a form
requiring only technical expression to become fully mathe
matical in the most exclusive sense of the word. This
   * Abstract of tin Address to the Physical Society of the University of
Edinburgh, November 14, 1839. See the Author's Address to Section A
at the British Association, 1871.

          On the Importance of Quaternions in Physics.         85
technical expression was given by Clerk-Maxwell in one of
his early papers, which is still in the highest degree interest
ing, not only as the first step to his Theory of the Electro
magnetic Field, but as giving by an exceedingly simple
analogy the physical interpretation of his equations. Next,
the narrative should go back to the establishment of the Wave-
theory of Light:—to the mathematics of Young and Fresnel,
and the experiments of Fizeau and Foucault. Maxwell's
theory had assigned the speed of electromagnetic waves in
terms of electrical quantities to be found by experiment. The
close agreement of the speed, so calculated, with that of light
rendered it certain that light is an electromagnetic pheno
menon. But it was desirable to have special proof that there
can be electromagnetic waves ; and to measure the speed of
propagation of such as we can produce. Here experiment
was again required, and you all know how effectively it has
just been carried out by Hertz. It is particularly to be noticed
that the more important experimental steps were, almost
invariably, suggested by theory—that is, by mathematical
reasoning of some kind, whether technically expressed or not.
Without such guidance experiment can never rise above a
mere groping in the dark.
   I have to deal, at present, solely with the mathematical
aspect of physics ; but I have led up to it by showing its
inseparable connexion with the experimental side, and the
consequent necessity that every formula we employ should as
openly as possible proclaim its physical meaning. In presence
of this necessity we must be prepared to forego, if required,
all lesser considerations, not excluding even such exceedingly
desirable qualities as compactness and elegance. But if we
can find a language which secures these to an unparalleled
extent, and at the same time is transcendently expressive—
bearing its full meaning on its face—it is surely foolish at least
not to make habitual use of it. Such a language is that of
Quaternions ; and it is particularly noteworthy that it was
invented by one of the most brilliant Analysts the world has
yet seen, a man who had for years revelled in floods of sym
bols rivalling the most formidable combinations of Lagrange,
Abel, or Jacobi. For him the most complex trains of formulas,
of the most artificial kind, had no secrets :—he was one of the
very few who could afford to dispense with simplifications :
yet, when he had tried quaternions, he threw over all other
methods in their favour, devoting almost exclusively to their
development the last twenty years of an exceedingly active
life.
   Everyone has heard the somewhat peculiar, and more than

86                 Prof. Tait on the Importance of
doubtful, assertion—Summum jus, sumrna injuria. We may,
without any hesitation, make a parallel but more easily ad
mitted statement :— Tlie highest art is the absence (not, as
Horace would have it, the concealment) of artifice. This com
mends itself to reason as well as to experience ; but nowhere
more forcibly than in the application of mathematics to phy
sical science. The difficulties of physics are sufficiently great,
in themselves, to tax the highest resources of human intellect ;
to mix them up with avoidable mathematical difficulties is
 unreason little short of crime. [To be obliged to evaluate a
 definite integral, or to solve a differential equation, is a neces
 sity of an unpleasant kind, akin to the enforced extraction of a
 cube root ; and here artifice is often requisite in our present
 state of ignorance : but its introduction for such purposes
 is laudable. It does for us the same kind of service which has
 been volunteered in the patient labour of the calculators of
 logarithmic tables. It is not of inevitable, but of gratuitous,
 complications tbat we are entitled to complain.] The in
 tensely artificial system of Cartesian coordinates, splendidly
 useful as it was in its day, is one of the wholly avoidable en
 cumbrances which now retard the progress of mathematical
 physics. Let any of you take up a treatise on the higher
 branches of hydrokiuetics, or of stresses and strains, and then
 let him examine the twofold notation in Maxwell's 'Electricity.'
 He will see at a glance how much expressiveness as well as
 simplicity is secured by an adoption of the mere notation, as
 distinguished from the processes, of quaternions. It is not
 difficult to explain the cause of this. But let us first fake an
 analogy from ordinary life, which will be found to illustrate
 fairly enough some at least of the more obvious advantages of
 quaternions.
     There are occasions (happily rare) on which a man is
 required to specify his name in full, his age, height, weight,
  place of birth, family history, character, &c. He may be an ap
  plicant for a post of some kind, or for a Life Policy, &c. But it
  would be absolutely intolerable even to mention him, if we had
  invariably to describe him by recapitulating all these parti
  culars. They will be forthcoming when wanted ; but we must
  have, for ordinary use, some simple, handy, and unambiguous
  method of denoting him. When we wish to deal with any of
  his physical or moral qualities, we can easily do so, because
  the short specification which we adopt in speaking of him is
  sufficient for his identification. It includes all his qualities.
  We all recognize and practise this in ordinary life ; why
  should we outrage common-sense by doing something very
  different when we are dealing with scientific matters, especially

                        Quaternions in Physics.                          87
in a science such as mathematics, which is purely an outcome
of logic ?
    In quaternions, a calculus uniquely adapted to Euclidian
space, this entire freedom from artifice and its inevitable
complications is the chief feature. The position of a point
 (relative of course to some assumed origin) is denoted by a
single symbol, which fully characterizes it, and depends upon
length and direction alone, involving no reference whatever to
special coordinates*. Thus we use p (say) in place of the
Cartesian x, y, z, which are themselves dependent, for their
numerical values, upon the particular scaffolding which we
choose to erect as a (temporary) system of axes of reference.
The distance between two points is
                                T0>-P'),
instead of the cumbrous Cartesian
But the distance in question is fully symbolized as to direction
as well as length by the simple form
                                 p-p'.
    If three conterminous edges of a parallelepiped be p, p', p"i
its volume is
                             -S.pp'p".
    Even when advantage is taken of the remarkable conden
sation secured by the intensely artificial notation for determi
nants, Cartesian methods must content themselves with the
much more cumbrous expression
                             x     y     z
                             x1    y'    zf    ¦
                             x" y" z"
    As we advance to higher matters, the Cartesian complexity
tells more and more ; while quaternions preserve their sim
plicity. Thus any central surface of the second degree is
expressible by
                     Sp<pp= — 1, or T$*p = l ;
while the Cartesian form develops into
         Ax2 + 2B"xy + Ay + 2B'zx + 2Byz + A"z2 = 1.
The homogeneous strain which changes p into p' is expressible
   * Note here that though absolute position is an idea too absurd even
for the majority of metaphysicians, absolute direction is a perfectly defi
nite physical idea. It is one essential part of the first law of motion.

       88                Prof. Tait on the Importance of
       by a single letter :—thus
        Its Cartesian form requires three equations,
                                x'=ax+by + cz,
                                y'=dx + ey+/z,
                                z'=gx + hy + iz.
        These may be simplified, but only a little, by employing the
        notation for a matrix. To express in quaternions the conju
        gate strain, a mere dash is required : thus
        while with the artificial scaffolding we must write our three
        equations again, arranging the coefficients as below :—
                                     a d g
                                     b e h
                                     eft.
        If we now ask the question, What strain will convert the
        ellipsoid above into the unit sphere, the answer will be some
        time in coming from the ponderous Cartesian formulae. The
        quaternion formula assigns it at once as <£*.
           When Gauss gave his remarkable expression for the number
        of interlinkings of two endless curves in space, he had to print
        it as
1 PC ^-x)(dydz'-dzdy') + {y1 -y){dzdx' -dxdz1) + (z'-z)(dxdy'-dydxl)
        What an immense gain in simplicity and intelligibility is
        secured when we are enabled to write this in the form
                                1 (YS-P~P»<fo(fri .
                              47rJJ      Tp-Pl3
        or as
                               47T F
        so that we instantly recognize in the latter factor the vector
         force exerted by unit current, circulating in one of the closed
         curves, upon a unit pole placed anywhere on the other ; and
         thus see that the whole integral represents the work required
         to carry the pole once round its circuit.
            Without as yet defining v> I shall take, as my final
         example, one in which it is involved. A very simple term,

                     Quaternions in Physics.                  89
which occurs in connexion with the strain produced by a
given displacement of every point of a medium, is
                        Say . S/Svj . Va-ov
Its Cartesian expression is, with the necessary specification
                         «"= »'£ +jv + *f,
made up of three similar terms of which it is sufficient to
write one only, viz.,
Now, suppose this to be given as the ^-coordinate of a point,
 similar expressions (formed by cyclical permutation) being
 written for the y and z coordinates. How long would it take
you to interpret its meaning ?
    Look again at the quaternion form, and you see at a glance
 that it may be written
                       V(Sav.<0(S/8yO, _
 in which its physical meaning is more obvious than any mere
 form of words could make it.
    Or you may at once transform it to
                     -iS.(V«j3)vVj-V«r1,
 which shows clearly why it vanishes when a and /3 are
 parallel.
     1 need not give more complex examples :—because, though
 their quaternion form may be simple enough (containing,
  say, 8 or 10 symbols altogether), even this unusually large
  blackboard would not suffice to exhibit more than a fraction
  of the equivalent Cartesian form.
     Any mathematical method, which is to be applied to
  physical problems, must be capable of expressing not only
  space-relations but also the grand characteristics (so far as
  we yet know them) of the materials of the physical world.
  I have just briefly shown how exactly and uniquely quater
  nions are adapted to Euclidian space ; we must next enquire
  how they meet the other requirements.
     The grand characteristics of the physical world are :—
  Conservation of Matter, with absolute preservation of its
  identity ; and Conservation of Energy, in spite of perpetual
  change of a character such as entirely to prevent the recogni
  tion of identity. The first of these is very simple, and needs
  no preliminary remarks. But the methods of symbolizing

90               Prof. Tait on the Importance of
change are almost as numerous as are the various kinds of
 change. The more important of them employ forms of the
 letter D :—viz. d, ~d, D, A, 8, and
    From our present point of view little need be said of A,
 which is the equivalent of (D — 1) or of (edldx—Y), because
the changes which it indicates take place by starts and not
 continuously. Good examples of problems in which it is
 required are furnished by the successive rebounds of a
ball from a plane on which it falls, or by the motion of a
light string, loaded at intervals with pellets.
    Various modes of applying the symbol d are exemplified
in the equation
             «=(2W(fh+(d>
In the terms dx, dy, dz, the symbol d stands for changes of
value (usually small) of quantities treated as independent.
In the term dQ it stands for the whole consequent change of
a quantity which is a function of these independents. By
the factors        &c- we represent the rates of increase of Q,
per unit of length, in the directions in which x, y, z are
respectively measured. The contrast between the native
simplicity of the left-hand, and the elaborate artificiality of
the right-hand, member of the equation, shows at once the
need for improvement. To express the rate of change per
unit of length in any other direction, we have to adopt the
cumbrous expedient of introducing three direction-cosines,
and the result is given in the form
                         dx      dy     dz
   The above equation may be read as pointing out, at any
one instant, how a function of position varies from point to
point. To express the change, at any one place, from one
instant to the next, we write in the usual notation
But if we have to express the changes, from instant to
instant, of some property of a point, which is itself subject to
an assigned change of position with time, we have to combine
these expressions, and to indicate the relation of position to
time. Thus we build up the complicated expression

                      Quaternions in Physics.                 91
   Here the symbol d is called in, to effect a slight simplifica
tion ; and we go a little further in the same direction by
putting u, v, w for
                             dx dy dz
                             dt'dl'dt'
which are obviously the components of velocity of the point
for which Q is expressed. Thus we write
Of course you all know this quite well ; and you may ask
why I thus enlarge upon it. It is to show you how com
pletely artificial and unnatural are our recognized modes of
expression.
    Fresnel well said :—La nature ne s'est pas embarrass^ des
difficulte's d'analyse, elle n'a evite" que la complication des
moyens. Why should we not attempt, at least, to imitate
nature by seeking simplicity ?
    The notation o, as commonly used, is (like the d in dQ
above) quite unobjectionable. At least we cannot see how to
simplify it further. Its effect is to substitute, for any one
point of a figure or group, a proximate point in space, so that
the figure or group of points undergoes slight, and generally
continuous, but otherwise wholly arbitrary displacement and
distortion. It thus appears that d and 8 are entitled to take
their places in a calculus, such as quaternions, where sim
plicity, naturalness, and direct intelligibility are the chief
qualities sought. We have now to inquire how such expres
sions as
                         dQ      dQ        dQ
                       l -j— + m j    (- n -, -
                         dx      dy         dz
can be put in a form in which they will bear their meaning
 on their face.
    It was for this purpose that Hamilton introduced his sym
 bol y. No doubt, it was originally defined in the cumbrous
 and unnatural form
                          . d . .d , , d
                           dx J dy       dz
 But that was in the very infancy of the new calculus, before
 its inventor had succeeded in completely removing from its
 formula} the fragments of their Cartesian shell, which were
 still persistently clinging about them. To bo able to speak
 freely about this remarkable operator, we must have a name

92                Prof. Tait on the Importance of
attached to it, and I shall speak of it as Nabla*. We may
define it in many ways, all independent of any system of
coordinates. Thus we may give the definition
                            — Say = a\,
meaning that, whatever unit-vector a may be, the resolved
part of v parallel to that line gives the rate of increase of a
function, per unit of length, along it. From this we recover,
at once, Hamilton's original definition :—thus
         V = — « Sav — /9Sy8v — 7S7v = «d« + 0dp + ydy,
a, /3, y being any system of mutually rectangular tinit-vectors.
   But, preferably, we may define Nabla once for all by the
equation
                             — Srfpy = d,
where d has the meaning already assigned. The very nature
of these forms shows at once that Nabla is an Invariant, and
therefore that it ought not to be defined with reference to any
system of coordinates whatever.
   Either of the above definitions, however, shows at once
that the effect of applying y to any scalar function of position
is to give its vector-rate of most rapid change, per unit of
length.
   Hence, when it is applied to a potential, it gives in
direction and magnitude the force on unit mass ; while from
a velocity-potential it derives the vector velocity. From the
temperature, or the electric potential, in a conducting body
we get (employing the corresponding conductivity as a
numerical factor) the vector flux of heat or of electricity.
Finally, when applied to the left-hand member of the equation
of a series of surfaces
                                M = C,
it gives the reciprocal of the shortest vector distance from
any point of one of the surfaces to the next ; what Hamilton
called the vector of proximity.
   If we form the square of Nabla directly from Hamilton's
original definition, we find
  * Hamilton did not, so far as I know, suggest any name. Clerk-
Maxwell was deterred by their vernacular signincation, usually ludicrous,
from employing such otherwise appropriate terms as Sloper or Grader;
but adopted the word Nabla, suggested by Robertson Smith from the
resemblance of v to an ancient Assyrian harp of that name.

                     Quaternions in Physics.                       93
simply the negative of what has been called Laplace's Opera
tor :—that which derives from a potential the corresponding
distribution of matter, electricity, &c.
   Thus Laplace's equation for spherical harmonics &c. is
merely
                             V2w=0;
and, as l/T(/3— a) is evidently a special integral, an indefinite
series of others can be formed from it by operating with
scalar functions of v> which are commutative with y, such as
Sy9y, e-8^, &c. In passing, we may remark that if yS be a
unit vector, il+jm + kn, we have
                       ao     id,         d , d
                               dx        dy   dz
This is the answer to the question proposed a little ago.
   The geometrical applications of Nabla do not belong to my
subject, and they have been very fully given by Hamilton.
But, for its applications to physical problems, certain funda
mental theorems are required, of which I will take only
three of the more important ;—an analytical, a kinematical,
and a physical one.
   I. The analytical theorem is very simple, but it has most
important bearings upon change of independent variables, and
other allied questions in tridimensional space. Few of you,
without the aid of quaternions or of immediately previous
preparation, would promptly transform the independent vari
ables in a partial differential equation from x, y, z to r, 0, <p :—
and you would certainly require some time to recover the
expressions in generalized (orthogonal) coordinates. But
Nabla does it at once. Thus, let
                            .d , .d , , d
                     V'=tdt+Jdv + k%>
where
                      a = il;+jv + kZ,
f, i), 5 being any assigned functions of x, y, z.    Further, let
                             da = <f> dp,
where <p, in consequence of the above data, is a definite linear
and vector function. Then, from the mere definition of
Nabla,
                      S<f<7y0.= — d = Srfpy,
which gives at once

94                Prof. Tait on the Importance of
As dp may have absolutely any direction, this is equivalent to
                             <£'V„=V>
where <f>' is the conjugate of <f>.
   II. The fundamental kinematical theorem is easily obtained
from the consideration of the continuous displacement of
the points of a fluid mass. (It is implied in the word " con
tinuous" that there is neither rupture nor finite sliding.)
   If a be the displacement of the point originally at p, that
of p + dp is
                      a + da = <t — &dp\? . a ;
and thus the strain, in the immediate neighbourhood of the
point p, is such as to convert dp into
                             dp — Sdpy . a.
Thus the strain-function is
                          ^rT=T — Sry . o".
If this correspond to a linear dilatation e, and a vector-rota
tion e, both being quantities whose squares are negligible, we
must have
                       yfrr = (1 + e)r + Ver.
Comparing, we have
                       — Sry . ff = £T + VeT,
from which at once (by taking the sum for any three direc
tions at right angles to one another),
                   Vff= — t(e) +2e ;
so that
                   Syo- represents the compression,
and
                               „      „   vector-rotation,
of the element surrounding p.
   By the help of these expressions we easily obtain the stress-
function for a homogeneous isotropic solid, in terms of the
displacement of each point, in the form
          <p(o= — n(Sa>y.<7 + ySwo-) — (c— §n)<oSv/a- ;
where n and c are, respectively, the rigidity and the resistance
to compression ; and <pa> is the stress, per unit of surface, on
a plane whose unit normal is to.
   III. The fundamental physical relation is that expressing
conservation of matter, commonly called the equation of con
tinuity. We have only to express symbolically that the
increase of mass in a finite simply-connected space, due to a
displacement, is the excess of what enters over what leaves the

                     Quaternions in Physics.                  95
space.   This gives at once
                      $SV<rdi=S$8TJv<rds,
where \Jv is unit normal drawn outwards from the bounding
surface. If we put for a the expression uyv, where u and v
are any two scalar functions of position, this becomes Green's
Theorem.
   If the space considered be imagined as bounded by two
indefinitely close parallel surfaces, and by the normals at each
point of a closed curve drawn on one of them, this is easily
reduced to the form of the line and surface integral
The simplest forms of these equations are respectively
                        fflvuds^TJvuds,
and
                        jyv(uw)u^=jdp«,
 where u is any scalar function of position. But it is clear
 from the mode in which it enters that u may be any quater
 nion. And it is easy to build on these an indefinite series of
 more complex relations. Thus, for instance, if a and t be
any two vector-functions of p, we have
which has many important transformations. You will find it
laborious, but alike impressive and instructive, to write this
simple formula in Cartesian coordinates. It consists of four
 separate equations, containing among them 189 terms in all !
    In the three relations just given we have the means of
 applying quaternions to various important branches of mathe
 matical physics, where Nabla is indispensable. But I must
 confine myself to one example, so I will take very briefly the
 equations of fluid motion.
    Let e be the density, and a the vector-velocity, at the point
 p in a fluid. Consider the rate at which the density of a little
 portion of the fluid at p increases as it moves along. We
 have at once, for the equation of continuity,
 which we may write, if we please, as
                          i = sv(-)-

 96       On the Importance of Quaternions in Physics.
 This is the result we should have obtained if we had considered
 the change of contents of a Axed unit volume in space. Next
 consider the rate at whicfi the element gains momentum
 as it proceeds. We write at once, since momentum cannot
 originate or be destroyed by processes inside the element,
 where P is the potential energy of unit mass at p, and (f>Vv
 is the stress-function due to pressure and viscosity. We
 have already had the form of this function ; so that the
 equation transforms at once into
             e~ = -evP- VP-«(VS<»-+ ivSv0") J
 which contains the three ordinarily given equations. Here
 n is the coefficient of viscosity, and the pressure p enters the
equation in the form
   To obtain v. Helmholtz's result as to vortex-motion, put n = 0,
and we deduce for the rate of change of vector-rotation of an
element, as it swims along,
If the fluid be incompressible, this becomes
                     J< VV°"= — S.Vio-iV-o-.
From either it is obvious that the rate of change of the
vector-rotation vanishes where there is no rotation. But time
forbids any further discussion of formulae.
   Hydrokinetics, as presented by Lagrange and Cauchy,
was rather a triumph of mathematical skill than an inviting
or instructive subject for the student. The higher parts of
it were wrapped up in equations of great elegance, but of
almost impenetrable meaning. They were first interpreted,
within the memory of some of us, by Stokes and v. Helmholtz,
after we know not what amount of intellectual toil. The
magnificent artificers of the earlier part of the century were,
in mam' cases, blinded by the exquisite products of their owu
art. To Fourier, and more especially to Poinsot, we are
indebted for the practical teaching that a mathematical for
mula, however brief aud elegant, is merely a step towards
knowledge, and an all but useless one, until we can thoroughly
read its meaning. It may in fact be said with truth that we

              Periodic Law of tlie Chemical Elements.           97
 are already in possession of mathematical methods, of the
artificial kind, fully sufficient for all our present, and at least
 our immediately prospective, wants. What is required for
physics is that we should be enabled at every step to feel
intuitively what we are doing. Till we have banished artifice
we are not entitled to hope for full success in such an under
taking. That Lagrange and Cauchy missed the import of
their formulae, leaving them to be interpreted some half-
 century later, is merely a case of retributive justice :—
                "... neque enim lex aequior ulla
                  Quam necis artifices arte perire sua,"
 Lagrange in the preface to that wonderful book, the MScanique
Analytique, says :—
   " Les methodes que j'y expose ne demandent ni construc
tions, ni raisonnemens geom^triques ou mecaniques, mais
seulement des operations alg^briques, assuj^ties a une marche
r^guliere et uniforme."
   But note how different is Poinsot's view :—
   " Gardons-nous de croire qu'une science soit faite quand
on l'a reMuite a des formules analytiqnes. Rien ne nous
dispense d'^tudier les choses en elles-memes, et de nous bien
 rendre compte des idees qui font l'objet de nos speculations."
   No one can doubt that, in this matter, the opinion of the
less famous man is the sound one. But Poinsot's remark
must be confined to the analytical formula? known to him.
For it is certain that one of the chief values of quaternions is
precisely this :—that no figure, nor even model, can be more
expressive or intelligible than a quaternion equation.
VIII. An Approximate Algebraic Expression of the Periodic
   Law of the Chemical Elements. By Thos. Carnbllbt,
   D.Sc, Professor of Chemistry in the University ofAberdeen.9
                                [Plate L]
SEVERAL attempts have of late years been made to ex
       press the atomic weights of the Elements by algebraic
formula}. Of these that of Dr. E. J. Mills (Phil. Mag. [5]
xviii. p. 393 ; xxi. p. 151) expresses the atomic weights by a
logarithmic function
                          15(p -09375'),
in which p and t are whole numbers.
   Another attempt, referred to by Prof. Mendeljeff in his
                    * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.           H

 98      Prof. T. Carnelley on an Algebraic Expression of
 Faraday Lecture of this year (Chem. Soc. Journ. Iv. p. 642)
as having been made by TchitcheVin in 1888, seeks to ex
 press the relations between the atomic volumes of the alkaline
 metals by the formula A(2 — 0"00535 An), where A=the
 atomic weight and n=8 for Li and Na, 4 for K, 3 for Rb,
and 2 for Cs.
    In a paper read at the Aberdeen Meeting of the British
 Association in 1885 (Chem. News, nos. 1375-1378, 1886), I
 proposed for the chemical elements the general formula
 ABB2„+(2_X), in which n is the series and a: the group to
 which the element belongs; A=12 and B= —2.
    Since that time, and for thirteen years previously, I have
 made frequent attempts to find a simple numerical expression
 for the Periodic Law, but so far without marked success.
 Early in the past summer, however, I obtained an expression
 which, though only approximate, may still be found of con
 siderable interest. According to this
                   A=c(m + vx) L     or       A T =c»
                                           m + v*
in which A=atomic weight, c=constant, m — a member of
an arithmetical progression depending on the series* to
which the element belongs, u = the maximum valency or the
number of the group* of which the element is a member.
    After numerous trials it has been found that the best
results are obtained when x=2, and
    wz = 0; 2i; 5; 8£; 12; 15£; 19; 22£; 26; 29$; and 33
for
Series II.; III.; IV.; v.; VI.; VII.; vm.; IX.; X.; XI.; and xn.
    So that
                                 A ^^c.
                             m+ v v
    It will be observed that m is a member of an arithmetical
series in which the common difference is 3£, except in the
first two cases, where it is only 2$.
    In the following Table are given the values of c calculated
from the above equation. The atomic weights employed and
given in Column I. are taken from Clarke's ' Recalculation
of the Atomic Weights ' (1882), corrections being made when
rendered necessary by more exact determinations published
since Clarke's work. The atomic weights are given to the
first place of decimals only.
   • These terms are employed in the sense in which Mendeljeff uses
them in his Natural Classification of the Elements.

                 the Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements.                   99
                                     Table I.
                             I.     ii.                                     n.
       Even Series.                  c.        Odd Series.
                        Atomic (Calc.)                         Atomic    (Cilc.)
                         weight.    A                           weight.      A
                            A.                                    A.
                                                                         m+ >Jv
[ Series II. bi=0.      (H=l)             Series III. »«=2i
     Lithium                7-0    7-00    Sodium                230       6-57
     Beryllium              9-1    645     Magnesium             24-41     6-24
     Boron                109      630     Aluminium             27-0      6-38
     Carbon               12-0     600      Silicon              28-3a     6-29
     Nitrogen             140      6-25    Phosphorus            310       6-54
     Oxygen               160      6-53     Sulphur              320       6-46
     Fluorine             18-9     7-13     Chlorine             36-4      6-87
                                   652                          Mean..     6-48
 | Series IV. m=5.                        Series V. m=8£.
     Potassium            390      6-50     Copper               63-3      666
     Calcium              400      6-24     Zinc                 65-3      659
     Scandium             440      6-54     Gallium              68-9      6-73
     Titanium             48-0     6-86    Germanium . . .       72-3      6-88
     Vanadium             513      709      Arsenic              74-9      6-97
     Chromium             52-0     6-98     Selenium             78-8      7-20
     Manganese            640      7-06    Bromine               79-8      716
                         Mean.     6-75                         Mean... 6-88
 [Series VI. m=12.                        Series VII. »i=15J.|
     Rubidium             863      6-56     Silver              107-7      6-53
     Strontium            87-4     6-52     Cadmium             111-8      6-61
     Yttrium              898      654      Indium              1134       6-58
     Zirconium            90-43    6-46     Tin                 117-7      672
     Niobium              94 03    6-60     Antimony            119-6*     674
     Molybdenum ....      955      661     Tellurium            125 03     6-96
                                            Iodine              126-5      6-97
                         Mean.     6-55                         Mean...    6-73
  | Series VIII. m=19.                    Series IX. m=22£.
      Casium             132-6     6-61
     Barium              130-8     6-70
     Lanthanum           138-08    666     Wanting.
     Cerium              139-97    6-66
     Didvmium            142-08    6-69
                         Mean . .  6-66
       ' Marignac (1884).                    1 Thorpe & Young (1887).
       3 Meyer, Mod. Theor. p. 89 (1888).   * Cooke.     5 Brauner (1883).
       • Cleve (1883).    7                              8 Cleve (1883).
                                        H2

100        Prof. T. Carnelley on an Algebraic Expression of
                              Table I. (continued).
                           i.      n.                                       I.      n.
    Even Series.                    e.          Odd Series.                          e.
                        Atomic   (Oalc.)                              Atomic
                        weight.                                                   (Calc.)
                                    A                                  weight.
                          A.                                                        A
                                                                           A.
                                 m+ V«                                           m-\- "Jv
                       (H=l)
Series X- wi=26.                            Series XL m=29J.
                        182-1     6-45       Gold                      196-99      6-4G
                        183-6     6-45                                 1997        6-46
                                             Thallium                  2037        6-52
                                             Lead                      206-5       666
                                                                       208-210     6-56
                        Mean...   6-45                                 Mean...     6-51
Series XII. m=33.
                       231-9      6-62"
                       238-5      6-72
                        Mean...   6-67                 General Mean=6'64.
   9 Thorpe & Laurie (1887). 10 Marignac (1884). " Kruss & Nilson (1887).
     From the above Table it will be seen that the values of c
 as calculated from the atomic weights of 55 elements, using
 the equation referred to, lie between 6*0 and 7#2, with a
 mean value of 6*64. The lowest value, 6-0, is obtained in the
 case of carbon, and the highest, 7'2, in that of selenium. In
 the great majority of cases, however, the value lies much
 nearer to the mean value than is indicated by the two extremes
 mentioned, thus :—
                         In 1 case the value of c lies at 60.
                                                          6-1, t. e. between 605-615
    With one exception                                    6-2,                 615-6-25
 (Si), all these occur in                                 6-3,                 6-25-6-35
 Groups 1 to 3.                                           6-4,          ,.     6-35-6-45
                                                          6-5,                 6-45-655
                       86                                 (ill,                6-55-6-65
                                                          67,                  6-65-675
                                                          6-8,                 675-6-85
                                                          6-9,                 6-85-6-95
    With one exception                                    7-0,                 6-95-7-05
 (Li), all these oocur in                                 7-1,                 7-05-7-15
 Groups 4 to 7.                                           7-2,                 715-7-20
                                                                        )'
     All the values of c, except that for carbon, lie between
 6-24 and 7*20. Of the 55 values of c, 35 lie between 6*45
 and 6-75. Of the other 20 values of c, which are farthest
 from the mean, 11 occur in groups 5, 6, and 7, and of these

             the Periodic Law of the Cliemical Elements.     101
 10 are higher than the mean, whilst of the 9 remaining
 values 5 occur in groups 1, 2, and 3, and of these five, four
 are lower than the mean, so that the high values of c occur
 chiefly with elements belonging to the higher groups (viz. 5,
 6, and 7), while the low values occur chiefly with elements
 belonging to the lower groups (viz. 1, 2, and 3). Four of
 the values furthest from the mean occur in group 4 ; of these
two (Ti and Ge) are high, and two (C and Si) are low values
 of c.
    It will be observed that the elements of group 8 have
 not been included in the above table on account of the dif
ficulty of assigning a value to v in their case. This difficulty,
however, is removed if v represents, not the valency, but the
numerical order of the elements in the series to which they
 respectively belong, in which case c has the following values
 in group 8 :—
            m—5.      m=12.       m=19.    m=26.
          Fb.,.714   Ru...6-98            Os...6-69  v= 8.
                                Wanting.
          Oo...7-34  Bh...694             Ir ...6 64 v= 9.
          Ni.,.7-18  Pd...700             Pt...6-66  «=10.
   For potassium m = 5, so that the equation A=6'6(m + s/»)
becomes A =6*6(5               for the elements of the potassium
series ; and since the common difference in the arithmetical
series 5, %\, 12, 15£ &c. is 3£, therefore for any element in
series rv. or upwards
       A=6-6[5 + 3-5(a-4)+AA] = 6-6(3-5a-9+>A),
where a=the number of the series to which the element
belongs, and v the numerical order of the element in its own
series.
    The equation A= c(m+ */v) becomes A=c(m+1) in the
case of elements belonging to the first group. So that for
potassium and silver,
    (1) c(m4+l)=39,              and     (2) c{m7 + 1)=107-7.
   Let a; represent the common difference in the arithmetical
series m^ m5, me, m^, &c. corresponding to the 4th, 5th, 6th,
7th, &c. series of elements.
   Th-311                 »n7=m4 + 3a; (3).

102    Prof. T. Carnelley on an Algebraic Expression of
   By substituting (3) in (2) we get
             107-7=c(m4 + 3x + 1) =c(mt + 1) + 3xe.
But
                         c(w»1+l)=39;
            .-. 107-7=39 + 3xc      or          22-90.
   By proceeding in a similar manner the following values of
xc are obtained from the pairs of elements (all bolonging to
group 1) named:—
               From K and Cu              xc=2A-'60
                 » K and Kb               a-c=23-15
                 n  K and  Ag             xc= 22-90
                    K and Cs              .rc=23-40
                    K and Au              .rc=22-56
                 n Cu and Rb              xc= 22-00
                 » Cu and Ag              xc=22-20
                    Cu and Cs             .w=23-10
                    Cu and Au             *c=22-22
                    Rb and Ag             xc= 22-40
                    Rb and Cs             xc = 23-65
                 n Rb and Au              xc= 22-32
                    Ag and Cs             ^=24-90
                    Ag and Au             xc=22-30
                    Cs and Au             a-c=21-43
                                       Mean= 22-85
 Or, in other words, the difference between the atomic weights
 of any two elements in group 1 (from series IV. upwards)
 divided by the difference between the number of the series to
 which each element belongs, gives a constant, or
                    ^—^= constant =22-85,
                    y—x
 where x and y are the numbers of the series to which the
 elements A and B respectively belong. That is to say, the
 difference between successive elements of group 1 from
 series IV. upwards is practically constant and equal to 22-85.
    Now the constant 22-85 is very nearly identical with the
 atomic weight of sodium, which the most trustworthy deter
 minations have shown to be 22'99.
                           22*85
    If x be 3£, then c= „. =6-53, or if, in place of 22 85,
                                                   22-99
 we take the atomic weight of sodium, then c= „ c =6-57,

             the Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements.                1 03
a number which is very nearly identical with 6-64, which was
                                                                      A
obtained as the value of cby applying the equation c=                   ^-
to all the atomic weights, as in Table I.                          "'     '
    If there be any truth in the above, then the atomic weights
at present accepted for caesium (132*6) and copper (63" 3) are
rather too high, and that for gold (196*9) somewhat too low.
Caesium should be about 131, copper about 62, and gold
about 198.
    In Table II. (pp.104, 105) is given a list of the atomic weights
calculated from the equation A = c(m+Vv), c being taken
equal to 6-6.
    The Table shows that, of the 54 elements considered, the
difference between the calculated and experimental atomic
weights
       in the case of 21 elements is less than            1 unit "
33        „     „     12       „    it lies between 1 <fc 1 1 units
          „     „       8     „        „      „     2 & 3 „ I Mean
2U J)           »)      3
                        0
                              >9
                               „
                                       „
                                       „
                                              )j
                                               „
                                                    3&3| „ f + 1-9
                                                    4&4J
     ^_ ,i      w       4      „      „       „     6 & 6|
    The considerable difference between the calculated and ex
perimental values in some cases shows that the expression
At. wt. = 6*6 (m+ Vv) is at best only approximate. The
atomic weights calculated by it are, however, very much
nearer the experimental values than those calculated accord
ing to Dulong and Petit's law from the equation
                   £t wt _ atomic heat              6'4
                             specific heat       spec, ht."
Thus of the 44 elements* of which the specific heats have
been directly determined, the difference between the calculated
and experimental atomic weights
       in the case of 9 elements is less than             1 unit
 14       „     „     5     „     it lies between 1 & 1 \ units
          „     „     2     „        „         „ lj&2 „
                it    5     i)       ii        „ 2 &3 „
          »     »     «*    „        „             3 & 4 „ iMean
23<<                  4     „        „         „ 4 &5 „ r +4-2
                „     2              „         „ 5 &6 „
                      5     ,,       ,,        ,, 6
                      2     „        „         „   7 &10
                      5      „        „         „ 10 &15
    * Exclusive of C, Si, B, N, O, F, and H, which are apparently such
marked exceptions to Dulong and Petit's law.

                     ao oo os p «o o p          »H fH CO 1(5 00
1      <5Mla         ?5 n rt -H H H N                 A w >b -ij
                                                i> ds rHHrirH*q
                     t~ O CO ^ "5 t> CO         ^ 71 9 ^ ^ ^
                     cb ^ o o» ib *b            t-CS CO cb !> jj^
  i =                        t©  ^O
                             tf$ OS    o GO
                                    co 4" 55    CO OS ^ CO CO OS
                         Al O* 01 01 Ol         00 t- »b »i0 O Ol
                     w-, -Ji OS -f CO I;-       p -H ^t> 9 p US OJ
                     ++++++ I                    I + I I I I I
                         00 p CO p              b- as CO C5 CO CO
         3 +         ?? o5 £l SI CO CO S           us CD CO
                                                <N CD
                                                CO            © c-
                                                           OS l~  01 CO
         OP  CD
E
s                    © p cp p o •*              CO CO p CO 05 CO 00
1                    CO  ^ 01t~ 01
                                 CO CO
                                    ^ CO
                                       Ol CO
                                          US       us oo
                                                co CD      oi Tt* co os
                     01 Ol                      CD     CD t-t-£-l>
                 e. .: 3as .3aa • o
                                                     : ago | §
  o                                     D. O
  O              Kw X «q <! X P* OO o
                 r.                           ¦
                     Ol CO Ol ©
                     ,1, as                                 ¦ t-Cfl
                                                              do t-cbCO
i                    A CD
                     05  lis © COCO c
       na, -
     -               §3 Sco^.,
                         —' 01 CO                  rn         o co 00
                         Ol ip Ol GO Ol         CO CO ^ CO as oo as
                     © O © »-t © © i-i          6 oi 6 ^* cb oi cb
  S g                  i +++++ i                +++ 1 I I I
         I_ >
                     p CO Ol oo one             co co oi oo oi us
         1 +         cb 6> Ai cb cb i>             t -4(1
                                                05 oi
                                                co         ^ t- c»
                                                       -<r cb     ^ cb
                                                                     as
         3 <P
                     OrtOSOpOOJ                 ooopcoop
                         05 O Ol ^ti P cb       05 o x as us
                                                co                oi io
                                             as •::::: :
                  I!                          D ; : : : :
  5K                                          s a :a a s s s
                      S .2
                m=3 £ Bo |||
                                             s cm cj Si s > o a
                COH

                             s-9i          0-61 Z-VZ                                                         T-OI 0-91 f-ll 8-81
              WI 6-SI 8-ei 9-zi                                                                                                       8-
                                                                                                                                      IS
              SOI e-9t 91         1-                                                                         ZQX L-n S-il 1-81 S-IS
                  6-ST                6il os
                                           0- 9-9S
             901 99-8 Zf-l ezi Z-9 9S-9 f-6-f-                                                              8-61 65-81 98-11 8811 S8-6
             Bl+s-o- 8-0+ s-s- S-9- L-9~                                                                     f-f+ 8-*+ f-Z+ 8-1+
                                                                                                                                M+
             6-801 i-8ll e-Qii                    8-
                                                  611                                                        8-103 0*03 1-905 9-605
                  9-III               Mil                                                                                       6-iOS
                                           T
                                           9-
                                           81
                            fr-8ll 9-611 0-931 9-931                                                                i-66I Z-80S 9-905 805
                                                                                                                                      5-
             MOl 8-III Mil
                                                                                                            96T
                                                                                                            6-
'fSI=« -I A
saraag                                                saia g
                                                      'XI
                                                      m\ZZ=m                               •f6o=!a'IXsaiH=S
                                          nmunipi
                                                                                                            PI°£)
                                  "IX
             t-99 fr-98 i 8-53 0-91                                     6-58 1-33                                   8-6                    8-05
                                          MI                      3-0A             1AX,                    3-il                                  9-SI
             99 i LIZ 91
             1-                       0-                                9-98 3-53                          6-91 9-6                       6-05 i-3l
                                          Ml                      90i              60S
             1 093 I n-f LZ-9 9-8
             39-                                                        9A-8 3-9 i-9                        8-01 81-61                          Z-81
                                                                  T
                                                                  88-                                                                     MI
             90+ 8-0+ 0-3+ i-o-                                    90- i-3- S-I- 81-                        S*+ Z-f+                      60-
                  M+                  0                                                                                                         9-f-
             8-98 9-88 906 f-ZG f-96                              0-381 l-Kl 8-981 9-881                  f--98l 8-JS8I                   0-185 0-*85
                                      0-W
             8-98 8-68 {¦•06 O-W 9-96                              381 981
                                                                   9-   8- 0-881 6-681                      1-581 9-881                   6-183 9-883
                  M8
sA
 ¦IaZi\a=«gt                                          •6I=«»,UIa'«w™S
                                                                                            X
                                                                                           s•9aiimg3=«"
                  umrjnoxig                                                                                 nmjmaBX
                            nrnuiii                                                 ranuag                                                      m uojfl

 106      Prof. T. Carnelley on an Algebraic Expression of
     In Table IT. is given not only the atomic weights as
 accepted by the best authorities and as calculated by the
 formula A = 6'6(m+ Vi>), but also the specific gravities*,
 together with the specific volumes as calculated both from
 the experimental and from the calculated atomic weights, by
 dividing each of these respectively by the corresponding
 specific gravities. From the Table it will be seen that the
 specific volumes as found by each of these two processes agree
 closely. Further, if two curves be constructed in the manner
 first suggested by Lothar Meyer, by taking in the one case
 the experimental atomic weights as abscissa?, and the corre
 sponding specific volumes as ordinates, and in the other case
 the atomic weights calculated from A = 6'6(m-f- VV) as
 abscissae and the corresponding specific volumes as ordinates,
 then the result represented in Diagram I. will be obtained, in
 which the dotted curve, being constructed from the experi
mental atomic weights t, may be called the experimental curve;
while the continuous one, being constructed by using the cal
culated atomic weights, may be called the calculated curve.
    It will be seen from both Table II. and from Diagram I.
 that the greatest differences between the calculated and ex
 perimental atomic weights occur chiefly at the end of series
IV., v., and vii., and at the beginning of series XI.
    It has been shown that in the equation A = c(m + Vv) the
constant c has a mean value of 6*6. Supposing that there is
any truth in the equation, what is the meaning of the constant
6'6 ? This number at once suggests the constant 6-4, obtained
according to Dulong and Petit's law, by multiplying the
atomic weight by the specific heat. If in the equation
A=c(m+ Vv) we assume that the constant c represents the
atomic heat, then,
Atomic weight = atomic heat x(m+ \/v)
                     = atomic weight x specific heat x (m + Vv) ;
                   1 = specific heat x (in + V v),
                            1
or specific heat =             y=-
                        m+ vv
    If the specific heats of the several elements be calculated
by this equation, we find that in almost all cases the calcu
lated numbers agree very closely with the experimental specific
heats. This will be seen from the following Table :—
   * Taken from Lothar Meyer's Mod. Theories, p. 123 ; translated by
Bedson and Williams,
   t It is identical with Lothar Meyer's curve.

             the Periodic Law of tJie Chemical Elements.                     107
                                    Table III.
                                                     Specific Heat
                              Specific              (experiment).
                            Heat calcu
                            lated from
                                  1      Specific Temp, of
                             m+ V»'       Heat. determin          Authority.
                                                   ation *.
  Sebies II. 01=0.                                    C.
     Lithium                   1-000       •941        64°    Begnault.
                                           •642       100     Reynolds.
     Beryllium                  709        •582       257     Nilson and Pet-
                                                                terson.
     Boron                      •578       •5(?)      COO     Weber.
                                •500       •467       078
     °— {oZona}                            •459       985
     Nitrogen                   •44G
     Oxygen                     •408
     Fluorine             ,     •377
  Sebies III. m=2|.
     Sodium                     •286        293      -14      Begnault.
     Magnesium                  ¦255       •250        60
                                           •214        60
                                •236       •225               Mallet.
     Aluminium                              216        50     Naccari.
                                            240       300
     Silicon                    •222        203       232     Weber.
                                            189        20     Begnault
     Phosphorus (yellow)        •211        202        25     Kopp.
                                            212        75     Person.
                                            178        67     Begnault.
                                            188               Dulongand Petit
     Sulphur (rhombic) .        •202        202               Begnault.
                                            209               Neumann.
                                            235       134     Person.
     Chlorine                   •194        180t
  Sekhm IV. m=5.
     Potassium                  •164        166     -34       Begnault.
     Calcium                    •156       •170        50     Bunsen.
     Scandium                   •148       ¦145f
                                           •112        50     Nilson and Pet-
     Titanium                    143                            terson.
                                           •162       220
     Vanadium                   ¦138       •124t
     Chromium                   ¦134       •122t
     Manganese (two     1       •131       •122
       samples)         J                  •133        55     Begnault.
   * These temperatures are the arithmetical mean of the extreme temperatures
between which the specific heats were determined.
   t Not determined directly, but by calculation from the experimental spccifio
heats of the compounds.                                   g.^
   J Calculated from Dulong and Petit's law. Sp. ht = -j—r .

108      Prof. T. Carnelley on an Algebraic Expression of
                          Table III. (continued).
                            Specific              Specific Heat
                          Heat calcu-|            (experiment).
                           lated from
                                1                Temp, of
                            m+ Vy. Specifio determi              Authority.
                                        Heat. nation*.
 Sehiks V.                                          0.
                                          093        85      Kopp.
                                         ¦095        58      Regnault.
    Copper                     •105       093        50      Naccari.
                                         •099       300
                                         ¦095        50      Dulong and Petit»|
                                          101       150           »»        it
                                          093        33      Kopp.
                                         •094        50      Bunsen.
                                         •096        55      Regnault.
    Zinc                        101      •094        50      Dulong and Petit.
                                         •102       150           r»        I.
                                         •093        50      Naccari.
                                         •104       300
    Gallium ...                 097      ¦079         18     Berthelot.
    Germanium                  •095      ¦076       270      Nilson and Pet-
                                                                terson.
                                         •081         65     Regnault.
    Arsenio (orystalline)      ¦093 <    •082         56     Neumann.
                                         ¦091         13     Begnault.
              ( (crystal                 •076         59          ii
                   line)                 •086
    Selenium (crystal          •091                   61     Neumann.
                   line)
                (amor-                   ¦095          ?     Bettendorf and
               k phous)                                         WiiUner.
    Bromine (solid)                      •084      -51       Regnault.
 Series VI. m = 12.            •077       •077+
    Rubidium
    Strontium                  •074       •074t
    Yttrium                    •073       ¦072J
    Zirconium                  •071       •067        50      Mixter and Dana.
    Niobium                    •070       •0681
                                          •066        10      Delarive and
    Molybdenum                 •069                             Marcet.
                                          ¦072        55 I Regnault.
                                                           1
  * These temperatures are the arithmetical mean of the extreme temperatures
between which the specific heats were determined.
  t Not determined directly, but by calculation from the experimental specifio
heats of the compounds.
   t Calculated from Dulong and Petit's law. Sp. ht= 6-4 .
                                                         at. wt.

             the Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements.                     109
                           Table III. {continued).
                             Specific              Specific Heat
                           Heat calcu              (experiment).
                           lated from
                                 1
                             m+ V v.    Specific Temp,    of
                                         Heat. determi
                                                  nation*.
                                                                 Authority.
 Sekies VII. m=15£.                                  0.
                                          •056    50;36      Bunsen; Kopp.
                                          •057        55     Begnault.
                                           056        50     Dulong and Petit.
                                          •061       150
    Silver                      ¦061      •057        25     Bystrom.
                                           061       150           ty
                                          •056        50     Naccari.
                                          •061       300
                                           063          ?    Potter.
                                           054        37     Kopp.
                                          •055        50     Bunsen.
                                          •058        10     Delarive and
    Cadmium                     •050                           Marcet.
                                          •059        13     Begnault.
                                          •055        60     Naccari.
                                          •062       300           »
    Indium...                   •058       •057       50     Bunsen.
                                          •055        34     Kopp.
                                          •056        50     Bunsen.
    Tin                         •057 1    •056        55     Begnault.
                                          •056        58     Bede.
                                          •058       115        if
                                          •050        £0     Bunsen.
                                          •051        55     Begnaidt.
                                           052        31     Kopp.
                                           049        50     Naccari.
    Antimony                    •05G      •054       300
                                           051
                                          •055        50     Dulong and Petit.]
                                                     150          i>        tt
          (ordinary form)                  050        17     Pebal and Jahn.
         (explosive form)                  056        17
                                          •047t       36     Kopp.
    Tellurium (distilled)      •055       •047t       55     Begnault.
             (undistilled)                •052t       55
    Iodine                      055        054        59
 Series VIII. m=19.
    Caesium                    •050       ¦0481
    Barium                      049       •047{
    Lanthanum                  •048       •045        50     Hildebrand.
                               •048       •045        49             if
    Cerium                                •06
                               •047       •046               Sohurhardt.
    Didymium                                                 Hildebrand.
   * These temperatures are the arithmetical mean of the extreme temperatures
between which the specific heats were determined.
  t It is very doubtful whether the Tellurium employed was pure. Compare
Brauner, Chem. Soc. Journ. lv. p. 382.                     6-4
  J Calculated from Dulong and Petit's law. Sp. ht=at, wt.

110     Prof. T. Garnelley on an Algebraic Expression of
                         Table III. (continued).
                            Specific              Specific Heat
                          Heat calcu              (experiment).
                          lated from
                                1
                                        Specific Temp,    of
                            m+ V"'       Heat. determi
                                                  nation*.
                                                                   Authority.
 Series IX. »» = 22i.             war ting.
 Series X. 7»«=26.
                               •035        •035t
                                           ¦0334      55       Begnault.
                               •0351        035        11      Delarive and
                                                                 Marcet.
                                           •0364               Begnault.
 Series XI. wi = 29J.
    Gold                     •0328         ¦0329      55       Begnault.
    Meroury (solid)           0323         •0319    -59
                                           ¦0325               Lamy.
                              0320 |       •0335      58       Begnault.
                                     /     •0314      55
                                           •0315      34
                             •0317 •       •0305      61      sc-
    Lead                                   •0317      94          It
                                           •0304      50      Naocari.
                                     V     •0338     300
                                           •0305      34       Kopp.
                             ¦0315         •0308      55       Begnault
                                          •0309         ?      Schinidaritsch.
 Series XII. J»=33.          ¦0285         •0276      50       Nilson.
                             ¦0282         ¦0277      49      Zimmerman.
  * These temperatures are the arithmetical mean of the extreme temperatures
between which the specific heats were determined.            g.^
  t Calculated from Dulong and Petit's law. Sp. ht. = ——-.
   The specific heats of nitrogen, oxygen, and fluorine have
not been determined in the solid stato, while the values
obtained from the specific heats of their compounds are well
known to be abnormally low, as are those of beryllium, boron,
carbon, and silicon, which have been determined directly with
the elements in the solid state. Even in the case of the latter
elements, the values calculated from the expression
                                                                        m+ </v
are not very far from the experimental numbers, while in all
others, except those of calcium, gallium, and germanium, the
agreement is remarkably close. The experimental value for
calcium is apparently too high, being greater than that ofpotas

           the Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements.        Ill
sium, whereas, according to Dulong and Petit's law, it should
be less. The experimental values for gallium and germanium,
on the other hand, are, according to Dulong and Petit's law,
apparently much too low, being less even than that of bromine,
although this element has an atomic weight about 10 units
higher. The atomic heat of gallium is only 5'4, and that of
germanium only 5*5 ; whereas the specific heats calculated
from the expression
              r              ,- would give rather less than 6*7
                       m+- *Jv
and 6'9 respectively.
    It may be said that of the 55 elements with which the
comparison can he made, the calculated specific heats agree
very closely with the experimental values in the case of 45 of
them, while the other ten are elements the specific heats of
which, according to Dulong and Petit's law, are more or less
abnormal.
    The agreement becomes even more marked when the com
parison is made with specific heats determined at temperatures
above those at which specific heats have been more commonly
determined.
    Diagram II. shows graphically the close agreement between
the calculated and experimental specific heats. It is con
 structed by taking the atomic weights as abscissae and the
 specific heats as ordinates. The dotted curve is constructed
from the calculated and the continuous one from the experi
mental specific heats. The specific heats used in the latter
case are chiefly those given on page 89 of Lothar Meyer's
 ' Modern Theories,' translated by Williams and Bedson. If,
however, those determinations which agree more nearly with
the calculated numbers were used, the two curves would coin
cide even more closely.
    In the equation A=c(m+ Vv) the constant c is equal to
 6*6, and has been assumed to represent the atomic heat of the
 elements, whereas the atomic heat, on the basis of Dulong and
 Petit's law, is usually taken to be 6*4. This latter value,
 however, is obtained because the specific heats employed are
 mostly those which have been determined between 0° and
  100° C, whereas if the specific heats obtained at higher tem
 peratures (say 0° to 300 ) be emploj-ed a somewhat higher
 value, approximating to 6-6, will be found for the atomic heat.
    As is well known, the specific heat, and therefore the atomic
heat likewise, increases, though very slowly, with the tem
perature. If c, therefore, really represents the atomic heat,
it is not strictly but only approximately a constant, being a
function of the temperature. Consequently, in each of the

 112           Periodic Law of the Chemical Elements.
 equations
                A=c x spec, heat (Dulong and Petit's law).
               A=c (m+ \A>)>
 the atomic weight A is not exactly but only approximately
 equal to the expressions on the right-hand side, since the
 latter are a function of the temperature, whereas the atomic
 weight, so far as we know, is constant.
    According to Bettone the hardness of an element is
 inversely proportional to its specific volume. If this be so,
 then hardness may be represented in terms of the specific
 gravity and the expression 6*6 (m+ \/v), thus
                                     _sp. gr._        sp. gr.
            Hardness:
                       "spec. vol.     at. wt. 6-6(m+ <s/v)
    The following Table gives the hardness of a number of
elements as found experimentally by Bettone, and as calcu
 lated by the above equation :—
                                                    Hardness.
                            Specific
                            gravity.      Calculated.
                                             sp.gr.           Found
                                                            (Bettone).
                                          (V6(»i+ V»)'
     Carbon (diamond) ...     33              •250
                                              •158              301
                              8-0                               146
                              8-8             •140              136
                              715             •109              108
     Silver                  10-5             •0964             099
     Gold                    19-3              096              098
                              256             •092             082
                              8-65            •077
                              1-74            •071             •073
     Tin                      729             •063             •065
                             11-38            •055             •057
     Thallium                11-86            •057             •056
                              1-57            •037              041
                               •97            •042
                               •86                              040
                                              •022
   It should be noted, however, that Bettone's values, on
which he founds his law of hardness, do not agree in several
cases with those found by other observers, i. e. Calvert and
Johnson.
   In the expression A =C(m+ \/v) it has been stated that
m is the member of an arithmetical progression. For even

               Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 23. PI. I.
0 10 ZD 30 40
Atomic Weight,


               On two Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid.           113
series m is a whole number, whereas in the odd series it is a
whole number and a half, thus corresponding to the well-
known difference between elements of even series on the one
hand and odd series on the other.
   Again, in the arithmetical series,
      0 ; 2* ; 5 ; 8} ; 12 ; 15* ; 19 ; 22* ; 26 ; 29* ; 33
the common difference in the case of the first three members
is only 2*, whereas after that point it is 3* ; this corresponds
to the statement of Mendoljeff that the 2nd and 3rd series
(/. e. Li and Na series) of elements are more or less excep
tional in their character and not strictly comparable with the
subsequent series.
           IX. On two Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid.
 By A. L. Selbt, M.A., Fellow of Merton College, Oxford*.
A SPHERE is said to pulsate when it periodically dilates
         and contracts.
   If two pulsating spheres are immersed in a liquid, in
equalities of pressure in the liquid arise, and there is generally
a resultant pressure on each sphere urging it towards or away
from the other.
   An approximate expression of this is given in Basset's
' Hydrodynamics ' (vol. i. p. 255), but the proof is rather long,
involving an integration of pressures over the surface of a
sphere.
   By a somewhat different method I have obtained in § 5 an
expression which may be carried further than Mr. Basset's
without much labour ; and in §6 I have applied the method
to solve the more general problem relating to the case when
the radial velocities on the surfaces of the spheres are Zonal
Harmonics of the with and nth degrees respectively, with the
line of centres as their axis.
   A still more general solution can be derived from this ; for
when the radial velocities on the spheres are any functions of
the distance from the line of centres, each can be expressed as
a series of Zonal Harmonics.
   Since I wrote this paper I have found one by Prof. Pearson
(Trans. Camb. Phil. Soc. vol. xiv. part ii.) in which this
problem is investigated ; but numerical values of the constants
involved are only given for Harmonics of low degree.
   In dealing with these questions some propositions on
                   * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.            I

114                   Mr. A. L. Selby on two
 Images, due to Mr. Hicks, are required. His proofs will be
 found in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1880 ; but in
§§ 2-4 of this paper I give other proofs, in -which the subject
 is considered from a slightly different point of view.
    The main interest of the problem of pulsating spheres is
 derived from its experimental illustration by Prof. Bjcrknes.
     § 1. Preliminary Definitions.—A source of liquid of strength
 m is a point at which a volume of liquid 47rm is supplied per
 unit time. A sink (or negative source) of equal strength is
 a point at which liquid disappears at the same rate. A com
 bination of a source and sink of equal numerical strength m,
 at an infinitesimal distance d apart, is a doublet. As this is
 analogous to an infinitely small magnet, I shall call md the
 moment of the doublet. The intensity of a doublet is its
 moment divided by its length; it is analogous to the intensity
 of magnetization of a bar of unit section. The axis of a
 doublet is the line from the sink to the source.
    The lines of flow due to any distribution of sources and
sinks are the lines of force due to the corresponding magnetic
 poles.
    § 2. Let P, P' be a source m and sink — m on the straight
line OL:
          TPL = 0; TJ>'L = ff; TP = r; PF = d.
    Then the flow through the circle (of which TT' is the pro
jection) formed by revolving T round OL is
                        2-rnn (cos ff — cos 8).
                                FiK.l.
    Let P approach P so that PP' diminishes indefinitely,
md retaining a constant magnitude /*. Then
              27rm (cos ff — cos 8) = 27r/t sin2 8 . \r.
    If the source and sink are interchanged, the sign of the flow
is reversed ; we may consider /a as negative in this case.

                  Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid.              115
   Let a doublet of moment — p! be placed at Q, where
If TQL = 0, TQ = r/, the flow through TT due to this is
                          -2Vsin2«£./r'.
   The equation of a surface ot revolution across which there
is no flow from the doublets at P and Q is
        2-n(fi sin2 6 . jr—fJ sin2 <f> . Jr) = A, a constant.
   If A=0, this reduces to the line OL and the sphere
   If C be the centre of this sphere and a the radius,
                                                              tere
is part of a surface of flow, we may make a material sphere
occupy its place.
   Hence the effect of a sphere X (fig. 1) in disturbing the
flow from the doublet fi at P, distant / from its centre, is the
same as if the sphere were removed and a doublet —/w3//3
placed at Q. This doublet is called the image of (j, in the
sphere.
   § 3. To determine the image of a source fi at P.
   This source is equivalent to a line of doublets of intensity ft
extending from P to infinity along PO (fig. 1) . Its image is
therefore a line of doublets from Q to C.
   If fid be the moment of a doublet distant a2/x from the
centre, — /jdaP/a3 is the moment of its image. But the
lengths of corresponding parts of Poo and CQ are as a2: x2.
   Therefore the intensity of the image is — —, supposing
the axis along QC ; or —, regarding it as along CQ.
   Now a magnet of length I and unit section, whose intensity
of magnetization at a distance x from one end is Cx, is equi
valent (so far as concerns external action) to a quantity of
" magnetic matter " CI at the positive end, and a distribution
of line-density — C along the axis.
   Therefore, from the analogy between sources and magnetic
poles, the line of doublets is equivalent to a source fia/f at Q,
and a line sink of strength — fi/a per unit length along CQ.
   § 4. To find the image of a system of doublets PQ (fig. 2)
of intensity fix, where x is the distance from Q.
   Let P', Q' be the points inverse to P and Q.

116                 Mr. A. L. Selby on two
   Let N be a point on PQ, N' its image, QN=#, GP=f.
   By § 3 the image of a doublet of intensity fix at N is of
intensity -fixCW/a or -^CQ . QW/o.
                              Fig. 2.
   The image of the system PQ is therefore a line of doublets
in which the intensity is proportional to the distance from Q*,
and the image is similar to the system from which it is
derived.
   This result is easily transformed by the process used in § 3
into the following :—
   The image of a source /* at P and a line-sink PQ of strength
 — P5 Per umt ^gth *s a source fi.a/f at P' and a line-sink
P'O* of strength -^q,.
   It is clear that any system of sources and sinks of total
strength zero distributed along PQ has for its image another
such system distributed along P'Q'. For the given system
can be reduced to a system of doublets.
   § 5. To determine the stress between two spheres X, Y,
pulsating in an infinite liquid.
                              Fig. 3.
   Let A, B be the centres of the spheres (fig. 3) ; a, b the
radii. Then a, b are the normal velocities at the surfaces.

                    Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid.               117
    Let <f>A be the velocity-potential in the liquid when A pulsates
and B does not, <f>B the velocity-potential when B pulsates and
A does not. Then <f>A + <f>B is the velocity-potential when both
pulsate.
    For if rii, «j are normals to X, Y, drawn into the liquid,
 d^>Jdn1 = d,      d<pBjdnt = b,   d(f>A/dni=0)   d<}>B/dnl=0.   (1)
    Therefore, if $A + $B=<£,
                  d<pjdni = d    and    d<p/dn2 = b.
Also <£ satisfies Laplace's equation, and vanishes at infinity.
    If T be the kinetic energy of the liquid, p its density,
       2T
       P   -tfj{(g)'+(!H£)'W-
           --#<U+2666>£*-#<U+2666>£*                                          «>
the volume-integration extending through the liquid, and the
surface-integrals being taken over S1} Sa, the surfaces of X
and Y.
   But by the surface conditions (1) and by Green's theorem,
                 #<U+2666>»£*-#<U+2666>£*                            ¦  ¦  •  (3)
   Substituting </>A + <£B for <j> in (2), and employing (1) and
(3), we have
      2T/p=-d$$<t>AdS1-2b$$<pAdSi-b$S<pBdSa. .                  (4)
   Let P (fig. 3) be the inverse of A in the sphere Y; Q, C
the inverses of P, B in X ; B,, D the inverses of Q, 0 in Y.
   If Y were absent, the pulsations of X would give the same
velocity- potential as a source a?d at A.
   The image of this in Y is a line of doublets BP ; that of
BP in X is a line of doublets QO ; that of QC ho Y is a line
of doublets RD ; and so on.
   Now the flow across the surface X due to BP, QC ; RD, . . .
taken in successive pairs is zero ; and the flow across Y due to
A, BP; QC, RD; . . . taken in pairs is also zero.
  <f>A is therefore the velocity-potential due to these systems.
   It is simpler to transform each line of doublets into the
equivalent source and line-sink.
  Let AB = c, and denote a'd by /*.

118                     Mr. A. L. Selby on two
    The doublets BP reduce to a source p,h/c at P and a line-
sink        ~p along BP.
    The doublets QC reduce to a source \nab\(<? — b2) at Q and
a line-sink —QCffiy) along QC.
    We shall find that the doublets RD contribute a term of
order c-10 to T; this we shall neglect.
    The lengths of successive line-sinks diminish very rapidly,
each being to its predecessor in a ratio of the order <rl(? or
V/c*.               .
    Therefore, since BP = &2/C> the lengths QC, RD, . . . are of
order c*~8, c-5 . . . , and the strengths of successive sources
A, P, Q, . . . are of order 1, c_1, c~2 . . .
    If a source v at distance r from A contribute a term <f>y
to <f>A, it has been proved by Gauss that
f f $^8,= —47ra?v/r or — Airav, according as r> or <a. (5)
    {This may be proved in the following elementary way :—
      iet the sphere be an attracting shell of surface-density
unity.
   j" f (j>ydS is the work done by a particle v if the sphere recedes
to infinity.
   And— 4ira3v/r or — 47ravis the work done by the sphere
when the particle recedes to infinity, according asr> or <a.]
    Excepting the source /x at A, all the images within A are
of total strength zero.
   An image outside A consists of a source of strength s
distant p from A, and a line-sink — s/y per unit-length, with
extremities distant p, p + y from A.
    This contributes to the coefficient of iira? in — ff^^Sj
the term
or
                           --r  ** * da:
                           P Jo 7 p + x
which is, approximately,
                          -;->K)                                  »
                            «7/2ps-V/3p3                          (7)
For the image PB,
                  s = pb/e ; 7 = b2/c ; p = c-V/e. ...            (8)

                    Pulsating Splieres in a Liquid.            ] 19
   Therefore this contributes
                          lib
                          /io     ft ,
                                  fi.       c*
                                            <r
      The source at R is of order c~s; RD is of order c-5; AR is
   of order c.
      Therefore RD contributes a term of order c~10.
      Omitting terms of this order,
    —b\\<pBdS>2 can be written down by interchanging a and b.
      It remains to form the term — f f <£A rfS2 in (4) .
      A contributes a2a/c to the coefficient of lirb2; BP contri
   butes nothing.
      For QC, s = fiab/(^-b2); p = c-d1c/{<?-Vl), p being
   here reckoned from B ;
                            7    c^-V1)                         W
   *y'l3p3 is of order c-11;
                   2p>- c1 \2+           c2  ) ;
   RD contributes nothing, and further images uro negligible.
      Therefore, to terms of order c-9 inclusive,
         2T         o/l,       &        1,       c2 I
         _   = 4W(-+-^-z;log?-^j
                               Lc      2c'         c°  J
      Now the force tending to increase c, required to maintain
   c at its given value, is —-j- .
      Therefore, if the spheres are free to move they behave
                   dl
   as if a force -j— tended to separate them, and (omitting for
   brevity terms beyond c-8),
1<£T_     liraWdlf       la*b\    4toW/'1 , W\        iirlWa* /,    2a*\

120                   Mr. A. L. Selby on two
   If a, b be the mean radii of the spheres, T the period
of vibration, a, /? the amplitude of vibration,
                     . 2irf     . i Q . _ (t          \
          a = a + a sin      ,  b=l> + p sm 27rl +ey,
and, supposing the pulsations small, the mean value of the
force is (after replacing a, b by a, b)
          •         1 c2 V       2cVCOS T
                          ab , , . ,     . 2aV
   If the spheres are not very near, terms after that involving
c~2 can be neglected, and c tends to diminish or increase
according as cos          is positive or negative—i. e. according
as the phases of vibration of the spheres approach moro
nearly to coincidence or opposition.
   § G. The above method is also applicable when the dis
placement on each sphere is a Zonal Harmonic with the line
of centres as axis.
   Definition.—If (/, 0, 0) (x, y, z) be the coordinates of two
points C and P, at a distance r apart, a source at C which
                          dn /1\
gives a potential — fi — ( - J at P is called a source of the
nth order.                 *
   A doublet is a source of the first order, and a source of the
second order is derived from it in the same way as a doublet
from a source of order zero (hitherto called a source). A
source of the rth order is derived similarly from a source of
the r — 1th order.
   Let H (fig. 3) be the position of a doublet /j. distant / from
B along BA ; and let V be the potential at (x, y, z) due to H
and its successive images in Y and X.
   Take a doublet fi at H'such that BH '=/+<£/', and a doublet
—fi at H.
   The potential at (x,y, z) due to H' and its images is V + dV
                                                             ^fy-
   Therefore the potential due to a source fi of the second order
and its images is —;, and that due to a source ft of the nth
                       aJ
                            <r~lv
order and its images is        —r-
                           df

                  Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid.             121
    When the axes of the doublet and of the derived sources are
                                         „_id"-1V
 directed towards B, this becomes (— )"          .•
                                             J
    Now let the spheres X, Y vibrate so that the normal
 velocities are Zonal Harmonics uP„, vPM) having AB, BA as
 their respective axes.
    Then, since
                       d" ( 1 ^ Mn!Pa
                      d/"\rj
 X, if it vibrated by itself, would behave like a source of the
                         an+2u
 nth order of strength ^"T"J| , with its axis along AB.
    Let <f>A be the potential due to this source and its images.
 This is found by calculating successive images of the complex
 source H in Y and X, and making /= c after all operations
 are completed.
    If Y vibrated by itself it would be equivalent to a source
                     bm+2v
 of the With order,        j > and with its images it would give
a potential </>B.
    Then, as before, if both spheres vibrate,
  2T/p = -ufj^P^-2. n^P^-rU^P^S,. (10)
    To evaluate [j"^>APm<iS2, we proceed as follows:—
                      A — ( \n-\d*~^Y
                      9a-(~)         t^t>
                                     "/«
                                                 aB+2M
where ifr is the potential due to a doublet — ^ ^ (with axis
along AB) distant / from B, and to the images of the doublet;
the subscript c denoting that after all operations are completed
c is to be written for /.
    Now, if v be a source of order zero distant £ from B, <f>r its
velocity-potential,
        JjP-^dS,= ~(2m+l)r+1 ^ '<8»+l)6"w
according as £> or <b.

122          On hoo Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid.
   Whence, for a doublet v at the same point, with axis
along AB,
    being tlio velocity-potential due to v.
   But taking %>b, the image of the doublet v is — v6'/F>
distant 62/£ from B.
   The two doublets together give the term
                               t bm+2
                           -torv^a+i ;
and it remains to evaluate
                                ^n-l / j.m+2„
                                                    a"+2«
where the summation extends to the doublet              n (or it)
                                                    n+ 1 I       7
and its images outside Y.       For this doublet
                         v = /i; f =/.
   For Q, the next image outside B,
                          a'b3                  aj
                v ** * {cf-b2)'''             W-P'
   The succeeding image introduces a term of order c-'3 com
pared with that due to fi ; we shall neglect this.
   Making f=c after all operations are over, we have
     [•(.„ , ,Q       4tran+2bm+2uv C        m + n\
            .a**'/. ™ + 2.a2+» + 2.62 » \ ,                 I
            + 2?(1 +               ?          - + ?J+ ••••/'
where
p = (m + 2) (m + 3)a1 + 2(m + 2)(n + 2)a262+(ji + 2)(rl + 3>4.
   It remains to find Jj^P.dSj, from which jj ^BP„dS,
can be derived by symmetry.
   The source /tat A contributes a constant, which we need
not write.
  The images P and Q contribute a term found by making
                    v = pJ>'/f, £ = c-Vlf.
   The image It and its successor contribute only a small
term ; here f can be regarded as constant, since / only
occurs in a term of order c-5; and v is approximately
                                                              11

     On Transient Electric Current from Iron and Nickel. 123
   As far as terms of the order c-<2b+10) inclusive, —wjj PB<£AdSi
is made up of the term
     W+^V f _1_           (n + 2)H*       (n + 2)2(/i + 3)* ft*
                         , (n + 2)»(n + 3)'(n + 4)»&'           1
                        +             5!3!            c6 + -"r
due to the images P and Q, together with the term
                           2ira2n+ia3bsu2
                                (2n+ 10    '
due to the image R.
    By interchanging m and n, u and v, a and b, the remaining
term on the right-hand side of (10) can be found.
    If the vibrating spheres consist of liquid of density p', the
velocity-potential within X is uP„r"/nan~l, and the kinetic
energy of the sphere X is         fi>   ,,y    A similar expression
holds for the other sphere.
    When c is constant the principal term in the expression of
the stress between the spheres varies as c-<m+"+2> or as c-(2B+5),
or as c-(2ra+6).
     If u, v are simple harmonic functions of the time, the
 average stress between the spheres is to be found as before.
     The case when m=n=l has been discussed by Mr. Hicks
 {he. cit.); for all other values of m and n the centres of the
spheres are at rest.
X. On Transient Electric Current produced by suddenly twist
    ing Magnetized Iron and Nickel Wires. By H. Nagaoka,
    Rigakusi, of Imperial University, Tokyo*.
                               [Plate H.]
 IN a recent number of Wiedemann's Annalen, Herr
        Zehnderf communicated the result of his experiments
 on the transient current produced by twisting magnetized iron
and nickel wires, in which he finds the direction of current in
 nickel to be opposite to that in iron. The same result had been
 already known to me since July 1888. Being engaged in
    • Communicated by Sir William Thomson.
    t " Ueber Doformationsstrome." Wiedemann's Annalen, Bd. xxx\ iii.
 p. 68. This number reached me on 14th October, 1889.

124      H. Nagaoka on Transient Electric Current produced
the investigation of the effect of twist in the magnetization of
nickel and iron, I tried some preliminary experiments on the
transient current produced by twisting magnetized wires.
Thereby I hoped to trace some connexion between the transient
current thus observed and the reversal of polarity* produced
by twisting magnetized nickel wire, which is at the same
time subjected to longitudinal stress. Though nothing striking
was obtained in this direction, results not hitherto made known
by the researches of Matteucci t and Ewing \ were obtained.
The following is the description of the experiments made in
July and September, 1888.
    The wire to be examined was well annealed and hung in a
magnetizing solenoid. The coil was 30 centim. long and
wound in 12 layers of thick copper wire, giving a magne
tizing field of 36'7 units for a current of one ampere. The
upper end of the wire was held fixed, while the lower was
attached to a twisting apparatus provided with a graduated
circle and a pointer. The two extremities of the wire were
electrically connected to a low-resistance ballistic mirror-
falvanometer. The transient current was measured by the
  rst swing of the galvanometer. The deflexion was read
after suddenly twisting the wire between two extreme limits
of twist. Generally, it was after a number of twistings in
both ways from the initial position of no twist, that the
transient current settled to its final value.
    Since the present investigation was undertaken with a
view to ascertain the relation, if such exists, between this
transient current and the reversal of polarity, the effect of
longitudinal stress on the transient current was also looked
into, as this played an important part in producing the re
versal mentioned.
    A nickel wire 30 centim. long and 0*5 millim. in radius
was treated in the way above mentioned, the angle of twist
amounting to 60° in both directions from the initial position
of no twisting. The first experiment was performed under
no longitudinal stress ; the transient current produced by
suddenly twisting the wire in various magnetizing fields was
measured, the field being gradually increased from 0 to 110
   * See " Effects of Torsion and Longitudinal Stress on the Magnetiza
tion of Nickel," Jourii. of the Coll. of Science, Imp. Univ., Japan,
vol. ii., or Phil. Mag. Feb. 1880 ; and also " Effect of Twist on the Mag
netization of Iron and Nickel,'' Journ. of the Coll. of Science, vol. iii.
At the end of the latter paper a short sketch of the results on the transient
current is given.
   t See Wiedemann's Electricit'dt, Bd. iii. § 771.
   X Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xxxvi. 1884.

        by twisting Magnetized Iron and Nickel Wires.                   125
C.G.S. units (July 5, 1888). The following Table gives the
readings of the first swing in different magnetizing fields :—
    Nickel wire (r = "5 millim., I = 30centim., t = + 60°).
                                   Unloaded.
                          Beading of              Beading of
                            ballistic      £•       ballistic
                         galvanometer.           galvanometer.
                •21              7        13-8        149
                •34            16         19-9        151
                ¦71            26         31-7        152
               1-14            45         407         149
               201             85         48-8        145
               3-63           107         61 0        142
               4-74           122         756         136
               6-82           135        1100         124
               995            144
    The result is shown graphically in Plate II. fig. 1. Ex
 amining the curve we see that the current increases rapidly
 in low magnetizing fields ; but as the magnetizing force be
 comes greater the increase takes place very slowly, passes a
 maximum, and begins to diminish nearly in a straight line.
    On loading the wire and going through the same series of
 operations, the following readings of the deflexion were
 taken :—
    Nickel wire (r = "5 millim., I = 30 centim., t = + 60°).
           Loaded 3 kgs.                         Loaded 6 kgs.
                      Beading of                            Beading of
                       ballistic                              ballistic
                    galvanometer.                         galvanometer.
           •71             3                    11                 7
          10               8                    3-6               16
          36              30                    74                35
          6-8             64                   16-8               87
         100              98                   24-1              129
         19-9            140                   31-8              146
         31-8            154                   40-7              155
         410             159                   51-0              165
         491             161                   68-7              168
         60-6            160                   85-8              167
         830             158
    The above readings are plotted in fig. 1, from which we
  see that although the essential form of the curve is not

126    H. Nagaoka on Transient Electric Current produced
changed by loading, the maximum current is increased.
At the same time, the point at which the current passes a
maximum is shifted towards stronger field. The loading does
not produce any remarkable change in the transient current.
   Similar series of experiments were performed on an iron
wire T02 millim. thick and 30 centim. long (July 8, 1888).
The following Table gives the readings taken in different
magnetizing fields :—
    Iron wire (r = "51 millim., 1=30 centim., t = + 60°).
        With no load on.                  Loaded 6*4 kgs.
                 Heading of                        Beading of
        $.         ballistic              $•         ballistic
                galvanometer.                     galvanometer.
          •34          18                  •34          45
        11             55                 1-0           21
        1-8            92                 21            36
        36           109                  2-8           40
        47           114                  47            47
        6-8          108                  79            50
       100           ioa                 100            49
       201             74                192            39
       31-8            53                310            30
       410             44                410            24
   These and two others are shown graphically in fig. 2. A
glance at these curves will show that the transient current
at first increases rapidly as the field is increased, but soon
roaches a maximum and then begins to diminish gradually.
The application of longitudinal stress diminishes the current,
while at the same time the maximum point is transferred
towards higher magnetizing field.
   Comparing the results obtained for nickel and iron, we
notice a peculiar difference in the behaviour of these two
metals. The current which is produced by suddenly twisting
the wire in the magnetizing field is, in the first place,
opposite in direction. The direction* of the current in nickel
is such that, the twist being applied like a right-handed
screw, the current flows from south to north. In iron it is
from north to south. This singular fact was also noticed
later by Herr Zehnder.
   In the experiments hitherto described the magnetizing
force was gradually increased, and the transient current pro
duced by suddenly twisting the wire at different magnetizing
         * See Note by Sir W. Thomson appended to this paper.

          by twisting Magnetized Iron and Nickel Wires.         127
fields was observed. There we see that both in iron and
nickel the first increase of the field gives rise to rapid in
crease of the transient current. In unstretched iron this
 current attains its maximum strength at a field of about
 5 C.G.S. units. It then gradually decreases as the field is
 further increased. In nickel of nearly the,same length and
 thickness as the iron this current attains its maximum value very
 slowly, so that it is difficult to ascertain precisely the strength
 of the field at which this point is reached. Moreover, this
 maximum, though not very distinct, occurs at a magnetizing
 field far greater than that for iron.
    The application of longitudinal stress produces opposite
 effects in the transient current in iron and nickel. The tran
 sient current due to sudden twist in iron always decreases when
 acted upon by pulling stress, whereas in nickel it diminishes
 in low magnetizing field, but beyond a certain strength of the
 magnetizing force the current in stretched wire attains
 greater value than in the unstretched wire. Thus the maxi
 mum transient current in nickel increases with the amount of
 longitudinal stress.
     The effect of pulling the wire changes, not only the amount
 of the current, but also the strength of the field at which the
  current attains its maximum value. The effect is similar in
  both iron and nickel, although the amount of shifting of
  maximum in the former is less than in the latter.
     That the transient current produced in twisting iron wire
  reaches a maximum was first noticed by Professor Ewing ;
  the method of procedure in his experiments being different from
  the one here described. He measured the current produced
  in a twisted wire by reversing the direction of the magnetizing
  force. In the present experiment the current produced by
  twisting the wire was observed. In one of Professor Ewing's
  experiments the transient current induced in an iron wire
  34 centim. long and 1 millim. thick, and twisted through 60°,
  passed a maximum when the strength of the field was 15 or
  1(5 C.G.S. xinits. The wire used in the present experiments
  cannot be much different from the one used by Professor
  Ewing. The transient current attained its maximum value
  for «£>= 5. Whether the discrepancy between these two re
  sults is due to the quality of iron wire or to the difference in
  the method of procedure, is a question not easily to be
  decided.
     A simple glance at the results hitherto obtained will show
  the similarity between the phenomenon here investigated and
  the Wiedemann effect. In the latter phenomenon the twist
  produced by magnetizing a circularly magnetized iron wire

128    H. Nagaoka on Transient Electric Current produced
is in opposite sense to that of nickel. Moreover the
maximum twist in iron occurs in lower magnetizing field than
that in nickel. These facts closely resemble the transient
current produced by twisting nickel and iron wires. In fact
Professor J. J. Thomson* nas shown that the existence of
the Wiedemann effect necessarily leads to the production of
electromotive force by twisting a longitudinally magnetized
wire. According to Shelford Bidwellf the Wiedemann effect
in iron comes out in the same sense as in nickel when the
magnetizing force is sufficiently increased. In order to see
if there is any such similarity in these two phenomena, the
transient current produced in high magnetizing field was
examined.
   Using the dynamo current, a magnetizing force of 300 or
400 units was easily obtained, and observations made with
nickel wire are as follows (July 11, 1888) :—
          Nickel wire (r = '5 millim., I = 30 centim.).
                     Beading of
            «.        ballistic        Twist.
                    galvanometer.
                                          o
           333            55            ±60    Under no load.
           409            43            ±60            ,,
           333            66            ±60    Loaded 3 kge.
           321            81            ±60        ,.     6 „
           333            91            ±90        ii     6 „
   The transient current in nickel wire diminishes with the
increase of the magnetizing force, as will be seen from the
readings given above. Even in a field of 300 units, the load
ing produces increase of the current-strength.
   With an iron wire 1'46 millim. thick and 30 centim. long,
and twisted through G0°, the following readings were taken:—
                  &.            Beading.        Twist.
                                                    o
                  202               35           ±60
                  338         Inappreciable.     ±60
                  404                            ±60
                  550                            ±60
    * See ' Application of Dynamics to Physics and Chemistry/ p. 70.
    t Phil, ^lag. September 1886.

          by twisting Magnetized Iron and Nickel Wires.     121)
   The current produced in iron wire caused an appreciable
deflexion of the galvanometer in a field of 200 units, and in
the same direction as for lower fields. On raising the
magnetizing force to 300 or 400 units, no current of measur
able strength was produced. If the transient current becomes
reversed in direction, the deflexion of the galvanometer
becoming null in field of 300 units, an appreciable throw of
the mirror should have been noticed in the opposite direction
for .£ = 400 or =500. Judging from the fact that no such
change is observed, it seems probable that the current never
becomes reversed even by further increasing the magnetizing
force. The current thus appears to decrease asymptotically
with the increase of magnetizing field. Professor Ewing
also arrived at a similar conclusion.
   The next point to be investigated was the effect of various
amounts of twist on the transient current. There are two
ways of examining the proposed problem. We may cither
vary the magnetizing field, while the twist is kept constant,
and work out separately for different twists ; or we may keep
the magnetizing force constant while the twist is made to
vary.
   Both these cases have been tried. The first case was tried
with iron wire of different thicknesses, and the result is
shown graphically in fig. 3. The thinner wire was twisted
through ±15°, ±20°, ±30°, and ±60° (September 25,
1888). All these curves show that the current increases
with the increase of twist. The maximum point remains
nearly in the same magnetizing field for three small twists,-
but is shifted toward stronger field as the twist is increased.
A similar tendency will also be noticed in the curves obtained
for the wire of "73 millim. radius (September 22, 1888).
The rate of decrease of the current as the field is increased
becomes more rapid for the thick than for the thin wire.
   Similar experiments performed on nickel wire of 0*43
millim. radius are shown graphically in fig. 1 (dotted lines).
They are for the twists of 30° and 60° respectively. The
increase of the current with the increased twist is quite
apparent, but nothing definite can be said about the shifting
of the position of maximum transient current. After a
certain strength of the magnetizing force, the current in
creases so gradually, that without very delicate measurement
it is difficult to know exactly where tho maximum point is
situated.         y
   To examine now the current increases with the increase of
twist, I had recourse to the second mode of investigation, i. e.,
   Phil. Mao. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.      K

130   H. Nagaoka on Transient Electric Current produced
changing the amount of twist while the magnetizing force is
kept constant.
   The following Table gives the readings of the first swing,
in weak as well as strong magnetizing fields.
Iron Wire (r='51 millim.,           Iron Wire (r="73 millim.,
 Z=30 centim., £ = 2-45).            1=30 centim., £ = 112).
                Beading of                          Reading of
        r.        ballistic                r.         ballistic
              galvanometer.                       galvanometer.
         o                                  o
       10            4-0                   15            37
       15           159                    20            61
       20           30-2                   25            71
       25           434                    30            91
       30           529                    40           13-2
       40           63-5                   50           161
       50           687                    60           190
       60           71-7                   70           21-5
       70           707                    80           23-4
       80           70-3                   90           247
       90           688                   100           24-3
    The results of these and other experiments (September
 22-26, 1888) are plotted in fig. 4.
    Examining the curves obtained in weak magnetizing fields,
 we notice that the transient current increases with the
 increase of twist at first very rapidly, but after passing the
 " Wendepunkt " becomes very gradual. The current ulti
 mately attains maximum strength, and then begins to diminish.
 In a strong magnetizing field the current is greatly diminished,
 and the curve becomes less steep. The increase goes on
 slowly with the increase of twist up to the maximum. Com
 paring the results obtained in different magnetizing fields,
 we notice that the twist for which the current is maximum
 becomes greater as the magnetizing force is increased. In
 fact the maximum for the wire of radius "73 millim. occurs
 when the twist is about ±60° for £ = 5-0, while for £ = 112
 the twist of 100° is barely sufficient to make the current
 reach the maximum strength.
    With nickel wire treated in the same way as above, the
 following readings were taken (October 1, 1888): —

           by twisting Magnetized Iron and Nickel Wires.               131
    Nickel Wire (r=0'43 millim., Z=29'4 centim., £ = 27-5).
                         Beading of                Reading of
                 T.        ballistic       T.        ballistio
                        galvanometer.             galvanometer.
                iS            13          55            74
                15           21           GO           77
                20           35           70           79
                25           46           80           79-5
                30           57           90           80-3
                40           69          100           80-5
     The result is plotted in fig. 4 by dotted lines, where the
 ordinates are measured upwards for convenience, although
 they are actually below, as in fig. 1. The general feature of
 the curve does not differ much from those obtained for iron
 wires. The increase of the current beyond the "Wendepunkt "
 takes place very slowly, but it does not reach a maximum
 even for the twist of 100°. If the maximum exists, it must
 be for a larger angle of twist.
    It has been remarked by Professor Ewing that the produc
tion of the transient current is a natural consequence of Sir
 William Thomson's * discovery, that seolotropic stress gives
 rise to an aeolotropic magnetic susceptibility in iron. By
twisting the wire, the lines of induction, originally parallel to
the axis, are changed into helices. The component in the
 plane section, normal to the axis of wire, induces the transient
current above described. Taking the Villari reversal into
consideration, he also explained why the transient current in
iron does not flow in the opposite direction, when the mag
netizing force is greatly increased.
    The development of seolotropic susceptibility by twisting
the nickel wire, will similarly explain the production of
transient current in that metal. The stress on twisting the
wire is equivalent to extension and compression along lines
perpendicular to the radius, and inclined at 45° to the normal
?lane section. According to the experiments of Sir William
  homson t and Professor Ewing f, the susceptibility in iron
  * Phil. Trans. 1878 ; or ' Mathematical and Physical Papers,' vol. ii.
  tie.
   % Phil. Trans. 1888.

 132      On Transient Electric Current from Iron and Nickel.
 is, by stretching, rendered less in the elongational line than
in lines perpendicular to it. The result is that the lines
 of induction of twisted wire are no longer straight, but
 are changed into helical lines. They are inclined toward
 the direction of relatively increased magnetic susceptibility.
 The direction of the transient current will be thus deter
 mined by that of compression. In iron, on the contrary,
 the direction of the current is that corresponding to stretching* .
 Consequently, the direction of the current in nickel must be
 opposite to that in iron.
     In nickel there is nothing corresponding to Villari reversal
 in iron. The magnetization of nickel is always diminished by
 stretching, while it is increased by compression. The conse
 quence is that the circular component of the lines of induction
 is always on the increase as the twist becomes greater. This
 will account for the reason why the transient current does
 not reach a maximum even when Ihe angle of torsion
 amounts to 100 .
     Further investigations on the subject will be published in
 the Journal of the College of Science, Imperial University,
 Japan.
    Tokyo, Oct. 17, 1880.
 [Note on the Direction of the Induced Longitudinal Current in
     Iron and Nickel Wires by Ttcist when under Longitudinal
    Magnetizing Force. By Sir W. Thomson.
     To avoid circumlocutions suppose the iron or nickel wire
 to be vertical, and the magnetizing current to be in the
 opposite direction to that of the motions of the hands of a
 watch held with its face up. The undisturbed magnetization
 is downwards f. Now suppose a right-handed twist to be
    * For explanation of this see Note by Sir W. Thomson added below.
    t Much of circumlocution is avoidtd. aud of clearness gained, through
out dynamics and physics, by introducing the substantive noun ward (as
 has been done by my brother Prof. James Thomson in his lectures on
 Engineering, and in lithographed sheets put into the hands of his
students, in the University of Glasgow) to signify line and directum in a
line ;—that which is represented ordinarily by a barbed arrow. Taking
advantage of this usage I now define the ward of magnetization as the
ward in which the magnetizing force urges a portion of the ideal northern
magnetic matter or northern polarity. By northern polarity, I mean
polarity of the same kind as that of the earth's northern hemisphere. It
is that which is marked blue by Sir George Airy to distinguish it from
southern magnetic matter or southern polarity, which he marked red.
According to a usage condemned 300 years ago by Gilbert, but not yet
quite dead, English instrument-makers still sometimes mark with an N
the true south pole, aud with an S the true north pole, of their steel bar-
magnets. All confusion duo to this unhappy mode of marking magnets
is done away with by Sir George Airy's red and blue.

Fhil.Mafi. S. 5 Vol. 29 PI. II.
 132      On Transient Electric Current from Iron and Nickel.
 is, by stretching, rendered less in the elongational line than
 in lines perpendicular to it. The result is that the lines
 of induction of twisted wire are no longer straight, but
 are changed into helical lines. They are inclined toward
 the direction of relatively increased magnetic susceptibility.
 The direction of the transient current will be thus deter
 mined by tbat of compression. In iron, on the contrary,
 the direction of the current is that corresponding to stretching* .
 Consequently, the direction of the current in nickel must be
 opposite to that in iron.
     In nickel there is nothing corresponding to Villari reversal
 in iron. The magnetization of nickel is always diminished by
 stretching, while it is increased by compression. The conse
 quence is that the circular component of the lines of induction
 is always on the increase as the twist becomes greater. This
 will account for the reason why the transient current does
 not reach a maximum even when the angle of torsion
 amounts to 100 .
     Further investigations on the subject will be published in
 the Journal of the College of Science, Imperial University,
 Japan.
    Tokyo, Oct. 17, 1889.
 [Note on the Direction of tlie Induced Longitudinal Current in
     Iron and Nickel Wires hy Twist when under Longitudinal
     Magnetizing Force. By Sir W. Thomson.
    To avoid circumlocutions suppose the iron or nickel wire
to be vertical, and the magnetizing current to be in the
 opposite direction to that of the motions of the hands of a
 watch held with its face up. The undisturbed magnetization
 is downwards t- Now suppose a right-handed twist to be
    * For explanation of this see Note by Sir W. Thomson added below.
    t Much of circumlocution is avoided, and of clearness gained, through
 out dynamics and physics, by introducing the substantive noun ward (as
 has been done by my brother Prof. James Thomson in his lectures on
 Engineering, and in lithographed sheets put into the hands of his
students, in the University of Glasgow) to signify line and direction in a
line ;—that which is represented ordinarily by a barbed arrow. Taking
advantage of this usage I now define the ward of magnetization as the
ward in which the magnetizing force urges a portion of the ideal northern
magnetic matter or northern polarity. Bv northern polarity, I mean
polarity of the same kind as that of the earth's northern hemisphere. It
is that which is marked blue by Sir George Airy to distinguish it from
southern magnetic matter or southern polarity, which he marked red.
According to a usage condemned 300 years ago by Gilbert, but not yet
quite dead, English instrument-makers still sometimes mark with an N
the true south pole, and with an S the true north pole, of their steel bar-
magnets. All confusion due to this unhappy mode of marking magnets
is done away with by Sir George Airy's red and blue.

     IS    2D       25     30
Yield in C. Cr. S .unite .


                            Geological Society.                   133
given to the wire. Its elongational spiral is right-handed,
and its contractional spiral is left-handed. If the substance
is iron, the lines of magnetization become left-handed spirals ;
if nickel, right-handed. Now a downward current, in the
downwardly magnetized wire, would, by the superposition of
circular magnetization in the direction opposite to that of the
hands of a watch, cause the lines of magnetization to become
left-handed spirals. Hence the sudden right-handed twist
induces in iron a current upwards, in nickel a current down
wards. Thus we have the following simple specification for
the directions of the induced longitudinal currents in the two
substances, without reference to " up " or " down."
    From any point, P, on the surface of the wire, draw same-
wards parallels to the current in the nearest part of the mag
netizing solenoid, and to the direction of the induced longi
tudinal current. Draw a helix through P making an acute
angle with each of these lines. This helix is of same name
as the elongational helix for iron, and as the contractional
helix for nickel.—W. T., Dec. 21, 1889.]
              XI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                   [Continued from vol. xxviii. p. 493.]
  November 20, 1889—"W. T. Blanford, LL.D., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
 THE following communications were read :—
       1. " On the Occurrence of the Striped Hyaena in the Tertiary
of the Val d'Arno." By 11. Lydekker, Esq., B.A., F.G.S.
    2. " The Catastrophe of Kantzorik, Armenia." By Mons. F. M.
 Corpi.
    The villago is 60 kil. from Erzeroum, and 1600 metres above sea-
 level. Subterranean noises and the failure of the springs had given
 warning, and on 2nd August last part of the " Eastern mountain "
burst open, when the village, with 136 of its inhabitants, was
 buried in a muddy mass.
    The author doscribed the district as formed of Triassic, Jurassic,
 and Cretaceous strata, subsequently broken up and torn by granitic,
 trachvtic, aud basaltic rocks, which overlie or underlie the Secon
 dary rocks, according to the nature of the dislocation.
    The flow was found to have a length from east to west of 7-8 kil.,
 with a width ranging from 100 to 300 metres, and the contents were
 estimated at 50,000,000 cubic metres. It appeared as a mass of
 blue-grey marly mud, which, after the escape of the gases, soli
 dified at the top; the inequalities projected to the extent of 10
 metres. The site of the village was marked by an elevation of the

  134                      Geological Society :—
  muddy mass, some of the debris of the houses having beeu carried
  forward. The lower part of the flow was still in a state of motion,
  and carried forwards balls of marly matter.
     It was difficult to approach the source of this flow on account of
  the crevasses in the side of the mountain. An enormous breach
  served as tho orifice for the issue of the mud, which emitted, it was
  said, a strong odour. The violent projection of this marly liquid
  and " incandescont " (?) mass had carried away a considerable por
  tion of the flanks of the mountain, whose debris might be recognized
  on the surface of the flow by the difference of colour. Great falls
  were still taking place, throwing up a fine powder which rose into
  the air like bands of smoke. There were also fissures and de
 pressions of the ground at other localities in the neighbourhood.
    3. " On a now Genus of Siliceous Sponges from the Lower Cal
 careous Grit of Yorkshire." By Dr. G. J. Hinde, F.G.S.
        December 4.—W. T. Blanford, LL.D., F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. "On the Remains of Small Sauropodous Dinosaurs from the
 Wealden." By R. Lydekker, Esq., B.A., F.G.S.
    2. " On a peculiar horn-like Dinosaurian Bone from the Wealden."
 By R. Lydekker, Esq., B.A., F.G.S.
    3. " The Igneous Constituents of the Triassic Breccias and Con
glomerates of South Devon." By R. N. Worth, Esq., F.G.S.
    During the investigation several hundred fragments were exa
 mined, the largest occurring at Teignmouth, between which place
 and Dawlish the breccias arc most varied in composition, and con
 tain the greatest proportion of granitoid rocks. Tho igneous
 fragments were thus divided :—I. Granites ; II. Felsite group : a, non-
 schorlaceous, b. schorlaceous ; III. Andesitic group ; IV. Miscella
 neous. Of these, including in all 76 varieties, I., II. 6, and IV.
 are plainly of Dartmoor origin in gross, the schorlaceous and con
 tact-altered rocks having belonged to the outer or to an upper zone ;
 III. can for the most part be identified with the in-situ " felspathic
traps " of tho neighbourhood. The non-schorlaceous division of II.
differs but little from Dartmoor elvans; some may have been sur
face-portions of felsitic dykes, or even fragments of felsitic lavas.
The igneous fragments of the breccias, as a rule, are not much altered
structurally ; they are of local origin.
    The large blocks indicate the vicinity of high land abutting on a
shore-line. Of this high land Dartmoor is a relic. The transporting
power of water was perhaps supplemented by a glacial climate and
volcanic activity. De la Beche considered that igneous action
accompanied tho earliest " red-rock " deposits. The " felspathic
traps " are known to be both antecedent to and contemporaneous
with the breccias, and there is evidence which points to their being
comprised within the period of igneous activity represented by the
Dartmoor elvans. The author says that there is a preponderance of

              On the Glaciation of parts of Kashmir.                 135
volcanic over plutonic igneous rocks, and thinks that the existing
remnants of " felspathic traps " are not sufficient to supply the
quantity. He suggests that they must have come from an upper
portion of Dartmoor.
   In conclusion, the author considered that he has shown that the
igneous materials aro of local origin, and that they consist of granites,
felsites, and volcanic types, ranging from andesites to basalts ; that
the few igneous fragments not hitherto assigned to in-situ rocks are
yet of a similar character ; that the conditions under which the " fels
pathic traps " occur in situ load to the inference that they are vol
canic phenomena which probably represent the final phase of the
igneous activity of the Dartmoor region. Lastly, he expresses his
opinion that the elevation of Dartmoor and the associated igneous
phenomena took place at a period not earlier than the Permian.
   4. " Notes on the Glaciation of parts of the Valleys of the
Jhelam and Sind Rivers in the Himalaya Mountains of Kashmir."
By Capt. A. W. Stiffe, KG.S.
   After referring to the previous writings of Messrs. Lydekker,
Theobald and Wynne, and Col. Godwin-Austen, the author gave
an account of his observations made during a visit to Kashmir in
1885, which appeared to him to indicate signs of former glaciation
on a most enormous scale.
   A transverse valley from the south joins the Sind valley at the
plain of Sonamurg, and contains glaciers on its west side. These,
the author stated, filled the valley at no remote period, and extended
across the main Sind valley, where horseshoe-shaped moraines, many
hundred feet high, occurred, and dammed the river, forming a lake
of which the Sonamurg plain was the result. The mountains which
originated the above glaciers were described as being cut through by
the Sind river, and the rocks of the gorge were observed to be
striated, whilst rocks with a moutonnee appearance extended to a
height of about 2000 feet.
   The whole of the Sind valley was stated to be characterized by a
succession of moraines through which the river had cut gorges, whilst
the hillsides were seen to be comparatively rounded to heights of
200O feet or more.
   The author had also formed the opinion that at Baramulla the
barrier of a former lake occupying the Kashmir valley was partly
morainic, before reading Prof. Leith Adams's view of the glacial
origin of some of the gravels of this point.
   The whole valley of the Jhelam from this point to Moztifferabad
showed extensive glacial deposits, which had been modified by
denudation and by the superposition of detrital fans, widely
different in character from the glacial deposits. Relow Rampoor
the valley was thickly strewn with enormous granite blocks resting
upon gneiss, and the author believed that they had been transported
by ice.
    In conclusion, it was noted that the existing torrential stream had
 further excavated the valley since Glacial times and, in places, to a
considerable depth.

                             [   136     ]
           XII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      THE MAGNETISM OF NICKEL AND TUNGSTEN ALLOYS .
          BY JOHN TROWBRIDGE AND SAMUEL SHELDON.
                            Introductory.
rPHE fact that different kinds of steel, alloyed in small propor-
     tions with tungsten or wolfram, and magnetized to saturation,
increase in specific magnetism *, has long been known. Whether
the same effect would result from the use of nickel alloyed with
tungsten has never been investigated. This paper has for its
object a partial answer to the query. It was instigated by Mr.
Wharton, proprietor of the American Nickel Works, whose
chemist, Mr. Kiddle, kindly prepared the alloys which have been
employed. These alloys were in two groups. The first, received
in November 1888, consisted of three bars of the same shape, one
being of pure nickel and the other two having respectively 3 and
4 per cent, of tungsten in alloy. These bars were rolled from cast
ingots, which were toughened by the addition of magnesium after
1'leitmann's method, the magnesium being added just before
pouring. They were hot when rolled. The one of pure nickel
was afterwards planed into regular shape. Those containing
tungsten were too brittle to allow of this manipulation. They
were, however, of sufficient regularity to permit accurate measure
ments. This group contained also an octagonally shaped bar with
 8 per cent, of tungsten, which was prepared like the others, and
was afterwards ground into shape.
   The second group, received in May 18S9, contained bars which
were simple castings, made without the addition of magnesium,
and consisted of pure nickel and alloys with 1, 2, 3, and 6 per
cent, of tungsten. All the bars in this group were extremely hard
and brittle. In making them tungsten oxide, of weight calculated
to yield the desired percentage of tungsten in the resulting alloy,
was placed with adequate carbon in the bottom of a graphite
crucible and covered by the proper weight of pure grain nickel.
All was then covered with borax, the lid of the crucible was placed
on, and the crucible was heated until reduction and fusion were
completed.
                               Method.
   As the suspected influence of the tungsten would be to affect
the magnetic moment of the bars, these were magnetized to
saturation and their specific magnetism then determined, i. e.,
the magnetic moment for each gram of metal.
   The magnetization was effected by placing the bars separately
in a hollow coil whose length was 15 centim. and outside and
inside diameters respectively G and 3 centim. It consisted of 6
layers of wire having 63 turns each. A dynamo current of 40
        * Journ. Chum. Soc. 18G8, xi. p. 284, fays 300 per cent.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             137
  amperes was then sent through the coil for one minute, and the
 circuit then broken and the bars removed.
     For the determination of the magnetic moment, use was made
  of a reflecting-magnetometer, and deflexions were observed with a
 telescope and scale at a scale-distance of 100 centim. Measure
 ments of the horizontal intensity, H, of the earth's magnetism
 were first made. The results from these determinations by means
 of the first and second Gauss arrangements were, respectively,
                      H=0-1724 Centim. G. S.
                      H= 0-1720
 The freshly magnetized bars were then placed in the second Guass
 position relative to the magnetometer, and the angular deflexion
 determined. The specific magnetism, S, was then calculated by
 the formula
                              g _ r3 H tan <p
                                        m      '
 where
       r = distance from bar to magnetometer = 72-68 centim. ;
       H = earth's horizontal intensity = 0-1722;
       m = mass of the bar ;
       9 = angular deflexion of magnetometer.
                                    Results.
    The mean results of two sets of observations on Group I., and
 also upon a similar bar of soft tool steel, are given in the following
 table :—
                                   Group I.
   Composition.          Size in cms. Mass in grams. S[Om.l Gt.~i Seer1].
 Pure Nickel          18x2-7x0-65            284-5         1-23
 Ni + 3 p. c. W        „       „     „       286-5        10-60
 Ni + 4p.c.W           „       „     „       283-5        10-40
 Tool Steel           15x2-5x0-5             159-5         7-46
                       (Octagonal "\
                          13x1-5J            144-0         5-25
    Group II., of cast bars, gave the following results :—
                                  Group II.
   Composition.         Size in cms. Mass in grams. S[Cm.l Qri Sec.-1].
Pure Nickel           18 x 1-8 x 1-6          459          1-05
Ni + 1 p. c. W         „       „     „        455          1-92
Ni + 2 p. c. W          „      „     „        454          1-70
Ni + 3p.c.W             „      „     „        463          1-75
Ni + 6 p. c. W         „       „     „        465          1-15
    The bars of both groups were, subsequent to the above obser
vations, completely demagnetized, and then freshly magnetized.
New determinations gave the same results as before. The de
magnetization was accomplished by placing the bars inside two
coils, which were traversed by currents from an alternating
dynamo. The coils were then slowly drawn apart, and the bars
maintained at a position central between them. After treatment
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 176. Jan. 1890.               L

  138          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 in this manner, they showed no appreciable deflexion when placed
 in position relative to the magnetometer.
    The results tabulated indicate that tungsten greatly increases
 the magnetic moment of nickel, if the alloy be forged and rolled,
 but, on the other hand, has but small influence if it be simply
 cast. Furthermore, changes in the amount of tungsten do not
 appear to cause corresponding changes in the magnetic properties.
    To see whether the remarkable effect in bars 2 and 3, as com
 pared with bar 1, of Group L, was owing to some molecular
 condition of their surfaces induced by rolling, two bars from the
 same steel, one rolled and the other pressed, were magnetized and
 then measured. The ratio of the specific magnetism of pressed to
 rolled was as 9 to 5, the rolled having the smaller amount. The
 existing difference, in this case, is probably owing to a difference
 in hardness rather than to any molecular condition of the surfaces,
    The specific magnetisms of all the bars are small when compared
with good steal magnets. Kohlrausch says that good magnets of
common form should have S=40. The bar of ordinar)- tool steel,
however, retained but 7-46. Still it was soft, and by tempering
would doubtless have doubled this value.
    If forged nickel and tungsten can be made to maintain a specific
magnetism of 10, it will form a useful addition to the resources of
physical laboratories. From the high polish of which it is suscep
tible and its freedom from damaging atmospheric influences, it will
be most hapily suited for the manufacture of mirror magnets where
magnetic damping is to be employed.—Silliman's American Journal
of Science, December 1889.
NOTE ON THE APPLICATION OF HYDRAULIC POWER TO MER
   CURIAL PUMPS. BY FREDERICK J. SMITH, M.A., MILLARD
    LECTURER, TRINITY COLLEGE, OXFORD.
   In vol. xxv. p. 313, 5th series, Phil. Mag., a description is given
of the application of hydraulic power to the working of mercurial
pumps.
   Since the paper was written the author has ceased to use rubber
tubes, and has, in their place, introduced flexible tubes made of
steel. As the alteration has proved itself to be satisfactory, and
may be of use to those who work with mercurial pumps, or similar
apparatus, he ventures to add this note.
   The steel tube is made by the Flexible Metallic Tube Co. in
the form of a hollow screw, or tube on which a screw-shaped
indentation has been impressed. The outcome of the construction is
that while the tube is under a great pressure it is quite flexible,
behaving itself in much the same way as a strong rubber tube, with
the advantage over the latter of being durable when subject to,
constant motion. Several pieces of tube, made of steel and bronze,
have been tested up to 200 lb. per square inch, without showing
any signs of being injured. These have been used in the labora
tory for connecting together vessels which are subject either to a

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.              139
high pressure or a vacuum. Sometimes the tube has been used
for liquids which act upon the metal it is made of ; when this has
been the case, a rubber tube has been threaded through the metal
 tubes, so as to form a protective lining.
        ON EVAPORATION AND SOLUTION AS PROCESSES OF
                 DIFFUSION. BY PROF. J. STEFAN.
   In a paper published in 1873 the author described experiments
which he made on evaporation from narrow tubes. Those obser
vations led to the law that the velocity of evaporation is inversely
proportional to the distance of the surface from the open end of
the tube. The application of the theory of the diffusion of gases
to this process led to the same law, and at the same time furnished
a complete determination of the velocity of evaporation, which
renders it possible to calculate the coefficient of diffusion of vapours.
These experiments have been extended by Winkelmann to several
series of liquids, and have been used to determine the coefficients
of diffusion of their vapours.
   Similar experiments to those on evaporation may be made on the
solution of solids in liquids. A rectangular prism of rock-salt
was made ; its height was 30 millim., and the two other dimensions
were 7 and 9 millim. Glass plates were cemented by Canada
balsam to the bottom and sides, so that only the top surface of the
prism was free. In one of the glass plates a scale is etched. If
the prism, with its top upwards, is immersed in a large vessel of water,
its solution takes place from the top and the process can be
observed on the scale. After 1, 4, 9, 16 days the solution had
extended to 6-3, 12-6, 18-8, and 25 millim. These depths are as the
square roots of the times. Hence for this process the law holds
that the velocity of the solution is inversely proportional to the
distance of the rock-salt surface from the open end of the prism.
   If such a prism is dipped with the free surface downwards, the
solution proceeds with almost uniform velocity. In one hour 17"1
and in 1| hours 25-6 millim. were dissolved. A prism of a metre
in magnitude requires for its solution from upwards 70 years, and
downwards 2^ days ; the former times increase with the magnitude
in a quadratic, and the latter in simple ratio.
   Experiments of the first kind may be used for investigating the
diffusion of salts through their solvents. It is necessary for this
to represent the process in a form which can be calculated from
the theory of diffusion. This gives a new method for determining
the coefficient of diffusion of salts. The method is not restricted
to such bodies as can be obtained in large crystals. If a uniform
mixture or a magma is formed of the powder and its saturated
solution, aud if a graduated tube is filled with it, the progress of
the solution can be as well observed by it as with a prism of rock-
salt. The law in this case is the same as in the former case,
though the absolute value of the velocity with which the plane of
separation of the solution and of the magma moves downwards

  140            Intelligence and. Miscellaneous* Articles.
  is greater, snd the more so the smaller the quantity of undissolved
  salt in the magma.
     The mathematical part of the paper consists of four divisions.
 In the first, the equations of the theory of diffusion of gases
 are developed. In the second, they are applied to evaporation.
  The solution of this problem in the former paper was only an
 approximate one, yet quite sufficient for calculating the experi
 ments. In the present paper the exact solution of the problem
 is communicated. Their establishment forms a fresh application
 of the equations which the author has developed in the theory of
 the formation of ice. In the third section the differential equations
 of the diffusion of gases are transformed into the equations which
 serve for calculating the diffusion of liquids. The last section
 contains the applications of these equations to the calculation of
 experiments on diffusion.— Wiener BericJUe, Nov. 21, 18S9.
 ON THE CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE RESULTING FROM THE
     TORSION AND DETORSION OF METAL WIRES.                     BY DR. A.
     WASSMUTH.
    In the year 1878 Sir W. Thomson (Phil. Mag. vol. v. p. 19)
deduced from the mechanical theory of heat the principle that a
 twisted wire must become cooled when the torsion is suddenly
carried further.
    In the above research it is proved for iron, brass, and particularly
for steel that the phenomenon in question actually occurs ; and the
opposite one on detorsion, that the cooling or heating increases
with the angle of rotation, and that the change of temperature
observed for a steel wire agrees very well with the calculated one.
    In these experiments thermoelements were soldered to six steel
wires connected with each other by pieces of wood, and slightly
stretched horizontally, in such a manner that this wire arrangement
could both be stretched and twisted. It was possible in this way
to compare the very small changes of temperature on torsion and
detorsion with the much larger ones due to stretching, and which
indeed can be done in two ways. For the cooling 0 which occurs
on the torsion of a wire of length I from the angle u>0 to wl it was
calculated
                 .m „       . n     E    jt_r. I w,"
                                         T41           t
                                                 w* — to,
                J_ c 0 = t
                   I         10* 2(1+/,) 2' 2        ?
                                                   E
in which m was the weight, r the radius, _               . the modulus of
           n                                   4^+W
torsion, ttt? its relative decrease with the absolute temperature t,
c the specific heat of the wire, and J the mechanical equivalent
of heat. There was thus obtained for 0,
            Calculated 195-10-5 of a degree Centigrade;
            Observed 191-10-5
Several further experiments likewise showed agreement with what
has been said.— Wiener Berichie, Nov. 7, 1889.

    WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS.
  The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine.
       Monthly. 2s. Qd.
  The Annais and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. 2s. Qd.
  The Observatory, Monthly Review of Astronomy, la.
  Aelfric Society's Publications. 15 parts. 37s. Gd.
  Aitchison's (J. E. T.) Catalogue of Plants of Punjab. 10s.
  Baird's (Major) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. Qd.
  Chimmo's (Capt.) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 5s.
  Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
  Davis's (J. B.) Crania Britannica. £6 10s.
  Davis's (J. B.) Thesaurus Craniorum. 20s.
  Douses Introduction to Gothic of Ulfilas. 10s. Qd.
 English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School. 3s. Qd.
 Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
       Surgeons. Qd.
    Ditto for Diploma in Public Health. Qd.
 Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics, 16*.
 Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T. Blanfohd, F.H.S.
            Mammalia, Part I. 10s.
            Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
            Birds. Vol. I. 20s.
 Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 50s.
 Glaisher's Barometer Tables. Is.
 Glaisher's Diurnal Range Tables. Is. Qd.
 Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. Gd.
 Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. each.
 Hopkins's (E.) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 10s.
    Ditto. Illustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
 Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
 Lewis's (G.) Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s.0rf.; on one side, S$.6d.
 Lodge's Electromotive Forces in Voltaic Cell. 2s. Qd.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, Memoirs. Vols. 8 and
      10. 7s. each.
M'Intosh's Marine Invertebrates. 21s.
Merington's French Primer. 2s. Qd.
Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. Qd.
Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3s. Qd.
Merington's Perrin's Fables. 2s. 6d.
Merington's Reading made easy. 2s. Qd.
Moon's Theory of Infinite &c. Is.
Mulcaster's (J. W.) Statics. 7s. Qd.
Olsen's f O. T.) Piscatorial Atlas. Coloured, 52s. Qd. ; uncoloured, 42s.
Owen's ( Sir R.) Aspects of Body in Vertebrates and Invertebrates.
      2s. Qd.
Pascoe's Classes, Orders, 8cc. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. Gd.
Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
Pascoe's Notes on Natural Selection and the Origin of Species. Is.
Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. Qd.
Pengelly's (W.) Lignite of Bovey Tracey. 15s.
Phillips's Geology of Yorkshire. 2 parts. iJOs. each.
Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol. I. Parti. 4s.
Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
Royal College of Surgeons Calendar. Is.
Sharp's (Dr. D.) Staphylinidae of Japan. 3s. Qd.
Smith's (R. A. ) Century of Science in Manchester. 10s.
Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £6 t's. ; Ser. 2, £1 4s.
Thomson's i^Sir W.) Tables for facilitating Sumner's Method at Sea.
      10s. Qd.
   Forms for ditto. StJH, Is. Stabs, Is.
Univ. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. Qd.
Univ. Coll. Pathological Catalogue. 2 Parts. 2s. each.
Univ. Coll. Library Catalogue. 3 Vols. 7s. Qd.
Univ. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. Gd.
Walker's (Rev. R.) Constitution of Sun. 3s.
Wheatstone's ("Sir C.) Scientific Papers. 15s.
Wiegmann's Herpetologia Mexicana. Part I. Coloured PlateB. 40s.
W ollaston's Notes on Lepidoptera of St. Helena. 3s. Qd.
           EEU LION COUP.T. FLEETSTPEET, LONDON, E.C.

             CONTENTS of N° 17&.—Fifth Series.
   I. On Bells.      By Lord Rayleigh, Sec. B.S                          page    I
   II. On the Kinetic Theory of the Phenomena of Dissociation in
Gases. By Ladislaus Natansoj*                                                   18
   III. The Temperature of the Moon. From Studies at the
Allegheny Observatory by S. P. Langley, with the assistance of
F. W. Vert                                                                      31
   IV. On a New Electric Radiation Meter. (Preliminary Note.)
By W. (t. Gregory, M.A., Demonstrator in Physics at the Royal
Indian Engineering College, Coopers HiU                                         54
   V. On Electrifications- due to the Contact of Gases with Liquids.
By J. Enright, B.Sc                                                             56
   VI. The Effect of repeated Heating and Cooling on the Electrical
Resistance of Iron. By Herbert Tomlinson, E.R.S                                 77
   VII. On the Importance of Quaternions in Physics.               By Pro
fessor Tait                                                                     84
   VIII. An Approximate Algebraic Expression of the Periodic
Law of the Chemical Elements. By Thos. Carnelley, D.Sc, Pro
fessor of Chemistiy in- the University of Aberdeen. (Plate I.) . .              97
   IX. On two Pulsating Spheres in a Liquid.             By A. L. Selby,
M.A., Fellow of Merton College, Oxford                                         113
   X. On Transient Electric Current produced by suddenly twisting
Magnetized Iron and Nickel Wires. By H. Nagaoka, Rigakusi,
of Imperial University, Tokvo ; with Note by Sir W. Thomson.
(Plate II.)                                         '                          123
   XI. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society :—Mons-. F. M. Corpi on the Catastrophe
        at Kantzorik, Armenia ; Mr. R. N. Worth on the Igneous
        Constituents of the Triassic Breccias and Conglomerates of
        South Devon : Capt. A. W. Stiffe on the Glaciation of parts
        of the Valleys of the Jhelam and Sind Rivers, Kashmir. 133-135
   XII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      The Magnetism of Nickel and Tungsten Alloys, by John
        Trowbridge and Samuel Shelden                                          136
     Note on the Application of Hydraulic Power to Mercurial
        Pumps, bv Frederick J. Smith, M.A., Millard Lecturer,
        Trinity College, Oxford                                                138
      On Evaporation and Solution as Processes of Diffusion, by
        Prof. J. Stefan                                                        139
      On the Changes of Temperature resulting from the Torsion
        and Detorsion of Metal Wires, by Dr. A. Wassmuth                       140
%• It is requested that all Communications for this Work may he addressed,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing' Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 29.                   FEBRUARY 1890.                               No. 177.
         Published the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. Qd.
                           I    FEBTkfe>^ j
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                  MAGAZINE,
                                       AND
             JOURNAL OF                         SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine/
       Nicholson's 'Journal/ and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                  CONDUCTED BY
        SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.RI.A. F.C.S.
        SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.RS. &c.
                                       AND
        WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                           FIFTH          SERIES.
                     N° 177.— FEBRUARY 1890.
                          WITH THREE PLATES.
  Illustrative of Mr. C. A. Carus-Wilson's Paper on the Behaviour of
                        Steel under Mechanical Stress.
                           )U LONDON:
       PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
  Sold by Kent and Co. ; Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. j—
    and by A. and C. Black, and T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
    Glasgow:—Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin:—Putnam, New Tork : — Veuve J.
    Boyveau, Paris :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                                          On Sale by
              MACMILLAN AND BOWES, CAMBRIDGE.
   Clapin, A. C.         Optical Problems.         8vo.     1850.    3s.
          A systematic collection of examples elucidating the various theorems of Geome
       trical Optics —Illumination, Direct and Oblique Eeflection and Refraction, Prisms.
       Lenses, Aberration, Dispersion of Light, Images and Vision, Telescopes, Rainbow, &c.
  De Morgan, A.             The Book of Almanacs, with an Index of Reference,
      by which the Almanac may be found for every year, from any Epoch, up to a.d.
      2000, &c. 2nd edit. Cloth. 1871. 6s.
  Earnshaw, S.           The Doctrine of Germs, or the Integration of certain
      Partial Differential Equations which occur in Mathematical Physics. 8vo. 1881. 3s.
  Elms, R. Leslie [1817-59].               Mathematical and other Writings, edited
      by Wm. Walton. Memoir bv Harvey Goodwin (now Bishop of Carlisle). Portrait.
      8vo, cloth. 1803. 12s.
         Contend : —On the Foundations of the Theory of Probabilities, the Method of
      Least Squares, the Integration of certain Differential Equations, the Achromatism
      of Eye-pieces of Telescopes and Microscopes, Lines of Curvature on an Ellipsoid,
      Notes on Magnetism, &c, &c.
  Gregory, Duncan F. [1813-44].                    Mathematical Writings, edited by
     W. Walton, with Memoir by R. Leslie Ellis. Portrait. 8vo, cloth. 1865. 8s.
         Contents : — On the Real Nature of Symbolical Algebra, the Solution of Linear
     Differential Equations with Constant Coefficients, Circular Sections in Surfaces of
     the Second Order, Solution of some Problems in Transversals, Solution of Partial
     Differential Equations, on the Impossible Logarithms of Quantities, Application of
     Algebraical Symbols to Geometry, &c, &c.
 Newman, F. W.             Mathematical Tracts, Part I.            8vo.    1888.    5s.
        Tract I. On the Bases of Geometry, with the Geometrical Treatment of »— 1.
     II. gives the Geometrical Theory of V — 1 as a First Supplement to Elementary
    Algebra. III. On Factorials, Second Supplement to the same. IV. On Super-
    linears (ill-called Determinants), Third Supplement. V. Register of A-" in Tables ;
    where A means the series 2, 3, 4, . . . 51 with some higher integers ; A-" is carried
    to 20 decimals, and n is in each Table 1, 2, 3, . . . until A-" vanishes. VI. Registers
    xn from J=02 to x=-50, where x" is carried to 12 decimals and n is integer.
 Newman, F. W.             Mathematical Tracts, Part II.            8vo.    1889.    4s.
    Contents:—Antieyclics, with skeleton Tables of Anticyclics carried to 16 decimals.
 Newman, F. W.             Elliptic Integrals. 8vo. 1889. 9s.
 Newman, F. W.             The Difficulties of Elementary Geometry, especially
   those which concern the Straight Line, the Plane, and the Theory of Parallels.        8vo.
    1841 (pub. 8s.). 2s. 6d.
Newton, Sir Isaac.              Bibliography of the Works of Sir Isaac Newton :
   together with a List of Books illustrating his Life and Works. By G. J. Oiiav.
        120 copies printed for Subscribers. Only a few remain, price 5s. nett.
The Mathematical Monthly.                    Edited by J. D. Runkle.          Complete in
   3 vols. Royal 8vo. Cambridge, Mass., 1859-61. 38s.
       This journal, now scarce, was discontinued at the time of the American Civil War.
   Contains contributions by P. E. Chase, G. B. Bond, Prof. Pierce, . W. D. Eenkle,
   Elias Lonmis, S. Newcomb, A. Cayley, J. E. Oliver, T. H. Safl'ord, W. Watson,
   E. B. Elliott, Chauncey Wright, W. Chauvenet, W. Ferrcl, Matthew Collins, C. H.
   Davis, and others.
Cambridge Mathematical Journal.                        Edited by D. F. Gregory and
   R. Leslie Ellis.    4 vols.  1839-45.    £8 8s.
Cambridue and Dublin Mathematical Journal.                            Edited by Sir Wm.
   Thomson and N. M. Ferrers.        9 vols.  1846-54.      ill Us.
Messenger of Mathematics. (1) The Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin :
  a Journal supported by the Junior Mathematical Members of the three Universities.
  5 vols. 1862-71- (2) New Series. Edited bv W. A. Whitworfh. J. W. Lewis,
  C. Taylor, R. Pendlebury, and J. W. L. Glaishcr. Vols. I. to XV11I. 1872-89.
  23 vols. £12 10s. 6d.
Quarterly Journai of Pure and Applied Mathematics.                              Edited by
  J. J. Sylvester, G. G. Stokes, A. Cayley, N. M. Ferrers, and C. Hermite.        Vols. I. to
  XXIV. 1853-89. £30.
                              Catalogues free on application.

                                                    DUBLIN
       PHILOSOPHICAL                             MAGAZINE
                                     AND
           JOURNAL                    OF        SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                      \FEBRUAR Y 1890.
  XIII. The Pressure- Variations of certain High-Temperature
                Doiling-Points. By Carl Bakus *.
 1. TN the following pages I briefly describe a practical
      JL method for the calibration t of thermocouples by aid
 of boiling-points, and then apply it in measuring the vapour-
 tensions of zinc, cadmium, and bismuth. During the course
 of the work a neglected principle of Groshans % is advan
 tageously employed. I must state at the outset that it is not
 the object of this paper to furnish accurate values for boiling-
 points. My purpose is to investigate the probable nature of
 the relation of boiling-point to pressure, throughout very
    * Communicated, with the permission of the Director of the U.S.
Geological Survey, by the Author.
   t The literature of the subject, which is very voluminous, may be
omitted here, because I give a full account of it in the Bulletin of the
U.S. Geological Survey, no. 54, pp. 23 to 55, 1880. Among recent
authors H. Lie Chatelier (cf. Bull. Soc. Chim. Paris, n. s. xlv. p. 482,
1886; ibid, xlvii. pp. 2, 300, 1887; C. P. cii. p. 810, 1886 ; Journ. de
Phytique, vi. p. 23, 1887, and elsewhere) is particularly active in pro
moting thermoelectric high-temperature research. In the ' Bulletin '
I describe methods of standardization by aid of boiling-points (pp. 84 to
1 25), and by direct comparison with Deville and Troost s porcelain air-
thermometer (pp. 165 to 248). I also submit an independent method of
my own, based on the high-temperature viscosity of gases (pp. 248 to
306). Experiments made conjointly with my colleague, Dr. William
Hallock, on capacious high-temperature vapour-baths, are discussed in
another part of the ' Bulletin ' (pp. 56 to 83).
   % Groshans, Pogg. Ann. lxxviii. p. 112, 1840.
Phil. Mag. S. f>. Vol. 29. No. 177. Feb. 18W.                 M

142       Mr. Carl Barus on the Pressure- Variations of
wide ranges of temperature, with the hope of stimulating
speculations on the subject, somewhat more rigorous than that
of Groshans (§16). It is clear that if a law can be found by
which the normal (76 cm.) boiling-point of a substance can
be predicted from an observed low-pressure boiling-point,
then a more complete knowledge of high temperature boiling-
points can be arrived at than is now available. More than
this : by varying pressure, boiling-points of different metals
may be made to overlap each other. Hence a thermocouple
calibrated as far as the boiling-point of zinc, for instance,
may be used to measure a low-pressure boiling-point of bis
muth ($ay) ; and the couple then may be further calibrated
by the normal boiling-point of bismuth, predicted by aid of
the law in question. The process may obviously be repeated.
The couple whose calibration interval has been enlarged in
the manner given may now be used to fix the low-pressure
boiling-point of some other suitable metal, and then in turn
be further calibrated by aid of its boiling-point. The limit of
such a method is the fusibility of platinum. The fact that at
high temperatures the vapours to be used will be either mon-
atomic or diatomic enhances the interest of the project (cf.
Biltz and V. Meyer, § 15, below).
    2. The platinum /iridio-platinum thermocouple used in
this work had on another occasion * been tested for poly
merization anomalies, by minute comparison with the porce
lain air-thermometer, and between about 400° and 1300°
none were found. The alloy contained about 20 per cent, of
iridium. Unfortunately 1 could not avail myself of the former
air-thermometer comparisons, nor was it expedient to repeat
 the work. M. Le Chatelier t rejects the iridio-platinum
 couple because of irregularities of the kind referred to. Dr.
 Hallock and I have also found them pronounced in other
 iridio-platinum couples }. In the present couple slight irre
 gularities between 350° and 450°, equivalent to about 5°, had
 to be allowed for. When the range of temperatures is very
 large, the Avenarius-Tait equation is insufficient ; but this
 equation subserves a good purpose when interpolations be
 tween two fixed temperature-data are called for, the data lying
 anywhere on the scale, but not too far apart.
                                Apparatus.
    3. Boiling-points below 500° may be studied in a closed
 glass tube, aaaa, fig. 1, within which a tbin-walled tube, d d d,
 open at both ends, passes coaxially quite through. In the
        • Bull. U.S. Geol. Survey, no. 54. p. 208 et seq.,
        t Le ( 'halelier, /. c.
        j Bull. U.S. G. S. no. 54. pp. 80. 114 rt nrq., 1889.

             certain High-temperature Boiling-point*.               143
bottom of the annular space between the tabes, the ebullition
liquid, k k, is placed, and it is heated by Wolcott Gibbs's ring-
   Fig. 1.—Longitudinal section of boiling-point tube. Scale i to J.
                              A
                                    \
burner, r r. A conical asbestos screen, n n, protects the
upper part of the tube from direct radiation. Other screens
                                 M2

 144       Mr. Carl Barus on the Pressure- Variations of
and jackets, pppp, are suitably added. The upper end of
 the tube, aaaa, is in communication with the air-pump,
 through the lateral tubulure h. Finally, to obviate breakage,
 the lower end of the tube is protected by a metal jacket, m m.
    The thermocouple to be calibrated, aojS, is introduced into
 d d from below, and raised until the junction o is slightly
above the plane of ebullition of the liquid, k k. The upper
 part of the tube is closed with asbestos wicking (not shown)
 as far down as o. The wires of the couple pass through
parallel canals in a rod of fire-clay, x y, and are thus well
insulated. The boiling-points of most organic substances,
 mercury, sulphur, &c, are conveniently obtained in this way,
provided the pressure be not too low (§§6, 7). The vacuum
boiling-point of cadmium is also easily reached. In general,
boiling may be kept up for any length of time—often a great
desideratum. If the substance k k be very volatile, like
methyl alcohol for instance, a condenser is added at A. By
using diphenylamine and a thickly jacketed tube, I found no
difficulty in keeping the whole column (30 cm. long) at
a practically constant temperature (310°). When normal
boiling-points (76 cm.) only are wanted, it saves breakage to
leave the tube aaaa open above, and to close it with a
cork *.
    4. In the case of boiling-points above 500" it is more conve
 nient to use glazed porcelain or fire-clay crucibles, resembling
 a ebbfa, fig. 2. In some forms I run the central tube bcb
 quite through the crucible, so as to project at the lid ; but
this makes the apparatus very much more fragile. Usually
the closed tube b c b of the figure is satisfactory. The ebul
lition liquid is shown at k k, and the thermocouple a. o y3 is
again introduced from below, dd is the fire-clay insulator.
 To vary the pressure under which boiling takes place, the
tube a is connected with an air-pump. Finally a tight joint
at e/is secured by calking with asbestos fibre, and then filling
 up the annular space left above the asbestos with fusible
 metal.
    The crucible a ebbfa is surrounded by a small furnace of
Fletcher's composition, F F F F, and heated by one or more
 blast-burners, A B. Products of combustion escape at D.
 If the flame impinges directly on the cold crucible the latter
is apt to get broken ; but such breakage may be prevented by
surrounding the crucible with a conical shell of asbestos.
 Unfortunately crucibles can be used but once, for they are
   * For details of construction, manipulation, degree of constant tem-
pprature, burner, insulators, Ac, see the ' Bulletin (54) cited, pp. 80 to
89, 04 to 07.

           certain High-temperalure Boiling-points.                      145
usually fractured by the cone of solidified metal k k on heating
a second time. Any single ebullition, however, may be
   Fig. 2.—Longitudinal section of boiling-point crucible. Scale \.
                               (t
                       r\
                                                        vBnnnBBBBnnk
     •! t»
    :iu.i.
                                             luilll>linjm>inin>ini..rTr.I
   <£
prolonged almost indefinitely, that is half a day or more. I
found no «erious difficulty in obtaining vacua of two or three

 146       Mr. Carl Barus on the Pressure- Variations of
 millimetres, at extreme white heat. The crucible must be
 well glazed internally ; and it is probable that the work will
 be facilitated by using tubular forms made in a single piece,
 t. e. without the joint ef. In such a case the crucible ebb fa
 may be reduced in size, and placed wholly within the furnace,
 the tube a leading out of it. The charge will then be more
 effectually heated. A charge of granulated metal is easily
 introduced through a. When normal boiling-points are
 wanted, smaller crucibles of fire-clay are preferable *.
     5. The thermoelectric powers can best be measured by a
 null-method, in which the thermoelectric constants are
 expressed in terms of a given Latimer-Clark's cell. Recali-
 bration is then rarely necessary, and calibrations made at
 different times may be compared. But the adjustments and
 computations, if they occur in great number, are incon
 venient. In this respect the torsion-galvanometer t offers
 decided advantages. I constructed an apparatus of this kind
 in which the thermoelectromotive forces are directly ex
 pressed in terms of the twist of a platinum fibre.
    The description of the galvanometer must be omitted here.
 Its chief points are an astatic, aperiodic magnetic system,
the needles (two bundles of four each) of which are of glass-
hard steel, consecutively annealed at 100° in order to secure
stability both against changes of temper and of magnetiza
tion }. The instrument is 135 cm. high, and is read off by
the observer standing. The magnetic moment of each needle
(10 cm. long) being intense, only a moderately thin platinum
fibre ("018 cm.) suffices ; and as the needles are brought back
to the fiducial zero of the instrument by torsion of the wire,
the directive effect of the terrestrial or local magnetic fields
is quite eliminated. The torsion-circle is sharply divided in
single degrees ; the fractions are read off by telescope and
scale, a mirror being attached to the needle. Both telescope
and scale are compendiously fixed to the galvanometer.
Thermoelectromotive forces are therefore expressed in terms
of a fixed standard, the torsional rigidity of the platinum
wire, and hence they are comparable even after the lapse of
time. Any temperature between 100° and intense white heat
may be measured without further adjustment. These desi
derata, added to convenient manipulation and the durability
   * For details, particularly with regard to superheating, see Bull. U.S.
G. S. no. 54, pp. 89 to 94.
   t The priority of adapting Coulomb's torsion-balance for thermo
electric measurement is due to Schinz (Dingler's Journal, clxxv. p. 8",
1865 ; ibid, clxxix. p. 436, 1866). Cf. Bull. U.S. O. S. no. 54, p. 48.
   J Cf. Strouhal and Barns, W ied. Ann. xx. p. 680. 1**0 ; or Bull. U.S.
fx. S. no. 14. chap. vi. 1*85.

            certain High-temperature Boiling-points.               147
of the instrument against wear and tear, constitute the advan
tages of the galvanometer constructed.
    M. Le Chatelier* recommends the Deprez-D'Arsonval gal
vanometer.
   From what has been stated, if D be the twist corresponding
in a given instrument to the temperatures T and t of the
junctions of the given thermocouple, D = a (T — t) + b (T* — <*).
Again, if d=a (t-20)+b (t2-2&), it follows that
             Djo = D + d = a(T - 20) + 6(T» - 2Q»).
Hence a small table for d is to be computed, for tempera
tures t between 10° and 35°. A short preliminary calibration
suffices for the purpose. In this way the observer may at
once deduce D20 from D, where DM is a function of T, the
temperature of the hot junction only.            Bv aid of known
melting-points (Le Chatelier), or boiling-points (water, mer
cury, sulphur, cadmium, zinc, bismuth) , the quantity Ds0 may
then be graphically constructed as a function of T. Inter
 mediate points between two consecutive boiling-points, Tj
and T2, are filled in by using the constants of the equation
               D,-D2 = a (T, -T,) + b (TV-TV).
 From a chart of this kind, the temperature T corresponding
 to any twist D is taken with facility.
                           Observations.
    6. In the above apparatus the normal boiling-point (76
centim.) of mercury is sharply determinable ; but there is
considerable difficulty in determining the low-pressure boiling-
f)oints. Unless the heat be regulated to a nicety, the lower
  avers boil under the pressure of the upper layers. Again,
since the agitation of the mercury nearly ceases in approxi
mate vacua, a flame of reasonable intensity presupposed, the
rate of evaporation is much decreased. In the case of a
liquid of small specific heat, of relatively large cohesion,
films of which do not adhere uniformly to glass, it is there
fore to be suspected that both liquid and vapour will be super
heated in relatively very large degree at low pressures. If the
flame be intensified so as to produce violent ebullition at low
pressure, the liquid can be superheated to such an extent that
its direct radiation on the junction of the thermocouple may
increase its temperature as much as 10° above the boiling-
point.
       * Le Chatelier, Sememe Congret Soc. Induttr. tlu gat, 1888.

148        Mr. Carl Burus on the Pressnre-Variutions of
   Accordingly I was not surprised to find that the tempera
tures obtained in the static method by Regnault, Hagen,
Hertz, Ramsay and Young*, are as a rule decidedly below the
corresponding boiling-points of the present dynamic method.
It is only by taking great pains in the adjustment of burner
and apparatus, that my temperatures began to coincide with
those of Regnault. But this nice adjustment introduces
arbitrary conditions ; hence the low-pressure boiling-points
of mercury are to be rejected. At high pressures the un
satisfactory circumstances mentioned fall away, and the rate
at which boiling-point changes with pressure is very much
reduced. Fig. 3, § 15, will show the difficulties which 1
strove to overcome ; but as my data, even in the final work,
are not of exceptional accuracy, I will omit them. here.
   7. The behaviour of sulphur is peculiar. On removing
pressure to about 1 centim., the substance passes into the
treacle state, and the full ebullition observed under atmo
spheric and other pressures changes into sticky frothing.
Exact temperature data cannot therefore here be expected.
The following Table is an example of the earlier results
obtained, P being the pressure in centimetres of mercury,
and T the corresponding boiling-point in degrees Centigrade.
                Table I.— Boiling-points of Sulphur.
         P.          T.      P.        T.         P.        T.
       cent i in.   °C.    centim.    °C.       centim.    °C.
           0        218      48       298        21-2      374
           0        205      7-0      816        39-8      410
         24         263     112       837        76-0      448
                         1
   The next Table contains results of a later date, in which
much care was taken to guard against the difficulties men
tioned. Djo, the twist in degrees of arc, has been added to
show the sensitiveness of the torsion-galvanometer.
   * Ramsay and Young, Journ. Cbera. Soc. xlix. p. 37, 1887 ; Landok
and Boernstein's Tables, p. US (Berlin, Julius Springer, 1883). I may
advert in passing to the discussion between Ramsay and Young and
Kahlbaum. The former, corroborating Regnault's law, maintain that
vapour-tensions, whether obtained by the static or the dynamic mode of
measurement, arc identical. Kahlbaum claims to have found a differ
ence, and he is sustained by O. Schumann (Chem. Per. xviii. p. -.?08o,
1885). Both authors make use of l.andult's vapour-tensions.

               certain High-temperature Boiling-points.                  149
               Tablk II.—Boiling-points of Stilphur.
     P.                 T.       *T.         P.                T.      #T.
  centim.       o      °0.       °0.      centim.     o       °C.      °C.
    75-84    27-976    446       448         6 55   18-30     316      324
    55-36    26-57     428       429         406    16-80     295      305
    55-41    26-59     429       429
    54-75    26-49     427       428       75-87    27-999 448         448
    48-30    25-87     420       422       30-69    23-65    389       396
    47-78    25-64     416       421       30-70    23-65    389       396
    37-59    24-51     402       407       1301     2018     342       354
   37-57    24-39      399       407        12-93   2018     342       354
    28-67   23-44      386       393         5-61   1728     302       317
    2880    23-51      387       394         5-91   17-51    305       320
    20-68   22 23      370       376         614    17-62    306       321
    20-70   22-25      370       376         329    15-55    278       295
    14-37   20-76      349       358         3-44   15-51     277      297
    14-49   20-73      348       359         1-67   11-21    228       275
    1115     19-66     335       346         1-39   11-85 t223         266
    11-25    19-77     336       347         105    11-33 t215         260
     611     1805      313       321         0-75   10-76 t206         252
     6-35    18-20     315       323
      Extrapolated by Regrinult-Bertrund's formula.       t Sulphur sticky.
    These results agree fairly well with those of the earlier
Table. I have added values of T extrapolated graphically §
from Regnault's data by aid of the Dupre-Bertrand equation
(§12) log p = 19-10740 -4684-49/0 -3-40483 log 0, which
holds between 6 = 663 and 6 = 843 absolute degrees Centi
grade. It will be seen by comparison of my values with the
data predicted by this formula that there is much error at low
pressures.
    8. Table II F. contains data of four sets of experiments with
zinc. The first of these were made in the glass tube (fig. 1)
at low pressure. Although in this case there was profuse
volatilization, I did not observe any ebullition. In the table
the result marked * is the only datum of this work inserted.
 Change of temperature with pressure was not obvious. The
remaining data of this part of the table are legitimate and
were obtained from crucible experiments (fig. 2). The
criterion of boiling-point is change of temperature with
pressure. In the second and third parts of the Table, I aimed
at greater accuracy. Each of the values given is a mean of
two or three distinct measurements, f refers to low position,
and % to a high position of the thermocouple in the central
tube beb, figure 2.
   § I computed the inferior prolongation of the curve, and plotted the
results. From the chart the values of T were taken correct to 1 degree.

150        Mr. Carl Bar us on the Pressure- Variations of
                Table III.—Boiling-points of Zinc.
         P.        T.        P.      T.       P.       T.
      centim.     °C.     centim.   °C.     centiin.  °C.
       #10        582        42     710        2-6    675
                            3-5     699        6-7    731
         40       710       2-8     684      15-8     792
         65       732       62      736      264      833
         96       757       99      758      375      864
        101       772      166      802      473      884
        lft-6     785      264      838      57-0     904
        27 1      837      36-8     863      654      916
        34-5      857      477      884      771      933
        425       873      55-7     900
        535       897      65-3     914
        764       933      773     t»28
                           773     J922
                                          1
   9. Table IV. contains three sets of experiments with
commercial cadmium, the first of which were made in the
glass tube. Ebullition in vacuum was obvious ; but inasmuch
as the limit of heating-power of the ring-burner is not much
above 500°, the remaining thermal data are too low.
   The experiments of the 2nd and 3rd parts of this table
were made in the porcelain crucible. They are legitimate ;
change of temperature taking place with every change of
pressure. I was unable to make the crucible satisfactorily
tight. Mean values of somewhat varying pressure had to
be inserted. Again, cadmium is more easily superheated than
zinc, so that the present temperatures are probably high.
Repetitions of the experiment failed from breakage of the
crucible.
              Table IV.—Boiling-points of Cadmium.
          P.        T.       P.      T.        P.      T.
      centiin.    °0.     centira.  °C.     centim.   °C.
           •00    441       202     702        6-3    606
         275       526      29-2    706        8'4    622
         5-25      549      355     724      226      686
          770      562      38-1    729      274      704
                            48-9    715      34-2     722
          2-2      549      51-7    750      510      752
          25       652      62-4    760      563      760
         2-6       565      644     766      636      770
         32        574      656     766       656     772
         75        620      756     772      755      786
        105        639      756     770       755     788
        157        667      756     774       755     781
        189        681

               certain High-temperature Boiling-pointt.                  151
   10. Table V. contains results for bismuth. In the first
part of the Table temperature does not change with pressure.
Hence a boiling-point is not reached. In the second part of
the Table temperature certainly oscillates with pressure.
Hence the temperature corresponding to the lower values of
pressure (3 centim. to 4 centim.) are boiling-points. The
temperature corresponding to the higher values of pressure
(9 centim. to 10 centim.) are below the corresponding boiling-
points ; for I found that on further increasing pressure the
temperature did not increase. The temperatures observed
are therefore the limit of the heating-power of the furnace.
At least 5 minutes must be allowed for each observation.
The top of the crucible should be filled with asbestos to
diminish loss of heat by radiation.
               Table V.—Boiling-points of Bismuth.
         P.          T.          P.          T.          P.          T.
       centim.       °0.     i centim.       °C.       centim.       °C
         26         1152     ! 32           1199     1   95         1236
         58         1164     i 86           1211         3-4        1207
         26         1165         97         1207         40         1217
         81         1182         3-2        1206         97         1260
         8-8        1186         37       *12 2          3-4        1206
         2-7        1183     ] 4-2          1215         39         1221
         9-8        1194         37         1247         96        tl258
         2-4        1186         39         1213         3-3        1215
                                 3-4        1204         42         1233
                  * Flarae intensified ; B.P. criterion satisfied,
                 t Limit of burner-power.
   11. In the above Tables I. to V., the criterion of boiling-
point has been change of temperature with pressure. When
this was not observed the data were rejected. The method
of obtaining low boiling-points from liquids is a priori ob
jectionable, because of the liability to superheating. In
special measurements made with zinc*, however, I found the
error thus introduced to be negligible. There seems to be
less superheating in case of metals and high temperatures,
supposing the temperature of the environment to be reason
ably near the boiling-point (say 200° or 300° above it) . In
case of bismuth and metals of higher boiling-points, the
difficulties of experiment are such that I do not think a
capacious vapour-bath for low pressures feasible.
   Experiments with antimony failed from breakage of
crucible.
                * Bull. U.S. G. S. no. 54, pp. 108, 100, 1869.

152         Mr. Curl Barus on the Pressure- Variations of
                                  Inferences.
     12. Equations expressing tension of saturated vapour in
terms of temperature have been invented in great number.
Among them the simple form of Magnus and the more elaborate
exponential due to Biot, and applied by Regnault, are given
in most text-books. A remarkably close-fitting exponential
is investigated and tested by Bertrand*. Quite recently
M. Oh. Antoinef has devised and applied a new form.
Following the early suggestions of Bertrand % and of J. J.
Thomson § , I have used the equation of Dupre || ,
                      logp = A-B/0-Olog0, . . . . (1)
where p and 0 are corresponding values of pressure and
boiling-point in absolute degrees Centigrade, and A, B, and
C are constants. Equation (1) has been independently
interpreted by Thomson. Its immediate meaning appears
more clearly in the differential form
                   jp/de^-piqe-B'/P),
or
                   </^ = (^);(l/B'(l-0C/B')),
with reference to which it is to be observed that C/B' is a
small quantity.
    Applying equation (1) to the results of the Tables I. to V.,
I found the following set of constants by direct computation.
      Table VI.—Constants for Boiling-point and Pressure.
               Metal.               A.           B.            C.
        Sulphur*                 -35 969      - 3661       -13-066
                                 -30567       + 1391       -11180
                                +42-265       + 11435      +10022
    * When these constants were computed, the data of Table I. only were in
hand.
    The results are irregular, even as to sign. Other direct
methods gave similarly irregular constants, which need not
   * Thermodynamique, pp. 154 to 102 (Paris : Gauthier-Villars, 1887).
   + C. R. evil. pp. 081, 778, 836, 1888.
   X L. c. pp. 90 to 102.
   \ ' Application of Dynamics, &c.,' pp. 158 to 101 (Macmillau, 1888).
   || Theorie mccaniqtie de la chaleur, pp. 96 to 120 (Paris : Gauthier-
Villars, 1800).

             certain High-temperature Boiling-points.                  153
be entered here. Little can be learned from them, as might
have been expected. To get comparable values for the con
stants of a complex equation, the data must either be very
fine or in great number.
   13. Bearing in mind therefore that it is my object to
 detect possible relations, and that my high-temperature
 boiling-points are necessarily somewhat crude, I will facilitate
 computation by observing that in Dupre's data the prevailing
value of A is between 15 and 20. Assuming A=20, the
 following set of constants were obtained, in which, of course,
there is greater uniformity. Water is added from Dupre"
and Bertrand.
    Table VII.—Constants for Boiling-point and Pressure.
            Substance.             A.          B.             C.
                                  19.324      2795           3868
                                  20          4379           4-217
                                  20          7467           3643
                                  20          8433           3603
   * Bertrand (I.e. p. 93) inadvertently puts A— 17 44324, in which cane,
however, pressures are measured in atmospheres instead of millimetres of
mercury, which is his usual standard. The same constant is repeated by J. J.
Thomson.
    14. From an inspection of Table VII., I was led to suspect
better agreement in making C constant throughout, and A
variable. This step is further suggested by assuming, con
formably with the indications of Table VII., that for any two
substances S and S' the boiling-points 0 and 8', corresponding
to a given pressure p, will follow the relation B/B' = d/ff = 1/n,
where n is constant for the given pair of substances. This is
virtually the principle of Groshans, and postulates a funda
mental equation of the form (1), from which all others are
derived by substitution as follows :—
           logp=A-B/0-Clog0,                                            (1)
                  =A -nh/nO- C log nO+C log n,
                  = A'-B'/0'-Clog0'                                     (2)
   The constants of Table VIII. are obtained by supposing
C to be constant for all the substances. As to a choice of

154        Mr.^Carl Barus on the Pressure- Variations of
value, I noticed that the mean C of Table VII. is nearly the
same as Bertrand's C for water. Hence it was selected.
    Table VIII.—Constants for Boiling-point and Pressure.
            Substance.          A.          B.          C.
       Water                  19324        2795       3868
                              19-776       4458       3-868
                              20 63        7443       3-868
       Zine                   20-98        8619   •   3-868
                              21-51       12862       3-868
    These constants could be improved by successive trials ;
but further work would be wasted. The data for sulphur in
Table II. ("7 cm. to 76 cm.), which coalesce pretty well with
Regnault's data (27 cm. to 388 cm.), suggest a calculation of
constants including both sets of results. I will supply this
elsewhere, since it is not essential here. Extrapolation by
aid of the sulphur constants, Table VIII., does not reproduce
Regnault's high-pressure data.
    15. In order to exhibit the point of view taken, it is
necessary to plot the results graphically. This is done in
fig. 3, in which the abscissas are pressures in centimetres of
mercury, and the ordinates boiling-points in degrees. Centi
grade. In the case of mercury I have inserted the vapour-
tension curve of Regnault, showing that, conformably with
§ 6, it is uniformly lower than the present data. Points
computed by the constants of Table VIII. are marked. It
appears from an inspection of the chart that the agreement
between observed and computed results is nearly in keeping
with the errors of observation.
    The results for bismuth are particularly interesting. Un
fortunately it was impossible for me to calk the crucible
quite tight. Hence the low-pressure boiling-point of bismuth
does not overlap the normal boiling-point of zinc, vthich
limits the calibration interval of the thermocouple. The
chart shows the interval of extrapolation to be about 270°.
This makes the bismuth results less certain; and the normal
boiling-point of bismuth deduced by Groshans's principle,
1550°, is possibly too high. Carnelley and Williams *, using
   * Carnelley and Williams, Joum. Oliera. Soc. Loudon, xxxv. 1879,
p. 505.

               certain High-temperature Boiling-points.                 155
  Fig. .3.—Chart showing the relation of Boiling-point and Pressure, for
       Water, Mercury, Sulphur, Cadmium, Zinc, and Bismuth, and the re
       lation of corresponding Boiling-points at 76 centim. and 4 centim.
Isou
1400
1100

 156       Mr. Curl Barus on the Pressure- Variations of
 a fusing-point method, give 1450° as the maximum tempera
 ture for boiling bismuth, which means, however, that it is
 short of the melting-point of nickel taken at 1600° (Van der
 Wyde). In my own experiments * with a Fletcher furnace
 like fig. 2, I signally failed to boil bismuth f in a number of
 trials, in which I used three blast-burners. The boiling-
  joint criterion in the present results is beautifully exhibited.
  iVhen pressure increases, the group of points B on the chart
  Hisses into group A ; hence the group B are boiling-points.
  'iVhen pressure increases further, the group A do not
 increase in temperature ; hence the group A are not boiling-
 points %. The zinc and the later sulphur results are most
 satisfactory. .Irregularities in the cadmium observation for
 the higher pressures I attribute to leakage of the crucible
    The straight lines running obliquely across the chart
 exhibit the approximate truth of Groshans's principle. The
 abscissa? are boiling-points, 0, at 76 cm., the ordinates boiling-
 points at 76 cm. and 4 cm. respectively, all expressed in double
 absolute degrees Centigrade ; i. e. the chart shows the varia
 tions of 0/2. Mercury and sulphur fall below the line of
 proportionality. Inasmuch as it is possible that the 4 centi
 metre data for zinc and cadmium are slightly superheated, the
 feneral agreement of data may be better than it here appears.
  t is by aid of this diagram that the bismuth constants in
 Table VIII. were computed.
    16. Bertrand computes the constants of Dupre's formula
 for 16 substances, and shows its admirable agreement with
 observed data throughout. The constants in such a summary
 vary largely : A between 4 and 21 (pressures being expressed
 in centimetres of mercury) ; C between — D and +5. In
 any such grouping of constants as I have very roughly
attempted, the agreement of the formula' with facts would
 therefore be lost. It is worthy of remark, however, that in
 10 of the 16 substances, A lies between 15 and 21*5, and in
 one half of the substances C lies between 3*2 and 4*2.
    When, however, the errors left in any attempt to group
 the constants are considered, not so much with reference to
the small range of temperatures of a single substance, but
 rather with regard to the relatively large range of tempera
   • BulL U.S.G. S. no. 64, pp. 116-118, 124.
   t In determining the vapour-density of bismuth, Biltz and V. Meyer
heat bismuth up to 1700° (Chem. Ber. xxii. p. 725, 1889), but the tem
perature is purposely chosen high.
   t Very interesting experiments on the volatilization of metals in vacuo
and at low temperatures (Ud at 1(50°, Zu at 184°, Sb and Hi at 292°, l»b
and Sri at 'MXf) are due to Demarcay, ('. R. xcv. p. 18:5, 1882.

             certain High-temperature Boiling-points.                 157
ture exhibited by the phenomena as a whole, and by a
diagram such as fig. 3, for instance, then the errors in
question assume much smaller importance. In the above
pages I have presumed to believe that at the outset the wide
temperature comparison is the one which ought first to be
made, and some fundamental relation applicable to the whole
range of temperature investigated. After this has been done,
the said relation may be modified to suit the individual case.
   I can state this more clearly as follows :—Groshans's deri
vation of his principle * is sufficiently simple. If vapours
have identical coefficients of expansion, 1/273 say, and their
densities be expressed relatively to the density at the normal
boiling-point in each case, then the ratio of absolute boiling-
temperatures corresponding to any two given pressures will
bo the same for all vapours. This inference is incorrect, just
in proportion as the application made of the Boyle-Charles
law is incorrect.
   However, Dupre1 in deriving his formula makes virtually
the same assumption f. Again, J. J. Thomson % introduces
Boyle's law into the mean value of the Lagrangian function
investigated for the occurrence of maximum vapour-tension ;
but since the form of an arbitrary function of temperature is
here determined by experiment, the insertion of Boyle's law
suffices Thomson's purposes. Following the model of his
work, I hoped to find some suggestion as to a modification of
Dupre's equation, such that it may be the outcome of an
original type for all substances, by inserting Van der Waals's
law instead of Boyle's law into the proper term. It seemed
plausible that Dupre's equation could thus be corrected by
aid of constants, a and b, the molecular interpretation of
which has already been g^iven by Van der Waals. Per
forming the operations, I find, rigorously,
       -Ml                    pfJjO +              + c»-o-m
an equation which, though capable of simplification, essen
tially involves f, and is therefore not suggestive.
   Physical Laboratory, U.S. Geological Survey,
            Washington, D. C, U.S.A.
   * Somewhat similar approximate relations are investigated from Reg-
nault's data by Dupre' (/. c. pp. 116-117). Groshans used data for water
and carbonic acid gas. An older principle due to Dalton (Lit. Soc.
Manchester, v. p. 501)) is incorrect. The work of Kopp and of Bartoli
on corresponding boiling-points has special reference to volumes.
   t Bertrand, /. c. p. 101.               X Thomson, /. e. p. 158.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 177. Feb. 1890.                       N

                            [  158    ]
            XIV. The Electrification of a Steam-jet.
            By Shelford Bidwell, ALA., F.R.S.*
rpiIE boiler used in those experiments consists of a small
JL tin bottle capable of holding about fifteen fluid ounces,
which is supported upon a tripod above a Bunsen burner.
Its neck is fitted with a cork, through which passes
a glass tube {>$ in. in diameter, terminating in a nozzle
with an opening of about ^ in. At a point four inches
above the cork, the tube is bent to an angle of 100 or
1 10 degrees, and the nozzle may bo formed at a distance of
five or six inches from the bend. In this case its direction
will, of course, be nearly horizontal. When it is desired to
have a vertical nozzle, the tube is again bent in an upright
direction at a distance of not less than five inches from the
first angle, the nozzle terminating two or three inches above
the second bend. The nozzle is made by simply drawing out
the tube to a point in a flame, and cutting off its end at the
proper place.
    I have given these dimensions in detail, not, of course, be-*
cause they are absolutely the best possible, but in order that
anyone who wishes to repeat the experiment may be enabled
to obtain good results without trouble. The object aimed at
is to keep the tube as free as possible from water, whether
arising from ebullition or from condensation, so that the jet
of steam may be regular and uniform ; at the same time, it is
essential that the end of the nozzle from which the steam issues
should not be directly above the gas-burner, or the experiment
cannot succeed.
    The tin bottle is charged with four ounces of water, and
when it boils the burner is adjusted until the steam-jet is as
vigorous as is possible consistently with steadiness ; if the
ebullition is too violent, the water thrown up into the tube
will produce jerks, masking the effect to be looked for.
    The jet is most conveniently observed by means of its
shadow projected upon a white screen. For this purpose a
lime-light is desirable, but any good source of light may bo
employed. The shadow of the jet will be seen to be of feeble
intensity and of a neutral tint ; the jet is, in fact, nearly trans
parent, and docs not appear to exercise any selective absorp
tion upon the light. If now a sharp point, or, better, a small
bundle of points, in connexion with one of the terminals of
an influence-machine (such as a Voss), is brought, near the
   * Communicated by the Physical Society ; read December C, 1880.

               On the Electrification of a Steam-jet.          159
base of the jet, the machine being worked slowly, a startling
change instantly comes over tho shadow. It becomes dark
and dense, at the same time assuming a marked orange-brown
tint. By removing the point, or simply connecting it to earth,
the shadow can bo immediately caused to resume its original
appearance, again becoming almost invisible. This operation
may be repeated as often as desired, one of the most remark-
aide things about it being the extreme rapidity with which
the changes are produced.
   The point need not necessarily bo directed to the origin of
the jet ; it is nearly as effective when placed in the steam at
a distance of a foot or more from the nozzle ; and in such a
case the ichole of the steam-jet is equally acted upon from its
origin onwards, even when the direction of the point is the
same as that of tho jet. A ball may be used instead of a
point, but it operates only when actually within the jet,
whereas a point may be outside it. Tho effect may also be
produced by directing the jet upon an electrified metal disk,
supported at a considerable distance from tho nozzle.
    I have examined the absorption-spectrum of the steam-jet.
When the jet is not electrified, its action upon the spectrum
is small, the intensity of the whole being slightly diminished
in an apparently equal degree throughout.             Possibly the
violet is dimmed in a somewhat greater proportion than the
other colours. Electrification of the jet causes the violet to
disappear completely, while the luminosity of the blue and
the more refrangible part of the green is materially decreased.
The orange and red are, I believe, quite unaffected.
    From these facts it may be concluded that electrification
causes an increase in tho size of the water particles contained
in the steam-jet. In the unelectrified condition tho majority
of these particles are small in relation to a wave-length of
light; under the influence of electrification they become larger,
and attain a diameter of something like a fifty-thousandth
 part of an inch.
    Tho idea naturally suggests itself that the phenomenon
may be of the same nature as that observed by Lord Rayleigh
in the case of water-jets *. A stream of water issuing in a
 nearly vertical jet from a small orifice is found to break up
 into separate drops at a certain distance above the orifice.
 Under ordinary conditions these drops collide with one
 another, and, again rebounding, become scattered over a con
 siderable space. But when subjected to the influence of an
 electrified body, as a rubbed stick of sealing-wax, brought
 near the point of resolution, the colliding drops no longer
                      * Proc. Rov. Soc. 1879.
                                 N2

160                Mr. Shelford Bidwell on the
rebound but coalesce, and the entire stream of water, both
ascending and descending, appears to become coherent. Now
it seems to me certain that the innumerable minute particles
of water generated in the steam-jet, each consisting perhaps of
only a few molecules, must necessarily come into frequent
collision with one another ; for we cannot suppose that they
all travel with equal velocities and in exactly the same direc
tion ; and there is no reason why they should not behave
just in the same manner as the larger drops of the water-jet,
rebounding when they are not electrified, coalescing into
larger drops when they are. It is true that the degree of
electrification required to produce the phenomenon in the
case of the steam-jet is apparently much greater than in the
other, a rubbed f-tick of sealing-wax being altogether inopera
tive. Perhaps this is a consequence of the different sizes of
the drops in the two cases. That the actual electrification of
the particles in the steam-jet is really very small indeed, is
proved by the fact that if two electrified steam clouds are
generated in close proximity to each other, they exhibit
little, if any, evidence of mutual repulsion when they are
similarly electrified, or of attraction when their electrifications
are of the opposite kind.
   Lord Rayleigh shows cause for believing that if the elec
trifications of the drops in the water-jet were strictly equal,
the phenomenon in question would not occur ; and the reasons
why they are not, in fact, equal would just as well apply to
the case of the steam-jet. How unequal charges of electricity
of the same name are operative in bringing about coalescence
Lord Rayleigh does not explain, nor am I prepared to hazard
a conjecture on the point.
    Lord Rayleigh concludes his paper by referring to the
importance of the investigation from a meteorological point
of view. I may do the same. It seems certain that the
steam-jet experiments go far towards explaining the cause of
the intense darkness which is characteristic of thunder-clouds,
as well as of the lurid yellow light by which that darkness is
frequently tempered.
    I had made the above described experiments and drawn
the above stated conclusions concerning them, and had just
requested the Secretary of the Physical Society to accept the
present communication, when Prof. Silvanus Thompson,
whose knowledge of scientific history is proverbially encyclo
paedic, was good enough to bring to my notice the fact that
experiments upon the electrification of a steam-jet had been
recently made in Germany by the late Robert Helmholtz.
An account of these experiments, which are of the greatest

                    Electrification of a Steam-jet.         161
 interest, is given in Wiedemann's Annalen, vol. xxxii. p. 1.
 The author appears never to have examined his jets by trans
 mitted light, and makes no mention of the marvellous increase
 of opacity under electrification, to which I have called atten
 tion. His observations were all made against a dark back
 ground, the illuminating beam of light coming obliquely from
 the front, but shaded from the eyes. When the jet is elec
 trified, he says, it is at once seen more clearly and sharply
 against the background ; it also assumes diffraction colours,
 like those seen in strata of fog. Very strong electrification
 produces a deep blue colour, indicating the formation of very
 small mist drops. On slowly diminishing the electrification
 the blue tint at first becomes gradually paler, which points
 to the formation of larger drops ; and it is then succeeded
 by tints of purple, red, yellow, green, and finally, when the
 discharge is very feeble, by pale blue tones again. Under
 certain circumstances all these several tints may be seen at
 once in different portions of the jet.
    I, too, had observed these diffraction colours, which were
 sometimes very beautiful ; but having convinced myself that
 they undoubtedly occurred at times when no electrical in
 fluence (that I knew of) was operating, I did not follow up
 the observation.
    Helmholtz found that these condensation phenomena could
 be just as well produced by some other causes as by electrifi
 cation, and especially by the agency of flame. All the ex
 citing causes in question involve some continuous chemical
 action inside the steam-jet. He conjectures, therefore, that
 the sudden condensation may be due to molecular tremors or
 shocks, which upset the unstable equilibrium of the super
 saturated vapour, just as a small disturbance will sometimes
 cause the sudden crystallization of a supersaturated saline
 solution ; and after showing that chemical reactions may occur
 freely even outside the visible portion of a flame, he states
 liis opinion that similar dissociations and recombinations take
 place among the molecules of the air affected by an electric
 discharge, as evidenced, for instance, by the formation of
 ozone.
     A very striking illustration of the effect of combustion is
afforded by holding beneath the jet a piece of burning touch-
paper, made by soaking blotting-paper in a solution of nitrate
of lead. The jet at once becomes quite as opaque as if elec
trical influence were employed, and the same hissing noise is
also heard. The burning touch-paper suggested itself as
more convenient than the actual flames used by Helmholtz
for the purpose ; for these cannot be brought underneath the
jet without causing its immediate dissipation ; and it is there

1G2              On the Electrification of a Steam-jet.
fore necessary to hold them on one side, and direct their
heated gases upon the jet by blowing or fanning.
   After reading Helmholtz s paper it naturally occurred to
me to try the effect of combustion upon the water-jet. In
this case the objection to the use of an actual flame does not,
of course, apply. I therefore introduced the flame of a
Bunsen burner into the jet, and found that, if the air-holes
were stopped up, and the flame thus rendered luminous, a
decided ett'ect was produced upon the jet. Often, indeed, it
became just as completely coherent throughout its length
as if it were electrified, though I have not yet succeeded in
obtaining this result with perfect certainty ; but in every case
when the burner was held a little below the point of resolu
tion, a considerable diminution of the scattering was observed.
If the air-holes were opened and tbe flame made non-luminous,
it failed to act in any way whatever upon the jet. It is to
be remarked that Helmholtz found certain non-luminous
flames (of which, however, a gas-flame was not one) to be
devoid of influence upon the steam-jet.
    Can the effect here also be due to electrification*? It
can hardly be attributable to heating, because the flame of
a Bunsen burner is certainly hotter when it is non-luminous
than when it is luminous. On the other hand, it is known
from many experiments that flame is electrifled. If, for
example, we place a luminous flame between the positive and
negative ball-terminals of a Voss machine in action (the ter
minals being too far apart for sparks to pass), we find that
the flame, or at least the upper part of it, is repelled by the
positive and attracted by the negative ball. This seems to
denote positive electrification of the flame.
    In conclusion, it should be mentioned that Helmholtz
suggests another hypothesis as an alternative to that of mole
cular shock, though he does not appear to attach much impor
tance to it. It is that the electrical discharge, the flame or
 other exciting agent, whatever it may be, acts by introducing
into the steam-jet minute particles of solid matter which serve
as nuclei upon which the water-vapour may condense, as in
Aitken's experiments on the formation of fog.
    It is possible that several different causes may be competent
to produce the condensation phenomena.
   * In replying to the discussion which followed the reading of the paper,
I suggested the possibility, which had occurred to me after it was written,
that the flame might act pimply by coating the separate particles of water
with certain products of combustion, Lord Kayleigh having found that
the addition of a little soap or milk to the water prevented the scattering.
Perhaps the action of flame upon the steam-jet may be similarly explained.

                            [  163   ]
   XV. The Geological Age of the Mountains of Santa Marta.
           By Professor Hermann Karsten, M.D.*
THE Geological constitution of the mountain-mass of
        Sta. Marta has until recently remained quite unknown.
It was only in consequence of my Report of 1852 upon " The
neighbourhood of Maracaybo and the North coast of New
 Granada" (Karsten's Archiv, 1853), in which the geological
age of these mountains was touched upon, and after the pub
lication of the nearly simultaneous investigation of this region
 by Acosta {Bull. Soc. Geol. Fr. ser. 2, vol. ix. p. 396, June
1852), that these questions have been dealt with more in detail,
both in my subsequent geological writings and in those of my
successors.
    Acosta, like myself, describes the Geological constitution of
 the Sierra Nevada do Sta. Marta as Plutonic, consisting of
 Granite, Gneiss, Syenite, Diorite,Eurite,&c.,and of Porphyries
traversed by veins of malachite. Neptunian strata, from
 which the age of the mountain-mass might be inferred, are
not cited by Acosta ; but he concludes, from the complete
isolation of the massif, and from its East and West direction,
that it existed long beforo the upheaval of the Cordillera,
which runs North and South.
    In my discourse upon " The Geological Constitution of
New Granada" (Amtliche?' Bericht der Versammhing cler
JYaturforsc/ier, 185G, Vienna 1857) I also describe the Sierra
Nevada do Sta. Marta in more detail as a distinct mountain-
system which abuts with its south-oastern declivity upon the
chain of Ocaua striking northward from Bogota, and by sub
sequent upheavals there was united therewith by means of a
narrow and low connecting range (p. 81). This mountain-
mass of Sta. Marta consists of alternating beds of crystalline
rocks :—Granite, Gneiss, Protogine, Syenite, Hornblende-,
Chlorite- and Quartz-schists,—which have a general strike
from S.W. to N.E. In the periphery of this formation there
are readily weathering Diorites, Porphyries, Syenites, Gra
nites, &c. Towards the east and south-east beds of the
Cretaceous formation bound these rocks, a continuation of
those which composo the mountains of Ocafia (Perija). The
lowest of these Neptunian beds is a rod sandy laminated marl
in which Ammonites santafecinns, D'Orb., occurs, and which
alternates upwards with dark, bituminous limestones and
siliceous schists containing Ammonites and Inocerami. Theso
are covered by light-blue limestone-beds, in which Exogyra
                  * Communicated by the Author.

164          Prof. H. Karsten on the Geological Age
Boussingaultii is plentiful. Upon the neighbouring south
east foot of the Plutonic rocks of the Sierra Nevada are de
posited correspondingly stratified but unfossiliferous cal
careous and aluminous rocks, in part crystalline and schistose.
    In the valleys of this Cretaceous formation Tertiary strata
are deposited up to at the outside 200 metres. These appear
to be entirely wanting on the northern slope, where, however,
according to the statements of the natives, limestone contain
ing Belemnites occurs.
    In opposition to Acosta, Hettner (Petermann's Geogra-
phische Mittheil. 1885, p. 92) concludes from the direction of
the centre of the mountains from S.S.W. to N.N.E., that the
mass is a continuation of tbe Central Cordillera, which is like
wise furnished with a nucleus of Plutonic rock, and to which
this line of strike under 8° .N. lat. leads eastwards from the
river Nechi ; an opinion which is in harmony with the deve
lopment of these Colombian mountain-chains as deduced by
me from the nature of the Neptunian strata, altbough the
contemporaneity of the two existing mountain-systems is not
thereby proved.
   In my Viennese address on New Granada (Amtlicher
Bericht, 1856), as well as in a more recent memoir on the
Geology of the three northern Republics of South America*,
in which I have brought together all that was observed by me
in those countries, or that has been published by other travel
lers, I concluded that the mountains of Guiana are the central
point of the different mountain-systems of Colombia, by
which the direction of these mountain-chains was prescribed,
having been elevated as the nortbern (Venezuela) and western
(New Granada and Ecuador) borders of a great semicircular
fissure which was formed in the solid crust of the earth around
this primitive-centre of upheaval, which, although it was not
then recognizable in its whole extent by prominent mountain-
masses, nevertheless traced out the direction of contempo
raneous and subsequent eruptions.
   The elevatory force which gave origin to this fissure in the
periphery of the central mountain-mass already in existence
appears to have acted from the east to the west and south,
and indeed on the greatest scale in the north, gradually
becoming weaker towards the south. On the contrary, the
last considerable upheaval, that of the Tertiary epoch, followed
the opposite direction ; its greatest force was exerted in the
south.
   In the north the Plutonic mountain-chains which bound the
   * Qtohgie de Vancienne Colombie Bolivariemie, Venizuila, Ntntvclle
Grenade et Ecuador.—Berlin, Friedlander, 1880.

                  of the Mountains of Sta. Marta.                     165
 sea (Caracas, Sta. Marta) attained nearly their present eleva
 tion above the eea-level at their first upheaval, and were only
 a little further uplifted at the close of the Cretaceous* and
 Tertiary epochs, while the present Cordillera, extending south
 wards, remained still cover, d by the sea, and only attained its
•present form and elevation in this direction by means of the
 eruption of the trachytic masses and lavas, which occurred
 most powerfully in the south (Ecuador) and diminished
 gradually northwards (Ge'ologie, p. 51).
    The existing Sierra Nevada de Sta. Marta, like the moun
 tains of Caracas, was already almost completely upheaved
 above the Cretaceous sea and still more completely above the
 sea of the succeeding Tertiary formation, as may be recog
 nized from the conditions of stratification of the Neptunian
 deposits.
    Whilst the Cordillera of New Granada and Ecuador, espe
 cially in its trachytic portions, is generally overlain nearly to
 the highest summits by strata of the Tertiary epoch, the two
 Plutonic mountain-masses of the north coast bear Tertiary
 deposits only up to small elevations {Gdulogie, pp. i2, 23, 52).
    The two geographers, Simons and Siveis, the latest writers
 upon the Sierra Nevada, do not enlarge our knowledge of this
 geological question.
    Simons (Proc. Boy. Geogr. Soc. 1879, 1881, and 1885), as
 the fruit of his investigations of the Sierra Nevada extending
 over several years, gives us an excellent geographical Map,
 the first and best of the original maps of this region founded
 upon personal surveys (Proc. 11. G. S. 1881), as a com
 pletion of the admirable work of Codazzi, who, as is well
 known, perished under the deadly climate of the plains at the
 commencement of the survey of this province.
    Upon the geological characters of the Sierra Nevada Simons
 says nothing. The traveller Sivers, who followed him {Zeitsclir.
 der Gesellsc/i. fiir Erdk., Berlin, 1888), adheres, as regards
 geology, to the results obtained by me (p. 57), saying upon
the age of this mountain-massif, " It appears, therefore, that
the Sierra Nevada de Sta. Marta is a very old piece of the
earth's crust which had enjoyed a long continental period
when the flooding of its margins by the Cretaceous sea com
menced. After these deposits had lasted throughout the
   * Steinmann's statement that the Jurassic formation also occurs in
New Granada (Neues Jahrb. der Min. Sic, 1882) has proved to he erro
neous. The Jurassic formation indicated by me, in consequence of Stein
mann's publication, in my Map in the " Gdoluyie, Sec.'' is consequently to
be altered to Cretaceous.

  1G6      The Geological Age of the Mountains of Sta. Marta.
  whole Cretaceous period,
 a folding of them took
 place in Tertiary times,
 by which the Sierra de
  Perija was produced,
 Ac."
     The accompanying
 profile surveyed by mo
 in the district of Papaijal
 on the river llancheria (5)
 (Itio Hacha) and com
 pleted near Tomarazon
 in the west, and passing
 through the mountains
 Cerrejon (2) and Potrero
 de Venaneio (3), gives
 an indication of the stra
 tification of the rocks be
 tween the Sierra Nevada
 (4), and the Cordillera
of Ocana (Perija) which
terminates here (1).—
a, a, a, Red marly sand-
stoneand laminated marl,
alternating above with
calcareous         Cretaceous
beds*; b. Tertiary strata;
c. Porphyry with copper
ores ; d. lied quartz-
porphyry ; e. Plutonic
rocks, such as also form
the nucleus of the Sierra
Nevada.
   * In the uppermost, palo-
blue limestone beds of the
younger Cretaceous there are,
in this district, nearChorrera,
towards the summit of the
hill, the so-called "Geologi
cal organs,"—perpendicular,
cylindrical shafts, in parts
10-12 m. high and 4-5 m. in
diameter, which I have fully
described in the ZeiUchr. d.
 Oeul. Gesellsch. 18(52, and in
Westermann's Monatsheften,
1803.

                                [  167    ]
XVI. On Diffraction-Colours, with special reference to Corona;
   and Iridescent Clouds. By James 0. McConnel, if. A.,
   Fellow of Clare College, Cambridge*
                    [Concluded from vol. x.wiii. p. 289.]
     3. Corrections and Additions to the First Paper.
IN the article which I wrote two years agof on this sub
      ject occur some actual blunders and some points which
require fuller explanation. The most important blunder has
been already mentioned \. In accordance with the usual
statement of treatises on Optics, I imagined the central spot
of the diffraction diagram to be white, whereas, as a matter
of fact, it is coloured with tints similar to those of Newton's
first order. Hence what in the calculation I called the first
spectrum should really have been called the second ; for
second spectrum should be written third, and so on. This
does not affect the force of the argument against the theory
of thin plates, but it makes a considerable difference in the
size of the particles deduced from observation. My first
inkling of some error in the previous estimate came from the
comparison of the sizes of lycopodium seed deduced from
measurements of the diffract ion-rings round a candle and
from actual observation under the micr.iscope. Applying the
true theory of observation, it appears that the diameters of the
filaments which produce the brightest colours average 0 008
millim. I have measured corona? produced by filaments vary
ing in diameter between O'Ol and 0'045 millim.
   My statement that purple only occurs at the junction of the
first two spectra is not strictly correct, for a good purple fre
quently follows the second red. But the two colours are not
likely to be mistaken for each other. The first, in general,
inclines much to blue ; the second to red. For further
description of the colours see the preceding section.
   With regard to the distinction between corona; and irides
cences, it is probable that no hard and fast line can be drawn.
The optical explanation of the colour is exactly the same, the
only difference lying in the character of the cloud. Still,
with ice-clouds at any rate, I have never been in doubt in
which class to place the colours. In corona; the rings are
complete and perfectly circular, but the tints are in general
comparatively poor ; whereas in iridescences we have glow-
  * Communicated bv the Author.
  t " On the Cau.se of Iridescence in Clouds," Phil. Mag. Nov. 1887.
  \ See vol. xxviii. pp. 274, 280.

 168         Mr. J. C. McConnel on Difraction-Colours,
 ing colours arranged in scattered patches or, at best, broken
 rings. It is clear, however, that if the observer could only
 move close up to one of these patches of glowing colour, a
 complete system of rings would be developed.
    There is a trifling slip in the expression I gave for cos <f>',
 in the discussion of reflexion from thin plates. In that for
 mula n should be replaced by n + ^. It will be observed that
 this change does not affect any part of the argument.
    The short paragraph on diffraction-colours seen nearly
 opposite the sun is founded on a miscalculation, and must be
 withdrawn. These colours appear to be produced in both
 water- and ice-clouds. Mr. Omond has sent me a list of several
 cases in which such glories were seen from Ben Nevis, at
 temperatures far below the freezing-point *. Their theory
 seems to be in the most unsatisfactory state. I have come
 across five different explanations, none of which do I consider
 satisfactory.
    These are the only corrections I have to make, but I find
 that my description of iridescent clouds has given rise to some
 misapprehension. Wishing to bring out forcibly the ten
 dency of the colours to arrange themselves symmetrically
 with reg.-ird to the sun, which is one of the main arguments
against their being due to thin plates, I used the words :
" vVithin a circle round the sun, radius about 2°, the clouds
are white, or faintly tinged with blue. This circular space is
surrounded by a ring of yellow, passing into orange." This
led some readers to think that these circles were always to be
 seen ; whereas, of course, the yellow is not seen unless there
is a cloud of suitable density in a suitable position. The
yellow ring is often fairly complete, as every one must have
noticed round the moon, but it is very seldom a regular circle
like those of coronas
    The greatest distances from the sun at which I have been
able to detect colour, since the date of my first paper, are as
follows :—St. Moritz, Oct. 20, 1887, 25°; Jan. 9, 1888, 34°;
 March 10, 29°; Davos, Dec. 27, 37°. But these extreme
colours are only faint pinks and greens. In Colorado irides
cences have been observed up to " more than 45° from the
sun" ('Nature,' April 21, 1887).
    Since I became interested in these colours I have had few
opportunities of observing from the sea-level. Still I have
seen enough to feel confident—and this view is supported by
the testimony of others—that the phenomenon is nearly as
   * It is at least possible that in such cases the mists consisted of fine
drops of water ; and the Ben Nevis observations of fog-bows at all tem
peratures lend support to this suggestion.

         with reference to Coronce and Iridescent Clouds.         169
common in England as in the Alps, though fine displays are
rare. Common though it be, it has been seen by few. The
observer should arm himself with dark spectacles, and, shading
his eyes from the direct sunlight with the hand, or preferably
with some distant object, such as a building, carefully examine
any clouds within 10° of the sun, and he will seldom fail to
see colour. A curious illustration of this fact is that irides
cences are so frequently seen when the brightness of the sun
is reduced by an eclipse, and recorded as remarkable pheno
mena. To meteorologists these colours should be especially
interesting, as manifesting the actual size of the cloud par
ticles •-. The following table will be found convenient. To
calculate the diameter in millimetres of the average filament
in an ice-cloud or of the average drop in a water-cloud, divide
the number in the first or second column respectively by the
angular distance of the colour from the centre of the sun
expressed in degrees.
                                          Filaments. Drops.
                                             0022     0028
                                             0028     0035
                                             0031     0038
                                             0035     0042
                                             0O45     0052
                                             0051     0-058
                                             0057     0O65
                                             0-062    0-069
                                             0 076    01)83
                                             0087     0-095
                                             0106     0113
                                             0124     0131
     A convenient and, in general, sufficiently accurate method
 of measuring the angle is to find the corresponding length on
 a pencil held at the full stretch of the two arms. The distance
 from the eye to the pencil varies only slightly with the posi
 tion of the body and the altitude of the sun, and can be
 measured at leisure.
     Even when there is no trace of colour we generally see in
 moderately translucent clouds a great increase of brightness
 near the sun. With water-drops this might be produced by
 ordinary refraction, but in frozen clouds it must bo attributed
    • Fifty years ago Kaemtz used Fraunhofer's result* to determine the
 diameter of the vesicles, as he supposed them to be, of fog (Kaemtz,
 ' Meteorology,' translated by Walker, p. 111). But the method seems to
 have been since neglected.

170         Mr. J. C. McConnel on Diffraction-Colours,
mainly to diffraction, and from the extent of the bright region
we can form a rude idea of the size of the particles. Tho
absence of colour will present no difficulty to anyone who has
noticed the overpowering brightness of the white central
space compared with the surrounding rings of corona;. It is
easy to believe that if there be any considerable variety of
size, or if, on tho other hand, the majority of particles have
any shape other than those approximating to spheres or long
cylinders, there will be such blurring of colour that nothing
 hut tho bright central white space will survive. As to the
size of particle, suppose, for example, the white glow, up to
the circle where the brightness is about ono fourth of that close
by the sun, have a radius of 4°. Taking the number appro
priate to the first yellow for filaments and dividing by 4 we
obtain (J-0055 mm. Wo can then assert with souk; confidence
that there are a considerable number of crystals in the cloud
at least as thin as O005 mm. The estimate is rough, but
rough estimates often prove useful. If there is no percep
tible increase of brightness in the cloud near the sun we can
assert positively that the vast majority of the particles are in
no dimension as thin as Ol mm.
    Unusually vivid iridescences were seen in England and Scot
land during the winters 1884-5 and 1885-6, and called forth
a number of letters to ' Nature.' The clouds seem to have
 been of a special type, suspended at a great height in the air,
and recognizable even when not coloured *. The bright and
 varied colours described occurred at distances of over 30°
from tho sun, so the ice-filaments must have been as fine as
0"001 millim. in diameter. Colours similar, though not so
bright, were seen nearly opposite the sun. But thL', region
between 50° and 130° from tho sun seems to have been
 colourless, showing that this was not a case of the action of
thin plates.
    If cloud-colours are ever formed by thin plates of ice, they
may be distinguished by their strong polarization in the plane
of the sun. Let us imagine the reflected light to be divided
into two parts polarized respectively in and perpendicular to
the plane through the sun. Even at 10° from the sun the
ratio of these parts is 0-74, at 20° 053, at 30° 0'37. In the
case of diffracted light the polarization is of tho same nature,
but not nearly so strong. It probably varies as the square of
the cosine of the angle of diffraction. This gives the ratio at
10° 0-97, at 20° 0-88, at 30° 075. Thus at 10° the polariza
   * Sice especially letters by Mr. T. W. Backhouse, Feb. 10, ]S8.r>, mid
Mar. '25, 1886. One cloud, from simultaneous observations at different
places, was fouud to be at least II miles high.

         with reference to Coronas and Iridescent Clouds.              171
tion of diffraction-colours could not be detected with a nicol
prism, though readily seen in thin-plate colours. At 20° the
variation of brightness, as the nicol is rotated, should in one
case be in the ratio 4 : 1, in the other 4 : 3 ; at 30°, 7 : 1 and 7 : 4
respectively. As I have pointed out before, thin-plate colours
are most likely to be seen at 20° or 30° from the sun.
    I have recently looked up Fraunhofer's own account of
his observations on the light diffracted by a slit*. I find
that, though in his formulated statement he says that the
deviations of the red bands are in the ratio 1:2:3...., yet
what he actually measured were the boundaries between suc
cessive spectra. He describes the first spectrum as ending
with red, and the second as commencing with indigo, blue,
&c, and remarks that each spectrum fades by insensible
degrees into the next. He measured the extreme limits of
the first four spectra, and found they corresponded to " re
tardations" of 0-0000211 Paris inch or 0-000057 centim.
 multiplied respectively by 1, 2, 3, 4.           By referring to the
 continuous curve in my diagram, it will be seen that the first
 three of these points lie nearly on the line from W to the
 violet corner, while the fourth would he nearly in that line
produced. Thus he evidently included what I have called
 purple in the red.
                          4. Bishop's Ring f.
    One of the most interesting examples of a diffraction-corona
was the great ring round the sun produced by Krakatoa dust.
 In the report of the Krakatoa Committee of the Royal
 Society there is a section devoted to this subject, in which
two serious blunders occur, and somo important consider
 ations are omitted. So a few remarks on the subject may not
 be out of place.
    The corona is generally described as " a whitish silvery
patch surrounded by a brownish fringe," or in similar terms J.
 Prof. Cornu studied the colours carefully and says that in
favourable circumstances the order was, " Proceeding from the
centre outwardly, clear azure blue, neutral grey, brown-
   • Schumacher's Astronomische Abhandlungen, vol. ii. 1823.
   f Since this section was written I have received from Dr. J. Pernter
 a copy of his paper " Zur Theorie dea Bishop'schen Kinoes " (Metcoro-
 logische Zeitschrift, Nov. 18ri)), in which some of my remarks are
 anticipated. Pernter deduces the size of the particles from Fraunhofer's
 measurements of the diffraction pattern of a circular aperture, and obtaius
 result* not very different from mine. In this case also Fraunhofer
 measured the boundaries of the spectra and included my purple in the
 red.
    X Krakatoa Report, p. 233.

172        Mr. J. C. M'Connel on Diffraction-Colours.
yellow, orange-yellow, coppery red, purple-red, and dull violet,
which is analogous to the succession of the colours of the first
ring of diffraction-coronae presented by thin clouds " *. This
evidence will probably be considered conclusive.
   Some observers thought the red ring had some connexion
with an ice halo, as it happened to have about the same
radius ; and it may be remarked that, when the ice prisms are
small, diffraction must greatly modify the appearance of a
halo. The narrow beam of light, which passes through the
two faces of a hexagonal prism in the position of minimum
deviation, must behave as if it had passed through a narrow
slit in an opaque screen. Thus 1 find that a beam of red
light which traversed a prism of O03 millim. greatest diameter
would be spread out by diffraction to an angular breadth of
5°, and other colours less in proportion to their wave-lengths.
This spreading out would probably be fatal to such an in
distinct phenomenon as an ordinary halo. Still, if the mass
of prisms were of great depth, the halo might survive with an
aspect very different to its usual one. One thing that enables us
to say with certainty that Bishop's ring was a corona and not
a halo, is that, however a halo be modified, the brightness
outside the red ring will be greater than that inside, while in
a corona the reverse holds good, and Bishop's ring was the
outer border of a bright space.
    Mr. Douglas Archibald, from a consideration of all the
observations, selects the following radii : for the inner border
of the red ring 10° 3(/, for the middle 15° 1(V, for the outer
 border 22° 45'. Taking 15° IV and applying the figure
 given in the table above for the first red with spheres, we find
 the average diameter of the particles to be O0023 millim.
 The ring was evidently broadened out by the irregular dia
 meters of the particles. Assigning the outer border of the ring
 to the first purple and using the radius 22° 45', we find for
 the diameter of the particles 0*00167 millim., and we can
 assert that there were a considerable number as small as this.
 It does not follow that smaller sizes were not well represented.
 The brightness of the diffracted light is proportional to the
 fourth power of the diameter of the particle, so the smaller
 sizes are severely handicapped. With regard to the upper
 limit of size, we may perhaps take the first yellow as the inner
 border of the brownish or reddish ring, which gives 0*0027
 millim. By using the value for the red, we find that there
 were certainly not many particles broader than 0'0033 millim.
    Mr. Douglas Archibald f used the formula sin (radius) =
 ~is\jd, where d is the diameter of the particle and N a constant.
              * L. c. p. 252.          t L. e. p. 257.

              On the Vibrations of an Atmosphere.             173
It is apparent from the context that he intends to use the
value of N which gives the first bright ring in homogeneous
light. This is the very mistake into which I myself fell.
But there is another mistake. Through some oversight the
value of N, with which he was supplied by Prof. Stokes, is
0" 7655, which applies to the first dark ring when the diffracting
aperture itself is a narrow ring of diameter d *. When the
diffracting aperture is circular or, what comes to the same
thing, the diffracting obstacle is spherical, the value of N for
the first bright ring is 1*64. It happens that the two errors
nearly compensate each other; so that he obtains </=O00162
millim.
    If the diffracting particles had been very thin circular
disks floating with their planes horizontal, the ring would
only have been circular when the sun was in the zenith.
When the sun was at an altitude of 30°, the vertical angular
diameter of the ring would have been about twice as great
as the horizontal. Nothing like this was observed, so we
must suppose the particles to have been either nearly spherical
or else lying with their planes in all positions at random.
A small dilatation of the ring was observed about sunset,
especially of the vertical radius, amounting to 3° and 6° at
 zenith distances of the sun 85° and 90° ; but it is difficult
to conceive any shape or orientation of the particles which
would explain this.
    As the sun gets low the higher regions of the air become
 relatively brighter, so that if these contain smaller particles
 the radius of the ring will increase. On the other hand, as
 the red rays become relatively more powerful, the red ring
will become brighter and broaden out towards the sun. This
seems to agree with what was observed.
   Hotel Buol, Davos,
      November 30, 1880.
            XVII. On the Vibrations of an Atmosphere.
                  By Lord Rayleiqh, Sec. E.S.f
IN order to introduce greater precision into our ideas
        respecting the behaviour of the Earth's Atmosphere, it
seems advisable to solve any problems that may present them
selves, even though the search for simplicity may lead us to
stray rather far from the actual question. It is proposed here
to consider the case of an atmosphere composed of gas which
                   * Encyc. Brit., Wave Theory, p. 432.
                   t Communicated by the Author.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 177. Feb. 1890.               O

174                  Lord Rayleigh on </te
obeys Boyle's law, viz. such that the pressure is always pro
portional to the density. And in the first instance we shall
neglect the curvature and rotation of the earth, supposing
that the strata of equal density are parallel planes perpen
dicular to the direction in which gravity acts.
   If p, a be the equilibrium pressure and density at the
height z, then
                           t~°r.                             «
and by Boyle's law,
                          p=a?*,                             (2)
where a is the velocity of sound. Hence
                           da __ (f
                           a 5 = -3>                         W
and
                          ff = Oo «-*•/-,                    (4)
where <t0 is the density at 2=0. According to this law, as is
well known, there is no limit to the height of the atmosphere.
   Before proceeding further, let us pause for a moment to
consider how the density at various heights would be affected
by a small change of temperature, altering a to a', the whole
quantity of air and therefore the pressure p0 at the surface
remaining unchanged. If the dashes relate to the second
state of things, we have
                 a=*0e-**'a2, o/=<r0'e-«"a,1)
                 p=p0es''a\ p'=p0«-^/«,a,
while
                         a?<T0=a'2a0'.
   If a'2—dt=ha?, we may write approximately
                     p0      or ar
The alteration of pressure vanishes when 2=0, and also when
z=oo . The maximum occurs when gz/a?=l, that is when
P—Poh- But relatively to <x, (p'—po) increases continually
with z.
   Again, if p denote the proportional variation of density,
If u'*>a2, p is negative when 2 = 0, and becomes +oo when
2=00 . The transition p = 0 occurs when gz/a?=l, that is at
the same place where p'—p reaches a maximum.

                   Vibrations of an Atmosphere.                 175
   In considering the small vibrations, the component velo
cities at any point are denoted by u, v, w, the original density
<r becomes (a + <rp) , and the increment of pressure is Sp. On
neglecting the squares of small quantities the equation of
continuity is
                  dp        du     dv       dw      d<r_~m
                  dt       dx      dy       dz      dz
or by (3),
                  dp      du    dv     dw     qw    _           ,,N
                  dt      dx    dy     dz     a'
The dynamical equations are
      dSp       du dhp              dv dSp                  dw
      -d^ = ~'Tdl'      -dy=~adi'          w^-w'H-
or by (3), since
                              $p=aiap,
        ,dp      du       , dp       dv      , dp      dw        ...
         dx =
      tr -f-      7-,
                 dt'     a? -f-
                            dy =      T-,
                                     dt'       -j- = —-jr-
                                            ar dz      dt •   • (6)
                                                                w
   We will consider first the case of one dimension, where u, v
vanish, while p, w are functions of z and t only. From (5)
and (6),
                      dp .dw gw                                 m
                      di + d7 7" °»                             Ki
                        „ dp       dw                           ,„.
                       adz = --di'                              (8)
or by elimination of p,
                      1 <Fw _ <Pw         g dw                   ...
                      a* 1e ~ d? ~ a* dz~                       [>
The right-hand member of (9) may be written
                      {Tz-2a-*)W-ia-<W>
and in this the latter term may be neglected when the varia
tion of w with respect to z is not too slow. If \ be of the
nature of the wave-length, dw/dz is comparable with w/\ ;
and the simplification is justifiable when a3 is large in com
 parison with g\, that is when the velocity of sound is great in
 comparison with that of gravity-waves (as upon water) of
wave-length \. The equation then becomes
                      (Pw       5/d        qV
                       d¥=a{dz-^)W'
                                                        02

176                    Lord Rayleigh on ilie
or, if
                           w=WeM'\                              (10)
the ordinary equation of sound in a uniform medium. Waves
of the kind contemplated are therefore propagated without
change of type except for the effect of the exponential factor
in (10), indicating the increase of motion as the waves pass
upwards. This increase is necessary in order that the same
amount of energy may be conveyed in spite of the growing
attenuation of the medium. In fact wV must retain its value,
as the waves pass on.
    If w vary as fi*"', the original equation (9) becomes
 Let 7»i„ 7n3 be the roots of
                        m1— -„ mH—r, =0,
 so that
                        m=                       ,   ....        (13)
 then the solution of (12) is
                          w = Aem>* + 'Bem**,                    (14)
 A and B denoting arbitrary constants in which the factor eint
 may be supposed to be included.
    The case already considered corresponds to the neglect of
 g2 in the radical of (13), so that
                                  q + Inai
 and             we-i^ai=Aei^'+ela) +Bein«-'IUK         .   . .   (15)
  A wave propagated upwards is thus
                        ip—eMa'cos7i(t—z/a),         ....        (16)
  and there is nothing of the nature of reflexion from the upper
 atmosphere.
    A stationary wave would be of type
                        w = eig'lai cos w< sin —, .  .     .  .  (17)
  w being supposed to vanish with z.           According to (17), the

                   Vibrations of an Atmosphere.                177
energy of the vibration is the same in every wave-length,
not diminishing with elevation. The viscosity of the rarefied
air in the upper regions would suffice to put a stop to such
a motion, which cannot therefore be taken to represent any
thing that could actually happen.
   When 2na<g, the values of m from (13) are real, and are
both positive. We will suppose that ml is greater than
jh2. If 10 vanish with z, we have from (14) as the expression
of the stationary vibration
                    w=cosnt{em*t—em*),                        (18)
which shows that w is of one sign throughout.       Again by (8)
                                — —— >                        (19)
                                mx     m.2 J
 Hence dp/dz, proportional to w, is of one sign throughout ;
p itself is negative for small values of z, and positive for largo
values, vanishing once when
                      e^m>-m*>*=m1/mi                         (20)
 When n is small, we have approximately
                    »»l = '-5      , mi = —,     ....         (21)
                          a*    9          9
so that p vanishes when
                           ert*=£-                             (22)
or by (4) when
                           <r/<70=n2aV                         (23)
 Below the point determined by (23) the variation of density
is of one sign and above it of the contrary sign. The inte
grated variation of density, represented by J apdz, vanishes,
as of course it should do.
    It may be of interest to give a numerical examplo of (23).
 Let us suppose that the period is one hour, so that in G.G.S.
measure n = 27r/3600. We take a=33 x 10*, g = ML Then
                              ,      1
showing that even for this moderate period the change of
sign does not occur until a high degree of rarefaction is
reached.

178                  Lord Rayleigh on the
    In discarding the restriction to one dimension, we may
suppose, without real loss of generality, that v=0, and that
u, w, p are functions of x and z only. Further, we may
suppose that x occurs only in the factor e***; that is, that the
motion is periodical with respect to x in the wave-length
 2ir/k ; and that as before t occurs only in the factor eint.
Equations (5) , (6) then become
                          .,    dtu qw _
                    17^ + 1^+^-^ = 0, .... (24)
                     a*kp=—nu,                                  (25)
                     a9dp/dz=—inu> ;                           (26)
from which if we eliminate u, w, we get
                3-*i+ (S-*)<-*                      •   •  •   <2"
an equation which may be solved in the same form as (12).
   One obvious solution of (27) is of importance. If dp/dz=0,
so that ic=0, the equations are satisfied by
                             na=A2a*                           (28)
Every horizontal stratum moves alike, and the proportional
variation of density (p) is the same at all levels. The possi
bility of such a motion is evident beforehand, since on account
of the assumption of Boyle's law the velocity of sound is the
same throughout.
   In the application to meteorology, the shortness of the
more important periods of the vertical motion suggests that
an "equilibrium theory" of this motion may be adequate.
For vibrations like those of (28) there is no difficulty in taking
account of the earth's curvature. For the motion is that of
a simple spherical sheet of air, considered in my book upon
the 'Theory of Sound,' § 333. If r be the radius of the
earth, the equation determining the frequency of the vibration
corresponding to the harmonic of order h is
                       7iV=/»(A + l)a«,                        (29)
the actual frequency being m/27t. If t be the period, we
have
                       t= «VA(A JL=—
                                   + 1)                       v(30)'
For h=l, corresponding to a swaying of the atmosphere

                     Vibrations of an A tmospJiere.                  179
from one side of the earth to the opposite,
                                      2irr
                               Ti~ V2'                              (31)
and in like manner for h=2,
                                  2irr      T.
                             2_ V6         v/3'
To reduce these results to numbers we may take for               fo the
earth's quadrant
                             ^7rr=106cm. ;
and if we take for a the velocity of sound at 0° as ordinarily
observed, or as calculated upon Laplace's theory, viz. 33 x 103
cm ./sec, we shall find
                        4x 10"
                                       seconds = 23"8 hours.
                1_ v/2x33xl03
On the same basis,
                             Ta=13'7 hours.
It must, however, be remarked that the suitability of this
 value of a is very doubtful, and that the suppositions of the
present paper are inconsistent with the use of Laplace's
correction to Newton's theory of sound propagation. In a
 more elaborate treatment a difficult question would present
 itself as to whether the heat and cold developed during atmo
 spheric vibrations could be supposed to remain undissipated.
 It is evidently one thing to make this supposition for sonorous
 vibrations, and another for vibrations of about 24 hours period.
 If the dissipation were neither very rapid nor very slow in
 comparison with diurnal changes—and the latter alternative
 at least seems improbable—the vibrations would be subject to
the damping action discussed by Stokes*.
    In any case the near approach of tx to 24 hours, and of t,
 to 12 hours, may well be very important. Beforehand the
diurnal variation of tho barometer would have been expected
to be much more conspicuous than the semi-diurnal. The
relative magnitude of the latter, as observed at most parts of
the earth's surface, is still a mystery, all the attempted ex
planations being illusory. It is difficult to see how the
operative forces can be mainly semi-diurnal in character ;
and if the effect is so, the readiest explanation would be in a
near coincidence between the natural period and 12 hours.
According to this view the semi-diurnal barometric move-
        * Phil. Mag. [4] i. p. 305, 1851. 'Theory of Sound,' § 247.

180              Prof. E. Gerard on the Process of
ment should be the same at the sea-level all round the earth,
varying (at the equinoxes) merely as the square of the cosine
of the latitude, except in consequence of local disturbances
due to want of uniformity in the condition of the earth's
surface,
   Terling Place, Witham,
         Dec. 1889.
XVIII. Process of Plotting Curves by the Aid of Photography.
    By Eric Gerard, Professor of Electricity at Montefiore
    University, Liege*'.
METHODS of registering automatically are being em
          ployed more and more in the " technique " of natural
sciences.      The indicator serves as a faithful and patient
observer when it has to register phenomena of slow move
ment. It is also possible to make use of it to note displace
ments which are too rapid for our senses to observe. The
 registering of rapid movements is most often effected by a
 style fastened to a movable arm, which traces on a rotating
 cylinder covered with lampblack. When the movement of
 the cylinder is not perfectly regular, and when the law of
 displacement in terms of its duration is required, the time is
 registered by the aid of an electric chronograph regulated by
 a tuning-fork. This process has led to important results ; but
 it is not easily applied when it is required to mark the path
 described by very light moving arms, or indicators, with very
 small forces to move them. In such cases the optical method
 by mirror-galvanometer, with lamp ; and with the traces fixed
 by means of photography, is available. This has been done for
 curves measuring variable electric currents, which have been
 the subject of research in the laboratory of the Montefiore
 Electro-technical Institute in the University of Liege.
     For this purpose we require an extremely delicate deadbeat
 galvanometer, with a movable coil of little inertia (electro
 magnetic system of MM. Despretz and D'Arsonval). A beam
 from an electric lamp was thrown upon a small concave
 mirror fixed to the movable part of the galvanometer, so as to
 give an image, focused by a lens upon a registering cylinder,
 which was covered beforehand with a sheet of paper sensitized
 with a gelatine emulsion of bromide of silver. The time was
 recorded simultaneously on the cylinder by means of a second
 beam of light thrown on a movable concave mirror, the axis
 of which was placed on the prong of an electric tuning-fork.
                   * Communicated by Sir W. Thomson.

            Plotting Curves by the Aid of Photography.
    A simplification of this method by which
the need for the separate time-curve is done \
away with has been worked out success-           \
full)'' and has given us good results, in the    \
Montefiore Institute. The photographic
record is produced by a spark obtained
from a Ruhmkorff coil of ordinary dimen
sions. The induction-spark passes between
a strip of magnesium and a carbon-point,
like that which is used in an arc-lamp.
The two electrodes are fixed less than 1
millim. apart. The spark is thrown on a
concave mirror attached to a galvanometer-
needle, or other body whose motions are
to be observed, and reflected thence to the
sensitized paper, covering either a rotating
cylinder, or a frame descending between
guides. The periodicity of the spark do-         -
termined by the elasticity of a spring used       z
in the inductive break- make, shows natu-          ;
rally the time-interval by divisions on the
 curve corresponding to equal accurately
 known intervals of time. The breaks are
 effected by an electric tuning-fork of known
 period. A single circuit is then formed,
 including the battery, the primary wire,
 and the coil of the tuning-fork.
      A short white spark is obtained, the
 position of which is invariable,?^ connecting
 the teiminals of the secondary coil to the
 coatings of a Leyden jar. Besides, it is
 well to reduce the image of the spark by
 introducing a double concave lens in the
 path of the reflected ray.
     By way of illustration of the method we       f
 give a curve representing the variation of        \
magnetic field in the air-space of an electro-       \
motor. A short length of straight insu-               '-
luted ware was fixed to the armature pa
rallel to the axis. This wire was connected
at its end to rings, insulated and fixed
on the axle of the motor. Brushes press
ing on the rings were connected to a
galvanometer, of which a description is
given above. The ordinates of the curve

182       Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
are proportional to the currents induced in the movable
wire, and hence represent the intensity of field traversed by
the wire in the successive positions which it occupies around
its axis.     The time-intervals between the ordinates corre
sponding to the dots forming the curve are hundredths of
a second.
XIX. The Disruptive Discharge of Electricity through Gases.
                  By Arthur Schuster, F.R.S.*
HHHE phenomena connected with the disruptive discharge
 JL     of electricity through gases present some special diffi
culties which have hitherto withstood all efforts to form a
consistent theory. Some time ago t I presented to the Royal
Society an outline of a general theory of electric discharge,
which has been so favourably received by nearly every one
who has been working at the subject % since, that I am en
couraged to trace out its consequences in various directions.
    Prof. Chrystal § concludes an interesting paper on the dis
ruptive discharge as follows :—
    " With the same end in view, I think it would be desirable
to reduce the experiment of Bailie aDd others with spheres, in
cases where the surface-density can be calculated, and to
examine the values of the dielectric strength in these cases.
Until this or something equivalent is done, it is clear that we
have really no experimental ground for asserting the exist
ence of such a constant as the dielectric strength of a medium,
and therefore cannot take the very first step towards a physical
theory of the disruptive discharge, which appears to me to be
the next great advance to be made in the science of electricity."
    The present paper is divided into two parts. In the first
place I have reduced the numerical results obtained by Bailie
and Paschen for the discharge between spheres. The result
quite justifies Prof. Chrystal s caution, for it appears that the
so-called dielectric strength of a medium depends on so many
circumstances that there seems to be no sufficient reason to
consider it at all as a special property of the medium, except,
perhaps, in the case of a perfectly uniform field. In the
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t Proc. Rov. Soc. xxxvii. p. 317 (18841.
   % Dessau, "fried. Ann. xxix. p. 302 (1886) ; Warburg, Wied. Ann.
xxxi. p. 645 (1887); Elster and Geitel, Wied. Ann. xxxvii. t) 315
(1889).                                                       v
   § Proceedings Royal Society Edinburgh, 1881-82, p. 487.

                    of Electricity through Gases.                    183
second part of the paper I have discussed the discharge from
the theoretical point of view, and although no very definite
results are arrived at, owing to our ignorance of the properties
of a gas in the layer which is in contact with the solid, I
hope the discussion may serve to point out the direction in
which further experimentation is at present desirable.
Part I.— Calculation of the Disruptive Tension at the Surface
                              of a Sphere.
    Whatever idea we may form of the nature of a disruptive
discharge, it seems natural tosuppose that the spark passeswhen
the normal force at some point of a conductor has reached a
certain value. If the discharge takes place between two equal
spheres, the point for which the normal force R has to be cal
culated is on the line joining the centres, where ft has its
greatest value, for it is there that the spark will pass. I shall
 use the equations in the form given them by Kirchhoff*; and
 treat of the case only in which one of the spheres is at poten
 tial zero : the problem then consists in finding the potential
 of the other sphere when the normal force, where it is greatest,
 has reached a certain value.
    If a is the radius of the spheres, ac the distance between
 the centres, R the normal force at that point of the sphere
 having a potential V which is nearest to the sphere of zero
 potential, we have the equation
                               R=                                      (1)
 where y is a function of c.
    Writing
                           2q=c- vV-4,                                (2)
 we obtain easily from Kirchhoffs equations,
                          y-^-M                                        W
     When the spheres are near each other so that c is nearly
 equal to 2, and therefore q is nearly one, the series (3) con
 verges very slowly, and the potential has to bo calculated in
    * Collected Works, p. 78. There is a misprint in the equation for
 d'WjdC on p. 09. The factor on the right-hand side of the equation should
 be 4 instead of 3.

184       Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
some other way ; but the above series will be the most con
venient to use whenever the shortest distance between the
spheres is greater than the tenth part of the radius of either.
The Tables I have prepared will, however, save future observers
all trouble of calculation. The following remarks will suffi
ciently explain the way in which they have been calculated.
If, in the general term of series (3), the value of q2m has be
come sufficiently small to be neglected compared to unity, the
remaining terms can be added up without further trouble ; for
          m+l      m— 1
N             )2        =mq - — (m + 2)q 2 + (m + 4)q * — ...
   When the distance between the spheres is small, it is found
more convenient to change the form of series (3) so as to
render it more quickly convergent. We may expand each
term of the series in powers of q and add up all the first
terms, viz. :—
   Treating the second and subsequent terms similarly, we
obtain
      ' (1+7)*      (1 + ?5)2    (l+</9)8       ' (l + q*^-
Here, again, the terms may be added up as soon as q*m+l can
be neglected. Finally, we may transform the equation still
further by multiplying numerator and denominator with
(l-qlm+lf, finding" thus
           /l?J_(l-}8),t (l-?10)*            (I-'/8)2"
   In this equation the denominators very quickly approach
the value unity. I have given the series in its various forms
as I find that individual computers differ much in their pre
dilections for particular forms, and as the relative trouble of
calculating the different series differs according to the degree
of accuracy required.
   Table I., which I have calculated for the objects of this
paper, may be useful to others. The first column gives the
distance between the centres in terms of the radius of either
sphere, which is the value called c above.
   The second, third, and fourth columns give q,f{q), and y,
defined by equations (2), (3), and (4). Column 5 gives a
quantity, x, which will be found useful for purposes of inter

                   of Electricity through Gases.                 185
polation when y is wanted for spheres which are near together
and for a value of c not directly given in the Table. If e is
the smallest distance between the spheres, that is the explo
sive distance, x is denned by the equation
                              R=V*/fe                             (5)
If the normal force were to vary uniformly between the
spheres we should have R' = V/e, and x is the numerical factor
which has to be applied to R' in order to obtain the true value
R. Column 5 shows that x varies with sufficient uniformity
to render interpolation easy.
                            Table I.
         I.         II.          III.         IV.           V.
        c.          ?•         /(?)•
       21         7298         ¦9331        10-335        1 0335
       2-2        ¦6417        7099           5342        10684
        2-3       •5821        ¦6157          3-687       1-1061
        2-4       ¦5367        ¦5641          2-875       11500
        2-5       •5000        •5329          2 398       11990
        26        •4693        •5135          2089        1-2534
        27        •4431        •5018          1-876       1-3132
        2-8       •4202        •4953          1723        1-3784
        2-9       •4000         •4918         1-607       1-4463
        30        •3820         ¦4908         1-517       1-5170
        3-5       •3139         •5059         1-273       1-9095
        40        •2680         ¦5324         1-169       2-338
        50         •2087        •5870         1084        3-252
        60        •1716         •6338         1050        4-200
        70         •1459        ¦6723          1-034      5172
        80         •1270        •7037         1024        6144
        90         •1125        •7299         1018        7126
       10O         •1010        7519           1014       8-112
      1000         •0400        ¦8892          1-002
   When the explosive distance becomes less than the tenth
 part of the radius of the spheres, the series given above can
 not be used with advantage. Plana * has written an elaborate
 memoir on the distribution of electricity on two spheres which
 are near together. Unfortunately he expresses everything in
 terms of the total charge of the spheres, which itself is un
 known ; and his formula? are not, as far as I can see, useful
 for our present purpose. Kirchhoff f has given an equation
   * Memorie delta reale accademia delta scienze di Torino, tomo vii.
1845.
   t Collected Works, p. 90.

186       Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
in which the quantity called y above is expanded in powers
of log q. If the spheres are near together so that q is nearly
equal to one, the higher powers of log q become sufficiently
small to be neglected. KirchhofFs formula is, however, very
inconvenient for purposes of calculation, as the determination
of factors of the series is very complicated. It is of use only
when the spheres are so near together that the first two terms
are sufficient.
   I have transformed the equation so as to render it more
easily applicable to the problem I am discussing, and have
deduced a very simple expression which will give accurate
results, if the explosive distance is less than the fifth part of
the radius of the spheres. If the spheres are further apart,
the series (3) or Table I. must be used.
   Kirchhoff's equations applied to the case of two equal
spheres are as follows:—
 B=Vy/a,                                                      (1)
 y~      2{l-q)Vq\Qgqa                                        (6)
 n=u-iiog^ + A(iog?)a^
                             -T^T4^^+-(7)
The factors B are Bernoulli's numbers and
                        U=l/(«* + «-*),
                         r=|logg                              (8)
   In order to apply the equations to any special case, we
have first to obtain q from equation (2), f from equation (8),
and next to find the numerical values of U, -ju-,-rsr &c. The
                                               ag of
labour of calculation is very great even for a few terms,
and it is found that the coefficients in the series (7) become
very large, so that many terms of the series are necessary
even for comparatively small distances between the spheres.
   I shall transform the equations in the first place by ex
panding the differential coefficients of U in terms of log q. I
start from the equation (De Morgan, ' Differential and Inte
gral Calculus,' p. 249)

                      ofElectricity through Gases.                 187
  2/(«*+ e~*) = 2U = 1 - ^2 +
                          61 ¦ 26.      1385 . 28. £8_5021 . 210.^0
                              61             8!               10!
  This series is differentiated with respect to f, and the
  differential coefficients are expressed in terms of log q by (8) .
  It will not be necessary to give all the steps of the numerical
  transformations. The result is the series :—
            n = i + As(log qy + A,(log q)* + A6(log qf + . . .      (9)
  where
          A, = ^=-02083,
                 48
          * =23ir4=-003038'
          A« = lWW=-°00971'
          A8 =-000494,
          A10= -000523.
     It will be seen that A10 is greater than A8, and it is impossible
 to say how large the A coefficients may ultimately become.
 If we compare together the values of y obtained by means of
  (6) and the series (7) with those obtained by the series (3),
 we find that if log q is so small that all terms higher than
 the second in the series may be neglected, the agreement is
 perfect ; for larger values of q, although the series seems to
 converge, it only yields approximate values of y. The con
 vergence of Kirchhoff's series does not necessarily imply the
 convergence of the series (7), and we must confine ourselves
therefore to the use of the latter for such values of log q only,
for which the series can be shown to give correct results with
a moderate number of terms. If the explosive distance is small,
we may obtain a very simple formula by a further trans
formation. We call e the explosive distance, and express
the normal force in the form Ya/e as in (5). Let x now be
expanded in a series proceeding by powers of k where A2=e/a;
a being as before the radius of the sphere. The function of
q occurring in the equation (6} is to be expressed in terms
of k. Remembering that ca is the distance between the

188       Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
centres of the spheres, we obtain
                  ca = 2a + e,
                  e/a = c—2 = k2.
Also from (2),
                     e={l + f)/q=e + 2,                        (10)
and hence
                   AJ=(l-?)4/?, or£=(l-?)/ </q.
From (10) it follows that
                  A* + 4= (1 +
and therefore that
         (i^r(*8+4)/*;*^=^                                  •
Equation (6) now becomes
and the series (7) , after substitution of        in terms of log a,
becomes
«/i
ft/1°g?=       1
             2lo^ j.    1 i
                  + 4«l0^+      , 2301              1891 Io^+
                                     7 il0^ ¦ « + 1935360  , ,      ¦
We have still to express log q in powers of k.
Differentiating (10) we find
      dq(l- ^) = 2kdk,
      1 dq _ 2qk _               2
                                     - from (11);
      q dk (f-l              ^yfc2 + 4
    rflog <?          2                 1
    ~dk          vwn
                                                                8
                                                                  +
-log?        =A-g"23 + 5.2».2 !^-7.28.3!F +

                      ofElectricity through Gases.               189
   From this series we may obtain l/logy and any power of
  log q in terms of k. Retaining k as far as the fifth power, I
  find :—
            - V'ogy = * [1 + si " 5760 * ~ WmOk J '
            -(log ?)'=*•-£,
            -(log gy=-k*.
  Therefore
  and hence
  As R=V^/a and e=k*a,
  and finally,
 This series converges rapidly as regards the first few terms
 if e/a is small, and the results obtained from it may be com
 pared with the values of x given in Table I. Table II. shows
 the comparison.
                              Table II.
             c—2=e/a.   x from Series (12). x from Table L
                 1            10335             10335
                •2            10678             10684
                •5            11725             11990
    The equation (12) gives a result therefore which is too
small by 3 per cent, if the distance between the spheres is
equal to half their radius ; but the result is correct to less than
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 177. Feb. 1890.           P

1 90         Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
one part in a thousand if the distance is equal to the fifth
part of the radius. This accuracy is quite sufficient in the
reduction of any actual observations.
     For values of e/a which are smaller than "2 the last term
of the series may be neglected, and the equation
                        R=X["l+             J-fll
                           e \_     3a      45 a2 J
may be used; while for distances between the spheres smaller
than the tenth part of the radius,
is correct for all practical requirements. For large distances
Table I. must be used.
     By the help of this preliminary investigation the reduction
of all such observations as Bailie's becomes an easy matter.
Table III. gives the values of R at which the spark begins to
pass according to Bailie between spheres of various diameters
at different distances. If the so-called dielectric strength is
a constant these values should all be equal to each other.
      Table III.—Values of R for Spark Potential between
               Spherical Surfaces, in Electrostatic Units.
    Explosive                    Radius of Spheres in centimetres.
   distance in    Planes.
  contimetres.                    1-5    05
                             3                   0-3      0-175    005
      005           179     180  180    190      197       200     292
      010            147    149  153    103     170        198     370
      015           135     138  141    167     170        200     425
      0-20           127    131  137    154     170        219     400
      0-25           122    127  134    154     180        236     478
      0-30           118    124  13U    156     189        253     494
      035           116     122  129    159     197        203     510
      0-40          113     122  129    104     204        272     528
 •    0-45           112   120   127    100     214        278     540
      o-io           112    118  124    157     197        268     539
      045           no     119   122    107     200        275     578
      050            109   117   125    100     218        2%      608
      060            106   110   125    181     233        327     039
      070            106   117   126    188     234        339     667
      0-80           106   123   130    192     250        3-19    085
      090            105   120   132    191     255        349     708
      1 U0           106   128   133    194     258        349     733

                    of Electricity through Gases.            191
    Table IV.—Values of R for Spark Potential between
            Spherical Surfaces in Electrostatic Units.
                           Radius of Spheres in centimetres.
            Explosive
           distance in
          centimetres.
                              1           05           025
              001           33(1         347            372
              002           2.r.8        202            277
              0-03          224          236            240
              004           206          213            222
              0-05          194          202            215
              0 06          184          190            202
              007           175          183            193
              008           172          179            192
              0-09          165          174            187
              010           164          171            187
              011           160          107            183
              012           159          167            185
              014           154          164            187
              010           166          175            190
              0-15          155          165            190
              020           148          102            198
              025           145          161            204
              0-30          143          103            215
              0-35          143          106            226
              040           142          170            230
              045           142          174            249
              050           144          180            256
              0-55          145          184            205
              060           145          190            272
              070           148          196            281
              0-80          151          205            288
              090                                       293
              100                                       301
              1-20                                      312
              1-50                                      327
   In Table IV. Paschen's* recent observations have been
similarly reduced. I bavo taken the values which Paschen
gives for the potential necessary to produce the first spark,
which, according to him, are slightly larger than those for
the subsequent sparks.
   Tables III. and IV. will be found to agree with each other
in their main features ; and considering the many disturbing
influences to which such difficult measurements are subject,
the individual numbers also compare well with each other.
The main facts which, whatever their causes, can be deduced
from the Tables are as follows:—
            * Wiedemann's Armalen, xxxvii. p. CO (1880).
                                  P2

192       Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
   (1) For two similar systems of two equal spheres in which
only the linear dimensions vary, the breaking-stress is greater
the greater the curvature of the spheres.
   (2) If the distance between the spheres is increased, the
breaking-stress at first diminishes.
   (3) There is a certain distance for which the breaking-
stress is a minimum.
   Let us consider how far all or some of these results may bo
due to disturbing influences.
   I do not think there can be a doubt as to the reality of the
influence of curvature, as that influence shows itself persist
ently at all distances and under all circumstances. Sparks
taken between two concentric cylinders show the same effect,
as appears from the experiments of Gaugain and Bailie. The
former*, in a valuable paper, came to the conclusion that when
the spark passes, the surface-density is independent of the
radius of the outer cylinder. This was to be expected, and
shows that Gaugain's method of measuring potential, which
does not quite come up to our present standard, was sufficiently
accurate for the purpose in view ; that is to say, that the indi
cations of his electrometer were really proportional to the
potential to be measured. The density a on the inner
cylinder increased, however, with its curvature, and Gaugain
found that the relation could be approximately represented by
the equation
                          <r=ot+P/J/r,
where, with the units employed by him,
                    « = 2-58 and £ = 25-62.
Bailie has compared Gaugain's equation with his own experi
ments, but the values for the surface-density calculated by
Bailie do not all agree with the numbers deduced by Gaugain
himself from the same formula. The cause of the discrepancy
is found in the fact that Bailie, by an oversight, took r in the
above equation to be the radius measured in centimetres,
while in the original memoir it stands for the diameter
measured in millimetres. I have recalculated Bailie's num
bers, and the result is given in Table V.
   Column v. in that Table shows a decided though not very
regular increase of R for diminishing radii of the interior
cylinder. This increase comes out more clearly in Gaugain's
observations, as he worked with cylinders of much smaller
radius. We may use the last column of this Table to reduce,
at any rate approximately, Gaugain's numbers to absolute
measure. Taking 1'25 as the ratio by means of which Gau
gain's numbers are to be divided in order to reduce them to
         • Annates de Chimie et de Physique, viii. p. 75 (1860).

                      of Electricity through Gases.                 193
electrostatic units, we must multiply his surface-density with
47r/l,25, or very nearly with 10, in order to obtain R. The
result is given in Table VI., in which r is the radius of the
inner cylinder, in centimetres, and R the normal force when
a spark begins to pass.
                                   Table V.
          Values for Spark-potential between Cylinders.
      I.          II.        III.       IV.      V.       VI.    VII.
  Diameter Diameter                   a from          <r' from
 of internal of external Explosive Bailie's 4jrff=R. Gaugain's   a'ja.
  cylinder. cylinder. distance. observa               formula.
      2r.        2K.                   tions.
     6-28       6-86          •29       7-24      91-     903     1-25
     5-75                     ¦56       844     106       9-20    109
     5-50                     •68       873     110       9-32    107
     492                      •97       907     114       9-60    106
     492        5-32          •20       907     114       960     1-06
     4-50                     •41       8-33    105       9-72    117
     4-40                      •46      825     104       984     1-19
     400                       ¦66      8-59     108    1007      117
     3-66                      •83      992     125     10-30     104
     4-00        445           •23      8-23    103      10-07 •  1-22
     366                       •40      8-60    108      10-30    1-20
     310                       •68      8-95    112      10-74    1-20
     2-49                      •98      965      121     11-35    118
     2-49        300           ¦26       8-46    106     11-35    1-34
     220                       •40       874     110     11-73    1-34
     1-78                      •61      976      123     12-40    1-27
     1-25                      •88     10-99     138     13-62    1-24
                                   Table VI.
                             r.               R.
                            1-5               110
                             ¦5               145
                             ¦25              168
                             •05              282
                             ¦013             451
                              010             491
                              •006            600
    Comparing these numbers with Table II., we find that the
disruption-stress is for two coaxial cylinders not very far

194      Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
different from that found for two spheres placed at such a
distanco that the disruption-stress is a minimum. Without
attaching too great an importance to this apparent coincidence,
I think we may safely conclude that the explosive distance is
really a function of the curvature of the surface.
   The second result which may be deduced from Bailie and
Paschen's observations is, in my opinion, also well established.
The fact that the breaking-stress diminishes for increasing
distances between two planes has been known since Sir
William Thomson's observations ; and it is well brought out
in the case of spheres, especially with the larger ones and at
small distances, that is, just where the disturbances are
smallest. I shall point out in the second part of this paper
that the breaking-stress may possibly depend, not only on the
state of the field at the point where the spark passes, but in
surrounding portions also. The further the spheres aro apart,
the more nearly will all points of their surface reach the cri
tical density at the same time ; and this, in the way to bo
explained, may help the spark to pass..
   I feel much more doubtful as to the reality of the third
conclusion, that the explosive stress reaches a minimum with
increasing distances and then increases again; but on the
whole I believe the evidence to be in its favour.
   There are two causes which tend to increase the observed
difference of potential when the distance between the spheres
is larger. There may in the first place be an appreciable
leakage between the electrometer and the electrodes, and the
potential registered will in consequence be too high. That
leakage actually took place in some of Bailie's observations
is rendered probable by his observations on cylinders. For a
given surface-density on the inner cylinder the state of the
medium must be the same whatever the distance of the outer
cylinder ; and there can be no reason therefore that the break
ing-stress will depend on the diameter of that outer cylinder.
Gaugain arrived experimentally at the result which was to be
expected ; but Bailie's results, as given in Table V., show a
decided tendency towards a larger apparent normal force for
greater striking distances, the iuner cylinder remaining the
same. This seems to me to point to a leakage effect.
   The second disturbing cause tending in the same direction
is the electrification of the leads. Bailie gives us no informa
tion as to tlk? disposition of his experiments and the size of
the leads, and seems to consider the difference of potential
between the electrodes to be the determining cause of the
sjuirk and not the rate of fall at their surface. There is no
evidence in Bailie's paper that he realized the importance of
avoiding the presence of electrified surfaces in the neighbour

                    of Electricity through Gases.                       195
hood of his spheres. In the absence of any statement re
garding the thickness of leads, we can attach no importance
to Bailie's results as far as his smallest spheres are concerned.
When their diameter is only one millimetre, we may take it
for granted that the effect of the wires conveying the charge
was considerable.
   Paschen has taken this point into consideration, and it
follows from the information he gives that with spheres of
5 millimetres in diameter and cylindrical leads of about 3
millimetres diameter the disturbing effect becomes apparent
when the sparking distance is greater than 5 millimetres.
The leads cannot be reduced in size beyond a certain point
with the usual arrangement of the experiments, as the spheres
are moved together by a micrometer arrangement, and must
of course be kept rigidly in their place.
   Making full allowance, however, for the possible effects of
leads and leakage, I cannot altogether resist the feeling that
the ultimate increase of potential with increasing distance is
not altogether due to these causes. My chief reason is the
good agreement between Paschen and Bailie's results in this
respect.
   For spheres having a radius of '5 centim. Bailie finds the
minimum of B to take place when the distance is about half
way between "20 and -25 ; while Paschen finds the same dis
tance almost exactly the same, though a trifle nearer to "25. It
seems difficult to believe that a disturbing cause should affect
both observers in exactly the same manner. For the smaller
spheres the distance at which the spark potential is a mini
mum is equal to nearly half the radius of the spheres. This
is shown in the following Table :—
                             Table VII.
                          Explosive distance for smallest normal force.
     Radius of spheres.
                                 Bailie.                 Paschen.
          centim.
           3                      •GO
           1-5                    •45
           10                                              •42
            •5                    •22                      •25
            •3                     17
            •25                                            11
             175                  •10

196      Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
                     Part II.— Theoretical.
   The attraction between electrified bodies involves a tension
along the lines of force in the medium which, with the usual
notation, is equal to KR2/87r. The specific inductive capacity
K of gases is nearly equal to one, and the stress is therefore
not much affected by the presence of the gas. It follows that
the stress is due to a strain in the interstellar medium, and
that the particles of air have nothing to do with it except in
so far as we consider them to be conductors which can deflect
the lines of force in their neighbourhood. We may imagine
the distribution of electricity on each molecule to be regulated
by the same law as the distribution on conductors ; and in
that case the forces tending to produce a passage of electricity
 between the particles of a gas will be proportional to ll2, but
 we do not know how large or how small its value may be. I
adopt the theory that the atoms of a molecule carry the same
 charges as the ions in an electrolyte, and that a spark passes
 as soon as the forces are sufficient to dissociate the molecules.
 I take this opportunity to mention that Mr. Giese has in the
 year 1882, that is, two years previous to the paper in which I
first applied this theory to the continuous discharge under re
duced pressure, explained by the same hypothesis some of the
electric phenomena of flames. The problem of finding the
effect of the electric field on the molecules carrying their
electric charges is very similar to the problems we meet with
in the theory of magnetism. It is usual to consider two
vectors inside a magnetized body, the so-called magnetic force
H and the magnetic induction B, which are related by the
equation
                          B = H + 4:rI,                       (13)
where I stands for the intensity of magnetization. In the
problems of induced magnetization I is taken to be pro
portional to the magnetic force defined as the force at the
centre of a thin hollow cylinder inside the magnet. It would
be more correct to take the magnetizing force as equal to
the force at the centre of a space left vacant by the removal
of a molecule; and this force could be expressed in terms of
the magnetic force as usually defined and the magnetic in
duction. Let the force within the space left vacant by the
removal of one molecule be G ; we may write
                          G = H + nI,                         (14)
where n is a numerical quantity, which, if the space left vacant

                   of Electricity through Gases.               197
is spherical, will be 47r/3, as already given by John Hop-
kinson*. Combining the equations (14) and (13) we find
                      B = G + (47r-*)I,
and if
                       I = /tG,                               (15)
it follows that
                      B=G(l + (47r-n)£)=XG,             . . . (16)
which gives the relation between the force G on which the
magnetization depends and the magnetic induction.
    Let now B stand Cor the electric induction, and G for the
electric force tending to separate the ions. The ions will
separate when G, and therefore B/X, has reached a certain
value, which value may, however, be different according as
the molecule is near the surface of the body, or within the
 space occupied by the gas. In the ca-<e of electrolytes no
finite force is required to separate the ions ; and it is at any
 rate possible to imagine that if there is a condensed layer of
 gas on the surface of the electrode, the critical value of B/\
 may not be as great as if the particles were altogether inde
 pendent of each other.
    The most remarkable fact connected with the disruptive
 discharge seem3 to me to be the apparent diminution of
 dielectric strength with a diminution of pressure. Imagine
 the state of a molecule in the gas just before the spark passes
 at atmospheric pressure ; next imagine half the number of
 molecules to be suddenly removed. Why should the discharge
 now pass? What difference can the removal of some mole
 cules make in the state of those which are still left ? None,
 as far as I can see, unless a great change in the inductive
 capacity has taken place. But no sufficient diminution of
 inductive capacity is observed within the bulk of the gas; and
 unless our present ideas are altogether wrong, I can see no
 way out of the difficulty except by assuming a surface-layer
 of gas in contact with the solid having a large inductive
 capacity. If the layer is thin the electric displacements will
 not be materially changed by its presence; and if the discharge
 begins within the layer we nave to substitute in B/\, for \ the
 inductive capacity not of the gas itself, but that of the con
 densed layer. If k is large in equation (16) above, \ will be
 nearly proportional to the density of the layer, and will there
 fore diminish with the pressure. There seems to me to be no
 difficulty in imagining the value of k in a gas to be large
                  * Phil. Trans, clxxvi. p. 468 (1880).

 108       Mr. A. Schuster on the Disruptive Discharge
close to the surface of the solid; and if we once admit the
possibility of such a contact-layer which diminishes in
density by a reduction of pressure, some of the most
 puzzling facts of the disruptive discharge admit of explana
 tion. One objection, which occurs to me, must be answered.
 It may be said that if X is large near the surface of the solid,
 the spark will start wherever B/\ is largest, and therefore not
 within the condensed layer, but between it and the remainder
 of the gas. This objection would be justified if we take the
 discharge to be a passage of electricity between the molecules;
 but according to the theory I advocate the dissociation of the
 molecules may, as already explained, take place more easily in
the condensed layer, and probably soonest in direct contact
 with the metal.
   Let us see how far the theory is capable of dealing with the
known difficulties of the discharge. I think it will be found
sufficient to explain the fact that when the planes or spheres
are near together, the normal force sufficient to produce a
spark diminishes with increasing distance of the conductors.
No explanation which has as yet been suggested can deal with
this fact. Prof. Chrystal, in the paper quoted above, has
really disposed of all suggestions except one proposed by him
self, which, however, does not seem to me to be supported by the
observations on spheres. According to the views of this paper
the polarized particles within the surface-layer of the gas can
slide along the surface of the electrode, and will do so under
the action of the electric forces. They will crowd together
whore the field is strongest, that is to say at that point at
which the spark is about to pass. The increased number of
particles will increase \, and will therefore introduce an
additional impediment to the formation of the discharge. As
the conductors are removed, the field will become more and
more uniform all round, the particles will no longer crowd
together to the same extent, and the spark will pass more
easily.
   The increased stress required to produce a spark when the
striking-distances ai-e small are due therefore, if lam correct,
to the inequality of the field along the surface of the con
ductor. In the case of plane surfaces which are opposed to
each other, tho inequality lies between the back and front of
the plates, and the surface-particles will be drawn from the
back to the front. A fact which seems to me to support the
idea that some such thing may take place has been deduced
by Mr. G. Jaumann * from a large series of experiments.
                   * Wiener llcrichte, July 188S.

                   of Electricity through Gases.              lflO
Mr. Jaumann comes to the conclusion, which appears well
supported by the evidence he gives, that the potential required
to produce a spark is the greater the more slowly the potential
is raised to its final value. If the potential is raised quickly,
so that, according to our view, no time is given tor the par
ticles to move along the surface of the conductor, the spark-
potential has much smaller values than those usually given.
   I am not very confident that a satisfactory explanation of
the observed effects of curvature can at present be given. If
a surface-layer such as I imagine really exists, forces of the
nature of surface-tensions may modify its properties. But it
is also possible that the density of the layer may depend, not
only on the inequality of the field at different points of the
surface, but also on the inequality of the field along the nor
mal to the surface. Particles may be drawn by the electric
forces from the gas into the surface-layer whenever there is a
rapid variation of the field along the normal. If the polarized
particles point in the direction of the lines of force, they will
tend to move along them under the action of a force propor-
tional to ~j-jt where V is the potential ; and this quantity is
the larger for the same value of R the greater the curvature
of the surface. It is possible that this is the explanation of
the greater spark-potential required for small than for largo
spheres. The two effects combined may explain the fact
that when the spheres are moved away from each other, the
breaking-stress at first diminishes and then increases again.
For small distances the inequality of the field along the sur
face causes a crowding of the molecules, and for large distances
the inequality of the field along the normal produces the same
effect. At intermediate distances it is probable that either a
maximum or a minimum of the normal force should take
place, but which it should be it is impossible to predict theo
retically at present.
   I do not attach very much importance to some of the sug
gestions I have made in order to explain a quantity of very
puzzling facts ; but it seemed to mo to be worth while to place
them before the public, as others may be induced to join in an
experimental investigation which promises to yield results of
importance.
   I have to thank Mr. H. Holden for much assistance in the
numerical calculations contained in this paper.

                                 [   200     ]
   XX. On the Behaviour of Steel under Mechanical Stress.
      By C. A. Cakus-Wilson, B.A., A.M.I.C.E., Demonstrator
      in the Mechanical Laboratory at the Royal Indian Engineering
      College, Coopers Hill ".
                               [Plates III.-V.]
   THE effect of uniform longitudinal stress on a steel bar is
           threefold
        (i.) The molecules are strained,
       (ii.) The elements are strained.
      (iii.) In virtue of the straining of the elements " flow " is
   produced.
      The strain usuallj' observed is the elongation due to flow,
   which may be recoverable or irrecoverable. The strains of
   an element can be shown to be a uniform dilatation combined
   with a uniform shear about an axis parallel to that of the bar ;
   hence the elongation due to flow consists of a sliding combined
   with an increase of volume.
      The state of strain of an element may be conveniently
   described by defining the shape, size, and orientation of the
   strain quadric, which is a sphere of radius 3a/ — combined
   with an hyperboloid of two sheets whose principal semi-
                    /Sn
   diameter is a/ — and axis parallel to that of the bar ; where
   p is the intensity of longitudinal stress, n the rigidity, and
   k the bulk modulus.
      Up to a certain stress the elastic properties of the steel are
   such that the strain produced is recovered when the load is
¦\ removed, but at that stress the elastic resistance is overcome,
   and the molecules slide qyer_one another, the strain being
   permanent.
      This sliding beyond the limit of elastic resistance does not
   continue. The elastic resistance is raised by the sliding, and
   consequently the sliding is limited.
      A stress-strain curve can be drawn which shows the in
   crease of the limit of elastic resistance p with sliding ; the
   rate of increase of the former at any point may be measured
   by observing the angle which the tangent to the curve at that
   point makes with the axis of strain ; I will call this angle <f>.
      The initial value of p is often taken as an indication of the
   " hardness " of the steel, and when p is raised by permanent
   strain the steel is said to be " hardened " thereby. Tlus, how
   ever, conflicts with a measure of hardness usually employed,
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read December 0, 1880.

              Behaviour of Steel under Mechanical Stress.            201
namely the amount of permanent strain caused by performing
a given amount of work on a bar.
    Thus if a hard steel edge attached to a weight is allowed
to fall on the surface of a steel bar, the depth of the indenta
tion is taken as a measure of the softness of the metal.
    If we draw the stress-strain curve 0 P for the steel under
examination, the work done in producing a permanent strain
0 D is the area 0 P D. If 0 Q represent the stress-strain
curve of a harder bar, the same amount of work, 0 Q C will
clearly produce less permanent strain, 0 C. The hardness
then is evidently determined by the form of the curve ; but
this depends upon the rate of increase of p with permanent
strain, t. e. upon the value of <£. Hence tan <f> is the true
measure of the hardness ; but tan $ is not constant, it dimi
nishes : therefore the initial value of tan <j> must be taken as
the measure of hardness. It will be seen that p cannot be
taken as a measure of the hardness, for p is the same at R and
 P for the two bars, but the former is obviously the harder*.
    We can say, then, that permanent strain raises the limit of
 elastic resistance, but diminishes the hardness—defined as the
 rate of increase of p with permanent strain.
     I imagine it is because the harder steel has the greater value
 of initial p that p has been taken as a measure of the hardness.
     If a bar of soft steel be taken and cut in four pieces ; No. II.
 " hardened " in oil ; No. III. in water [alkaline]; No. IV. in
 water [acid] ; if each piece is now tested we shall obtain stress-
 strain curves as in fig. 1, Plate III. A curve can be drawn
 through the points 0 A B C D E F, which I will call the
 " yield-line"; this will be the locus of all points such as A
 and F for pieces of the same bar " hardened " to different
 degrees. The points A, B, C are called the " yield-points."
      As the piece is harder the yield-point—or initial limit of
  elastic resistance—is higher, and the yield A F is lessf.
      When the yield begins it continues until p is raised by a
  given amount X. If we could show that X was the same for
  each piece, then it would follow that the yields as A F, B E,
  C D are direct measures of the hardness of the piece.
       If there is any inequality or want of homogeneity in the
  bar due to unequal stresses in the manufacture, there may be
  one plane or planes along which the limit of elastic resistance
  is less than along any other.
       Hence when this resistance is overcome sliding will take
 place throughout the bar parallel to that plane or planes until
     • If tan 0=0, the bar at that point is perfectly plastic.
     "t" Fig. 2, Plate III. is a facsimile ot an autographic diagram thus
 obtained : the steel bar was cut in three pieces ; A was soft, B hardened
 in oil, and C in acid.

 202        Mr. C. A. Cams-Wilson on the Behaviour
 the limit of resistance along that plane has been raised, by the
 sliding, to that of the rest of the bar, when the sliding will
 henceforth be uniform.
    In a bar cut into nieces the required increase is the same
 in each piece, only in the harder bar less permanent strain is
 required than in the softer. Hence \ is the same in each
 piece and the yield is a measure of the hardness.
    Steel bars and plates can bo shown in which the permanent
 strain at the yield-point has clearly taken place as a sliding
parallel to one plane only.
    It would seem that there was an apparent discontinuity in
the form of the stress-strain curve at the yield-point.
    The question arises whether the curve may not actually bo
continued through a double inflexion, and be one with the
rest of the curve as shown by the dotted lines, tig. 1, Plate III.
    Let us imagine a solid model made so as to represent at
any point of its surface a particular condition of the bar with
respect to stress, strain, and hardness. Let the curves I., II.,
III., IV. (fig. 1, Plate HI.) be placed parallel to one another
at distances from the plane X 0 Y proportional to the hardness
which each curve represents, with their origins in the axis 0 Z
(perpendicular to X 0 Y), and let the surface of the model
be made to pass evenly through all these curves and other
similar curves which would be obtained at higher and lower
degrees of hardness.
   We see that from the curve which just passes outside the
yield-line there is a part of the solid figure entirely wanting.
It would seem a much more natural view to suppose that in
some sense the successive curves are theoretically continuous,
as shown by the dotted line above.
    Such a supposition involves a state of affairs in which the
limit of elastic resistance decreases as the permanent strain
increases.
   This would be the case if the sliding at the yield-point
instead of taking place simultaneously over the whole bar
parallel to one plane only took place as a strain wave passing
up or down the bar with a definite velocity without any
further increase of load.
   This is what actually takes place. Sliding is started at
one end and takes place along a definite plane, generally at
45° to the axis ; this disturbs the equilibrium of the mole
cules in the parallel plane next to it, and sliding is induced in
this plane, so that a wave of strain passes the whole way up the
bar; or sometimes starting from both ends two waves meet
in the centre.
   The velocity of the wave varies greatly with the quality of
the stoel ; sometimes the wave appears to be instantaneous,

                 of Steel under Mechanical Stress.             203
 sometimes so slow that it may take 30 seconds to pass up a
 10-inch bar, in which case the pencil drawing the stress-strain
 curve is seen to follow the wave ; in the former case the
 pencil drops as if the bar liad broken.
    When the wave starts from one end a plane in the centre
 experiences no permanent sliding until the wave has reached
 the plane next to it, so that while originally the resistance to
 sliding was greater than the stress, now it is less ; in other
 words, permanent strain (in an adjacent plane) diminishes the
 resistance to permanent strain.
    The most reliable stress-strain curves are those drawn by
 Prof. Kennedy's apparatus, and these show a rapid and irre
 gular inflexion at the yield-point (see fig. 3, Plate III.). In
 these diagrams the record of stress is unatfected by the inertia
 due to the load.
    These stress-strain curves indicate the condition of strain
 in a steel bar as, by gradually increased stress, the steel is
 converted from an elastic solid to a viscous fluid. It is inter
 esting to compare such curves for steel of different hardness
 with the stress-strain curves of a gas at different temperatures
 (see fig. 4, Plate III.).
    We have the effect of increased {temperature} doinS
 away with the discontinuity at the {b'uf gj* ''ne*           ^so
 the strong probability that in both cases the apparent discon
 tinuity is really a double inflexion due to a change taking
 place piecemeal throughout the substance, and inconceivable
 if the substance be supposed homogeneous (cf. Prof. J.
 Thomson, Proc. Roy. Soc. 1871, no. 130).
     [The stress-strain curves shown in the diagram are from
 Dr. Andrews's paper (Phil. Trans, vol. clix. l8b'l), p. f>75).]
     Thus far the strains considered have been those due to
  relative displacements of the molecules, but it is impossible to
 conceive that this can take place without the molecules them
 selves being strained, i. e. without a displacement of the atoms.
     Such a displacement of atoms, if permanent, would alter
 the chemical and physical condition of the iron. Hence we
 must look to the straining of the atoms to account for the
 change that takes place when a bar is permanently strained,
i. e. to account for the increase in the value of p with per
manent strain.
    Osmond has proved almost beyond a doubt that the so-called
" hardness " of steel is due essentially to the existence of an
allotropic modification of iron ; that the molecules of iron may
be either (a) soft, or (/S) hard. (Cf. Osmond's ' Etudes Md-
talfu7vi<jues,' Paris, Dunod, 1888.)

 204         Mr. C. A. Carus-Wilson on the Behaviour
    Hence the change induced in steel by permanent strain
 must be due to a permanent straining of the atoms in the
 molecule.
    We should then expect to find evidence of a straining of an
 entirely different order and nature to that due to a molecular
 disturbance. Such evidence is forthcoming.
    It has long been known that if a steel bar lying in a mag
 netic field of limited intensity be subjected to tension in the
 direction of the magnetizing force, the magnetization of the
 bur will be increased.
    I have made a series of experiments on this subject, and
 find that the intensity of magnetization increases regularly
 with the load up to the yield-p.jint.
    The following experiments were made :—
    The bar to be tested was turned in the lathe, and a screw
 cut on each end ; it was placed vertically in the testing-
 machine ; to each end was screwed a nut, the top one (A) of
 gun-metal, the lower one (B) of steel (see fig. 1, Plate IV.).
The former was of gun-metal so as to remove the free upper
extremity of the bar as far as possible from the neighbourhood
of large masses of magnetic material. These nuts rest on
steel collars, C C, which have conical surfaces to fit into coni
cal holes in the main shackles, D D, of the testing-machine.
The bearing of the nuts on the collars is spherical, so as to
allow of a free movement of the specimen, and to ensure a
direct pull. A short distance above the upper end of the bar
a small magnet, E, is hung by a silk fibre, the suspension of
which is rigidly attached to the upper shackle, so that any
small motion of the latter involves the same motion of the
needle ; a silvered mirror is attached to the needle, which
reflects a beam of light from a lamp, F, onto a horizontal scale,
G ; H is a controlling-magnet.
   A small displacement is given to the magnet (i.) when
there is no load on the bar, and the time of 20 complete
oscillations observed ; (ii.) the same with a small load on ;
(iii.) the load is then removed, and the time of 20 oscilla
tions again observed. The results are recorded in the accom
panying Table.
   Experiment I.—Bar of soft steel, never loaded before : cross
sectional area 0'306 square inch, 19'5 inches long ; elonga
tions measured on 10" by a vernier and microscope reading
to thousandths of an inch.
   An automatic stress-strain diagram was taken (see curve A,
Plate IV.). The time of 20 oscillations of the needle was first
observed with the bar out—102*6 seconds. From this was
deduced a?, the square of the number of oscillations per
minute, and this was deducted from N*, the same when the bar

                 of Steel under Mechanical Stress.               205
was in place. The results are plotted on fig. 1, Plate V. as two
curves, the upper one, A„ being the curve of temporarily-
induced magnetism, with load on, and the lower one, As, that
of permanent magnetism, with load off. The arrow shows
the yield-point. The two curves cross one another twice, and
coincide in a third point. The third curve, A3, is the curve
of extensions from the second column of the Table, 186 times
full size. Curve A4isthe curve of permanent set, same scale
as A3. This bar was broken. The last observation was after
the fracture.
   Experiment II.—Bar of soft steel never loaded before :
cross-sectional area 0"308 square inch, 19 inches long; diagram
measures elongations of 10"; square of number of oscilla
tions per minute with bar out 121 ; ditto, bar in, no load on,
1841). The results are plotted as a curve in fig. 2, Plate V.
The arrow shows the yield-point. The observations at this
point wore taken after the set. The stress-strain diagram is
shown at B, Plate IV. This bar was broken.
    Experiment III.—Wrought-iron bar never loaded before :
 cross-sectional area 0'203 square inch. The extensions on
the diagram, 0, Plate IV., are on a length of six inches. The
 results are recorded in the Table, and plotted on fig. 5, Platelll.,
 the ordinates here representing simply the square of the num
ber of oscillations per minute. The arrow shows the yield-
 point. The curves intersect twice. This bar was not broken.
    The circles show the loads at which observations were made.
    From the curves on Plates III. and V., it is evident that
 the magnetic induction is increased in a regular way by
 increased stress, and that the effect is largely permanent ; a
 point is reached, before the yield-point, where the effect
 produced is wholly permanent. The two curves continue
 side by side up to the yield-point, when the large permanent
 set which then takes place completely upsets the former con
dition of the bar, as might have been expected. The temporary
 effect is roughly proportional to the elastic extension below
the yield-point.
    The conclusions to which I am drawn by these experiments
are :—
    (i.) Mechanical straining produces an " atomic disturb
 ance" in a bar which increases regularly with the stress.
    (ii.) For small stresses the disturbance is only partly per
 manent, but as the yield-point is ncared it becomes wholly
permanent.
    (iii.) The magnetic properties of a loaded bar are in general
 different from those of the same bar unloaded, but there is a
 certain stress or range of stresses over which the bar has the
 same magnetic properties whether the load be on or off.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 177. Feb. 1890.              Q

206         Mr. C. A. Carus-Wilson on the Behaviour
   In Experiment I. the range of stress* referred to in (iii.) is
about 15 to 22 tons per square inch, the latter being the
yield-point ; and in Experiment III. it is about 10 to 15 tons
per square inch, the latter being the yield-point. In Experi
ment II. the critical stress appears to coincide very nearly
with the stress at the yield-point.
   It is interesting to compare these results with those obtained
by Joule. In his ' Scientific Papers,' pp. 253-25(5, Joule
shows that an iron or steel bar elongates on being magnetized,
but that if the bar is strained, the effect is reduced until, at
a certain load, no effect is observed, and if the load be further
increased, magnetization produces a shortening of the bar.
These experiments were made with soft iron and steel wires.
   Joule's experiments show that magnetization produces a
minute elongation of a bar, those quoted above show that
 mechanical stress increases the magnetization of a bar, i. e.
mechanical stress produces a change similar to that pro
duced by magnetization. It would seem, then, that Joule's
critical point of no elongation (+ or — ) must be reached
when the molecular elongation produced by the mechanical
stress is the same as that which would be produced inde
pendently by a certain given intensity of magnetization. For
at that point, the molecular elongation having already been
produced by mechanical stress, the effect of the given magne
tization would be nil, i. e. there would bo no further elonga
tion (+ or — ). Now, taking an intensity of magnetization,
denoted by 5 in Joule's experiments, we see thatthis produces an
elongation in a 12 inch length of soft iron wire (0*25 in. diam.)
of ,^q^; in.: assuming Young's modulus for the iron at 13 x 10s
tons per square inch, the mechanical stress required to pro
duce this elongation would be about 003 ton per square inch.
   According to Joule's experiments the critical stress is at
about ti tons per square inch, t. e. in order to produce this
molecular elongation by mechanical means we require an
elongation of the bar 200 times as great as that which accom
panies the same effect produced by magnetization.
   We are thus dealing with two distinct kinds of elongations—
firstly, that produced by a relative motion of the molecules;
and secondly, that produced by a straining of the molecules
themselves.
   It is clear that if the atomic displacement should be perma
nent, there would be a permanent change in the physical and
chemical properties of the iron ; and as there certainly is a
change produced by permanent set, it is highly probable that
we must look to such a straining of the molecule to account
for it.

          Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29 PI. III.
-as*<^- m


PHl.Mag.S.5.Vol. 29. PL N.

Phil. Mag. 5. 5. Vol. 29 . Pl.V.

                   of Steel under Mechanical Stress.                                                      207
   Thus, taken in conjunction with Osmond's experiments,
those quoted above would seem to show that the increase in
the value of the limit of elastic resistance with permanent
strain is due to a permanent straining of the individual mole
cules.
                        Experiment I.—Steel Bar.
                                  20
                                  vibrations.                                         vibrations.
                                                                                      20
                          seconds
                          of                                        U         of
                                                                              seconds
                    Time
                    in                                            £5   Timein
              s                               1 o                  a                               1 o
    3         2o                                          i       5
                                                                   s5
    00      1-417      24-9                   218         00     1-418      18-9                  389
    01      1-417      24-85                  219         5-4    1-457      18-7                  398
    0-2     1-417      250                    217         00     1-418      187                   398
    0-4     1-418      24-8                   221         00     1-418      18-65                 400 1
    00      1417       24-85                  219         5-6    1-458      18-65                 400
    06      1-420      2475                   221         00     1-418      18-6                  403
    08      1-420      24-6                   224         5-8    1-463      18-7                  398
    1-0     1-422      24-55                  225         00     1-420      18-5                  407
    00      1-417      24-9                   219         60     1465       183                   416
    1-2     1-424      24-1                   234         00     1-420      18-5                  407
    14      1-425      23-7                   243         6-2    1-465      18-35                 414
    16      1-426      23-35                  250         00     1-420      18-4                  412
    1-8     1-427      22-4                   273         6-4    1-467      18-2                  421
    2-0     1-428      21-8                   289         00     1-421      1855                  405
    o-o     1-4J7      22-0                   268         6-6    1-469      18-3                  416
    0-0     1-417      22-5                   271*        00     1-421   183                      416
    22      1-430      20-9                   316         6-8    1-470   180                      431
    2-4     1-431      20 55                  327         00    1-421    18-6                     403
    2-li    1-433      204                    332         70 §
    2-8     1-434      20-3                   336        00     1-455    18-8                     394
    30      1-436      19-85                  352        7-0 §
    00      1-417      207                    322        00     1-507    19-2                     377
    00      1-417      20-75                  321*       7-0 §
    32      1-437       196                   361        00     1-538    19-4                     369
    34      1-438       19-5                  305         00    1-538    19-5                     3661
    36      1-439       19-65                 359         7-7   2095     17-95                    433
     3-8    1-440       190                   361         00    2036     25-35                    210
    4-0      1-442      19-45                 367         8-0   2178     16-5                     515
     00     1-417       2005                  344         00    2112     2505                     216
     0-0     1-417      19-9                  350*        8-3   2-323    16-8                     497
     42     1-444        191                  381         00    2-248    25-45                    209
     00      1-417      1975                  355         8-6   2-455    10-65                    506
     44      1-446      1915                  379         o-o   2-374    25-7                     204
     00      1-417      19-45                 367         90    2-692       17-05                 482
     46      1-451      191                   381         o-o    2616    26-4                     193
    00      1-418       19-5                  365         9-3    2-981      16-8                  497
    4-8     1-452       18-8                  394     l   o-o    2-893      26 35                 194
    00      1-418       18-9                  389        100                17-4                  462
    00      1-418       189                   389 1       00                27-5                  177
    50      1-453       i8-ar)                391        10-5               17-35                 465
    0-0     1-418       1905                  383      1 00                 28-0                   170
    5-2     1-455       18-65                 400        10-87               18-1                  420 ||
* After 10".                                      Load removed after small permanent set.
t After 5".                                       After fracture.
X After 17 hours.

208                         Professor A. Gray on
                Experiment III.—Wroughfc-iron Bar.
                   n.                                 it.
               Time in                  Load      Time in
    Load seconds of                                            n-MC.
   in tons. 20 vibrations.   n~- . W.        ' 20seconds  of
                                                   vibrations.
      00         1725          336       00          132          574
      0-5        10-8          354       2-7        13-25         570
      o-o        17-1          342       00         12-85         606
      00         16-9           350*     30          130          592
      0-7        15-25          430      o-o         13-3         565
      10         14-05          507      312         12-75        015t
      00         14-7           41)3     00          1485         453
      1-3        1305           587      3-4         12-75        615
       115        1315          578      00          15-2         433
      00          13-5          549      38          12-85        606
      20          1295          590      4-2         13-55        545
      00          1295          596      00          16-25      ' 379
      22          131           583      4-4         13-55        545
      00          13-4          557      o-o         1595         393
      2-4         12-8          610
           * After one hour.           t After the permanent set.
                     XXI. On Sensitive Galvanometers.
                          By Prof. A. Gray, M.A.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
        Gentlemen,
 I HAVE read with interest and also some surprise the re
         marks made by Prof. Threlfall in his paper in the Phil.
 Mag. for December last on the galvanometer invented by my
 brother and myself, and described by us in the ' Proceedings of
 the Royal Society,' for 1 884 (vol. xxxvi.) . The notes of our ori
 ginal observations on the sensitiveness of that instrument are
 I believe in the possession of my brother, who is now in the
 United States, and are at present therefore beyond my reach.
 I have, however, set up the instrument, and am now able to
 state some results I have obtained with it in its present state.
 The sensitiveness I have attained is not so great as that stated
 in our paper ; but I feel certain, that with the same delicacy of
 adjustment and suspension as was formerly given to it by my
 brother, the former degree of sensibility would be regained.
    But first as to Prof. ThrelfalFs statements and calculations.
 He says, speaking of the galvanometer of our type which he
 constructed, and which had a resistance of 15,852 ohms:—
 " The test for sensitiveness was made by running a large
 Clark cell through 10,000 legal ohms, and a certain small

                    Sensitive Galvanometers.                     209
resistance taken out of an ordinary bridge-box. The ter
minals of the bridge-box were coupled up through the gal
vanometer to a megohm. ... In the final test the period of
vibration of the magnet system was 80 seconds, and the re
sistance out of the bridge-box was 100 ohms. The E.M.F.
acting through the megohm and galvanometer and 100 ohms
                10100 Clark cells, say
was therefore —rr™                    J -0145 volt.     The current
was therefore , tttkttk = 1*26 x 10-7 amperes/' Lower down
                lloOOO                     1
Prof. Threlfall says that this gave a double deflexion of 5
divisions, and that therefore the current per division was
" 2-5 x 10-8 amperes."
   Now this calculation, if I understand the arrangement
(and taking the statement that '0145 volt worked " through
a megohm, the galvanometer, and 100 ohms," there seems
no room for mistaKe), is evidently erroneous. The current for
                                                •0145
the 5 divisions' double deflexion was really ^qj^qqq ampere, or
1*43 X 10-8 ampere nearly, and the current per division
2"85 x 10-9 ampere, or 5'7 x 10~9 ampere per division of single
deflexion. Thus Prof. Threlfall, by an error in arithmetic,
makes the sensibility of his instrument only about ^ of what
it was in reality, according to the data which he gives.
   For this sensibility it is to be noted the period of vibration
 of the needle system was 80 seconds, the suspension (two
silk fibres) 16 centimetres long, and the distance from the
 galvanometer-mirror to the scale 155 centimetres.
   Prof. Threlfall then describes an instrument of another form
which he constructed with the coils of the unsuccessful instru
 ment of our form, and begins his next paper with the follow
 ing statement of its sensibility :—" The galvanometer having
 been brought to a state of sensitiveness of 5 scale-divisions
 for 10~" amperes, the measurement of the resistance of the
 sample of sulphur in question became a tolerably easy matter."
 One naturally infers from this statement that the sensibility
 of the galvanometer in the experiments thereafter described
was 2 x 10-12 ampere per division of deflexion. However,
 calculating from the table on p. 472, we find that it was
 really about 3x 10~u ampere per division of single deflexion.
 If a double deflexion is meant in the statement above, this is
only about       of the sensibility stated, or, if a single deflexion
is meant, A of the sensibility stated. That the instrument
was working near the limit of its sensibility seems evident
             i

210                 On Sensitive Galvanometers.
from the fact stated by the author that the zero was " always
on the move."
    It is to be noted that in this instrument the suspension was
a quartz fibre 85 centim. long, and that the distance of the
scale from the mirror appears (p. 466) to have been 3 metres.
(Hence for a scale at a distance of 1 metre from the mirror
the current for 1 division of single deflexion would be 9 x 10_n
ampere.)
   Thus in his comparison of the two instruments Prof. Threl-
fall evidently states the sensibility of his own instrument as
either 15 or 7'5 times its real amount, and certainly makes
the sensibility of the trial instrument of our form only about
^- of what it was according to his own observations.
   In my own experiments the arrangement was as follows :—
A circuit was made of a Daniell's cell (freshly prepared) and
two resistances, one of 22,000 ohms and the other of 100 ohms.
The terminals of the galvanometer were applied at those of
the resistance of 100 ohms. The galvanometer had a free
period of 23 seconds, and the double deflexion produced was
88 scale-divisions each ^0 of an inch. Hence the current was
nearly 1 '5 x 10-7 ampere. For one half millimetre single
deflexion the current therefore was 2*7 x 10-9 ampere.
   To compare this with Prof. Threlfall's result with the same
type of instrument, we ought to reduce to a scale 1*5
metre from the mirror. The current for 1 division would
then bo T85 x 10~9 ampere as against 5*7 x 10-9 for Prof.
Threlfall's ; or, with only 23 seconds period, my instrument
has 3 times the sensibility his had with a period of 80 seconds.
With the latter period (and that with even a longer period, the
instrument can be readily used, I am certain from our former
experiments) the current would be about ^ of that stated, or
1*5 x 10~10 ampere per division ; that is, the instrument would
have about 36 times the sensibility of that made by Prof.
Threlfall. The silk fibre was a little less than 3 inches long,
and was by no means so fine as it might be made.
   A previous set of experiments, after which the fibre was
broken down, and the instrument dismounted for resuspension,
gave greater sensibility. The electromotive force of the cell
used was, however, in that case a little uncertain.
   I ought to state that the sensibility of the instrument
depends very much on its state of adjustment. As the time
at my disposal for these experiments was very limited, and I
am not able to apply anything like the degree of skill which
my brother used in the management of the instrument, and
in the arrangement of a delicate silk-fibre suspension, the
sensibility is not now so great as that which we formerly

                    Notices respecting New Boohs.                  211
obtained. Were everything in its former state (and in a little
time I hope to put it so), I am confident that our former
estimate of the limit of practical sensibility, viz. 1 x 10" 11
ampere per division, would be found not far from the truth.
    1 can only rejoice if Prof. Threlfall, or anyone else, makes
an instrument of a higher sensibility. I hold, however,
that our instrument possesses special advantages in point
of astaticism, steadiness of zero, &c. Its principal disadvan
tage is its long period of free vibration owing to the large
moment of inertia of the needle system. If, however, we were
to construct a new instrument, this would be very greatly
diminished.                I am> Gentlemen,
   University College of N. Wales,       Your obedient Servant,
             January 1800.                                A. Gray.
                 XXII. Notices respecting New Books.
Physics of the Earth's Crust. By the Eev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.,
    F.O.S., ijr. Second Edition, altered and enlarged. 8vo. Pages
    i-xvi, 1-391. Macraillan and Co., London and New York.
    1889.
nnHIS excellent book comprises a complete and critical digest
         of the various results of researches made by very many
Physicists in the nature and character of observed phenomena
and calculated probabilities relating to the structure and con
ditions of the Crust and Interior of the Earth. Its value, how
ever, is greatly increased by the Author's own observations and
calculations, especially as revised and augmented in this Second
Edition. A nearly lifelong experience in Geology has afforded the
Author good guidance in the application of his mathematical
studies, and has been a better basis for his researches than the
 merely hypothetical data submitted generally to mathematicians
 wishing to solve such terrestrial problems as come within the
 limits of Physical Geology. Many diagrams and some plates are
given as illustrations.
    With reference to the new features of this Second Edition *, it
 is stated in the Preface that "possible explanations of some of the
 difficulties left unsolved in the first edition have since occurred to
 me. Investigations have also been carried on by others, which
 appear to strengthen and support some of the conclusions already
 arrived at ; these needed to be followed up and embodied            A
 great part of the book has been rewritten; and, while there are
 many additions, there are some omissions. Some portions have been
 omitted because they seem uncalled for in the present state of
 Geological opinion ; and some because they would not have ac
corded with the results arrived at in the new portions. At the
    * The First Edition was published in 1881. See Phil. Mag. ser. 5,
 vol. xv. p. 50.

212                 Notices respecting New Books.
same time these results appear to be the legitimate deductions
from generally received geological data, now for the first time
submitted to mathematical treatment. The most important ad
ditions will be found in Chapters v., vi., Tin., ix., xv., xyii., xviii.,
XX., XXIII., xxv."
    I. Underground temperature is the subject of the opening
chapter. The general law of its average rise on descent into the
earth, and the probability that it does not remain unaltered for all
depths, are discussed.
    II. Internal densities and pressures. Chief points :—the Earth
probably once wholly melted ; now consisting of concentric shells ;
mean and surface densities ; internal pressure ; numerical value of
the densities according to Laplace's and Darwin's laws,—both
satisfying the geodetic and astronomical tests, but the former
 being the most probable expression of the facts ; for, " if the den
 sities of the substances in the central parts of the earth are due
 rather to their intrinsic nature than to condensation by pressure,
it is clear that Laplace's law is the more probable representation
of the reality ; for it must be remembered that, although based
upon a supposed relation between density and pressure, it does not
necessarily imply that the density is the result of the pressure."
    III. The condition of the Interior is next considered. " The
 question as to whether the Interior of the Earth is at the present
time solid or fluid, or partly solid and partly fluid, apart from geo
logical considerations, may be attacked in two ways. The first of
these is by inquiring what would be the difference of effect that
bodies exterior to it, namely the sun and moon, would have upon
the motions of the Earth in either case ; and, secondly, by con
 sidering the sequence of events according to which a molten globe,
such as the Earth once was, may have passed into its present state."
In the first case arguments have been based on the phenomena of
the Precession of the Equinoxes and the Tides. These are briefly
discussed and disposed of in Chapter III., no appreciable tide in
 the body of the Earth being produced by the attraction of the
 moon and sun. The change of density on solidification is illus
 trated by many collected calculations and observations ; and the
existence of a cooled crust over a molten mass is regarded as
    It is then argued that a liquid substratum might dissolve water-
gas, according to Henry's law of the absorption of gases by liquids,
and that there would be a very considerable quantity of steam
emitted from this substratum if it gained access to the atmosphere
in volcanos. Moreover, the high temperature of the gases (chiefly
water-gas) passing up through the lava would support its tem
perature, and would also account for amvgdules in the deep-seated
igneous rocks of many dykes. This hypothesis of absorbed gases
is regarded as accounting for the alleged absence of bodily tides
within the Earth.
    Chapter VI., with its text,—"a thin crust implies an energetic
substratum,"— goes to prove that this substratum must be affected
by convection-currents, upward and downward, according to local

                    Notices respecting New Books.                  213
alterations of temperature and level, as the currents are disturbed,
 producing changes in the motion of the liquid. Hence occur
 changes of level on the Earth's crust over different areas of surface.
It is also remarked that "the extreme slowness with which
the accretion of fresh solid matter at the bottom of the crust
takes place [the molten substratum dissolving it nearly, but not
quite as fast, as it solidifies] would lead us to expect that its con
stitution would, from the first, be cr3'stalline and not vitreous. In
 this respect it would differ from erupted igneous rocks, which are
in some cases at first vitreous, and in which a crystalline structure
is induced by subsequent metamorphism "' (page 78).
    IV. The crumpling and contortions of strata, and the inequali
ties of the surface resulting from lateral stresses, are considered
in Chapters VII. to X.; and the existence of a yielding, fluid
substratum, holding water-gas in solution (that is, a magma in a
state of igneo-aqueous fusion), beneath a thin crust (about 25 miles
thick), is regarded as proved and in accordance with geological
evidence. The conditions of the existence of the water-substance
in a gaseous state, in both the primitive and the present stages cf
the Earth's history, are discussed in Chapter XI. It is explained
in Chapter XII. that the crust is not so flexible as to yield by
bending and folding only to lateral pressure; but that the yielding
must take place through a crushing together and local thickening
of the crust. Chapter XIII. comprises the conditions of a dis
turbed tract, with the formation of a mountain-range and its root,
downward protuberance, or equivalent subterraneau mass,—also
the local results of denudation and sedimentation. Researches
with the plumb-line, pendulum, and thermometer are severally
considered in their bearings on the condition of mountain-masses
and of the crust generally (Chapters XIV.-XVI.). The attraction
of mountain-masses, and the rate of increase of temperature
wit liia them, are both much less than would be the case if the
heavy, hot, molten liquid from below had risen into their anticlines.
   Oceanic areas and the suboceanic crust form the subject of
Chapter XVII. Oceans occupy depressions, definitely below the
spheroidal surface of the Earth ; and these have probably resulted
from a greater density of the crust (somewhat thicker there than
beneath the Continents); the soft substratum being not quite
so dense as that beneath the land. The permanency of the ocean-
basins is accepted. Prof. Darwin's speculation of the Moon having
broken away from the Earth some 50 million years ago is regarded
with favour.
   The thickness of the crust below the ocean—when the water is
one mile deep may be                £2-15 miles,
two miles „        „                49-34 „
three,,     „      „              124-90 ,.
Its density is also calculated (2-80 to 2-95). At the rare depth of
five miles the density might be so great as to allow the crust to
lose heat more rapidly and to sink slowly,—as, for instance, near
Japan, where the frequent earthquakes may be due to this cause.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 177. Feb. 1890.               It

214           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
The peculiarities of island attraction (gravity) are succinctly ex
plained in Chapter XVIII. The density of the crust in general is
2-68, and that of the fluid substratum 2-96; and the pressure of
the crust upon this liquid substratum is about 10,000 tons on the
square foot.
   In judging the cause and amount of compression in the Earth's
crust (Chapter XIX.), the Author thinks that a mean compression
of 4 per cent, (of the linear dimensions) may have elevated the
continents from the sea-level to their present height (p. 260).
Cooling of the crust and contraction of the interior may have been
causes of the compression,—also, to a slight degree, extravasation,
from beneath the crust, of the water now composing the ocean. It
is nlso pointed out by the Author that the expansive magma (with
its included water-gas) forced up from below would widen cracks,
thus causing some compression ; and that such rocks as whinstone
and granite when solidifying would swell, as water does in
freezing.
   V. Chapters XX. to XXIV., appropriately following the dis
cussion of hypotheses and phenomena in the earlier chapters, are
rich with facts and inferences concerning Physical Geology. Dis
turbance of rocks ; folding, crumpling, shearing, faulting; fissures,
volcanic dykes, mineral veins ; geological movements generally ;
volcanos, volcanic action, and distribution of volcanos, are subjects
of great interest and are here well handled by a master. Chapter
XXV. gives an interesting speculation as to the origin of ocean-
basins,—comprising Prof. Darwin's hypothesis.
   VI. At pages 342-381 we have a concise summary of the objects
and results of each Chapter in the book, forming a most valuable
resume, which both physicist and geologist will fully appreciate.
An excellent Index completes this elaborate work.
   The careful references to all observers who have treated of the
physics of the Earth's crust, and straight-forward expositions of their
views, enhance the value of the book ; and we may remark that all
the different authors and their opinions have been treated in a
characteristically considerate and courteous manner.
         XXIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ON THE RESISTANCE OF HYDROGEN AND OTHER GASES TO THE
   CURRENT AND TO ELECTRICAL DISCHARGES, AND ON THE HEAT
   DEVELOPED IN THE SPARK. BY E. V1LLARI.
 A N arc-light between carbon points of 1 centim. diameter is
       well known to be shorter in a horizontal than iu a vertical
direction ; and the arc is somewhat longer in a vertical position with
un ascending current than with a descending one, doubtless owing to
the greater heat of the anode, which must become more strongly
heated when it is uppermost.
   Arc-lights were formed in glass bulbs which were filled with dry
gases. The carbon electrodes were superimposed in a vertical
position, and were then drawn apart from each other until the arc

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           21.r>
light disappeared. Two arc-lights were each time produced in two
glass bulbs, one of which was inserted in the circuit. The strength
of the current was measured by an ammeter.
   The arc was found to be far shorter in hydrogen than in carbonic
acid, and in the latter, again, shorter than in air ; the ratio of the
lengths was about 3-9 : 7'4 : 8-5. In nitrogen, with an ascending
current, it is about 7 times as long as in hydrogen, and with a de
scending current it is 25-7 times as long. With decrease of pres
sure the arc lengthens in nitrogen, hydrogen, and coal-gas ; in the
two latter, however, it never attains the same length as that of the
arc in air.
   With platinum electrodes the lengths of the arcs in carbonic
acid, nitrogen, coal-gas, and hvdrogen at ordinary pressures were
in about the ratio 16 : 19 : 4-6 : 2-8.
   The production of heat at the electrodes was determined for
various gases with sparks from a Ruhmkorffs inductorium. The
electrodes were thermoelements of iron and German silver. The
heating was investigated in two globes filled with various gases, in
which the distance between the electrodes was almost identical.
   The heating of the negative electrode was greater than with the
positive ; the difference of the heating effect seemed also to be
greater in nitrogen than in hydrogen. A globe filled with hydrogen or
with nitrogen was next used, through which the induction-spark was
passed, and the strength of the current measured by a well insu
lated galvanometer. The induced discharge was more enfeebled
by a layer of hydrogen than by an equally thick one of nitrogen.
Moreover equally thick layers of hydrogen aud nitrogen enfeebled
the discharge as much as columns of water of 99 and 59 millim.
respectively.
   In order to diminish the induction-current by the same amount,
the length of the spark in hydrogen- was 33 millim., in nitrogen
48 millim., and in carbonic acid greater than 49 millim. Hence the
 resistances were in the order—carbonic acid, nitrogen, hydrogen.
 The heating of the electrodes increases with the rarefaction.
   The spark was then made to pass over the bulb of a mercurial ther
 mometer in various gases. The temperature increased more strongly
in nitrogen than in hydrogen both for the induction-spark and for
the spark from the battery-discharge. The heating with both was
 much smaller in hydrogen than in nitrogen, so that in passing
 through hydrogen the discharge has a much smaller electromag
 netic and thermal intensity than in passing through nitrogen. By
 substituting for the spark other resistances the same result was ob
 tained. A layer of nitrogen 47'6 millim. in length enfeebles the
 intensity of the induced current to the same extent as a layer of
 hydrogen 36-95 millim. in length ; and a layer of carbonic acid 49
 millim. in length as much as a spark 33 millim. in length with the
 battery-discharge. The negative electrode is almost as strongly
 heated with the discharge in hydrogen as in nitrogen. With the
 discharge of the condenser it is more heated in nitrogen.
    The spark was finally produced in glass tubes which were sur
 rounded by small calorimeters filled with oil of turpentine. Under

 216           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 similar conditions the spark in hydrogen develops more heat than
 in nitrogen, which is just the opposite to what occurs in the
 measurement of temperatures. The same holds also for the dis
 charge of cascade batteries.—Rendiconti delta K. Ace. dei Lined,
 v. p. 730, 1880 ; Beibliitter der Physik, xiii. p. 1016, 1881).
  FCRTHER INVESTIGATIONS ON THE INERT SPACE IN CHEMICAL
                   REACTIONS. BY O. LIEBREICII.
    The phenomenon of the inert space observed and described
 by the author (Phil. Mag. xxiii. p. 408) has been further fol
 lowed, and a series of experiments with the chloral mixture are
 described, which are illustrated by figures showing the influence of
the surface of the liquid and of the sides of the vessel on the shape
of the inert space. It is thus shown that the evaporation of chlo
roform cannot be the cause of the phenomenon, nor are immersion
and convection phenomena sufficient to account for it. The experi
ments with iodic acid and sulphurous acid were also extended, and
it was more especially shown experimentally that the process of
the reaction in narrow spaces is retarded, and in spherical spaces
occupies a central position. Analogous phenomena were also ob
served with the use of vessels of rock crystal, so that the alkali of
the glass cannot be adduced as the cause for the occurrence of the
 inert space. The conclusion forces itself that the physical influence
of the side and the varving tension of the surface of the liquid play
the predominant part. The hypothesis is not inadmissible there
fore that the occurrence of every chemical reaction only becomes
possible above a certain magnitude of the space in which it occurs.
Transferred to biological processes this leads to the conclusion that
chemical processes in cells are also bound up with a certain magni
tude of the cells, unless a process of a different kind occurs, wliich
in a certain sense may, in comparison with the normal, be re
garded as a degenerative one.—Sitzunt/sberichte der Akad, der Wins,
zu Berlin, 1889, p. 160 ; Beibliitter der Physik; xiii. p. 098, 1880.
     LECTURE EXPERIMENT TO PROVE THE EXISTENCE OK THE
DIRECT AND INVERSE EXTRA CURRENTS. BY M. C. DAOUENET.
   The existence of the direct and inverse extra currents may be
easily demonstrated by means of a Wheatstone's bridge. In one
of the branches is inserted a high linear resistance, an incandescent
lamp for instance, while in the other is a long coil of wire of
small resistance. When the normal state of the current is at
tained the resistances nre balanced ; then the curcuit is opened
or closed, and the needle is seen to be deflected either in one direc
tion or the other under the influence of the extra currents, and then
return quickly to its position of equilibrium. This experiment is more
easily made than that either of Faraday or of Edluud, especially
for the current on closing.—Journal de Physique, viii. p. 285, 1880.

                      Second Edition, foolscap 8vo, cloth, 5».
                             SUNLIGHT.
                                By H. P. MALET,
                      Author of ' The Interior of the Earth.'
   Pioneer:—"Partisans and opponents of Laplace should examine Mr. Malet's
 arguments."
   Guardian :—" A delightful little book."
    Quiver:—"A curiously interesting volume."
   Journal of Microscopy :—"This clever little work."
   Northern Whig :—"Will at once instruct and interest readers in general."
                London: TRUBNER AND CO., Ludgate Hill.
                            15 Parts, demy 8vo, 37s. 6d.
                              Publications of the
               /ELFRIC SOCIETY.
                                     Consisting of
                 HOMILIES OF ANGLO-SAXON CHITRCH.
                 SALOMON AND SATURN DIALOGUES.
                 POETRY OF CODEX VERCELLENSIS.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part L, 4s. ; Part H., 7s. Qd.
               PHYSICAL                        MEMOIRS,
     SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                          UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
                  PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
           Demy 8vo, price 12«., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                         JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                     OF THE LATE
                    J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
             Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
     Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                      and Portrait.
   Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                    D.C.L., F.R.S.
             Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                  Price £7 10s. Od.
                TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
Selected from the Transactions of Foreign Academies of Science and Learned
Societies, and from Foreign Journals. First Series, August 183C to September
1862 : 21 parts. New Series, Natural History : 4 parts. Natural Philosophy :
4 parts.
   A complete set of this valuable Wprk, containing memoirs by Arago, Balnrd,
Becquerel, Berzelius, Bessel, Biot, Botto, Bunsen, Bunneister, Carus, Caucky,
Chevreul, Clausius, Clapeyron, Cruger, Danielssen, Dove, Ehrenberg, Emmerich,
Encke, Fresnel, Gauss, Goldschmidt, Hansen, Helmholtz, Henry, Hoffmann,
Hoffmeister, Holtzmann, Jacobi, Jamin, Knoblauch, Koene, Koren, Krohn,
Lamont, Lenz, Le Vender, Liebig, Lowig, Magnus, Melloni, Menabrea, Meyen,
Mitscherlich, Mohl, Moser, Mossotti, Miiller, Neumann, Nobili, Ohm, Ostro-
gradsky, Pelouze, Peltier, Plateau, Flucker, Poggendorff, Poisson, Pouillet,
Provostaye, Redtenbacher, Regnault, Riess, Rbmer, Rose, Rudberg, Savart,
Schleiden, Schmidt, Schultess, Seebeck, Sefstrom, Senarmont, Siebold, Verany,
Vogt, Von Baer, Von Wrede, Walckenaer, W'artman, Wichura, Wiedemann,
Weber.
             Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

           CONTENTS op N° 111. -Fifth Series.
  XIII. The Pressure-Variations of certain High-Temperature
Boiling-Points. By Cabl Babus                                        page 141
  XIV. The Electrification of a Steam-jet.         By Shelfobd Bid-
well, M.A., F.R.S                                                           158
  XV. The Geological Age of the Mountains of Santa Marta.              By
Professor Hebmann Kabstent, M.D                                             163
  XVI. On Diffraction-Colours, with special reference to Coronse
and Iridescent Clouds. By James C. McConnel, M.A., Fellow of
Clare College, Cambridge                                                    167
  XVII. On the Vibrations of an Atmosphere.              By Lord Ray-
leigh, Sec. B.S                                                             1 73
  XVIII. Process of Plotting Curves by the Aid of Photography.
By Ekic Q-ebabd, Professor of Electricity at Montefiore University,
Liege                                                                       180
  XIX. The Disruptive Discharge of Electricity through Gases.
By Abthub Schusteb, F.R.S                                                   182
  XX. On the Behaviour of Steel under Mechanical Stress. By
C. A. Cabus-Wilson, B.A., A.M.I.C.E., Demonstrator in the
Mechanical Laboratory at the Boyal Indian Engineering College,
Coopers Hill. (Plates IIL-V.)                                               200
  XXL On Sensitive Galvanometers.           By Prof. A. Gbat, M.A.. . 208
  XXII. Notices respecting New Books :— Rev. O. Fishee's
Physics of the Earth's Crust                                                211
  XXIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     On the Resistance of Hydrogen and other Gases to the Current
       and to Electrical Discharges, and on the Heat developed in
       the Spark, by E. Villari                                             214
     Further Investigations on the Inert Space in Chemical Re
       actions, by O. Liebreich                                             216
     Lecture Experiment to Prove the Existence of the Direct and
       Inverse Extra Currents, by M. C. Daguenet                            ib.
%• It is requested that all Communications for this Work may he addressed,
      post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
      Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 29.                       MARCH 1890.                              No. 178-
          Published the Firtt    Bay of every    A/oath*—Price   2s. 6d.
                             ( MAR         12 189nS     )
             LONDON, EDiNWfteH; and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                   MAGAZINE,
                                         AND
               JOURNAL                  OF       SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of TillocKs 'Philosophical Magazine'
        Nicholson s 'Journal? and Thomsons 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                    CONDUCTED BY
         SIR ROBERT KANE, LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. F.C.S.
         SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                                         AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH           SERIES.
                        N" 178.— MARCH 1890.
                              WITH TWO PLATES.
   Illustrative of Mr. Fred. T. Teouton's Paper on the Acceleration of
      Secondary Electromagnetic Waves ; and Prof. Spencer U. Pickering's
      on a New Form of Mixing-Calorimeter.
                              yy- LONDON:
        PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS. RKD LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
  Sold by Kent and Co. ; Simpkin. Marshall, nnd Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. j —
     and by A. and C. Black, and T. and X. Clark, Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
     Glasgow:—Hodges, iignis, and Co., Dublin:—Putnam, New York : — Veuve J.
     Boyveau, Paris :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                                    On Sale by
          MACMILLAN AND BOWES, CAMBRIDGE.
Clapin, A. C. Optical Problems. 8vo. 1850. 3s.
     A systematic collection of examples elucidating the various theorems of Geome
  trical Optics—Illumination, Direct and Oblique Reflection and Refraction, Prisms,
  Lenses, Aberration, Dispersion of Light, Imnges and Vision, Telescopes, Rainbow, &c.
De Morgan, A. The Book of Almanacs, with an Index of Reference,
  by which the Almanac may be found for every year, from any Epoch, up to a.d.
  2000, 4c. 2nd edit. Cloth. 1871. 6s.
Earnshaw, S. The Doctrine of Germs, or the Integration of certain
  Partial Differential Equations which occur in Mathematical Physics. 8vo. 1881. 3*.
Elms, R. Leslie [1817-50]. Mathematical and other Writings, edited
  by Win. Walton. Memoir by Harvey Goodwin (now Bishop of Carlisle). Portrait.
  8vo, cloth. 1863. 12*.
      Contents :—On the Foundations of the Theory of Probabilities, the Method of
  Least Squares, the Integration of certain Differential Equations, the Achromatism
  of Eye pieces of Telescopes and Microscopes, Lines of Curvature on an Ellipsoid,
  Notes on Magnetism, &c, Slc.
Gregory, Duncan F. [1813-44]. Mathematical Writings, edited by-
  VP'. Walton, with Memoir by R. Leslie Ellis. Portrait. 8vo, cloth. 1865. 8s.
     Contents :—On the Real Nature of Symbolical Algebra, the Solution of Linear
  Differential Equations with Constant Coefficients, Circular Sections in Surfaces of
  the Second Order, Solution of some Problems in Transversals, Solution of Partial
  Differential Equations, on the Impossible Logarithms of Quantities, Application of
  Algebraical Symbols to Geometry, 4c, &c.
The Mathematical Monthly. Edited by J. D. Runkle. Complete in
  3 vols. Royal 8vo. Cambridge, Mass., iar>9-61. 38s.
     This journal, now scarce, was discontinued at the time of the American Civil War.
  Contains contributions by P. E. Chase, G. B. Bond, Prof. Pierce, W. D. Henkle,
  Elias Loomis, S. Newcomb, A. Cayley, J. E. Oliver, T. H. Safford, W. WaUon,
  E. B. Elliott, Chauncey Wright, W. Chauvenet, W. Ferrel, Matthew Collins, C. H.
  Davis, and others.
Mathematical MSS. The MSS. of the late Mr. Temperley, tutor of
   Queens' College, Cambridge, Fuurth ]Yrant/ler and second Smith's Prize
   man, 1871 ; consisting of notes on Bookwork, some Eouth M>SS., and
   some printed problem papers with MS. solutions, together with papers
   containing about 5000 problems with solutions to 3000, extending
   over almost the whole range of Pure and Applied Mathematics. In
   all 5 Stone's boxes, 18 Spring Covers, 10 Note Books, and 7 Parcels.
   £15.
     Such a collection as the above, embracing the MS. material of one who was long
  engaged in teaching Mathematics at Cambridge, has probably never before been
  offered for sale, and the large number of Problems with Solutions (3000) must be of
  great value to any Mathematical professor or teacher.

                   (    MAR 12 1890
                     v    r f -THE
          LONDON, ^DlK3TmGTfr and DUBLIN
     PHILOSOPHICAL                       MAGAZINE
                                AND
         JOURNAL                OF       SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                        MARCH 1890.
   XXIV. The Form of Newton's Rings. By A. W. Flux,
        B.A., Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge1*.
 THE following essay deals with the formation of the equa
       tions of Newton's Kings, when the inclination of the
 surfaces concerned in their formation is taken into account,
 not merely with regard to its effects in producing a gradually
varying thickness of the intervening medium, but also in
deflecting the rays so that, though parallel at incidence, they
are no longer so on emergence.
    Owing chiefly to the finite size of the sources of light avail
able, in spite of the use of the best collimating instruments,
the incident light is not a single plane wave, but consists of
an infinite series of such waves having their fronts inclined at
small angles. Each incident wave will produce a series of
colour-effects at any point in the field of view, but these are
in general masked by the effects due to other waves ; only in
the neighbourhood of a certain surface does there exist distinct
coloration. The main result of the calculations of this paper
is the determination of the surface on which the colour-effects
are most clearly defined. This has been effected both for
reflected and for transmitted light.
   The conclusions arrived at are the following :—
   (1) The rings lie on a certain ruled surface of the third
order, which cuts the planes through the central spot parallel
                  * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 178. March 1890.           S

 218                  Mr. A. W. Flux on the
 and perpendicular to the plane of incidence, in two straight
 lines, which cross each other without intersecting.
    We shall refer to these lines as the " Principal " line and
 the " Transverse " line.
    (2) The rings are the curves in which this ruled surface is
 intersected by a set of coaxial cylinders, which are oblique
 cylinders on circular bases.
    In the case of the transmitted system the rings are not
 rigidly coaxial, though for ordinary angles of incidence the
 defect could only be detected by means of very refined in
struments.
    (3) The rings are symmetrical with regard to the first of
 the two planes mentioned in (1), both in shape and distinctness.
    (4) The principal line being inclined to the surfaces of the
plate of glass used in producing the rings, after the ring of a
determinate order, every ring will Ho partially above the upper
surface of the plate. Similarly every ring beyond another
determinate limit will lie partly below the lower surface.
    (5) The points of the principal line are always clearly
defined. In all other directions the clearness varies with the
incidence, decreasing as the angle of incidence increases, in
general.
    Every ring whose order does not exceed a certain limit, de
terminate for each angle of incidence, will have, however, a
pair of points quite clearly defined. These points lie sym
metrically on the side of the rings furthest from the incident
light. Further, the rings are always more clearly defined on
this side than on the other.
    (6) Any point in a certain lino intersecting the principal
and transverse lines, and lying between these lines, may be
taken as the central spot, which is therefore, to that extent,
indeterminate.
   The analytical methods of this paper are, for the most part,
derived from an article in Band xii. of Wiedemann's Annalen
der Physik und Chemie, by Herr Wangerin. Experimental
evidence supporting the theory may be found in the first
article in that volume.
   The results attained by Wangerin are in all respects iden
tical with those of this paper. I have endeavoured to profit
by some changes in Herr Wangerin's method, developed in
later articles, and to modify these and combine them so as to
derive a method which seemed to me to be satisfactory.
   The results for transmitted light have been given by Herr
Gumlich in Band xxvi. of Wiedemann's Annalen.

                      Form of Newton's Rings.                  219
        Part I.—Newton's Rings in Reflected Light.
       Section I. Calculation of the Relative Retardations.
   Suppose a plate of plane parallel glass to be in contact at
the point 0 (fig. 1) with the surface of a lens, whose upper
surface is convex and of radius r.
                               Fig. 1.
   Let d be the thickness of the glass, /x. its refractive index.
   Let LABCDEG be the course of a ray incident on the
plate at A and reflected at the lens at C.
   Let L' A' B' E' GK be the course of a ray belonging to the
same incident wave-front and reflected at the lower face of
the plate at B'.
   Suppose the pair of rays so chosen that their directions after
emergence intersect at the point F.
   Let the interval between plate and lens be supposed to
contain the same medium (air) as the space above the plate.
   Let 0 be taken as origin, the common normal to lens and
plate, drawn on the side towards the plate, as axis of z, and
let axes of x and y be taken in the lower face of the plate.
   Take
                 e, v, ? as coordinates of F.
                                             rt
                 £i) vi, ft
                 &j Vtt ?«                   B.
                 U, V, 0                     B'.
Let
      I, m, n be the direction-cosines of AL or CB,
                                               BAorB'A',
      I', m', n'                               CD,
      h't mi, V                                DB.
                                S 2

220                       Mr. A. W. Flux on the
Then
       — ij, — m„ n, will be the direction-cosines of B'E'.
       — /, — m, n                „            „        „          E'G7,
         I',     m'f nf           „            „        „          EG.
   If we refer C to spherical coordinates with the radius
through 0 as polar axis, <f>, ifr being those coordinates,
           £, = rsin<£cos'^',        Vi = r Bin <f> sin ijr.          -v
                                       o
           ?i=— r + rcos<f>= — 2rsinz| = —   •   2"/>     r<f>3 q. p. jI.      (i.)
                                                                               v y
   The normal at C has direction-cosines,
                   sin <j> cos i/r,  sin <fi sin ^r,   cos <f>.
                      I' = —l + 2U sin 0 cos i^,
                      »»'= — m + 2Usin</>sin y]r,
                      n' — —n +2U cos </> ;
where
   U = I sin (J> cos i|r + ni sin <f> sin -^r + n cos <f>
       = 1$ cos y}r + m<f> sin ^r + n^l— ^ j to the 2nd order;
     i' =— I + 2n<f> cos yjr + 2<f>2 cos \}r[l cos ifr + m sin yfrjA
     m'= — m + 2n<j) sin i/r + 2<£3 sin ¦^•[/cos^ + msin^r], j (u*)
     n' =       n + 2<f>[l cos i/r + m sin ^r]— 2rc</>2.                    J
We have also
             ^1 =          ™i = W/*>        n\ = \/V — 1 + n'VM,
            ^=Z7f*,        m^m'/p,          V = v/m2-1+»7/*.
 Whence
    i = — [~1         -A (/ 0 cos yjr + mi> sin ijr) +            <Aa
                      2    r 3n2        n                              ~i
 and                                                                              (iii.)
    I = -f"l- - (ZAcos'«/r + Jn(f)sin'</r)+2(i>2
    n'      nL         n
                                    + -j4        cos ^ + m<f> sin Vr)sJ"I ¦ J'

                        Form of Newton's Rings.                     221
Again,
               „=£-- (<*-$)+ ^<*=£+-(?-6-i),
where
And
Inserting the above expressions for the various direction-
cosines in terms of /, m, n, <f>, yjr, and writing
we have, to the 2nd order of <f>,
Si=£+ -                       cos tct-aj - ^(?"0S)
                       (i^icos ^r + »n^ sin i^r) + ^ 2r sin8 ~
                                  21
    =u— 2$ cosi/r(J— o",)— -8(^ cosi|r + m<£ sin ^r)
                                                                 ^ (iv.)
17, = v— 2</> sin •</r (f—      — ^- (/<£ cos i/r + m<£ sin i/r)
Comparing these values with those in equations (i.), we find
that, to the first order,
                       r<f> cosi/r=«,   r<j> sin ifr=v               (v.)
Using this approximation in the terms of 2nd order,

  222                     Mr. A. W. Flux on the
           , u       2u ,„ t.     2llu + mv/i. . . . 1 tt' + n1 1
  4> cos*= --            (?-«!> - -2—         (?-S2) + i - -p—, |
                                                                    i
   ... »            2r ,„ f .    2m/« + wir.^ t. , .TnjS + v1 I
  08inf = -             (f_S1)--r_i_(f_S9)+i-—j-. j
  Also, from the figure,
                  ff=fi + i^^s,      ^2 = »7i + 4 ^»*<^s.  • •  (<U+25BC>»•)
       Now, if a plane be drawn through B, perpendicular to BA
  and B'A' and cutting the latter in H, the vibration in the
  two rays will be in the same phase at B and H.
       If, then, A denote the retardation of phase at F of the
  vibration in FE, relative to that in FE',
BC + CD+/*DE-EF-[>HB'+/iB'E'-E'F']
                                                                        (viii.)
*™i[^y+^K^+(i-»i>-s-''HB'
                                                                    i
       Nov
                   =z[Jfl-«+il rp] +m[Vl-v + ±                  ].
   Inserting the values of        and t?, in (iv.) and using in (viii.)
   the values in (iii.) of — and        , and the values of <f> cos ^r,
   <f> sin    in (vi.), we deduce from (viii.) the following :—
       A = nr^ + 2n(?-S,)—^f- +- [—7- J
         = 71           2«(?-*^-|[^] (?-*,) V (ix.)
                                            + (Z?t + »at>)
        Correct to the third order, inclusive.
        This is the result obtained in equation (8) p. 211,
    Band xii. of the Annalen der Physik.
                 Section II. The same in the general case.
        Before proceeding to the uso of the evaluation of the
    retardation in Sect. L, we shall determine in a similar manner

                        Form of Newton's Rings.                        223
theretardation when one of the rays A B C B, Gx . . . .
C*_i D E G (fig. 2) is reflected k times at the surface of the
                                   Fig. 2.
 lens, and k— 1 times at the lower surface of the plate, the
 other ray being only reflected at B' as before.
    Take now
               £, 7), f as coordinates of F,
               ZnVnKr          „        ofa->[r<i],
               «, v, 0         „         of B'.
     Let the spherical coordinates of 0, Ci . . . Or •           be <f>, ^ ;
  $1,^1- ••"> 4>n i* . . . ;
           lr,    mr, nr be the direction-cosines of Cr_iBr.
  Then
        — lrf —mr, rtr are the                  „       of Or Br.
  Let
           /',     m',   ri be the direction-cosines of BA and B A ;
         —V, -rri,        ri are those of B'E'.
            /*',   mk, nk'              of DE.
         —I, —m,          n             of FGK.
            h, mk, nk                   ofFG.
   Also
        lk=fdk, mk=/J.mk', v//x2-1 + m*2 =/ink'.
      If we write down the coordinates of Bu deriving them from
   the coordinates of C first, and then from those of C|, we obtain
      r sin <i cos \Ir + - 2r sina^ = r sin Aj cos fa         L 2r sina ^,
                                                            m,
      r sin (6 sin ^ + — 2r sin224> £ = r sin <£, sin -^,      2r sin*  5-'
                                                                    r,«^'

  224                        Mr. A. W. Flux on the
      .'. To the first order,
                 <f> cos ^r=<^i cos yfru      ^ sin >fr=<f)l sin fa.
      And therefore to the second order,
                              cos fa = <f> cos     —^
                                                      771
                             sin      =<£sin yjr
      Similarly, we have
           ^jCOS ^ra = ^>1 COSi/r, + ^-^i2 = ^)COS^r — 2- {f>7}
            <f>2 sin fa = ^ sin fa + ^ <f>1t= <f> sin fa— 2 ~ tf>3.
     And, generally,
                       <f>kCosfa=<f>cosfa—k. -$2,
                                                                          0-)
                       fasm fa.=<f>smfa— k.
     Recalling the results of (ii.) section I., we have : —
   's = ^ + 2w] [</> cosi/r—             — 2<f>i cos ^r[/1cos^r + 7n1 sin fa]
     = — l + 4n<f> cos fa— 21(f)2 + 8<f> cos ^[/^ cos ¦ty+mfy sin i/r] ;
w3= — m + 4?i(£ sin fa—2m(f>i + 8(f> sin \|r[/0cos^r + w^sim/r] ;
 7i8 = 7i + 4[/^cos ^r + m^)sin^r] — 8t!<£>9 — 2 1—       — n*
    Proceeding thus, we find that
  h= -1 + 2k n<f> cos f-k(k-l)l<f)3
                           + 2k2(j> cos ^[/^ cos fa+m<f> sin i/r],
77ii= — m + 2k n<}> sin ifr— k(k — l)»i^>s
                           + 2/.-2^> sin •^•[/^> cos i/r + 7«0 sin^r], ("•)
nk=n + 2k[l(f> cos^r + 7?!^) sin -^r] — 2kQn<pi>
         -k(k-l)

                            Form of Newton's Rings.                       225
         Whence
   1    1 r
   - = - J 1 - — (l<f> cos i/r + m<f> sin f) + 2P<j>*
                        + k(k - 1 ) -^f- 0s + ~ {l<f> cos f + m</> sin ^-M ;
                                                                                > (Hi-)
           Also, from the coordinates of Ct_i,
        rsin<^_1co9^i_i = £+^(rf-?)-;§tf- ^ 2rsins                           ;
        r sin      sin ^_1= , + VUl                          ?TL*2r rin**^-1.
                                              v       n*      n*          2
           Whence, by means of (i.), (ii.), and (iii.),
                                                                         2 , s > (iv.)
  i sin          2k £(£-8,)-                               +
          We have also
                          +<k2 (       n ~~ n )+ • • • to * terms]
                                                                      r (v.)
                ntv            Ji4      2L    \«       «i/
                         + ^(-^-^)+...to/fc terms].
          Drawing the plane BH, perpendicular to BA and BA' as
       before, the retardation at F of the vibration in FE relative
       to that in FE' is
A» = BC + CB, + . . . + Ct_, D +pd [JL -            + (rf- f) g - 1] _^B'H. (vi.)
        And
          ^ . B'H=/tZ1(f -u) +/«n1(V-»)
                  =i(f-u) + m(V-t>)
     Also                                                                        (vii.)
Bc+cB1+...+cv1D=r[^(UI)+v(l+L)+...4termB].

226                    Mr. A. W. Flux on the
   Using the values obtained in (ii.), ("i.)> (iv.), (v.), (<U+25BC>"•) in
evaluating A in (vi.) we obtain
4,=^,+2t^(t_8l)+^(?H±=r)Vs,)
                                                            )¦ (viii.)
   ¦=kn
             + n \T~ ) (?_8s) ~ (/M + W",)—?~ J • J
   Section III. Determination of the Equations of the Rings.
    If we now determine the axes of x and y so that the plane
xz is parallel to the incident ligbt, and if 9 be the angle of
 incidence,
         I =sin 6, m = 0, n = cos 9.
 Also
 where
            sin 9 = ft sin 9U w = £ + tan 9 (£— 6\), e=ij.
 And with this simplification
              W2 + t'« Pcos0
 A»=£cos 0                       [2(M3 + r!)(?-S0
                  r         r2
                      + 2 m8 tans^(?-Sj,)-« tan 0 («»+»*)]. (i.)
 We shall find it convenient to refer the system to a new
  origin and new axis of z, keeping the axis of x and y parallel
  to the directions just chosen.
     The new axis of z is inclined at an angle 9 to its old
  direction, t. e. is parallel to the emergent light which has
 been but once reflected at the surface of the plate. The new
  origin is the point (f0 £,), where
                                                                  (ii.)
  The formula? of transformation are :—
                        v=y,                                     (iii.)
                             + £ COS 0.     (See fig. 3.)     !

                          Form of Newton's Rings.                       227
                                      Fig. 3.
We shall also write
           zx cos 6= (S2 — Sj) sin2 6 = d               cos 0 sin' 0 ;
                                                cos3 0,
                         M2-l A ¦ ta           ,(^-l)tan«gi
                       /*' cos'^
           i.e. «,1 = —5       ffj a sin* 0 = a— /* cos —20,         . (iv.)
                                                                       v '
    With the assistance of this change of symbols, we shall con
sider the retardations of systems of incident rays slightly in
clined to the incident raj s hitherto considered.
    If <f> be the angle between such rays (<p being small) and
yfr the angle which the plane through the two rays makes with
the plane xz, we have
                     I = sin 0— cos 0 . </> cos yjr,
                     m— <f> sin ->fr,                                   (v.)
                     n = cos 0 + sin 0 . <f> cos 3
    M?n1*=/x*— 1 + ws=/i2 cos2 0j + 2 sin 0 cos 0 . <f> cos ijr + . .
                    1 _        1     f,     sin 0 cos 0         -]

228                      Mr. A. W. Flux on the
   .'. The new value of Sly
            ,r,       cos#        ,       . ,       ,,/,     sin 6 cos 0           ,\
         = d\[_ 1          £-(1+
                    fi cos 61 v                     r '\1
                                     tan 0.<t>cos->fr)[       fJ.J: COS*^ <j>cosf\
                                                                             r     'J
             ,r,      cos# n        , cos0 ,            . .    .       rsin#cos<h
         =d\L 1           a~ — «-
                    /iCOS0,J               - /j-9 cos y
                                      /ACOStV          7 tan ^ — L—j—j-j-/* cosJ p, J ,
            s        sin0Os — 1)
    u = f + l-tt-Si'h
      = f0 + ,-,sh^ + tan^l-^°S^)
                                 (^q + 2 cos 0— 8t + e,/sin 5 . 9 cos i/r),
      =« + 9  r cos T Lsin 0s — sma  - -3-      ——~a Bins03        J tan 0>'
      = x — — ^ 9 cos llr                                                 (vu>)
              cos a
      = y + ^eosfl^       +     cos ^ = y + (2 + zi) 9 sin i/r . (viii.)
 Therefore
 A*'=- (cos 0 + sin 6 . 9 cos ^) £.r*+#2
                                    1x-                                       ~]
                                ~ cofe * 003 * + 2y         + ^ * sin *J
                        + 2*tan»0(2-*, cot4                          (*s + t/4)]
 to the 3rd order of small quantities, y, 2-, «i, 9 being of the
 1st order;
      = A* + ^(x8+ys) sin 6— 2#s^9 cos
                                        + - . 2y (z + ^j) cos 5 . 9 sin ^r,
        = A + B 9 cos yfr + C . 9 sin ->fr (say)                           (ix.)

                       Form of Newton's Rings.                    229
    This expression varies least from its mean value A, as
and yjr vary, the former from zero to a small value, the latter
from 0 to 27r, when B* + C2 is least, t. e. when
i. e.
        2x [Os + i/2) sin 0— 2aw]- V cosS 6 (* + *i)=°i
or
          x (>2 + ?/2) sin 0-2x*z-2f cos8 0 («+z,)=0,
or
        2 0*+/) (z + zj) cos« 0 + 2*2sin2 0 (z-zx cot2 0)
                                    -a; sin 0 (>2+y9) = 0. . (x.)
When (x.) holds, the value of A& in (i.) becomes
                         A*=-cos 0(wa + t;2),
i. e. the A of equation (ix.)
 = £ cos 0'^-^~ — kh, wbere 8 = ^-^ (.r2+y2). .          .  .    (xi.)
With this value, corresponding closely with that given in the
ordinary theory of Newton's Rings, we can determine the
equations of those rings at once. The ordinary methods used
for thin plates by Glazebrook or Airy furnish the result that
the equations are (for the dark rings) :—
                          cos 0 . .    _    ,
                            r
i.e.                    #24-y2= —-A = as (say)                  (xii.)
                                 cos 0         J
 i. e. The rings lie on this set of coaxial elliptic cylinders.
     They also he on the surface of the 3rd order (x.).
     The principle which we have employed to determine the
 position of the rings is both simple and satisfactory. Though
 any pair of intersecting rays received into the eye may be
 regarded as producing interference-results, yet only such need
 be considered as have their effect neutralized in the least
degree by that of other pairs of interfering rays.
     Since, in every case of' experiment, the incident light is not
 a simple plane wave, but consists of many plane waves, only
 limited in direction by the size of the pupil of the eye or
 object-glass of the observing-instrument, and therefore in
 general but little inclined to one another, we shall only be
able to observe those colour-effects in which these various
 waves combine to the most complete extent.

230                  Mr. A. W. Flux on the
   These lie on the surface (x.), where it is intersected by the
series of coaxial elliptic cylinders (oblique cylinders on cir
cular bases) (xii.).
             Section IV. The Surface of Interference.
   We have now to examine the surface whose equation is
given in (x.) of the last section.
   We shall use the form
          * (*4+y9) sin 0-2a*z-2y* cos8 0 (c + ^) = 0      .    (i.)
   The points of the surface which we have to consider are its
intersections with
                            x*+yi = a*;                        (ii.)
                         hr\      2/t + l r\
where                  "cos0°F 2 cos0'
according as we are considering dark or bright rings.
Where (i.) is intersected by y = 0,
                          x sin 0-22=0.         ....         (iii.)
   The intersection is therefore a straight line through the
origin.
   If 6) be the angle made by this line with the axis of x,
                                      2 sin <a
                     sin 0= — =
                              .c cos (d—o))'
                                 sin 0 cos 0
                       tan to=                                (iv.)
                                 l+cos20
                                                     (See fig. 4.)
                                Fig. 4.
               *                                7T
  We may notice that when 0=0 and when 0 = 5, tan co vanishes.
   It attains a maximum value when tan 0= ^'2,

                      Form of Newton's Rings.                   231
 i. e. when           0 = 54° 44' 8"-2 (about).
  For this value      a>= 19° 28' 16"-4 (about).
     This is the greatest value of a>, which varies from zero when
  8 is zero to this greatest value, and then decreases to zero
  again as 6 approaches a right angle. We notice that the
  value of to is entirely independent of the shape, thickness,
  and material of the lens and plate employed.
     The extreme points of any ring in this line are by (ii.)
  x— + a.
     The actual diameter of the ring is therefore
                    _     cos 9         sin 6 cos 6
                    2a     ja     \=a       -.
                       cos (0 — to)        sin <u
                          = a\/l + 3cos*0                       (v.)
     The diameter, as seen projected on the horizontal, is the
 distance from x=a, 2=0, to x= —a, z = 0, i. e. 2a.
     Let us now consider the intersection of (i.) with y= +a.
     Since, so far as the rings are concerned, equation (ii.) is
 also to be considered, so that x=0, we see from (i.) that
 i. e. the intersection of this plane with the ring-system is also
 a straight line, and, moreover, a line parallel to the surfaces
 of the glass plate.
     We may write (i.) in tho form
                _x .r(.»s+ys) sin d            j/scos20
               5-2 .r*+ycoss0 ~~' x*+y* coss0 "            '   ^
    Thus, when x and y vanish, z lies between zero and — z„
the exact value depending on the vanishing ratio of x to y.
    Thus this portion of the axis of z lies entirely in the
surface.
    Again, we may write the equation (i.) in tho form
        (x*+y*) {x sin 6-2z) + 2yi sin* 6 [z—z, cot4 0] =0 ;
and hence we see that the line
                       z=zt cot8 e
                            2z _2£1cos80>           ....      (vii.)
                       x=
                           sin 6     sin3 0
lies wholly in the surface.
    This is a line parallel to the axis of y.

 232                   Mr. A. W. Flux on the
    If we take a plane
                 x sin d—2z + \(z—z, cot*0) = O
 passing through the line (vii.), it cuts the surface in the pair
 of straight lines
                      x     - V 2 sin20->
    It cuts the axis of z where
                          z=zx cot*0
                                         A. — it
 Denoting this value of z by z0, we see that
                       2= + sec 0a
                       x ~           V Zi + z0
gives the pair of lines in which the above plane meets the
 surface.
    It appears, therefore, that the surface is generated by pairs
of lines intersecting the axis of z between the origin and
z=— Z], and also intersecting the line (vii.). If we denote
the origin by P (fig. 5), z=—zx by Q, and z=—z0 by M,
                                 Fig. 5.
and also the line (vii.) by RN, R being its intersection with
the plane xz, and N its intersection with one of the above
pair of lines,
                       1zx cos2 0            a /PM
                RN='
                         sin30 * ~ ~ " 'V MQ
                          2 cos e „„ /PM
                     =+            PQV MQ'
                           sin3 6
giving the law of the generators.

                     Form of Newton's Ringt.                   233
            Section V. Some Points about the Itings.
    From these details concerning the "surface of interference"
 we may learn something about the rings.
    It is evident that since the plane xz cuts the rings in a
 straight line inclined to the surfaces of the plate, we shall, by
 proceeding far enough in either direction, at last reach rings
 which lie partially above or partially below the plate.
    The upper surface of the plate is
                           z= (d—%o) sec 0
                            = d sec 0—zr
    The lower surface is z = —z,-
    Hence the line (iii.) in the last section intersects the upper
 surface of the plate where
                 _2 (d-zt cos 0)_ 2d cos* 0
                      sin 0 cos 0 ~/t sin 0 cos3 0, '
 and the lower surface where
                      sin 0          (j? cos3 0,
 since the order of the ring in this direction (y = 0) is
 given by
            x— +n= + \f—^-g for the dark rings,
                       ,    /(2A+l)Xr .
                   = ± V 2 cos e for the             g   nng9'
    r,                . id*         cos*0
    If                A> -
                           Xr     sin* 0 cos" 0,'
 the dark ring of order h has points above the upper surface of
 the glass plate.
    Tf             i             cos8 0          .
                   fl>\r M* sin* 0 cos6 0, *'
the bright ring of order A lies partially above the upper
surface of the glass plate.
    T.                   id* Q*-l)* sin* 0 cos 0
    At              h> Xr          fi6co^0t        '
the dark ring of order h lies partially below the lower surface
of" the glass plate ; and if ft + J be greater than the quantity
    JPhil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 178. March 1890.          T

234                     Mr. A. W. Flux on the
just written, the bright ring of order h lies partly below the
glass plate.
     If we denote the line (iii.) of the last section, viz.:
                           x sin 0-2^ = 0")
the principal line, and the plane
                            x sin 0-2r=O,
the principal plane.
     The rings lie wholly below the principal plane so long as
                                  x sin 6
     The greatest value of z determined from equations (i.) and
                                        sc sin 0
 (ii.) of the last section is less than —^— 80 'ong as
                         «       (y-l)cos4fl
                       ° <*%6sins0cos601;
                            4d*           cos*!?
*                      A< Xr /*6 sin9 (9 cos6 0,"
    It will be observed that this value of h and the first two of
those just given is greater as 8 is smaller and decreases as 6
increases.
    It is otherwise with the number determining the order of
ring lying below the lower surface of the glass plate.
    It was found that the axis of z lies entirely in the surface
between 2=0 and z= — zv
    Thus there arises a certain degree of indeterminateness
with regard to the central black spot, any point between these
limits being seen with equal clearness. This difficulty is
actually found in the course of the experiments undertaken in
connexion with this more exact theory of Newton's ltings.
  Section VI. Relative Distinctness of Different Portions of
                            the Ring-system.
    We shall now consider where and under what conditions
the rings are formed most distinctly.
    In Sect. III. (ix.) the expression found for the retardation
was
       At'=A + B d> cos -«|r + C sin yjr,
                                                             Q
           =A+ VB* + C9 <f> cos (y]r — a), where tan *=g-
    When B* + Ca is a minimum,
                              k
                          A = -cos 0(x* + y9).

                     Form of Newton's Rings.                   235
   Also           B=*[V+ys) sin 0-2a-z],
                  C = *2yco9^(2 + ^i).
   We have hitherto not considered the effect of the term in
volving <f>, but since the minimum of B* + Cs is not always
zero, we cannot pass these terms over without notice.
   When y = 0, and x sin 0— 2s =0, B and C vanish, and there
fore the points on the line in the plane xz are always formed
clearly.
   The only reason why we cannot see rings of a very high
order in this plane is that the rings of different colours over
lap to such an extent as to obscure the result if the incident
light be not strictly monochromatic.
    When x=0, and z= —zx, C vanishes, but B does not; in
fact,
                         B = *y4 sin 0,
                           = -/ir\ tan 0;
                             r
since ay*=a4= cos 0 when x=0.
    Therefore, the distinctness depends on the magnitude of
 h \ tan 0. This quantity increases as h increases, and there
 fore the outer rings in the direction of the axis of y are always
 less distinct than the inner. Further, as 0 increases, tan 0
 increases; and when the incidence is nearly grazing, very
 few rings can be formed distinctly, since small variations of X
 are sufficient to cause large variations of B, and taking also
 into account the variations of <f>, the colours overlap so as to
 cause all trace of variation of intensity or colour to disappear.
    Since B4 + C* is unchanged by the substitution of —y for y,
 the rings are equally distinct on the two sides of the plane
 **'                                     IT
    Again, since 0 lies between 0 and —, when ft is greater than
 unity (i. e. in general) zl is positive. Hence
                        {xi+yi) sin 0+2xzt
 is decreased by the substitution of —x for x.
    Thus the part of the rings on the side of the plane yz
 which is nearest the incident light is less distinct than the
 other part.
    With the help of the equation of the " surface of inter
 ference," we find that
                                 T 2

236                   Mr. A. W. Flux on the
This vanishes when (#* +y9 cos8          vanishes.
Now
      2 0«+y* cos8 0) + = * [(x*+y9) sin 0 + 2*z,]
                               = .r [a8 sin 0 + 2#z,],
.•. V'B^+G'8 vanishes when
                          x— ¦ a* sin 6
                                   2z, '
and since xi+y9=ai, this requires that
                           a sin 0 ,
i.e.                       —ai— <1,
                          , 4zi8 cos 0
or                        n<        :_T^>
                              Xr sin8 0
                   ,  4<P (/t8-!)* sin8 0 cos 0
                       Xr      /a" cosb &i
    For all rings of lower order than the limit so determined
there are two points quite distinctly visible, symmetrically
situated with regard to the plane xz, and on the side of tha
plane yz farthest from the incident light.
    To obtain the required criterion for bright rings it is only
necessary to write h + £ for A in the above.
    If the rings are examined by means of a microscope, the
breadth of the visual pencil is much greater than if the naked
eye were used. Thus much greater values of <f> are possible,
and the obscurity is consequently increased.
    For purposes of exact measurement, however, a microscope
is necessary, in spite of the consequent greater indistinctness
in the phenomena observed.
      Part II.—Newton's Rings in Transmitted Light.
       Section I. Calculation of the Relative Retardations.
    We now proceed to consider the case of transmitted light.
We shall take the axis of z in the opposite direction from that
before used in Part I., viz. drawn towards the side on which
the lens lies (fig. 6).

                    Form of Newton's Rings.                    237
                               Fig. 6.
                                       a
   Tlie direction-cosines will be similar to those used in
Sect. II. Part I., so far as the two cases coincide, viz.:—
   The direction-cosines
           of LA, L'A', BC, B'C are -I, -m, n;
           of AB, A'B'              are -V, -rri, ri ;
           of BjC are /„ mu       ; of B1C1 are — /„ — mj ni ;
                      &c.                    &c.
           of B*,Ct_i, are h, m*, tit ; of Bt, Ctare — h, — tn4,nA.
Also we shall take as direction-cosines of
      CtD,           -mk+l, nt+1 ; CD', -a', -ff, i ;
      FD, — Zi+a, — n?*+2,          ; FD', —a, —/9, y.
 The rectangular and spherical coordinates of
                 C are f„ i?,,      and <£,-«/<¦;
                 C, are             and </>, Vi ;
                              &c.
                 C* are f4+i,              and    i/rt ;
                 C are £', V, ?, and £', ^ j
         while F is £, 17, £
The thickness of the lens at its centre will be denoted by d,
while r is the radius of its convex surface. The direction
               1

238                    Mr. A. W. Flux on the
cosines of the normal at </>, yfr are
              sin ^ cos -^r, sin ^ sin ^r,         — cos ^.
We have
   /» =1 -2/tw^cos-f + /t(A-l)/^>9
                                 — 2A*£cos ¦^[7<£co8-^, + m<£sin ^r],
   nn=m — 2hn(pcosijr + h(h — l)m<f>*
                                 — tli*^) COS Tfr[l<f> COS +       sin ^r],
                                                          1— n*
        + 2/t (/<£ cos ^- + »n<£ sin ^) - A (A — 1 ) -—-
                                   A2                                       '
                             + 2- [/<j> cos^r + w^) sini/r]2-2A8>«J.»
1 „ 1 |"i _ ?* (U cos t + m<i sin            + A(A - 1)^^V
Putting
         U = i sin <£' cos i/rr + »i sin <£' sin i/r* + n cos <£'
            =n + /<// cos ¦vp'-' + »!</>' sin^— n^- + . .
        «' = - -[sin^'oos^ vV-l + U*-Uf +/],'
                    [sin^'sin^                  + US-U} + «], Ly.)
        y= +^ [cos</>r { ^2-i+u»-u}+»].
 And
       a=/ — (m— iitS)<I>' cos         — ^1 — ^^'cos^/
                                               (/<£'cos ^' +        sin
      /3=m—                 sin                         sin ^
                                               (/^'cos \f-' + 7M^)'sin ^) :
   My = M* - 1 + ns — 2(>n' - n) (ty' cos ^ + m<f>r sin f)
              - 0*n' -»)V2 + 2^^(l<f>' cos ^ + »»tf>' sin f)«.

                       Form of Newton's Rings.                       239
 Again,
            e-*(d-0+£(<*H?)=r=^<x»*/,
            v- £             + # (d-f)=i/=r^ sin
    Therefore, writing
 where
 we have
               u_-^rf=arfcoa
   ¦ • 6 ~ 2 _t           »•      *                  ;
   ... f Cos f. - - i ^ —r- + i                        ^ —.
   We shall now proceed to connect <£, -^r with                     ^r'-
Writing
Now 7t+2, mlH, nt+2 are derived from             w*, «t as a, /8, 7 are
from I, m, n, <£' i/r' being replaced by <£* -^rt .
Now               ^t cos i/rt = <£ cos ijr — k -
                  <£t sin ^k = tf> sin i|r —A —

          240                      Mr. A. W. Flux on the
       Therefore
    f*+a=4— («*—/*«*') <£i cos if-t
       = l —nc'a+i         cos ^ + W ty8 - ^2/fc* + 2i + 1
                                — {2k + 1) -^tJ      cos yfr {I <j> cos   + m£ sin          I
   »'*+a=m— tie's** l        sin V + ^'e*' '"</>S — I 2A*+2£+l
                             — (2£ + l)          </> cos-^ {I <f> cos ifr + m<f> sin \fr),
  „%+3 = »« + 2ne*2*+ ,(/(/> cos yfr + m<f> sin f) - 2kek' ( 1 - ti8) <f>8 + 2 [2*8
               + 2i+l-2T+l—,*|(^ cos-f + m<f> sin-f)«—nWw <£8,
Therefore
   1      1 I -I     /          cos-dr + Mid) sin -Jr , . 1 1—                        ,«
      +                ~ [M + 2k + 1-g+I^]] ('» C°S * +                          81"n *)'];
                                                                                         42*+ I
                        -(2F + 2k + 1 -2A + 1                       cos ^ + m<f> sin >/r) *J.
          The values of I, in, n in terms of a, /9, 7 may be deduced
      from those of a, /3, 7 in terms of /, m, n.
          They are :—
        .              M , 1 Ti         7"l"* + l'S        uatt+fiv           ~]
             fl.       » . 10r,         y"]M* + c*        vau + fiv
                                                                               Hvi.)
       *=7-«i —;                -1^(1-1)^
                                        7 V        /47V »•*
                 £1 /aw+ftr
              +-
                 7 V
                              ,       ,      y ttu + Qr        .

                             Form of Newton's Rings.                241
                                                                   (vii.)
           Again,
                                                                          > (viu.,
    Using the values already found in (v.) for the direction-
 cosines, we have
d> cosyfr= — — tyc+i--               ,ftt+i—            2
                                                         n L /*n'J   >•
0 sin * = 5 -I* ! ?-=^ -8*^±* ^ + ^ [2*- £1*                              > (ix.)
~      Tr            rr          7      r       r         7L  /*rJ
And
                                      aw + /Si; u2 + v2
                         ^=<\>2-2h
                                         yr
     r*            r3      r       \    tt    /    r
                             L    /i^J      7r       r3        yr
              (f>2 is obtained by putting h = 0
      and
              ^is obtained by putting A=0 as well as /< = 0.
         If a plane be drawn through B perpendicular to B'A' and
      BA, and cutting the former in H, the points B, H are in
      the same wave-front which is incident in the direction LA.
                       1

242                    Mr. A. W. Flux on the
   Also the coordinates of B' are :—
and those of B are :—
fc»&!a£rof,IiSi(L.nWd in air) of the two rays, at
Fis
     nl        J    »=i       n»         „           i           (x.)
                   nt+i                       v
                   w+^j^(d_?') + L=^ (C-6).
                         ty                 «
 Now
               »t + w»w*-l _ _n + 2nd order terms,
 and
 .'. e. is of the 2nd order, and therefore we need not calculate
                            . lh + mmk— 1
  the 2nd order terms in                 -•
     Evaluating the other terms by means of equations (iv.)
 (v.) (vi.) (ix.), we obtain the following result :—
           M« + „a      n*—lau + Pvu> + v*
   -5[iC^+^«-*)+i(=^0V«-=±fe(-,+<)]
  as given by Herr Gumlich in Wiedemann's /Imiafen, xxvi.
  p^ 361.

                        Form of Newton's Rings.                      243
                 Section II. The Shape of the Rings.
    The only difference between this expression and that of
equation (viii.) of Sect. II. Part I. is in the 2nd term,
a, /S, y taking the place of I, m, n.
    It is evident that the same process as that adopted in the
former part of the paper will give similar results.
    Patting
                      sin 0=a, 0— /9, cos 0=y,
                    (0 is the angle of emergence)
the equation of the " surface of interference," referred to a
system of axes of which the z-axis is in the direction of
emergence, and the substitutions are those of Sect. III.
Part L, is
          4*9 + j/8)sin0-2.c8z-2/cos80(z + .s1)=O. . . (i.)
 .-. At=      r    (ir+y
                   v      a ) +k—fi cos 01 x-      r* 'tan 0
         = r-{x3+f)coS0
              v      *'        fl+'-^itan^l
                               L      r cos "         J
    The other equation to the rings is, therefore,
            — cos 0 1 + -            -,-J tantf. =h\ or —tt— X.
          r            L     r cos*0            'J            2
according as we consider the bright or dark rings.
    Taking the former and putting a2 for               , this becomes
                  *+,W[l-f^ta*].                           .   . .  (ii.)
Thus in this case the rings lie on elliptic cylinders winch are
not co-axial.
    The distance of the centre of the hth bright ring from
the central spot, from the origin, is
                i«4-     a I k*n 0i = ih\x ^-s-itan 0,.
                2 r cos2 0          1 2        cos8 0      1
    This increases with h and with \, but is of the order XS unless
0 be nearly ~ > when these differences would become very
perceptible. In ordinary cases the difference is not ob
servable, and the rings are practically co-axial.
    The shape of the surface of interference is exactly the same
as that considered in the earlier part of this paper, and the
conditions of distinctness remain unaltered.
    December 1880.

                             [  244 ]
                      XXV. Twisted Strips.
               By Professor John Perry, F.R.S.*
IN a paper read at the British Association Meeting this
      year, and also at a former meeting of the Physical Society,
I referred to the curious behaviour of a twisted strip. The
twisted strip must not be confounded with what has been
called the Ayrton and Perry Spring. It is a straight strip of
metal to which a permanent twisted appearance has been
given, a twisting moment being applied about the axis of the
strip to give it the permanent twist, care being taken to pre
vent the axis of the strip from lateral motion. In fact the
axis remains straight, and is the axis of all the spiral lines now
formed by the lines which were originally straight and parallel
to the axis. When an axial force is employed to elongate a
twisted strip, a slight elongation takes place accompanied by
a large relative rotation of the ends of the strip. The only
simple hypothesis on which, as I told the Society on a former
occasion, I could see my way to building a possible theory
was to consider in any very short length of the strip any two
spiral filaments equally distant from the axis as two threads
in a bifilar suspension. Under the action of any axial force
these two threads tend to produce untwisting, and the sum of
all these untwisting moments is equal to the torsional rigidity
of the cross section multiplied by the angle of untwist.
    The phenomena are so complicated that I never hoped to
explain them all by this or any other hypothesis. I was
seeking for a roughly correct theory only.
    The breadth being b and thickness t, we may roughly
assume that the section remains rectangular ; and as b is
always more than ten times t, we may take the torsional
rigidity as -s bt?.   If then 6 is the angular amount of un
twisting produced per unit length of the strip, the moment of
torsional resistance is
                               ftfi.
    Let to be the axial force. If <£ is the twist of the strip per
unit length, then for a filament whose horizontal section is
t . Sx, at the distance ar from the axis (as t is small compared
with b I take the filament as extending quite across the sec
tion) , if p is the vertical tensile stress on the section, it is
   • Communicated by the Physical Society: read November 1, 18S0.

                 Prof. J. Perry on Twisted Strips.           245
obvious that the part of the untwisting moment due to one
filament is tpx*<f> . hx ; so that
                       ^bt'0=t<f>\ pxi.dx;       .   .  .  .  (1)
                        6          J-t»
also
                                 C
                            w=t\     p.dx                     (2)
I explained on the former occasion that, for a working theory,
it ought to be sufficient to take p constant over the section.
 Hence, from (2),
and inserting this value in (1), we have
 or
                                                              (4)
 If 0 is small in comparison with <j>, it is allowable to take <f>
 as the twist of the strip when no axial load is acting—that is,
 its permanent twist.
    Now I announced on the former occasion that careful expe
 riments made upon large twisted steel strips of various dimen
 sions did not by any means agree with my result. It is true
 that 0 was proportional to to ; but it seemed rather indepen
 dent of <f>, and instead of being proportional to b, 0 seemed to
 get less as b was greater ; and, again, instead of t* in the
 denominator some power of t between 2 and 3 ought to be
 taken.
    Under these circumstances I asked members of the Society
 for assistance in obtaining a working theory, but hitherto
 I have not obtained any.
    I wish now to announce that the experiments I referred to,
 made very carefully by Mr. Still, of the Finsbury College,
 under my direction, were not sufficiently exhaustive. Mr. C.
 E. Holland has lately been kind enough to make an experi
 ment for me on a very small strip of platinum silver. He finds
 that when ^> is large his results agree very closely with the
 former results ; but as <f> is made less and less, the law con
necting 0 and <f> becomes more and more nearly what is given
by (4). The experiments were carried out upon double-
twisted strips. That is, a straight strip was taken with its

246             Prof. J. Perry on Twitted Strips.
ends fastened in a frame ; it was canght in the middle and
there a twisting-couple was applied, so that one half of it took
a right-handed and the other a left-handed permanent twist.
Beginning from almost the condition ^ = 0, by giving more
and more permanent twist to the strip and applying loads in
each case, it was seen that, for a given axial load, 0 was nearly
proportional to $ at first, but as tf> became greater and
greater the increase of 0 was less rapid, 0 eventually remain
ing nearly constant, although <f> was increased.
   I now know that Mr. Still's experiments were carried out
upon strips in which there existed so much permanent twist
as to resemble the strip9 in the condition in which they were
towards the end of Mr. Holland's twisting operations, and
hence 0 seemed independent of <j>.
   Now if, instead of taking p constant and using (3), we take
p as getting less for filaments at greater distances from the
axis, it is obvious that we shall arrive at a result which,
although more complicated than (4), will represent much
better the results of experiments.
   Thus, as is probable enough, if the tensile strain in every
filament is such as to keep a section at right angles to the
axis parallel to itself, it is easy to show that, instead of p
being constant, we must take
                                   k
Using this in (2), we find
                         i_      4>w
                            2tan-'ity
Substituting (5) in (1) we find, on simplifying,
                 a_ 3w f         1         1 y
                      N«'\2tan-4ty                   "  '  "  W
It is obvious that, except when b$ is great, (6) becomes
                 0—
                     4Nt*
which agrees with (4) for small values of ^>6.
   And evidently from (6), as btj> gets greater and greater,
0 reaches more and more nearly the limiting value,
                               3w
Making p any other likely function of x$ than that given in
(5) will merely modify the constants in (7).

               A New Form of Mixing- Calorimeter.            247
    Professor Ayrton and I have used these strips in weighing-
 machines, instruments in which forces require to be measured,
 and instruments in which small motions require to be mag
 nified. We are now using the double-twisted strip of constant
 length, but with initial pull in it, as a thermometer and as a
 galvanometer. It is my opinion that it only requires to be
 better known to be largely used ; and although I seem to
 have spent rather in vain a considerable amount of time in
 trying to get a working theory, I do not think the time has
 been really wasted. It is no mere curious puzzle, it is a
 problem of practical importance.
    The two great difficulties are—(1) What is the law of p over
 the section? (2) to what extent is it wrong to regard the
section as resisting untwisting with the moment
that is, to what extent has the original twisting given initial
shear strains to the material ?
         XXVI. A New Form of Mixing-Calorimeter.
               By Spencer U. Pickering, M.A*
                           [Plate VII.]
THE methods which have been employed in recent calori-
        metric work for mixing two liquids are two in number.
Berthelot (J/ec. Chim. i. p. 171) places one liquid in the
calorimeter, and adds the other from a flask, which is handled
by the help of wooden clips ; while Thomsen (Thermockem.
 Untersuch. i. p. 19) has a metal calorimeter for each liquid,
one of them being placed above the level of the other, and
communicating with the lower one by means of a metal tube,
which is stopped by a plug till the temperatures have been
ascertained, feerthelot's method is inapplicable in cases where
delicate thermometers with large bulbs have to be employed ;
and there are various other objections both to his and to Thorn-
sen's method, of which the most serious is that the two liquids
before being mixed are not at the same temperature, and the
results obtained are, therefore, dependent, not only on the
accuracy with which the two thermometers have been com
pared with each other, but also on an accurate knowledge of
the heat-capacities of the two liquids.
   In devising a new form of mixing-calorimeter, the chief
improvement which I aimed at was to obviate this source of
                  * Communicated by the Author.

248          Prof. S. U. Pickering on a New Form
error by starting with the two liquids in the same vessel : the
other objects to be considered are, however, numerous, and
create considerable difficulty in obtaining a satisfactory appa
ratus. The volumes of the liquids to be mixed are generally
required to be equal, and should not exceed 500 cub. centim. in
each case : this gives very little spare room, when each liquid
contains a thermometer with a large double bulb, and stirrer.
No part of the apparatus must be removed, nor must any
thing be introduced into the liquids to effect the mixing.
Whatever operation is necessary to mix the liquids must be
performed quickly, so as to avoid the disturbing influence of
the experimenter ; and must be consistent with the calori
meter not being held in its position, but with its resting on
pointed wooden supports. Finally, the mixing of the liquids
must not occupy more than one minute.
   The apparatus which I ultimately adopted, after many un
successful trials, consisted of an oblong platinum vessel (figs.
1 and 2, Plate VII.), measuring 14 by 8 centim. and 10 centim.
deep, with a frame, F, in the middle, against which small
folding-doors, D, close, and divide the vessel into two equal
compartments. A thin slip of sheet indiarubber, I, is sewn on
to the edges of these doors, and a small beading, B, running
round the doors and round the partition against which they
close, affords a good bedding for the indiarubber, and prevents
the leakage, which it was found impossible to obviate when
the surfaces of the doors and frame were flat. Each door is
kept closed by the pressure of two pairs of bow-shaped pieces
of iridio-platinum, S, which act as springs. One of these is
at the bottom of the doors, and is attached to a rod, R, of the
same alloy, rising vertically above the top of the calorimeter ;
the other is at the top of the doors, and is worked by being
attached to a metal tube, T, through which the above-
mentioned rod passes. The rod and tube each terminate in
ebonite knobs, E ; and, when these knobs are pressed together,
the lower spring is lowered below the door, while the upper
one is raised above it, and the latter consequently opens, and
{>ermits the liquids to mix. To allow for the removal of the
 ower spring in this manner, the doors do not come within
5 or 6 millim. of the bottom of the vessel, and this also allows
the stirrer to work freely at the bottom of the liquid.
   Under the bottom of the vessel there are four small cup-
shaped projections which help to steady it on the pointed
supports on which it rests.
   The various parts of the apparatus are all distinct, and are
easily unscrewed and removed for the purpose of cleaning and
drying.

                      of Mixing-Calorimeter.                     249
     Although the principle of this apparatus is extremely
 simple, it required the utmost skill in workmanship and the
 greatest attention to minute details to produce anything which
 would work really satisfactorily*.
     The stirring-apparatus which I use with my single calori
 meter consists of a fan-screw with three blades revolving at
 the bottom of the liquid, and worked by means of an electro
 motor (Chem. Soc. Trans. 1887, p. 293). This apparatus was
 doubled, so that each half of the mixing-calorimeter should
 have a separate stirrer, and in each half also one of the most
 delicate thermometers is suspended, these being tapped con
 tinuously on the upper end by the clockwork-tapper (ibid.).
 Fig. 3 represents the whole apparatus.
     In working this calorimeter it is first of all put in position
 with the doors closed, and the thermometers and stirrers in
 their places. The two liquids are then measured or weighed
 out from flasks into the two compartments, the temperature
 of each being slightly below that selected for the initial tem
 perature of the experiment. The stirrers and tappers are then
 started, and the temperature of two liquids raised to the
  required temperature by touching the outside of the calori
 meter with some heated object. The temperatures of the two
 liquids are in this way easily and quickly brought to within
 0°-02 of each other.
     The thermometers are then read through a telescope at
 intervals of one minute, till the rate of cooling in each case is
 perfectly regular : this occurs in a minute or two, and the
 temperatures of the liquids may then be assumed to be iden
 tical. The rate of cooling is then determined for three or
four observations ; after which the doors of the calorimeter
are opened without stopping the stirrers ; the thermometers
are again read, and the readings repeated at intervals of one
minute, as before, in order to determine the correction for
cooling at the final temperature.
    Although it is not absolutely necessary to have a thermo
meter in each liquid, it is not only advisable as a precautionary
measure, but it gives the method a very important advantage
over previous methods ; for the heat evolved being measured
independently by two different instruments, a single experi
ment has nearly the same value as the mean of two separate
ones.
    The temperature, as has been mentioned, may be obtained
identical in each division of the vessel before the doors are
   • To the ingenuity and perseverance of W. Peover, of Leigh Street,
W.C., I am indebted for success in this work.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 178. March 1890. U

 250           Prof. S. U. Pickering on a New Form
 opened ; bnt I have found it convenient, and often necessary,
 not to wait till absolute identity is attained, but to open the
 doors when there may be a difference sometimes of as much
 as 0° 003 between the two temperatures. This difference, when
 unavoidable, was entirely due to local circumstances which
 are independent of the apparatus itself, chiefly to its position
 with regard to the windows in the room, one division of it
 being nearer the window than the other. The correction ne
 cessary on account of this difference (often nil) is so insigni
 ficant that it does not require any knowledge of the heat-
 capacities of the liquids, and necessitates an accurate comparison
 of the readings of the two thermometers throughout but a very
 small portion of their scales (only two or three millimetres),
 since the initial temperatures in the individual experiments of
 any series need never differ by more than this amount.
    .The following details of an experiment will render the
 method of procedure clear.
        Left-hand Division.                  Right-hand Division.
  Water. Thermometer '61. CaCl, sol. Thermometer '08.
   Time.      Beading.       Bate of      Time.      Beading.     Bate of
                             cooling.                            cooling.
     1 il                                  ¦ n
    0 0      145-65 mm* •48               0 30      151-33 mm.*
                                                                •28
    1 0      14517 „                      1 30      151-05 „
                           •27]                                 •25 )
    2 0      144 90 „ •27 J = •27         2 30      150-80 „          = 23
                                                                -20 J
    3 0      144-63 .,                    3 30      150-60 „
    5 30     198-95 „                     6 0       195-50 „
                           •60 1                                •60 j
    6 30     198-35 „                     7 0       195 60 „
                           •70 i- = 62                          •60 y= AH
    7 30     197 65 „                     8 0       194-50 „
                           •55j                                 •46;1
    8 30     19710 „                      9 0       19404 „
                    1 millimetre represent* about 0° 01 O.
   The rate of cooling here became constant after 1' 0". The
last reading of the thermometer for tho initial temperatures
was taken at 3' 30'', and the doors were opened by 4' 0" Up
to this time the first-determined rates of cooling would hold
good, and the reading of thermometer 'o'l at this moment
would be [144*9 (the mean of the three previous readings)
-('•27x2) = ] 141-36 millim.; while that of '08 would be

                     of Mixing-Calorimeter.                  251
[ 150-82- (-23 x 1-5) = ] 150-48 millim. But, according to
the previous comparison of the thermometers, the reading of
'08 which corresponds to 144-36 of '61 is 150-28 millim. ;
hence the initial temperatures corrected for this difference
will be, according to '08 (150-48 — "10) millim., and according
to '61, (144-36+ (-10 x l^)) millim. ; the fraction m repre
senting the relative values of 1 millim. of the scale of the two
instruments.
   The liquids had entirely mixed in this experiment at 5' 0",
and the readings of the two instruments at this moment would
be [197-99 (meanofthe last four readings) + (-62 x 2) = 1199-23
mi lim. in the case of '61, and [194-76+ (-48x2-5)=" 195-96
millim. in the case of '08. During the one minute while the
liquids were mixing, the rate of cooling is taken to be the
mean between the rates at the initial and final temperatures,
necessitating the further addition of -44 and -36 millim. to the
readings last mentioned. The only other corrections to be
then applied are those for the effect of the temperature of the
surrounding air on the mercurial columns, and the calibration
corrections.
   Where one liquid is very much more dense than the other,
as in mixing water with salt-solutions of a density 1-3 to W,
two special difficulties arise : the temperature of the salt-
solution rapidly rises to an appreciable extent above tbat of
the water, owing to tbe greater friction of the stirrer in the
former ; and, secondly, the two liquids mix very slowly when
the doors are opened, taking, in extreme cases, nearly 30
minutes to do so. This latter is not, however, entirely due to
the viscous nature of the liquid, but to the fact that the two
stirrers in my present apparatus rotate in opposite directions,
whereas for the purpose of rapidly mixing the liquids they
should rotate in the same direction.
   These objections are, however, of no great importance.
They do not exist in cases where there is a difference of *2 or
less in the densities of the solutions, and in very few cases
would the difference reach this amount.
   The exactitude of the method may be estimated by tbe fact
that the difference in the rise or fall of temperature as mea
sured by the two thermometers in all the experiments which I
have yet performed with the apparatus (omitting those in which
the liquids were too dense to mix in less than three or four
minutes) is, on the average, only 0o-0008, and only on three
occasions did it exceed twice this amount. This quantity
represents a sum total of "07 millim. error in all the readings
of the two thermometers, and represents a difference of 0"6
cal. in the heat measured, taking the actual quantities used
                               U2

252             A New Form of Mixing Calorimeter.
(on that calculated for gram-molecular proportions) ; an error
only one seventeenth as great as that experienced by Thomsen,
its average error in duplicate experiments being ±5 cal. from
the mean, or a difference of 10 cal. between duplicates (ibid.
i P- 21).
   When dealing with very strong solutions it is inadvisable*,
and often impracticable, to make the determination in the
mixing-calorimeter.
   The method which I have adopted in such cases is very
simple. It consists of putting 20 to 50 grams of the liquid
into test-tubes on feet, placing these in an air-bath surrounded
by a water-jacket till they have attained the temperature of the
surrounding air, and then pouring their contents into 600 cub.
cent, of water in the calorimeter (a platinum beaker) ; thus
the heat of dissolution is determined as in the case of a solid.
The chief precaution to be observed here is, that the tubes
be left sufficiently long in the air-bath before being emptied
into the calorimeter. This is necessary owing to the heat-
capacity of a liquid being generally higher than that of
a solid, any error in the determination of its temperature
making therefore a greater error in the heat of dissolution
 determined. About three hours in the air-bath at a constant
temperature (that is, within 0°'05 of the required temperature)
were generally allowed, and greater pains were taken to bring
this temperature to exactly that of the calorimetric water than
in the case of solids. If the temperature of the air in the
room is satisfactorily constant, and nearly identical with that
in the bath, a comparison of the femperatures of the latter
and that of the water in the surrounding jacket will indicate
the time when the test-tubes have attained the former (and
the latter) temperature; and if left under these constant con
ditions for nearly another hour, satisfactory results will be
obtained. Success in this is entirely a matter of practice.
The correction which has to be applied to the heat of dissolu
tion, owing to differences in the initial temperature of the
solutions and the calorimetric water, averaged only about
0o,002, and the heat-capacity of the strong solutions necessary
for its calculation need therefore be known approximately
only. All splashing on pouring in the solutions is entirely
   • In mixing acids and alkalies the results obtained are more accurate
in proportion as the solutions are more dilute. In determining the heat
evolved on diluting strong solutions, the experimental errors increase in
a very rapid proportion if the determinations are made by diluting the
solutions with successively equal volumes of water. Further details will
be found in a paper on the Nature of Solution*, in the current number
of the Journal ol the Chemical Society.

                          Phil. Mag. 3.5. Vol. 29.              PI. VII.
Fig. 2.
                                          Scale 'ft
                               T,T,T. TJroTnoT/ieter.* .
                               t, /     Uvermometfir t/ifipprs.
                               (' .     Calorimeter.
        Scale. %              ¦V, *$'. Stirrers.
                              J. Double copjxr waterjacket,.
                              E,       Electromotor.
                Ifintern. Bros litK


                On Kerr's Magneto-optic Phenomenon.                     253
obviated by the use of the wire-gauze tray suspended just
below the surface of the water.
    When dealing with liquids, where dissolution takes place
almost instantaneously, the " uncertain interval " when the
temperature is between the initial and final points is practi
cally nil, and may be overlooked. The process in making
the determination therefore consists in ascertaining the rate
of cooling at the '• initial temperature," and correcting the
last reading of this so as to give its value at the moment of
the addition of the solution (15 seconds generally after this
last reading), and dating the commencement of the rate of
cooling at the " final temperature " from this moment. Three
or four readings at intervals of one minute generally suffice
to determine this latter rate satisfactorily.
    I now invariably read the thermometers without stopping
the stirrers and tapping-apparatus, and I believe that greater
accuracy in the results is thereby obtained.
         XXVII. On Kerr's Magneto-optic Phenomenon.
             By H. E. J. G. DU Bois, of the Hague*.
§ 1. INTRODUCTORY.— Dr. Kerr has shown, in 1877,
            that the mode of vibration of light is in general
affected by reflexion from a magnet. Hitherto this phenome
non has been almost exclusively studied from an optical point
of viewf; in particular, the complicated behaviour of light,
obliquely reflected from magnets, has been much discussed.
A magnetic curve was, however, given by Prof. Kundt, from
which I drew the following conclusion J : for light normally
reflected, the rotation is probably proportional to the magneti
zation, as it is for light transmitted through magnets. Start
ing from this, I have now further investigated the phenomenon
   * Translated by the Author from Wied. Ann. xxxix. p. 25 (1890) ; a
synopsis of results had been communicated to the British Association,
Newcastle. See Proceed, of Sect. A, Sept. 17, 1880 Report.
   t Literature:— Kerr, Phil. Mag. [5J iii. p. 321 (1877), and v. p. 161
(1878); Kaz, Dissert., Amsterdam (1884); Kundt, Wied. Ann. ixiii.
p. 228 (1884), and xxvii. p. 198 (1880) ; Kighi, Ann. de Chim. et Phys. [0]
iv. p. 433 (1885), ix. p. 65 (1886), and x. p. 200 (1887>
   Theoretical papers: —Fitzgerald, Proc. Roy. Soc xxv. p. 447 (1876);
Phil. Mag. [6] lii. p. 529 (1877); Phil. Trans, clxxi. p. 691 (1880); Wied.
Ann. xxv. p. 136 (1885). Rowland, Phil. Mag. [5J ix. p. 432 (1880), and
xi. p. 254 (1881). H. A. Lorentz, Versl. en Mededeel. Amsterdam, xix.
p. 217 (1883), and Arch. Nierl. xix. p. 123 (1884). van Loghem, Dis
tort., Leiden, 1883, and Wi.d. Beibl. viii. p. 869 (1884). Voigt, Wied.
Ann. xxiii. p. 493 (1884). Ketteler, Theor. Optics, Brunswick, 1885.
   t du Bois, Wied. Ann. xxxi. pp. 965, 974 (1887).

254               H. E. J. G. du Bois on Kerr's
in its intimate connexion with magnetization. Optical com
plications were purposely avoided by working at almost normal
incidence. I have also determined the effect of temperature,
the rotational dispersion, and the characteristic absolute
constants.
   § 2. Method.—Light from a Linnemann's burner (incan
descent zirconia disk) was made to pass horizontally in suc
cession through red glass, a lens, a Lippich's penumbral
polarizer ; it then reached the vertical mirror of the magnet,
by which it was reflected into the analyser and telescope. By
special constructive devices the parts of the apparatus, passed
through by the light before and after reflexion respectively,
could be fixed on a common base so near to each other
as to have their optical axes inclined at but 2°; this angle is
halved by what I shall call the apparatus's medial line. The
observer s eye was, of course, carefully screened from the
burner. The medial line was adjusted normal to the mirror.
By this arrangement practically normal incidence (at 1°) was
ensured ; in fact, Righi * noticed hardly any change in the
phenomenon up to 15 of incidence.
   The same physicist has found that with plane-polarized light,
normally incident, the reflected vibrations are exceedingly
oblong ellipses, the azimuth of whose major axis naturally
differs from that of incidence. I saw no reason for making
measurements of ellipticity ; working with a penumbral
polarizer, the azimuth of the major axis is what is actually
observed. When using good mirrors and avoiding all dif
fused light, the alternative extinction of each half of the field
of vision proved satisfactory, thus showing the ellipticity to
be very small. The analyser's azimuth was measured by a
modification of PoggendorfFs mirror-and-(vertical)-scale
method "f. The arrangement and dimensions of lenses, dia
phragms, the telescope, &c, had been calculated beforehand
with a view to obtain the field of vision as bright and uniform
as possible.
   § 3. The metallic cores principally used were ovoids (pro
late ellipsoids of revolution) of different material, on to which
small reflecting-planes had been ground in various positions.
  * Righi, Ann. Chim, et Phys. [6 s«r.] ix. pp. 120 and 132 (1886).
  t [This was separately described (Wied. Ann. xxxviii. p. 494, 1889) in
order not to encumber the present paper with details, and does not pre
tend to anything beyond a mere laboratory expedient. It has since come
to my notice that other experimenters have used similar devices.]

                    Magneto-optic Phenomenon.                     255
I desire to thank Messrs. Hartmann and Braun, of Bocken-
heim and Frankfort, and their foreman, Mr. G. Troll, who
executed this difficult job for me with perfect success. The
ovoids were magnetized in a coil of 1080 turns, 30 centim.
long. In order to let light pass, small looking-tubes ("7
centim. diam.) had been fixed between the wire during wind
ing. These lay in meridian planes through the coil's axis,
    § 4. Notwithstanding the resulting slight irregularity of
winding, the field was sufficiently uniform over the space
to be covered by the ovoids. This was tested by the mag
netic rotation in bisulphide of carbon, measured at different
points on the coil's axis. At the same time the field could
thereby be determined in absolute measure ; and a numerical
factor deduced, by means of which the readings of an ampere
meter in the coil's circuit were afterwards reduced to fields.
The ovoids' moment was magnetometrically determined in
the ordinary manner, the coil's action on the magnetometer
being compensated by that of a second coil. Apart from ovoids,
I have also worked with small reflecting disks, fixed between
arrangements will be described in due time.
   § 5. Notations, often recurring :—              intensity of coil's
field ; 3> magnetization, and 3 , mean magnetization of
ovoids ; 2 a, 2 b, their major and minor axes; II = b/a, axial
ratio ; 9?, outward normal to mirror ; *, angle «fc (3, vl). K,
Kerr's constant (see § 24) ; 0, temperature ; X, wave-length;
e0, rotation on " polar " reflexion ; e, rotation (according to
§ 2 this is to be understood as meaning the angle between the
incident rectilinear vibration and the major axis of the reflected
ellipse). Of course, 2e was in the first place determined ex
perimentally by reversing the current, generally as a mean
of from 10 to 30 observations of azimuth. In every case
below, however, the values of e are given in minutes, radian
measure being still too little usual in such work. Otherwise,
wherever the contrary is not expressly stated, all quantities
and scales of diagrams are given in C.G.S. units. Wherever
the sense of rotations has to be expressed with reference to
vectors, I shall use the system of the vine and European
" right-handed screw " *. Accordingly, the sign of Kerr's
effect, e. g. for iron, is negative, the sense of rotation having
to be referred to the direction of magnetization.
                * Maxwell, Treatise, 2nd ed. i. p. 24,

256      H. du Bois on Kerr's Magneto-optic Phenomenon.
<                         First Part.
    § 6. I begin by describing the experiments with the ovoids.
The polarizer consisted of a nicol and a Hartnack-Prazmowski's
semi-prism (see § 16). The zirconia disk stood in the focus of
the first lens, which thus projected parallel rays on to the
mirror. Distance of vertical scale about 175 centim.
  , § 7. Normal temporary magnetization.—The 5 ovoids used
in this case were provided at one end with circular mirrors
perpendicular to the axis of revolution, and were magnetized
parallel to the latter. In this case, therefore, the reflexion,
according to Dr. Kerr's nomenclature, is " polar," t. e. the
metal is magnetized normally to the mirror («=0). An
ellipsoid (particular cases : sphere, spheroid, ovoid) is known
to be the only finite figure in which iron is uniformly mag
netized when subjected to a uniform field. In particular, no
figure bounded by planes exists, for which this might be the
case otherwise than approximately. Instead of such of vanish
ing size I had to use mirrors whose dimensions were only so
far reduced as was consistent with sufficient intensity of the
reflected beam. The ovoidal shape was necessarily disfigured
by the missing segments ; and the magnetization, uniform on
the whole, must be differently distributed in the neighbour
hood of the small planes ; it is easy to see that it must be less
than with an infinitely small mirror.
    § 8. Some preliminary trials were made to show that this
is the correct view of the case. On turning down the mirror
of one ovoid successively from *7 to *5 and then to *3 centim.
diain., the rotation increased each time, cateri* paribus.
Another ovoid, provided with mirrors at both ends, showed
the lesser rotation at the larger mirror. Lastly, an oroid
was fitted as one pole-piece into an electromagnet, with the
result that the rotation, for about the same estimated mean
degree of magnetic saturation, proved considerably larger than
when the ovoid was magnetized in the coil. The second
bored pole-piece acts in the same manner as Kerr's " sub-
magnet," i. e. it prevents the self-demagnetizing action of the
plane end. In the final experiments the observed rotation
may be estimated at 60 to 75 per cent, of that which would
occur were the mirror of vanishing size (by data of § 19).
    § 9. The rotation, evidently a local action of magnetiza
tion, was now directly compared with the magnetometer-
deflexion, apparently an action at a distance. The quotient
(moment/volume) gives the mean magnetization 3' °f the
ovoid, plotted in the broken curves of fig. 1 as a function of

                                                Fig. 1.
                                                                                         i
1500 900                                              |
                                                                                        ii
                                                                             A'    ''
1400 800
                                1                                 /'' \'/
1.T00 700
1200 COO                                              '//
1100 500
                                             /
                                                 /L
                                                      /                                    in
1000 400                            /
                                                 /                         ^^
 900  23                                                                                 IV
                          ¦'/
                          y     i         /
                                             /          ~^f                    -¦¦""'
      Hi            wWjTt
 800
      mm
 700 ioo    *Y
                                  //
                                  f
                                    /
                                      /
                                        //
                                           t
                                                '/'' y*\
                                                            s/
 600
                                                    /fl Anxil vary axis\ of abscissae
                              / {                js                for Steel
 500                                         /-       1                  ¦
 400
                          // y
                          1
                                                                                        V
                          1     /
 300               7
 200           /        ^                                    •
 IOC       l\y
      //                                                                                 Jq
    0
              100      2uo     auo        400        6UO      01)0             8UO    «OU
          I. Glass-hard English Oast Steel (tem          III. Cast Iron:
              pered at 100°),                                2a=12-6; 24=18; n=T.
                  2o=10; 24=2; Jt=i.                     IV. Oast Cobalt:
         II. Soft Swedish Iron (annealed) :                        2a=l0; 24=2; n = J.
                 2a=126; 24=18; n=f.                      V. Hard-drawn pure Nickel :

258              H. E. J. G. du Bois on Kerr's
the magnetizing field. The rotation ea proved very nearly
proportional to j' ; for each ovoid the mean m of the ratios
eo/3' was therefore calculated. By marking the values of
tjtn in the figure, and joining these points ©, lines are
obtained consisting of straight parts nearly coinciding with
the broken curves, so as even partly to overlap in the small
diagram. Proportionality is now seen to exist between e0
and 3' at the first glance. The optical phenomenon, however,
can evidently only depend upon the magnetic condition imme
diately behind the mirror ; the following conclusion therefore
appears justified : Within the comparatively narrow range of
fields applied (.£ between 100 and 900 C.G.S.), the distribu
tion remains unchanged ; accordingly, 3> the magnetization
at the mirror, is proportional to 3', the mean magnetization
throughout the ovoid.
   I. This gives the Law of Proportionality :
where K is a constant.
   In order to give this result a solid experimental foundation
I have worked with 5 ovoids of different metals and various axial
ratios. Accordingly each curve is seen to exhibit its peculiar
character between the extremes of steel and nickel, though
in each oase verifying the proportionality to be proved.
   § 10. Inclined temporary magnetization.—All researches
hitherto published refer either to " polar " (a = 0) or to
"equatorial " (a = 90°) reflexion. The case of magnetization
Inclined to the mirror's normal remains to be investigated.
On to a large ovoid (2a =15; 26 = 3; 11=1/5) of soft
Swedish iron small elliptical mirrors (minor axes -25 centim.)
were ground under different angles to the axis of revolution.
These were so small in comparison with the ovoid that the
latter's longitudinal magnetization might be considered uni
form. Accordingly the rotation observed may be estimated
(by data of § 19) at 90 to 95 per cent, of that with an in
finitely small mirror. The inclinations of the mirrors to the
axis of revolution were measured in the lathe ; the angles a.
are their complements.
   § 11. The rotation was now measured for 4 mirrors with
the same current flowing in the coil, and the beam of light
passing forwards and backwards through the looking-tubes
mentioned in § 3. The value zero for equatorial reflexion at
normal incidence is taken from previous observers.
   The numbers in the Inst line were calculated by analogy to
Verdet's cosine law. The apparatus for these last experi-

                        Magneto-optic Phenomenon.                     259
                          Polar, 60.         Inclined.            Equat
                               0°      39°-4      50°-5    77°-2    90°
  KotJit. ubserv. « ...     -16'5    -12'-6    - 9'7      - 4'-6     0
                           - 10'-6   -12'-8    -10'-6     - 3'-7     0
merits having been difficult to construct, many sources of error
occurred ; considering these, the observed and calculated
values of e sufficiently agree.
    II. This leads to the Cosine Law
                                e=e0cos (3,9?)-
    It must still be remarked that the plane parallel to the
mirror's normal and to the direction of magnetization may
be called a " magnetic principal plane." In the above
experiments this principal plane and the plane of polarization
of the incident light were both horizontal. Experiments with
a cobalt mirror, obliquely magnetized, proved that the same
rotation is obtained whether one plane is perpendicular or
parallel to the other. The effect is therefore independent
of the azimuth of incidence. Equally good extinction was
observed with inclined magnetization as on polar reflexion.
     § 12. Normal residual magnetization.—In order to obtain
this an elongated ovoid (2a= 18 ; 2b= 1*2 ; n = 1/15) of glass-
hard English cast steel, tempered at 100°, had to be used.
 This, on the other hand, offered the disadvantage that the end
 was considerably disfigured by grinding on a mirror. The
 magnetic distribution must therefore differ considerably from
 a uniform one. 1 succeeded in obtaining a residual rotation
 in the shape of a change of the analyser's zero on impressing
 reversed residual magnetizations ; it could be measured as a
 mean of 30 observations. The influence of magnetic history
 was each time eliminated after the manner of Gaugain,
 Auerbach, Maxim, Ewing, and others, by gradually diminish-,
 ing reversals. Results follow :—
                               $.        3'.           <V        */3'.
                                0        180         -0'6        —0033
    Retidual                    0        260         -0*8        -0032
                              200        670         -2'-8       -0049

260              H. E. J. G. du Bois on Kerr's
    § 13. On account of the slight rotation no very sharp con
clusions can be drawn from these numbers. The ratios of the
last column are certainly all of the same order of magnitude ;
the first two, corresponding to residual rotations, appear to
be equal and less than the third. This is easily explained by
the plausible assumption of a residual distribution differing
from the temporary one in giving comparatively less mag
netization near the mirror. The result appears to me to lead
to the following interpretation :—
    For the law of proportionality it matters not whether the
magnetization be residual or kept up by external induction.
    This would tend to prove that the rotation is an immediate
effect of magnetization and depends upon it alone*.
    § 14. Effect of temperature.—The ovoids could be fixed in
a brass tube closed at one end, and fitted at the other with a
number of diaphragms, through the central apertures of which
the mirror remained visible. This tube was heated by a
horizontal perforated burner ; the necessary draught being
obtained by two waterjet-exhausters, which thus acted like
chimneys. This arrangement could be introduced inside the
coil, separated from it by an asbestos jacket. With a current
of 30 amperes the coil and its contents could be electrically
heated up to 170° ; by means of the burner the ovoid could
be raised to higher temperatures still. Magnetic and optical
observations were then made simultaneously during cooling.
The rate of cooling could be modified at will by regulating
the enclosing coil's temperature by the current.               The
temperature was given with sufficient approximation by a
thermometer having its bulb near the mirror and stem pro
jecting from the apparatus. Of course the metals were heated
only for a short time and never beyond the temperature at
 which they begin to show surface-colours ; as the least film
 of oxide on the mirror completely modifies the phenomena f.
    § 15. The results are given in Table I. The numbers for
cobalt, iron, and steel on the whole lead to the conclusion
that the value of e(/jj' is but little variable with temperature.
At the same time 3' varies so little J with 6 that the distribu
tion may be safely considered constant. Consequently e0/j
 ( = K) is proportional to e0/3', »'• «., by the above, practically
constant.
    For nickel, however, 3' diminishes considerably while 0
             • du Buis, Wied. Ann. xxxi. p. 973 (1887).
             t Kundt, Wied. Ann. xxvii. p. 199 (1886).
             \ See footnote t next page.

                     Magneto-optic Phenomenon.                            2(51
                                 Table I.
    0.               3'.     •o/3'-      0.      to-       3'-      «o/3'.
           Cobalt   §=930.                       Steel. §=930.
    29°  -10 9      894     -•0121      31° -10-7         983     -•0109
    98   -110       894     -0123      101 -10-8          979     -•0111
  167    — 112      894     -0126      147 -10-7          964     —0111
  220    —11-2      897     -¦0125
                                                Nickel.  §=820.
            Iron. §=930.                27°    -4-9       472     -0103
    27° -130        1528 -¦0085 | 99           -54        452     -•0118
    78 -12-3        15:24 -0080 162            -52        426     -0123
  120 -121          1523 -0080 1 282  245      -48        330     -•0146
  164 - 13 6        1517    -0090*             -3-2       198     -•0163
increases f : the self-demagnetizing action thereby decreases
at higher temperatures, so that the distribution approaches to
uniformity, and the values of 3 and j' tend to become equal.
It follows that even if e0/3 be constant, e0/3' will none the
less increase with 0, and this is what the numbers for nickel
actually do. Experiment therefore does not contradict the
highly probable assumption that K is practically constant for
nickel as well as for the other metals. At temperatures above
280° no more data could be obtained with sufficient accuracy.
But on further heating I observed a rapid decrease of both
rotation and magnetization until both vanished for tempera
tures above 335°, only to reappear simultaneously on cooling.
This qualitative experiment affords a convincing instance of
the close relation between both quantities. The result of this
paragraph may be thus expressed :—
    111. The variation of the constant K with temperature is
practically zero ; it is certainly less than a few per cent, per
100°j and therefore much below that of the electric resistance
   • It is quite possible that a thin colourless film of oxide begins to
cover iron about 164°, which would explain the larger rotation here given ;
the temperature corresponding to a pale yellow is stated to be about 220°
on heating for a short time. See Loewenherz, ZeiUchr. f. Instrum. Kunde,
ix. p. 316 (1880). For cobalt, and especially for nickel, these temperatures
happen to lie much higher.
   t It may not be superfluous to remark that from the values of 3" given,
nothing more than a qualitative conclusion may be drawn as to the
thermomagnetic behaviour of the metals ; for the self-demagnetizing
action of the rather short ovoids tends to diminish any temperature-
variations of their magnetization. For quantitative determinations in
thermomagnetism the metals have to be used in forms fulfilling the con
dition of perfect or approximate endlessness.
                                  •

262                 H. B. J. G. du Bois on Kerr's
and index of refraction*. It may also be remarked that Dr.
Sissingh t bas not been able to observe any change in the two
ordinary constants of reflexion for iron between 20° and 120°.
                              Second Part.
    § 16. The experiments in which the electromagnet was
used remain to be described. Polarizer and analyser now
consisted of genuine Lippich prisms}. Working with a
parallel beam of light was now given up, and an image of
the zirconia disk thrown on the analyser's diaphragm instead ;
by this artifice of Lippich's the disturbing effect of any
flickering of the source of light on the accuracy of observa
tion is counteracted. Distance of vertical scale is 400centim.
nearly. These improved arrangements, together with the
mounting of the optical apparatus on a pillar, separate from
the electromagnet, considerably increase the accuracy of the
results stated below above that hitherto attained.
    § 17. Other active substances. —Besides the three metals,
exhibiting negative rotation on reflexion, I have detected
Kerr's effect on common magnetic iron-ore. A piece of
loadstone, ground and polished, showed a slight rotation be
tween the poles of an electromagnet. Its numerical value
varies over the mirror, but it is always positive. For q uanti-
tative measurement this material is of no use on account of its
heterogeneous structure.
   I therefore got a mirror ground parallel to the octaheder
(11 l)ofasmallcrystalofmagnetite(Fe304,holohedr. tesseral).
With a strong current in the electromagnet this gave a
rotation e0=+5' for red light; the extinction was perfect,
proving the ellipticity to be quite negligible. The rotation
proved independent of the azimuth of incidence relatively to
the crystal's principal directions ; I therefore abstained from
having other mirrors ground on in different positions, mag
netite evidently behaving like an isotropic body. It would
be interesting to observe the effect on transmitted light.
However, hitherto I have not been able to find any method of
procuring transparent films of this highly opaque substance.
    § 18. I have further tried the following much less magneti-
   • Kundt, Berl. Berichte, Dec. 1888, p. 1303.
   t Sissingh, Dissert., Leiden, 1885, p. 136 ; Arch. Nierl. xx. p. 216
(1886).
   % Lippich, Wien. Bar. xci. 2, p. 1081 (1885). These prisms, as made
by Dr. Steeg and Reuter, of Homburg, give a perfectly uniform field of
vision with a well-defined line of demarcation : unfortunately, the linseed-
oil used in their construction requires months for drying, so that I could
not use them from the beginning.

                      Magneto-optic Phenomenon.                       263
zable, though powerfully absorbent, substances, but without
any positive result—sulphide of iron (FeS, amorphous), and
oxide of iron (Fe203, rhombohedr. hemihedr. hexagonal ;
mirror normal to principal axis). The fact that a measurable
Kerr's effect has hitherto been detected only on the strongly
magnetizable opaque substances Co, Ni, re, Fes04, points
once more to the important part which magnetization plays
in the phenomenon. I am much obliged to Prof. Bucking
for kindly supplying me with these minerals.
   § 19. Absolute constants. —After having considerably im
proved the accuracy of the optical observations, as pointed
out in § 16, 1 could venture to apply them in their turn to
magnetic measuring purposes. This application of the law of
proportionality 1 shall describe* in detail; at present I will
only mention that by means of it I was able to find the
magnetizations corresponding to the rotations e0 given below.
By division the absolute values of the constant K are ob
tained for " red " light iu minutes per unit magnetization.
                     Cobalt.     Nickel      Iron.    Magnetite.
         «o          -20--97     -T-25     -22'-99
         3'            1060        453       1669
         K           -•0198      -¦0160     -¦0138      +•012
   The value for magnetite is approximate ; the others refer
to the massive metals free from oxide ; I could not detect any
effect due to the polishing material. Thick electrolytic films
gave about the same rotation under the same circumstances,
but in general this depends on their thickness and surface
conditionf ; such films are, therefore, hardly suited for absolute
measurement.
   § 20. The rotational dispersion of Kerr's phenomenon is
anomalous, but only for iron is it sufficiently developed to
interfere with working in white light. For quantitative
measurement I applied spectral analysis in connexion with
Lippich's % penumbral method. By means of a prism " k
vision directe " a solar spectrum was thrown on a small screen.
  * In the April number of this Magazine.
  t See Kundt, Wied. Ann. xxvii. p. 199 (1886).
  } Lippich, loc. cit. p. 1070 ; and Wied. Ann. xxxvi. p. 767 (1889).

264                 H. E. J. G. dn Bois on Kerr's
 All parts of this combination were rigidly put together, and
 its optical axis adjusted perpendicular to the medial line (§ 2)
 of the optical apparatus. Instead of Lippich's slitted screen
 a " slitted mirror'" of adjustable breadth was set up vertically
 at 45° to the spectral screen in about the same place where
 the zirconia disk previously stood. This mirror, therefore,
 projected a sufficiently homogeneous beam of light into the
 polarizer.
    § 21. The positions of the lines Li a, D, b, F, G were
 marked on the spectral screen and checked by means of
spectra of Li, Na, and H. The slitted mirror was afterwards
 set to these. The " red " light used in the preceding experi
 ments was not quite homogeneous, but owing to the slight
 dispersion sufficiently exact measurements could be made
 with it. Strictly speaking a definite wave-laigth cannot be
 assigned to the " red " light. But in order to allow a re
 duction of the spectral measurements to absolute values the
question arises : which part of the spectrum is rotated through
the same angle as was found for the " red " light ? To this
 a definite answer may be given ; by trial and interpolation I
found for the wave-length \=62 x 10-6 centim.
    § 22. The rotation was determined with each metal for six
 colours, each angle being obtained from thirty observations.
 The values of K (in minutes per unit magnetization) are
given in Table II. ; the numbers marked with an asterisk are
                              Tablk II.
                                 Cobalt. Nickel.        Magne
     Colour.   Line.  \X 10»cra.                  Iron.   tite.
     Bed.      Li a      671     -0208 -0173* -0154     + •0096
     " Bed."             62      -•0198" -•0160* -0138* +•0120*
     Yellow.    D        589     -0193 -0154* -0130     + 0133*
     Green.      b       61-7    -0179 -•0159 -0111     + 0072*
      Blue.      F       48-6    -0181 -0163* -0101     + 0026*
     Violet.     G       431     -•0182* -•0175* -0089
the means of two separate series of observations. In plotting
K=funct. (\) perfectly continuous curves of dispersion are
obtained, showing the following characters : —
    IV. Cobalt has a faintly pronounced minimum for bluish
green. JYickel a minimum for yellow. The iron curve runs
almost straight down from red to violet. Lastly, for magnetite
a maximum occurs in the yellow.

                     Magneto-optic Phenomenon.                          265
    Unfortunately quantitative observations with the poorly re
flecting magnetite could not be pursued beyond blue. Further
measurements might have proved the more interesting, as the
rotation appeared almost to vanish for violet. I do not deem
it impossible that the rotation passes through zero and changes
sign in the ultra-violet, though this point appears difficult to
decide.                                                               '
                              Third Part.
    § 23. T/ie combined expression of both experimental laws,
e0=K3 and e=e0cos (3, 9?), leads to the general law :—
                       e=K3cos (3, 9?) = K3„,
where 3» stands for the component magnetization normal to
the mirror. This relation was found for red light, but may
evidently be extended to radiations of all wave-lengths ; it
may be thus expressed :—
    V. The rotation of the major axis of vibration of radiations
 normally reflected from a magnet is algebraically equal to the
 normal component magnetization, multiplied into a constant K.
    Poisson, as is well known, has shown how any arbitrary
 magnetic distribution may be replaced, without prejudice to
 its internal or external action, by fictitious magnetic fluids,
 distributed in a definite manner throughout the magnet and
 on its surface*. The surface-density $ of the latter portion
 is given by the equation $ = 3»- By the above we now
 have the rotation proportional to the surface-density, and it
 would thus appear theoretically possible to determine the
 latter by purely optical means. It would, however, be of no
 practical use to introduce the fictitious quantity $ into the
 physical equation ; it has no meaning beyond that of a purely
 mathematical symbol.
     § 24. The constant K is a quantity of dimension [L* M~*T]
 in electromagnetic measure. For four substances it is given
 in Table II. as a function of the wave-length ; it hardly varies
  with temperature. I venture to propose calling it "Kerr's
  constant ; ' for another quantity, which I have previously
  defined and denoted ^f, the name " Kundt's constant"
    • Not to be confounded with Gauss's surface distribution, the action of
  ¦which may be substituted for that of the magnet only for points external
  to it. Both distributions do not coincide except in the particular case of
  solenoidal magnetization.
     t The constant * for radiations of definite wave-length is algebraically
  equal to the rotation which the plane of polarization of such radiations
 would experience on normal transmission through a plate of unit thick
  ness and unit normal magnetization ; du Bois, Wiea. Ann. xxxi. p. 968
  (1887).
      Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 178. March 1890.                 X
                                    1

 266                 H. E. J. G. du Bois on Kerr's
appears suited. These names are formed analogously to that
 of another magneto-optic quantity, viz. " Verdet's constant,"
 which is quite generally accepted ; they recall the names of
 the discoverers of the corresponding phenomena, and are not
 limited to any particular language. I therefore believe that
 no objection can be made against their introduction, which
 appears desirable in order to avoid confusion among three
 essentially different constants of nature.
    § 25. Conclusion.—To my mind the experiments discussed
leave no doubt but that the peculiar phenomena connected
with reflexion from magnets solely depend upon the magneti
zation existing immediately behind the mirror ; and I believe
that no theory ought to ignore this fact. They also supply an
experimental proof, which, however, is hardly required, for
the assumption that at least part of the incident radiation
penetrates below the surface and is there acted upon by mag
netism, to be reflected out again afterwards. For, supposing
the ray's path to lie entirely outside the metal, the action
could only depend upon the magnetic condition of the air,
which, however, is not the case.
    I Lave been able to show, on a former occasion, that mag
netization also is the quantity upon which the effect on trans
mission of radiations through magnets depends ; this of course
is intimately related to Kerr's phenomenon. The latter is
doubtless the more complicated of the two phenomena, and
differs from the former in sign and in the character of its dis
persion*. I believe the following simple kinematical ex
planation may be given for this difference ; in doing so the
dynamics of both phenomena are left aside as a remoter
question.
    § 26. On normal transmission through a magnetic film the
resulting difference of phase between the two opposite cir
cularly polarized rays depends on their different velocity of
Eropagation only ; for the geometrical path is the same for
  oth, viz. the film's thickness. On normal reflexion, however,
the "optical path"t in the metal ( = retardation of phase) is
proportional for each ray to the quotient of tho geometrical
path by the velocity of propagation. Now the latter as well
as the geometrical path (in consequence of the different depth
   • The rotation is known to be positive on transmission through Co,
Ni, and Fe ; its dispersion is anomalous, but according to Dr. Lobach
(Dissert., Berlin, 18U0) it shows neither maxima nor minima.
   t "Optical path "= geometrical path X index of refraction; a con
venient expression used Dy some authors.

                      Magneto-optic Phenomenon.                          267
of penetration *) is different for the two circular rays. Ac
cordingly it is easily seen that the difference of optical path,
and therefore the difference of phase, may have the opposite
sign for reflexion or transmission respectively. In fact it is
only necessary that the swifter circular ray penetrate so much
deeper than the slower one, that the acceleration of phase,
which it would otherwise acquire, be thereby changed into a
retardation behind the phase of the slower ray.
    Generally speaking it is therefore possible that the rotations
on reflexion or transmission respectively have the same or
opposite signs. The former might even have different signs
according to wave-length, and vanish for particular values of
\. Experiment seems to point to a case of this kind with
magnetite (§ 22). The curves of dispersion for reflexion and
transmission of course need not show any analogy ; in any
particular case this depends upon the properties of the sub
stance. The above considerations were hinted at by Voigt t,
though in a different form ; but they are nou limited to any
particular optical theory, whether electric or elastic. They
are of a purely kinematical nature ; the hypothesis of circular
birefraction and " biabsorption," on which they are based,
 must, however, be retained.
    The contents of this paragraph have therefore to be con
sidered apart from all that precedes ; with this sole exception
 I have striven to cling to experiment and its immediate con
sequences, free from any additional assumption. In conclusion,
 I beg to tender my best thanks to Prof. F. Koldrausch, in
 whose laboratory these experiments were carried out.
    Phys. Inst, of Strasburg Univ.,
       " Oct. 20, 1889.
    * The most general assumption is that part of each circular ray is re
flected in the surface itself. The rest then penetrates into the metal, and
 every elementary sheetof its substance again reflects a " circular element,"
 with amplitude the less, the greater the depth at which reflexion ensues.
 The reflected pencil now consists of one circular vibration and an infinity
 of circular elements vibrating in the same sense. Kinematic integration
 gives a single circular vibration in this sense. This consideration, there
 fore, leads to the same result as the assumption, made above, of direct
 penetration of the pencil as a whole, and subsequent reflexion at a defi
nite depth. The two resulting opposite circular vibrations now possess
 differerce of phase, thence rotation, and slight difference of amplitude,
 thence slight ellipticity in the reflected ray. (Compare the geometrical
 method of circular elements by Dr. Wiener, Wied. Ann. xxxv. pp. 3-5,
 1888.)
    t Voigt, Wied. Ann. xxiii. p. 508 (1884).
                                     X2

                            [   268     ]
XXVIII. On tlie Acceleration of Secondary Electromagnetic
               Waves. By Fred. T. Tbouton*.
                             [Plate VI.]
IT is well known that if, after the manner of Huygens's
      construction, the effect of a wave-surface at any point be
determined by summing up the individual effects of the
secondary waves obtained, by supposing the surface divided up
into elementary portions, each element of surface acting as an
independent source, it becomes necessary to assume that an
elementary portion produces its effect at the point with an
acceleration of phase of ^ period in advance of the effect pro
duced at the point by the general wave-surface, otherwise the
sum of the secondary effects would possess a phase £ period
in error.
   As ordinarily considered f, it is somewhat surprising that
there should be this change of phase in a wave coming from
an element of surface. But the consideration of this question,
in the light of Hertz's investigations on the radiation emitted
from an electromagnetic "vibrator" or discharging con
denser, seems to be particularly suggestive.
   At first the magnetic component of the wave will be taken,
as it can be more simply dealt with. Considering, for
the moment, points situated along a line at right angles to,
and starting from, the centre of a " vibrator, ' Hertz's ex
pression | for the magnetic component of the electromagnetic
wave at a distance r is
At points near the " vibrator " the vibration is easily seen to
depend almost entirely on the latter term, or
while at a distance it depends in like manner on the first
term, or, as it may be written,
                    P=
                        ->MHM)}-
  * Communicated by the Author.
  t The complete Elastic Solid Theory contains this acceleration. See
Enc. Brit, art. " Wave Motion," p. 453.
   t Wiedemann's Annakii, January 1889; also ' Nature,' February 21,
1889.

                On the Acceleration of Secondary Waves.                 269
This at once points to an acceleration of phase of £ period at
distances remote from the " vibrator."
    The rate at which the magnetic component of the disturbance
is propagated can be determined by taking a definite position
on the wave and finding how v varies with respect to t on tra
velling out with the wave in this phase. If P=0, then
                          tan (mr — nt) = — 1/mr.
Here m stands for 2n /X, and n for 2tt/t. From this we get
for the velocity of the wave,
                           v— dr _ y m2r2 + 1
                            ~ dt~         mV '
where V is the normal velocity, or that at a great distance
from the " vibrator." When r=0, v has an infinite value,
but on going outwards rapidly approximates to V. Hertz
has pointed out that the true interpretation of this great
value for the velocity at points near the origin involves the
idea of the energy radiated really coming from points in the
surrounding medium, the true seat of the oscillations.
     Thus, from the consideration of velocity an acceleration in
phase is observed to occur. To find its amount, the time the
disturbance takes to reach a point at distance N\ from the
origin can be easily found and compared with the normal
time. Thus
When N is a large number this approximates to the value
Nt— t/4, and is an acceleration corresponding to one quarter
period.
    If the position of maximum or minimum value of P
(i. e. %^ =0*) be taken on the wave instead of the zero value,
we shall have tan (mr—nt) = mr, and the same expression for
the velocity is found. The circular electric-line of force in
 Hertz's diagrams of the disturbance, here reproduced for
convenience of reference, also spreads out with this velocity.
   * It is to be particularly observed that in the neighbourhood of the con
ductor, unlike in normal wave motion, the position on the wave where
dP
     =0 is not the position on the wave of maximum displacement; this
state of the wave will be found like the electric force to originate at
X/4-4, having a very similar expression for the rate of its propagation.
On plotting the curve P at a series of stated epochs this is well shown.
                                   i

270           Mr. F. T. Trouton on the Acceleration
   The electric component of the wave*
        a f     . ,        .    cos(mr— nt) sin (mr—ni)~\
   z= -< — sin (mr - nt)           ^        '- H       —- f
may in like manner be considered. Similarly to before, if
z=0, it is necessary everywhere along the line considered that
                     tan (mr—ni) = , Wr„ „¦
 From this we get for the velocity,
                         _ v m*r* — mV + 1
                        V~ mV(mV-2)"
In this case v has an infinite value both at the centre and at
distance X/w^ 2—roughly X/4"4. At intermediate points it
is negative or towards the centre. As the wave passes out
wards it is at this point \/4'4 that the zero value of z is first
reached (at about "12t before it becomes zero at the centre,
which occurs at t/2), whence it spreads both outwards and
inwards. On the diagrams this appearance of the zero value
of z is easily traced, and its subsequent outward movement at
the centre of the small circles ; these of course are the cross
sections of a vortex-ring, as it were, thrown off by the
" vibrator."
   For determining the time to reach any point, we have
          i — = \r \ r~ -tan~' , mr . | + const. \ .
         J v      V (_    m       1 —m r          J
This between NX and X/4"4, when N is a large number, gives
as the time taken,
                  t(N-1/4-4) -t/2tt . tan- V2,
the first part being the normal time.
   If we wish from this to determine the period elapsing
between the arrival of the wave in this phase at the point NX
and the time of zero value of the electric force at the centre
which occurs at the epoch of fig. 1, Plate VI., we must add
the epoch of the appearance at X/4*4. This will be found to
afford NT, the normal time. But if we reckon from the time
the zero value, having appeared at X/4'4, travelling inwards
reaches the centre, we obtain NT— t/2, an acceleration of one
half-period. In neither case, it is to be observed, does it
represent the time of passage between two places. The zero
value of z at the centre in fig. 1 ought really to be referred
                 * Wiedemann's Annalea for 18t!D.

                of Secondary Electromagnetic Waves.                    271
to the previous swing. This will be better understood by
recollecting that at the conductor, when the electric force is
at its greatest development, the current is zero, and conse
quently so, too, the magnetic force, while in radiation the
electric force and the magnetic force simultaneously reach
their maximum value. This is beautifully shown in Hertz's
diagrams. In fig. 1, at the centre the electric force is zero,
while the magnetic force is about at its greatest development.
The latter travels outwards with such a velocity at each point
(the same as that of the circtilar line of force in the diagrams)
that there is an acceleration of \ period ; while the former
vanishes at the centre but reappears at X/4'4, as is seen in
fig. 4, so as to be now one quarter wave-length behind. In
this way the necessary readjustment of the relative phases
of the electric and magnetic components is effected.
   If the position on the wave of maximum or minimum value
of z (that is to say, the " crest ") be taken instead of the zero
value, the condition at any point is that
                                        TiiT — X
                     tan (mr—nt)-=
                          v                mr     >
and the same expression for the velocity as before is obtained,
so that the position at distance X/4"4 may be considered the
point from which the electric disturbance originates, and not
the centre. As the energy in the neighbourhood of the con
ductor turns from its magnetic to its electric form *, it is at this
point that the maximum value is first reached, and is in
advance of the " normal epoch " t/4, or that of the " orest "
at the centre by about £ t. The maximum value spreads both
outwards and inwards from X/4'4, reaching the centre at t/4,
the epoch of fig. 3.
   As in the case of the zero value of z, so here also, if the
period elapsing between the arrival at any point and the time
of greatest electric development at the centre, which occurs
at the epoch of fig. 3, be calculated, an acceleration of t/2 on
the normal time is found. This virtual acceleration of t/2 is,
however, due to the combined effect of the " crest " or maxi
mum value of z, (1) starting from the point \/4-4 instead of
 from the centre, (2) at a time about ^ t previous to the
normal epoch t/4 or that at the centre, (3) as well as to the
   » In the curves obtained by plotting % for a series of epochs tho forma
tion of the wave at X/4-4 is clearly observed. The wave after springing
here into existence above the zero-line, lengthens out in both directions,
and then beginning to sag in the centre, finally splits into two at this
point, as the force reaches zero, again to pass over to the other side of
the zero-line.

272            Mr. F. T. Trouton on the Acceleration
increased velocity. As mentioned before, the acceleration of
the rate of propagation of the electric component of the dis
turbance must differ by t/4 from that of the magnetic com
ponent in order to provide the necessary readjustment of their
relative phases.
   The question now arises if, on the whole, the elementary
disturbance to be supposed in Huygens' construction* may
not fairly be considered as being of the same character as that
produced by a Hertzian " vibrator." Such an elementary
disturbance as is there assumed, in the absence of neighbour
ing ones, would have apparently uncompensated ends or poles
equivalent to the opposite electrifications on a " vibrator."
Of course the only way we know of producing an elementary
disturbance is by the presence of matter, so that it seems
natural to take the disturbance assumed in Huygens' con
struction to be similar in its effects. It might perhaps be
objected to this that a "vibrator" is a conductor, and that
there are conduction-currents to be dealt with ; but as against
this the fact is to be considered that, as we shall see, a non
conductor such as glass can act by reflexion so as to be the
source of such an elementary disturbance.
   Some experiments were described in ' Nature ' (August 22,
1889) in which this acceleration in phase was actually observed
to take place in the reflexion from a small surface. It was
there described how, in Hertz's experiment of "loop and
nodes," if a small sized reflector be employed, the magnetic
node, instead of being at £ \ from the reflector, is found to
be nearly | \ further out. This evidently corresponds to a
change of phase of ^ period in the reflected wave, for the
distance £ X has to be twice traversed.
   The way in which this change in phase is brought about is
perhaps most conveniently considered by supposing the small
reflector to be itself resonant, or equivalent to a second
vibrator having the requisite phase with reference to the inci
dent wave. And indeed that something such as this occurs
may even be noticed by touching the mirror with a small
piece of metal ; for bright sparks can be drawn from the two
edges running at right angles to the electric force, while little
or no effect is obtained from the central parts.
   Let the magnetic component of the wave incident vertically
on the reflector, and supposed a parallel beam, be taken as
                       P = Acos27r(|-r£);
  * In the case of sound, the divergency of the direction of motion of
the particles from an element of surface affords the analogous reason for
the acceleration.

                 of Secondary Electromagnetic Waves.                  273
  where r is the distance to the reflector, and A is the ampli
  tude of the magnetic force. The magnetic component of the
  reflected wave, supposed as above to be from a second " vibra
  tor," will be given by *
  as this has the same phase at the reflector as the incident
  beam. Here + E is the maximum value of the electrifica
  tion induced by the incident wave on the second "vibrator," and
  I is the equivalent distance apart of the positive and negative
  charges, which, taken roughly, is the length in the direction of
  the electric displacement of the reflector supposed rectangular.
  An approximation for E may be easily obtained from the
  value for the induced current arrived at, by assuming that the
  magnetic force parallel to the reflector due to the induced
  current is such as to neutralize the effect of the direct radia
  tion immediately behind the reflectorf. If c is the amount
  of the current per centimetre cross section in the reflector,
  the magnetic force due thereto parallel to the reflector and
  close up to it is lire ; that is to say, it is assumed equal to the
  force due to an infinite current-sheet of intensity c per centi
  metre cross section. (See Maxwell, chap, xii.) This is to be
  put equal to the magnetic force of the direct radiation at the
  reflector Acos27r—.         Recollecting that c is in electromag-
                        T
  netic units, we have for the amplitude of the total charge
  along the edge k of the reflector,
                 „ fT/4             Tt/4 A         t        AkX
           E = ifcVl    cdt = k\\ ^cos2tt^*=
                                     .„ -..        .         4^
  This neglects the end irregularities in the electrification.
     At any point in front of the reflector the disturbance is the
  sum of P and P', and we have a series of stationary waves,
  complicated, however, by the fact that the velocity and the am
  plitude of one of the components are functions of the distance.
                       P+F=Bcos2tt(- +*\
  represents the stationary waves when
B.=A.{l+2.^n^ + ^eos4,0+(|y[l+(^}.
     • Wiedemann's Annalen, January 1889.
     t This, as a method of evaluating the electrification, was pointed out
   to the author by Prof. Fitzgerald.

  274           Mr. F. T. Trouton on the Acceleration
  Practically the quickest method for determining the positions
  of maxima and minima for B is to plot the curve represented
  by this equation in each particular case. The curve shown in
  fig. 5, PI. VI. is that where k - 30 c, l=22c, and \=72c. The
  abscissa represents the distance, measured in centimetres, from
  the reflector to the point, while the ordinate multiplied by A2
  represents the intensity or square of the amplitude of the
  magnetic force of the stationary wave at the point. The
 dotted line indicates the intensity of the direct radiation, to
  which the curve is seen to approximate as r increases in value.
  The curve is seen to be going off the limits of the paper on
 the side next the reflector ; btit it must be remembered that
 in this region the formulae used have but an indirect inter
  pretation as the finite size of the reflector becomes important,
 and that there is involved the idea of the aether here being in
 special commotion, so that reflexion may in a certain sense be
 looked upon as taking place before really reaching the mirror.
     On examining the curve the first minimum will be seen to
 occur at about 24 c from the reflector, which agrees suffi
 ciently well for an approximate method of calculation with
 the result of experiment, which for a wave-length of 72 c
 gives the first minimum at about 25 c* And in fact we
 might expect, on looking at the curve, that the experiment as
 made would always tend to give the minimum a little beyond
 its true position ; for if the spark-gap be set to just observe a
 spark of, say, the direct waves' intensity, and if the distance
be bisected between the positions to right and left of the
minimum where sparking is observed to commence on moving
along the " receiver," this point will be too far out, owing to
the portion of the curve to the left being steeper than that to
the right. This is well marked when working with the spark-
gap comparatively open ; that is to say, various positions are
then obtained for the minimum according to the width of the
spark-gap. This was experimentally noticed before the curve
was plotted.
    The curve indicates at once the reason why it is difficult to
   * In this Table the results of experiments with different wave-lengths
are shown in the third column.
                      X.            fx.        Min.
                      72           27           25
                      68           25-5         24
                      60           22-5         21
                      66           21           19



               of Secondary Electromagnetic Waves.                 275
observe even the second minimum. It will also be noticed
from the curve that the second minimum is at a distance from
the first slightly greater than the half wave-length ; so that
if the curve were continued further out we might very well
expect the minima to be shifted out the complete                  as in
fact may be seen to be the case from the equation of the
curve. This in ordinary wave theory would be referred to the
necessity for the point to be at a proportionate distance before
a given surface can be considered as truly sending out a
secondary wave. Some experiments were made which cer
tainly tended towards showing that this lengthening of the
distance between the first and second minimum exists ; but
the experiments were unsatisfactory, for the second minimum
is very slightly marked, and experimentally indeed seems to
 be even less so than one would expect from the curve. How
 ever, it is most likely that the Hertzian stationary waves are
never so well marked as they would ordinarily be calculated ;
for it seems most probable that primary " vibrators " do not
send out strictly " monochromatic light, ' but send out a num
ber of wave-lengths of nearly the same period—a " band-
spectrum," so to speak, the centre of which no doubt may be
by far the strongest, and correspond with the " period as
would be calculated for the " vibrator ;" also that " secondary
vibrators " or resonators may in like manner be forced so as to
take up, in some degree depending on the discrepancy, any
member of a " band-spectrum " special to each resonator, its
"period"' corresponding to the centre *. Thus the marking
of a node belonging to the central wave-length will probably
be weakened, owing to the presence of the other members of
the " band " whose nodes on the whole will occur elsewhere.
    An observation which has proved of use in the course of
these experiments on secondary waves was made during the
autumn, namely that glass absorbed Hertzian radiations com
paratively rapidly ; in fact on account of this property it was
found quite impracticable to determine the velocity of " light "
in glass by the method t of interposing a sheet of the
substance in front of a reflector affording stationary waves,
because the front surface ot the glass itself gave a well-marked
series of loops and nodes. A comparatively thin piece of
 glass, say of one centimetre, will afford an observable reflexion.
 This must be due chiefly to the reflexion from the second sur
 face being weakened by absorption, so that it is insufficient to
   * The author hopes shortly to publish an account of experiments made
during the autumn which have led to these conclusions,
   t ' Nature,' August 22, 1889.

276           Sir W. Thomson on the Time-integral of a
seriously interfere with that from the front, but also no doubt
to reflexions from points situated in the substance of the glass.
A sheet of glass two centimetres thick gives fairly good
reflexion, while a sheet of paraffin of that thickness would
give almost no effect.
    Thus by using glass it was comparatively easy to obtain
stationary waves by reflexion from a small surface of a non
conducting substance, in order to compare the effect thus
produced on the position of the stationary waves with that
produced by employing a small metallic reflector. The first
node was found to be shifted out nearly £\, as in the case of
metallic reflexion. That reflexion from glass is not of the
metallic sort was proved by obtaining polarized reflexion.
In this case the two opposite edges of the nonconductor may
be looked upon as undergoing variations of apparent electrifi
cation.
  XXIX. On the Time-integral of a Transient Electromag-
    netically Induced Current. By Sir William Thomson,
    F.R.S.*
 IT has hitherto been generally supposed that, in ordinary
       apparatus for electromagnetic induction, with or without
soft iron, the oppositely directed transient currents, in the
 secondary circuit, induced by startings and stoppings of
 current in the primary circuit, have equal time-integrals.
    I have recently perceived [been wrongly led to imagine]
that this may be far from being practically the case by
the following considerations. The starting and stopping
 of the current in the primary circuit was, in Faraday's
 original discovery of this kind of electromagnetic-induction
 (Exp. Res. Series I. Nov. 1831), and is generally in ele
 mentary illustrative experiments, produced by making and
breaking a circuit consisting of a voltaic element or battery
 and tho inductor-wire. In this arrangement the starting
of the inductor-current is generally much less sudden than
the stopping. Hence a thicker shell of the secondary wire
 (or portion inwards from the outward boundary) is utilized
for conducting the secondary current, on the make, than
on the break f. Hence the effective ohmic resistance in
    • Communicated by the Author.
    t [In reality the whole cross sectional area of the secondary conductor
 is utilized, equably in all its parts, in conducting the secondary current.
 See Postscript of February 23. J

           Transient Electromagnetically Induced Current.               211
the secondary circuit is less to the current induced by
the make than to the current induced by the break ; and
the time-integral of the former current is correspondingly
greater than the time-integral of the latter.
    Faraday in his first experiment found the current induced,
by the make to be greater than that induced by the break,
but he explained it by the running down of his voltaic battery
during the time the current was passing through the primary,
in consequence of which the magnitude of the current stopped
on the break was smaller than that of the current instituted
on the make. This was undoubtedly a vera causa, and probably
one of considerable potency, considering that Faraday had
then no Daniel's battery and had no storage-cells to serve him
in his work. Another vera causa is the heating of the
circuit, which, even with a battery of constant E.M.F., may
render the current started very considerably greater than the
current stopped in ordinary experiments. Faraday, in his
original experiments*, had only magnetization of steel wires
to discover the induced currents by, and to test their magni
tude ; and he had no galvanometer in the primary circuit.
 If he had had a ballistic galvanometer in his secondary
circuit, and any suitable galvanometer for steady currents in
his primary circuit, he might possibly have found f that the
 time-integral (as shown by the ballistic galvanometer) of the
 primary current exceeded that of the secondary current by
 a greater difference than could be accounted for by the
 current being suddenly started and the current suddenly
 stopped in the primary. So far as I know no one, from
 1831 till now, has made any experimental examination of the
 question suggested in Faraday's Exp. Res. Series I. 16 ; and
 his idea that the two currents are equal has been generally
 accepted J. I have therefore asked Mr. Tanakadate" to make
 some experiments on the subject in my laboratory. He
 immediately obtained results § seeming to demonstrate a con-
    * Exp. Researches, Series I., 1831.
    t [No. On the contrary, he would have found that his first idea, of
 perfect equality of the two currents, was perfectly true ! February 23.]
    X See Maxwell's ' Electricity and Magnetism ' (1873), vol. ii. §537,
 p. 171.
    § But these results we find are quite untrustworthy because of the
 susceptibility of the steel needle of the galvanometer to magnetic induc
 tion, which with the currents produced through its coil by the induced
 currents due to the make and Dreak in the primary circuit, may largely
 alter its effective magnetism. It is in fact well known that ballistic gal
 vanometers with steel needles give very erratic results if they are used in
 attempting to find time-integrals of very intense transient currents of very
 short duration.

278        Sir W. Thomson on the Time-integral of a
siderable excess in the time-integral (as shown by a ballistic
galvanometer) of the secondary current on the make above
that on the break. A magneto-static galvanometer in the
primary circuit showed the current before the break to be
always a little less than immediately after the make. This
difference was due to heating of the primary circuit, because
a potential galvanometer applied to the two terminals of the
voltaic element used, which was a large storage-cell, showed
no sensible drop of potential during the flow of the current
in the primary circuit. It was, however, insufficient to account
for the large differences found between the ballistic deflexions
produced by the induced currents on the make and on the
break. A rapid succession of makes and breaks has given
large irregular permanent deflexions of the ballistic galvano
meter, sometimes in one direction, sometimes in the other,
which we have found to be chiefly due to magnetic sus
ceptibility of the steel needle of the ballistic galvanometer:
and we find that this cause has probably vitiated the observa
tions on the effects of single makes and breaks. I have there
fore arranged to have experiments continued, with a coil of
very fine wire bifilarly suspended, instead of the steel needle
of the ballistic galvanometer ; a steady current through the
fine wire being maintained by an independent voltaic battery.
   Hitherto the make and break have been performed by hand,
dipping a wire into and lifting it out of a cup of mercury.
   Various well-known methods may be used to render either
the break or the make so gradual that we may be sure of the
induced current running practically full-bore through the
secondary. On the other hand, very sudden breaks may
be effected by separating two little balls or other convex
pieces of copper by the blow of a hammer. The experiment
may be varied by short-circuiting the ends of the inductor
and allowing the current from the battery to continue
flowing through electrodes of sufficient resistance not to
allow an injuriously great amount of current to flow.
These electrodes, between the voltaic element and the ends
of the inductor-wire, may have large self-inductance given to
them by coiling them round a closed magnetic circuit of soft
iron. The starting of the current in the inductor-wire will
thus be rendered much more sudden than the stopping ; and
the induced current in the secondary will no doubt be found
 stronger on the stoppage than on the start. Mr. Tanakadate"
 is continuing the experiments with these modifications in
view.
    The mathematical foundation of the common opinion that

         Transient Electromagnetically Induced Current.                  279
the time-integrals of the induced currents on the make and
break are equal is as follows*.
   Let /9 and y be the currents at time t in the primary and
in the secondary circuits respectively ; J the self-inductance
of the secondary circuit ; and M the mutual inductance of the
two. We have
Hence if y=0 when t=0, and if ice suppose R to be constant,
                     i
Now let T be any value of t so large that y8 has become
sensibly constant, and 7 has subsided to zero. We have
                             r        M
                         i
This shows that the time-integral of the induced current in
the secondary circuit would depend solely on the difference of
values of the current in the primary at the beginning and end
of the time included in the reckoning, and would be quite
  [* February 23. —Worked out more perfectly it shows, as follows, that
the common opinion is correct!
   Imagine the whole secondary conductor divided into infinitely small
filamenta of cross-section dQ : and let £ be the current-dens:tv, at time t,
in any one of these. Instead of y in the text take £rf£2, and instead of R
take l/(adQ) ; a- denoting the specific conductivity of the material, and I
the length of the circuit. We nave
                                      dt      dt
where S denotes the sum of effects due to the risings and fallings of cur
rent in the different parts of the secondary conductor. Their time-integral
from 0 to T is essentially zero ; as is also that of the infinitesimal middle
term of the second mem ber. Hence we have
                          /cr-       £=MO9-0O);
which shows that the time-integral of the current, frfQ, in each Jilament
of the secondary conductor, is exactly equal to that which is calculated
according to the ordinary elementary theory ! The whole details of the
fallacy in the text are now clear 1]

280                      Geological Society :—
independent of suddennesses, if the effective ohmic resistance
were constant. But this supposition is not true ; and that it
is very effectively untrue for copper wires of a millim. dia
meter or more, and times of change in the primary less than
3Jij of a second, we see readily hy looking to the diffusional
curve and the time-number, 2lo of a second for curve 10,
corresponding to the diffusivity of copper for electric currents
(which is 131 square centimetres per second) given and ex
plained in my short article on a Five-fold Analogy, in the
British Association Report for Manchester, 1888 (to be found
also in the Electrical Journals, and ' Nature ').
    [Postscript, February 23, 1890.—The thermal analogy,
which is very simple for the case of electric currents in
parallel straight lines, has, as soon as I have considered it,
shown me the fallacy pervading the text ; and has led me to
make the corrections in the insertion and footnotes enclosed
in brackets [ ], all of which are of the date of this postscript.
Preliminary experiments with the suspended coil instead of
the steel magnet, in a ballistic galvanometer now nearly com
pleted by Mr. Tanakadate, have already disproved the large
differences which I expected between the time-integrals of
the secondary currents on the break, and on the make ; and as
far as they have yet gone are consistent with the perfect
equality which I now find proved by theory.]
             XXX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                         [Continued from p. 135.]
  December 18, 1889.—W. T. Blanford, LL.D., F.E.8., President,
                               in the Chair.
fTTHE following communications were read :—
 •*• 1. " On the Occurrence of the Genus Oirvanella, and remarks
on the Oolitic Structure." By E. Wethored, Esq., F.G.S.
    2. " On the Eelation of the Westleton Beds or ' Pebbly Sands ' of
 Suffolk to those of Norfolk, and on their extension inland, with some
observations on the Period of the final Elevation and Denudation of
the Weald and of the Thames Valley."—Part II. By Prof. Joseph
Prestwich, M.A., D.C.L., F.lt.S., F.G.S.
    The author having, in the first part of this paper*, discussed
the relationship of the Westleton Beds to the Crag Series and to
                      * Phil. Mag. [5] xxviii. p. 142.

          On the Westleton Beds of Norfolk and Suffolk.           281
the Glacial Deposits, proceeded in the present contribution to con
sider the extension of the Westleton Beds beyond the area of the
Crag, and described their range inland through Suffolk, East, West,
and South Essex, Middlesex, North and South Hertfordshire, South
Buckinghamshire, and North and South Berkshire, noticing their
relationship to the overlying Glacial beds, where these were deve
loped, and the manner in which they reposed upon older deposits.
He gave an account of the heights of the various exposures above
Ordnance Datum, and mentioned the relative proportion of the
different constituents in various sections, thus showing that in their
southerly and westerly extension they differed both in composition
and in mode of (distribution from the Glacial deposits. Distinction
was also made between the Westleton Beds and the Brentwood
   Attention was next directed to the occurrence of the Westleton
Series, south of the Thames, in Kent, Surrey, and Hampshire, and
their possible extension into Somersetshire was inferred from the
character of the deposits on Kingsdown and near Clevedon.
   In tracing the deposits from the east coast to the Berkshire
Downs it was noticed that at the former place the beds lay at sea-
level, but ranging inland, they gradually rose to heights of from 500
to 600 feet; that in the first instance thoy underlay all the Glacial
deposits, and in the second they roso high above them, and their
seeming subordination to the Glacial series altogether disappeared ;
thus at Braintree, where the WeBtleton Beds were largely developed,
they stood up through the Boulder-clay and gravel which wrapped
round their base, whilst further west, where they became diminished
to mere shingle-beds, they attained heights of from 350 to 400 feet,
capping London-clay hills, where the Boulder-clay lay from 80 to 100
feet lower down the slopes, the difference of level between the two
deposits becoming still greater in a westerly direction, until finally
 the Boulder-clay disappeared.
   The origin of the component pebbles of the beds was discussed,
and their derivation traced (1) to the beds of Woolwich age in Kont,
N. France and Belgium, and possibly to some Diestian beds, (2) to
the older rocks of the Ardennes, (3) to the Chalk and older drifts,
and (4) to the Lower Greensand of Kont and Surrey, or in part to
the Southern drift.
   The marine nature of the beds was inferred from the included
fossils of the type-area, and the absenco of these elsewhere accounted
for by decalcification.
   The southward extension of the beds was shown to bo limited by
the anticlinal of the Ardennes and the Weald, and the scanty paloe-
ontological evidence of the nature of that land was noted, and the
possible existence of the Scandinavian ice-sheet to the north was
referred to in connexion with the disappearance of the beds in that
direction.
   From the uniform character of the Westleton shingles the author
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 178. March 1890.                 Y

282                    Geological Society :—
maintained that they must originally have been formed od a com
paratively level sea-floor, and that the inequalities in distribution
had been produced by subsequent differential movement to the ex
tent of 500 feet or more to the north and west above that experienced
to the east and south, where the chronological succession remained
unbroken, aho that the inequalities below the level of the Westleton
beds had been produced since the period of their deposition, as, for
instance, the gorge of the Thames at Pangbourne and Goring, and
most of the Preglacial valleys in the district ; furthermore, evidence
was adduced in favour of the formation of the escarpments of the
Chalk and Oolites since Westleton times, whilst certain observations
supplied data for estimation of the relative amounts of pre- and
post-glacial denudation of the valleys.
   It was stated, in conclusion, that the time for the vast amount
of denudation was so limited that it was not easy to realize that
such limits could suffice, but the author did not see how the con
clusions which he had arrived at could well bo avoided.
    January 8, 1890.— W. T. Blanford, LL.D., F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
   1. " On some British Jurassic Fish-remains referable to the
genera Eurycormus and Hypsocormu&." By A. Smith Woodward,
Esq., F.G.S.
   2. " On the Pcbidiau Volcanic Series of St. Davids." By Prof.
C. Lloyd Morgan, F.G.S.
   After a brief sketch of the principal theories that have been pro
pounded, the author concluded that our knowledge of this series
has not yet reached " a satisfactory position of stable equilibrium."
His own communication was divided into three sections.
   The llelution of Pebidian to Cambrian.— There are four localities
where the junction is described—Caerbwdy Valley, St. Non's Bay,
Ogof Golchfa, and Bamsey Sound. The stratigraphy of the second
of these was given with much detail, and illustrated. The author
concluded that here, together with clear signs of local or contem
poraneous erosion, the general paraUelism of the strike of Pebidian
and Cambrian is most marked. There is no evidence of any bending
round of the conglomerate against the strike of the Pebidians. The
stratigraphical evidence in each of the localities having been con
sidered, together with the evidence offered by the materials of the
Cambrian conglomerate and local interstratification with the volcanic
beds (the interdigitation at Carnarwig being well marked), he con
cluded that there was no great break between the conglomerate and
the underlying Pebidians. The uppeimost Pebidian already fore
shadowed the sedimentary conditions of the Harlech strata, and the

               Pebidian Volcanic Series of St. Davids.             283
change emphasized by the conglomerate was one that followed
volcanic conditions after no great lapse of time.
   Hence the relation of the Pebidian to the Cambrian is that of a
volcanic series, for the most part submarine, to succeeding sedi
mentary strata—these strata being introduced by a conglomerate
formed in the main of foreign pebbles borne onward by a current
which swept the surface of, and eroded channels in, the volcanic
tuffs and other deposits. He was disposed to retain the name
Pebidian as a volcanic series in the base of the Cambrian system.
   The Pebidian Succession.—With the exception of some cinder-beds,
which appear to be subaerial, the whole series was accumulated
under water. There is no justification for making separate sub
divisions ; the scries consists of alternating beds of tuff of varying
colour and basicity, the prevailing tints being dark green, rod-grey,
and light sea-green. In the upper beds there is an increasing
amount of sedimentary material, and more rounded pebbles are found.
Basic lava-flows occur, for the most part, in the upper beds. Detailed
work, laid down on the 6-inch Ordnance map, appears to establish a
series of three folds—a northern anticline, a central synclino, and a
southern anticline—folded over to form an isocline, with roversed
dips to the S.E. The axis of folding is roughly parallel to the axis
of St. David's promontory. The total thickness is from 1200 to
1500 ft.
   The author devoted a considerable number of pages to further
details concerning this series of deposits. He failed to find the
alleged Cambrian overlap. " The probabilities are that it is by
step-faults between Rhoson and Porth Sele, and not by overlap,
that the displacement of the conglomerate has there been effected."
Also at Ogof Goch it does not rest upon the quartz-felsite breccia
and sheets (group C, of Dr. Hicks), but is faulted against them. A
section was devoted to the felsitic dykes, and it was suggested that
they may be volcanic dykes of Cambrian age.
   The Relation of the Pebidian to tJie Dimetian. —The author has
not been able to satisfy himself of the existence of the Arvonian as
a separate and distinct system. He notes the junction of Pebidian
and Dimetian in Porthlisky Bay and the Allen Valley at Porth
Clais, at neither of which places are there satisfactory evidences of
intrusion. At Ogof Llesugu the intrusive character of the Dimetian
was strongly impressed upon him. He criticised the mapping
of Dr. Hicks, and pointed out the difficulties which present them
selves in the way of mapping the Dimetian ridge as Pre-Cambrian.
He pointed out that not a single pebble of Dimetian rock, such
as those now lying on the beach in Porthlisky Bay, is to be found
in the conglomerate. He concluded that the Dimetian is intrusive
in the southern limb of the isocline, and that there are no Archaean
rocks in situ.

284                       Geological Society :
        January 22.—W. T. Blanford, LL.D,, F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
    The following communication was read : —
    " On the Crystalline Schists and their relation to the Mesozoic
Rocks in the Lepontine Alps." By Professor T. G. Bonney, D.Sc,
LL.D., F.R.8., F.G.S.
    In the debate upon the paper " On two Traverses of the Crystal,
line Rocksof tho Alps" (read Dec. 5, 1888) it was stated that rocks
had been asserted on good authority to exist in the Lepontine Alps,
which contained Mesozoic fossils, together with garnets, staurolites,
&c, and thus were undistinguishable from crystalline schists re
garded by the author as belonging to the presumably Archaean
massifs of that mountain-chain. In reply, the author stated that
he regarded this as a challenge to demonstrate the soundness or un
soundness of the hypothesis to which he had committed himself.
The present paper gives the result of his investigations, undertaken
in the month of July, 1881), in company with Mr. James Eceles,
F.G.S., to whom the author is deeply indebted for invaluable help.
The paper deals with the following subjects :—
                       (1) The Andermatt Section.
    By the geologists aforesaid, a highly crystalline white marble which
occurs on the northern side of the Urserenthal trough, at and above
Altkirch, near Andermatt, is referred to the Jurassic series (mem
bers of which undoubtedly occur at no great distance, almost on the
same line of strike). The author describes the relation of the
 marble to an adjacent black schistose slate, and discusses the signifi
cance of some markings in the former which might readily bo con
sidered as organic, but to which he assigns to a different origin. He
shows that there are most serious difficulties in regarding these two
rocks as members of the same series, and explains the apparent
sequence as the result of a sharp and probably broken infold, as in
 the case of the admitted band of Carboniferous rock at Andermatt
 itself. That the section is a difficult one on any hypothesis the author
 admits, but in regard to the former of these, after a discussion of the
 evidence, he concludes " that tendered on the spot demands a ver
 dict of ' not proven '—that obtainable in other parts of the Alps will
 compel us to add, ' not provable.' "
                     (2) The Schists of the Vol Piora.
    These schists, already noticed by the author in his Presidential
 Address to the Society in 188C, occur in force near the Lago di
 Ritom, and consist of two groups :—the one, dark mica-schists, some
 times containing conspicuous black garnets, banded with quartzites,
 the other, various calc-mica schists ; between them, apparently not
 very persistent, occurs a schist containing rather large staurolites or
  kyanitcs. On the north side is a prolongation of the garnet-actino

                 On the Crystalline Schists of the Alps.            285
 lite (Tremola-) schists of the St.Gothard and then gneiss; on the south
 side gneiss. There is also some rauchwacke. This rock, at first
 sight, appears to underlie the Piora-schists, and thus to he the lowest
 member of a trough. If so, as it is admittedly about Triassic in
 age, the Piora-schists would be Mesozoic. The author shows that (1)
 the latter rocks do not form a simple fold ; (2) they are beyond all
 question altered sediments ; (3) they have often been greatly crushed
 subsequent to mineralization ; (4) the garnets, staurolites, &c. (if
  not injured by subsequent crushing) are well developed and charac
  teristic, and are authigenous minerals.
             (3) The Rauchwacke and its Relation to the Schist.
      (a) The Val-Piora Sections.—The author shows that the rauch
  wacke, which at firbt sight seems to underlie the dark mica-schist,
  is inconstant in position (on the assumption of a stratigraphical
  sequence) ; that its crystalline condition does not resemble that of
   the schist-series, but is rather such as is common in a rock of its
  age ; that it contains mica and other minerals of derivative origin,
  and in places rock-fragments which precisely resemble members of
   the Piora-schist series.
      (b) The Val-Canaria Section.—This section, described by Dr.
  Grubenmann, is discussed at length. It is shown that the idea of a
   simple trough is not tenable, for identical schists occur above and
   below the rauchwacke ; that there is evidence of great pressure,
   which, however, acted subsequently to the mineralization of the
   schists ; and that in one place the rauchwacke is full of fragments
   of the very schists which are supposed to overlie it.
       (c) Nufenen Pass S[c.—Other cases, further to the west, are
, described, where confirmatory evidence is obtained as to great
   difference in age between the rauchwacke and the schists, and the
   antiquity of the latter. The apparent interstratification is explained
   by thrust-faulting,
           (4) The Jurassic Rocks, containing Fossils and Minerals.
        The author describes the sections on the Alp Vitgira, Scopi, and
   the Nufenen Pass. Here indubitable Belemnites and fragments of
   Crinoids occur in a dark, schistose, somewhat micaceous rock, which
   is often very full of " knots " and " prisms " of rather ill-defined
   external form, something like rounded garnets and ill-developed
   staurolites. Theso rocks at the Alp Vitgira appear to overlie, and
   in the field can be distinguished from the black-garnet schists. In
   one place the rock resembles a compressed breccia, and among the
   constituent fragments is a rock very like a crushed variety of the
   black-garnet mica-schist. These Jurassic " schists " are totally
    different from the last-named schists, to which they often present
    considerable superficial resemblance ; for instance, their matrix is
    highly calcareous, the other rock mainly consisting of silicates.
                                    i

 286                       Geological Society :—
 Some of the associated mica may be authigenous, but the author
 believes much of it and other small constituents to be derivative.
 There is, however, a mineral resembling a mica, exhibiting twinning
 with (?) simultaneous extinction, which is authigenous. The knots
 are merely matrix clotted together by some undefinable silicate, and
 under the microscope have no resemblance to the " black garnets."
 The prisms are much the same, but slightly better defined ; they
 present no resemblance to the staurolites, but may bo couseranite,
 or a mineral allied to dipyre. Hence, though there is rather more
 alteration in these rocks than is usual with members of the Mesozoic
 series, and an interesting group of minerals is produced, these
 so-called schists differ about as widely as possible from the crystalline
schists of the Alps, and do not affect the arguments in favour of the
 antiquity of the latter. In short, they may be compared to rather
 poor forgeries of genuine antiques. Incidentally the author's
 observations indicate (as he has already noticed) that a cleavage-
 foliation had been produced in some of the Alpine schists anterior
to Triassic times.
       February 5.— W. T. Blanford, LL.D., F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
    1. " The Variolitic Rocks of Mont-Genevre." By Greuville A.
J. Cole, Esq., F.G.8., and J. W. Gregory, Esq., F.G.S., F.Z.S.
   The following conclusions were arrived at by the authors as the
result of their observations : —
    The gabbro or euphotide south of Mont-Genevre is associated with
serpentines, which were originally peridotites, and were not derived
from the alteration of the gabbro. These coarsely crystalline rocks
probably form a considerable subterranean mass, but have little
importance at the surface.
   They were broken through by dykes of dolerite and augite-andc-
site, and are now overlain by a great scries of compact diabases and
fragmental rocks, which has no direct connexion with the gabbro.
   The Variolite of the Durance occurs in situ as a selvage on the
surfaces of contact of these diabases among themselves, as blocks
in certain fragmental rocks, which are regarded by the authors as
tuffs, and occasionally as a selvage to the diabase dykes.
   This product of rapid cooling was originally a spherulitic tachy-
lyte, and has become devitrified by slow secondary action. Variolite
thus stands in the same relation to the basic lavas as pyromeride
docs to those of acid character.
   The eruptive rocks in the Mont-Genevre area are probably Post-
Carboniferous, but their exact age cannot at present be determined.
   There are several other areas of similar variolitic rocks among
both the Alps and the Apennines of Piedmont and Liguria.
   The best modern representatives of the conditions that produced

            Propylites of the Western Isles of Scotland.            287
these rocks are to be found in the great volcanoes of Hawaii, and there
is nothing either in their fundamental characters or in their mode of
origin that cannot be paralleled among the products of causes now in
action.
   The authors expressed thoir indebtedness to Professors Bonney and
Judd, as well as to those who have preceded them upon the classic
ground of Mont-Genevre.
   2. " The Propylites of the Western Isles of Scotland, and their
Relations to the Andesites and Diorites of the District." By Pro
fessor John W. Judd, F.R.S., F.G.S., &c.
   The " Propylites " of von Richthofen and Zirkel constitute what
has been aptly characterized by Bosenbusch as a " pathological
variety " of the andesites. The relations of rocks of this type to
the andesites and diorites in Eastern Europe and in the Western
Territories of the United States have been mado known to us by the
researches of Dolter, Szabo, Becker, Hague and Iddings, and other
petrographers.
   The " felstones " described by the author of the present memoir
as constituting the oldest series of the Tertiary volcanic rocks in
the Western Isles of Scotland are now shown to belong to this
interesting type. When found in an unaltered state, these rocks pre
sent remarkable analogies with the andesites of Iceland and the Faroe
Islands, which have been so well described by Zirkel, Schirlitz, Osann,
and Breon. In the altered condition in which they usually occur,
however, the Scottish rocks resemble in a not less striking mannor
the " propylites " of Eastern Europe and Western North-America.
  The rocks in question vary in colour from white to dark grey, various
shades of green usually prevailing among them. They have a specific
gravity ranging from 2-4 to 2-9 ; the density diminishing as the silica
percentage and the amount of glassy material in them increase ; a
lowering of the density of the rocks being also the result of extreme
alteration. In their chemical composition these rocks were shown to
agree with the pyroxene- and amphibole-andcsites of other areas,
and with propylitic forms of those rocks.
   Very striking and remarkable is the amount of change that many
of these Tertiary rocks have undergone—change that has equally
affected their porphyritic constituents and the ground-muss in
which these are imbedded. The felspars are never fresh, but are
more or less kaolinized, and not unfrequently converted into epidotes
and other secondary minerals ; the ferro-magnesian silicates are
almost always changed into isotropic " viridite," or into various
chlorites ; while the titano-ferrite and magnetite have been con
verted either into " leucoxene " or into sulphides. The glass and
 microlites of the original ground-mass have in nearly all cases dis
 appeared as the result of secondary devitrification.
   The propylites are the oldest of the Tertiary lavas in tho Western
Isles of Scotland. They exhibit every gradation in minute struc
              I                  i

288                        Geological Society.
ture, from holocrystalline forms (dioritea) through various "grano-
phyric " and " pilotaxitic " types into true vitreous rocks (" pitch-
stones "). They aro found constituting lava-streams, which are
usually short and bulky ; eruptive bosses or " Quellkuppen ; " and
lenticular intrusions or " laccolites."
   By carofully following in the field the much-altered rocks to points
where they retain some of their original characters, the propylites
can be shown to represent various interesting types of andesite and
diorite. The amphibolic and micaceous rocks include hornblende-
andesites, hornblende- and mica-audesites containing enstatite,
diorites, and quartz-dioritos. Among the pyroxenic rocks the most
noticeable varieties are the labradorite-andesites, the pyroxeue-
andesitcs—of which both " trachytoid " and " vitrophyric " forms
occur,—as well as examples of what have been called " dial-
lage-andesites " (the nature of the pyroxene in which was fully dis
cussed) ; these rocks are found passing into augite-diorites, and
quartz-augite-dioritcs.
   A microscopic study of these rocks enables us to investigate the
processes by which they have acquired their peculiar characters. The
chief and most widely operating cause of change is thus demonstrated
to have been solfaUirie action ; and this was shown to have accom
panied the intrusion into the andesitcs of masses of igneous material
of highly acid composition (granites and felsites). This solfataric
action has been developed around each of the five volcanic centres
described in 1874. A smaller and much more local cause of change
—some of the results of which are strikingly contrasted with those
of the wide-spread solfataric action—is found in the contact-meta-
morphism resulting from the intrusion into the andesitcs of masses
of igneous rock of basic, intermediate, or acid composition.
   The much-altered propylites of Tertiary age were shown to have
their exact analogues among the older (Paheozoic) lavas of Scotland
and other districts. These rocks, which have been called " fel-
stones," " porphyrites," &c., are andesitic lavas, some of which have
suffered only from the action of surface-waters, while others among
 them must have been profoundly affected by solfataric action and
 converted into propylites, prior to the operation of the surface-
agencies of change.
    Forming a very striking contrast with the older Tertiary andesitcs
 (propylites), are the numerous scattered and generally small masses
 of rock which belong to a late period in the Tertiary, and constitute
 the youngest volcanic rocks of the British Islands. These rocks are
found intersecting, in the form of dykes, the great sheets of olivine-
 basalt ; or where poured out at the surface (as at the Sgiirr of Eigg
 and Beinn Hiant in Ardnamurchan), lie upon their greatly eroded
 surfaces. The rocks in question, which have the mineralogical
 constitution of augite-andesites, are remarkable for the wide
 variations in their aspect and chemical composition ; and this
was shown to result from differences in tlie proportion of the cry8

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           289
talline and glassy constituents to one another. Holocrystalline
aggregates, of basic composition, are found passing, as the quantity
of acid glass increases, into various " ophitic," " intersertal," and
" pilotaxitic " types, finally assuming the " vitrophyric " form of
11 pitchstone-porphyries "—rocks which have a distinctly acid com
position. The rocks of the Tertiary dykes in Southern Scotland and
the North of England, which have been described by Dr. A. Geikie,
Mr. Teall, and other authors, were shown to agreo with these later
Tertiary andesites, both in their mineralogical constitution and in
the peculiar phases which they present to us. The latest Tertiary
ejections were shown in 1874 to bear the same relations to the five
grand volcanoes of the Western Isles which the chains of " puys " in
Auvergne do to the great central volcanoes of that district ; and this
conclusion is strikingly confirmed by petrographical studies of which
the results were given in the present memoir.
         XXXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
NOTE ON THE GRADUAL ALTERATION IN GLASS PRODUCED BY
    ALTERING ITS TEMPERATURE A FEW DEGREES. BY SPENCER
    U. PICKERING, M.A.*
'TVHE alteration experienced by glass when heated to tempera-
       tures above 50° C. is well known, but I do not think that it
has previously been noticed that a rise or fall of even a few degrees
at ordinary temperatures will produce an appreciable alteration of
a similar nature.
    That such is the case, however, the following experiments will
show. During the course of a series of density-determinations, in
which the apparatus used consisted of an ordinary 25 cub. cent,
density-bottle with perforated stopper—but of which the stopper
was so accurately ground that it made the instrument thoroughly
reliable—the water-contents of the bottle were frequently deter
mined. Between November 1887 and May 1888, during which
time the temperature of the laboratory had been kept at about 18°,
no appreciable alteration in the capacity occurred, the values all
being within -0002 grm. of 25*0070 grm., and this in spite of the
fact that the bottle had been temporarily heated to temperatures as
high as 38°. But during November and December of the latter
year the temperature of the laboratory had been maintained 10°
lower than during the previous twelve months, and the effect of
this lowering on the bottle was such that its water-contents, mea
sured at the same temperature, were '001 gram less. Although the
amount of this contraction is small, the following values will, I
                   • Communicated by the Author.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 178. March 1890.             Z

2 90            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
think, place its existence beyond doubt : they were determined, as
will be seen, at various temperatures between 6° and 28°.
   The gradual contraction does not appear to have ceased at the
end of the seventeen days' exposure of the bottle to 8°, nor does it
seem to have been affected by the temporary heating of the bottle
to the higher temperatures at which its contents were deter
mined.
   In the last column is given the weight of the bottle itself on the
various dates : it shows a slight gradual decrease owing to wear ;
but this wear, even if it took place entirely on the inside, would
not be sufficient to account for a tenth part of the decrease in the
weight of the contents.
Alteration in the Capacity of Glass Bottle while being kept at 8°,
   after it had been previously kept at 18°. Contents measured
   at t°.
                                                                  Bottle
         t=         G°.        8°.         10°.         12°.       alone.
      Nov. 8                250301                                15-7192
      Dec. 3     250317                 25-0288      25024.-,     15 7188
       ., 12                250293                                15-7188
       „ 18      250311     25 0289     250264       250228       15-7187
                                        250269                    15-7186
         t=    -_ 14°.        14°.«        16°.*        28°.
     Nov. 30                                          24-9535     15-7191
     Dec. 3      250910                               24-9532     15-7188
       ., 7                 44 4345      43-6239      249519      15-7187
       ¦¦ 17     25-0182    44 1309      43 6207                  15-7186
    * The bottle contained sulphuric-acid solutions instead of water in these
  cases.
    Just as cooling the bottle for a few degrees induces a gradual
 contraction, so does heating it induce a gradual expansion. After
 the contents measured at 28° had been reduced on December 7 to
 24-9519 grams, they were found to have increased to 24-9532
 grams by April in the following year, the bottle in the mean time
 having been kept at the higher temperature of 12^-15°. Again :
 on December 3, 1889, after the bottle had been exposed for some
 time to a temperature of about 10°, its contents at Is0 were found
 to be 25-0006 grams ; it was then heated at 30°-35° for three days,
 after which they had increased to 25-0073 grams.
    The maximum alteration in capacity noticed in any of the above
 experiments is -0001 of the total volume, and an alteration of this

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.          291
magnitude occurring in the bulb of a thermometer would mean a
displacement of the zero-point by
        ON A TELETHERMOMETER. BY PKOF. DR. J. PULUJ.
   The author gave the following abstract of a long paper on this
subject :—
   The present paper contains the description and theory of an
apparatus, which renders it possible to transfer to a distance the
indications of any given temperatures. The construction of the tele-
thermometer depends on the use of two conductors, the resistance of
which varies with the temperature in opposite directions, and which
form the thermometric part of the apparatus. The latter consists
of a small glass tube closed at both ends, which contains a carbonized
strip and a spiral of platinum wire, and which is filled with
hydrogen in order to conduct the better. The carbon strip and
the iron spiral form two branches of a Wheatstone's bridge, and
by means of three wires are connected with a measuring-scale which
has an empirical scale of temperature in Centigrade degrees. The
resistance of the carbon strip decreases with the temperature, while
that of the iron increases, and in accordance with this the zero of
the difference of potential is altered. The temperature may be
 determined either by means of an astatic galvanometer, or by a
telephone with a microphonic contact-breaker in such a manner
that contact with the measuring-wire is deferred until the galvano
meter shows no deflexion, or the telephone gives no sound. The
 telethermometer renders it possible to determine temperatures at
 a distance of 1 km. to within 0°-l C.
    In the theoretical part of the paper the displacement of the
contact along the wire is calculated, and the graduation of the
telethermometer is completely discussed ; this is followed by a
calculation of the correction of the scale for temperature, and the
proof is given that a rise of temperature of the wire bridge has no
influence on the indications of the telethermometer. It is shown in
conclusion how the telethermometer may be used as an indicator
of temperature, which automatically gives the temperature at any
instant.— Wiener Berichte, Oct, 10," 1889.
ON THE MEASUREMENT OF ELECTROMOTIVE CONTACT FORCES OF
    METALS IN DIFFERENT GASES, BY MEANS OF THE ULTRA
   VIOLET RAYS. BY A. RIGHI.
    Since, as is shown by the earlier experiments of the author, ultra
violet rays bring to the same potential bodies which are very close
to one another, the differences of potential of contact can by this

292            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
means be very conveniently measured. It is only necessary to
measure the deflexion in the electrometer connected with the plate
after it has been put to earth for an instant while ultra-violet rays
have been allowed to fall on the plate through the net. The light
of a zinc-carbon arc-lamp was always used. The plates of ordinary
metal and carbon were in air, or in a bell-jar filled with gases or
moist air. The net was of zinc, brass, or platinum. From the
differences of the observations with the same net and different
plates the differences of potential between the latter can be de
duced. In dry and moist air and in carbonic acid they are the
same ; in hydrogen they are so for C, Bi, Sn, Cu, Zn, but different
for Pt, Pd, Ni, Fe. When hydrogen is gradually allowed to enter,
these metals behave as if they were gradually oxidizable in air.
For platinum against a zinc net the difference of potential reduces
from 1-12 in air to 0-69 in hydrogen. On the fresh addition of
air the electromotive force returns in the opposite direction to its
original value. Metals such even as tin and bismuth behave in am-
moniacal air as if they were less oxidizable, and therefore the opposite
of what obtains with hydrogen. Here also in air the initial electro
motive force is restored. In coal-gas, carbon, copper, and platinum
behave like oxidizable metals. With a platinum net and a copper
plate the sign of the electromotive contact-force is changed when
coal-gas is admitted instead of air.—Rendic. Lincei[5] p. 860, 1889 ;
Beibldtter der Physih, xiv. p. 69.
                    MR. ENRIGHl's EXPERIMENTS.
      To the Editors of tlis Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
    When Mr. Enright described his attempts to prove that
contact could electrify hydrogen, in * Nature,' August 18, 1887, I
wrote to that Journal (vol. xxxvi. p. 412) to point out that all
he had observed could be expressed in a few lines as due to the
well-known frictional electrification of spray. The length of his
communication to the Physical Society, printed in your January
number, may perhaps have deterred a critic from reading it. But
he makes no serious attempt to meet my obvious objection, and
so far as experiments so crude can negative anything they negative
his own contention.
                                      Tours faithfully,
                                                  Oliver J. Lodge.
   Liverpool, February 15, 1890.

             WILLIAM WESLEY AND SON,
                Scientific Jjoohscllrvd ariO }3ubltd)cre:,
            28 ESSEX STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
                          Jmt Publislied, Price 3d.
                  A Classified Catalogue of BOOKS on
                     ASTRONOMY,
                   MATHEMATICS,
                           PHYSICS.
          W. WESLEY & SON, 28 Essex Street, Strand, London.
   WANTED : Philosophical Magazine, First Series, Vol. 39 (1812),
Vol. 61 (1823), Vol. 64 (1824), or separate numbers of these years.
Also 5th Series, No. 9 (August 1876), and No. 15 (January 1877). Or
a Series containing any of these volumes.—William Wesley & Son,
28 Essex Street, Strand, London.
                        15 Parts, demy 8vo, 37s. 6d.
                           Publications of the
             /CLFRIC SOCIETY.
                                 Consisting of
              HOMILIES OF ANGLO-SAXON CHURCH.
              SALOMON AND SATURN DIALOGUES.
               POETRY OF CODEX VERCELLENSIS.
          Taylor and Fkancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
              Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. 6d.
             PHYSICAL                      MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                      UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
               PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
         Demv 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                     JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                 OF THE LATE
                 J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
          Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
   Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                  and Portrait.
  Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                D.C.L., F.R.S.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

             CONTENTS op N° 178.—Fifth Series.
  XXIV. The Form of Newton's Eings.              By A. W. Flttx, B.A.,
Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge                               p<t<jc 217
  XXV. Twisted Strips.         By Professor John Peret, F.E.S                244
  XXVI. A New Form of Mixing-Calorimeter.                By Spencer U.
Pickering, M.A. (Plate VII.)                                                 247
  XXVII. On Kerr's Magneto-optic Phenomenon.               By II. E. J. G.
du Bois, of the Hague                                       •                 253
  XXVIII. On the Acceleration of Secondary Electromagnetic
Waves. By Fred. T. Trot/ton. (Plate VI.)                                     268
  XXIX. On the Time-integral of a Transient Electromagnetically
Induced Current. By Sir William Thomson, F.P..S                              276
  XXX. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
     Geological Society : —Prof. J. Prestwich on the Eelation of
        the Westleton Beds or ' Pebbly Sands ' of Suffolk to those of
        Norfolk ; Prof. C. Lloyd Morgan on the Pebidian Volcanic
        Series of St. Davids ; Prof. T. G. Bonney on the Crystalline
        Schists and their Eelation to the Mesozoic Eocks in the
        Lepontine Alps ; G. A. J. Cole and J. W. Gregory on the
        Variolitic Eocks of Mont-Genevre ; Professor John W.
        Jcdd on the Propylites of the Western Isles of Scotland,
        and their Eclations to the Andesites and Diorites of the
        District                                                       280-289
  XXXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles : —
     Note on the Gradual Alteration in Glass produced by altering
        its Temperature a few Degrees, by Spencer U. Pickering, M.A. 289
     On a Telethermometer, by Prof. Dr. J. Puluj                             291
     On the Measurement of Electromotive Contact Forces of Metals
        in Different Gases by Means of the Ultra-Violet Rays, by
        A. Eighi                                                             ib.
     Mr. Enright's Experiments, by Oliver J. Lodge                           292
    It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
      post-paid, to the Care of Messis. Tavlor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
      Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 29.                        APRIL 1890.                            No. 179.
         Published the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. 6d.
                                            f APf?     \2   n
                                        THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, ajtd DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                   MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
              JOURNAL                   OF       SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholsons 'Journal? and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                   CONDUCTED BY
        SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
        GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A., F.R.S.
                                        AND
        WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH          SERIES.
                         N° 179.— APRIL 1890.
                              WITH ONE PLATE.
  Illustrative of H. E. J. Gr. du Bois's Paper on Magnetization in Strong
                        Fields at Different Temperatures.
                                  LONDON:
       PBINTED BY TAYLOB, AND FB.ANCI8, BED LION COURT, FLEET STEEET.
  Sold by Kent and Co. s Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. ; and Whittaker and Co.; —
    and by A. and C. Black, and T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh ; Smith and Son,
    Glasgow:—Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin:—Putnam, New York : — Veuve J.
    B ojveau, Paris :—and Aeher and Co., Berlin.

                                TO OUR READERS.
       We Lave much pleasure in announcing the valuable accession
   of Prof. George Francis Fitzgerald, M.A., F.R.S., of Trinity
   College, Dublin, as our Colleague in the place of our late
   lamented friend Sir Robert Kane.
                                     Books on Sale by
         MACMILLAN AND BOWES, CAMBRIDGE.
Akago, F.          (Euvres completes par J. A. Barral.                       17 vols.    8vo.
  1854-62.      £3 10s.
Catley, Arthur.              Collected Mathematical Papers.                Vols. I. and II.
  (all yet published).     4to, half vellum.     1889.   42s.
Mobius, F.         Gesaramelte Werke, lierausgegeben von B. Baltzer u. F.
  Klein.    3 vols.   1885-6.      36*.
MacCullagh, Jas.               Collected Works, edited by J. II. Jellett and S.
  Haughton.      1880.    8s.
Bankine, AV. J. M.             Miscellaneous Scientific Papers, ed. W. J. Millar.
  1881.    21s.
Steiner, J.        Gesammelte Werke, herausgegeben von K.                        Weierstrass.
  2 vols.   1881-2.     25s.
Stokes, G. G.         Mathematical and Phvsical Papers.                 Vols. I. and II. [all
  published],     1881-3.     21s.
Verdet, E. (Euvres. 8 vols, in 0. Half morocco. 1872. .£7 7s.
Wheatstoxe, Sir C. Scientific Papers. 1879. 15s.
Marie, M. Histoire des Sciences Mathematiques et Physiques. 12 vols.
  1883-S. 48s.
Poisson, S. D. Theoriemathe'matiquedelaChaleur. Half calf. 1S35. 32s.
Ellis, E. Leslie [1817-59]. Mathematical and other Writings, edited
  bv Win. Walton. Memoir by Harvey Goodwin (now Bishop of Carlisle). Portrait.
  8vo, cloth. 1863. 12s.
     Contents : —On the Foundations of the Theory of Probabilities, the Method of
  Least Squares, the Integration of certain Differential Equations, the Achromatism
  of Eye-pieees of Telescopes and Microscopes, Lines of Curvature on an Ellipsoid,
  Notes on Magnetism, &c, &c.
(No. 230.) Catalogue of Books on the Mathematics (pure and appUed) ;
        will be ready by the end of this month. Free on application.
                  Medium 8vo.          Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. Orf.
                   PHYSICAL                          MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TEANSLATED FBOM FOEEIGN SOUBCES
                             UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
                    PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
           Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                             JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPEBS
                                          OF THE LATE
                      J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
             Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
    Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Piates,
                                           and Portrait.
   Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPEBS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                         D.C.L., F.E.S.
             Taylor and Francis, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C

                                         i
                                   THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
     PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                   AND
          JOURNAL OP SCIENCE.
                        [FIFTH SERIES.]
                          APRIL 1890.
XXXII. On Magnetization in Strong Fields at Different Tem
      peratures. By H. E. J. G. du Bois, of the Hague*.
                               [Plate VIH.]
§ 1. TNTRODUCTORY.—Prof. Rowland, in summarizing
           his well-known magnetic researches (1873), thus
carefully expresses himself :—
   " (7) Iron, nickel, and cobalt all probably have a maximum
of magnetization, though its existence can never be entirely
established by experiment, and must always be a matter of
inference ; but if one exists, the values must be nearly as
follows at ordinary temperatures. Iron when 93 = 17500 or
when 3=1390; nickel when 33 = 6340 or when 3=494;
cobalt when 8 = 10000 (?) or when 3 = 800(?)"f. Until
lately, nothing decisive was done in the matter, apart from
occasional announcements of 3 having been found > 1390 for
iron; and Rowland's values had to be adopted by experi
menters, including myself (Phil. Mag. Nov. 1887)$. Mr.
Shelford Bidwell's experiments on the lifting-power of
divided ring-electromagnets (up to .0 = 585) furnish important
   * Paper read before the Physical Society of Glasgow University, Not. 8,
1889 ; a synopsis of results had been communicated to the Brit. Assoc,
Newcastle (see Proceed. Sect. A, Sept. 17, 1889 Report).
   | Rowland, Phil. Mag. [4] xlviii. p. 339 (1874) ; reduced to C.G.S.
units.
   X Compare Fromme's comments, Wied. Ann. zxxiii. p. 234 (1888).
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 179. April 1890.              2 A

294            H. E. J. G. du Bois on Magnetization in
 evidence for the continual increase of the Induction, propor
 tional to the square root of the weight supported. However,
 I cannot quite agree with the author's way of calculating the
 curve of magnetization*. Quite recently Messrs. Ewing and
 Low f published the final results obtained with their ingenious
 " isthmus " method, which disprove the existence of a limit to
 S3, the induction having been forced up to over 45,000 C.G.S.
 The authors further conclude that the magnetization remains
 sensibly constant throughout the extensive range of mag
 netizing field (2000 to 20,000 C.G.S.) which they were the
first to apply.
    § 2. Mainly with a view to check these results by an alto
 gether different method, and to obtain more accurate data
 than the isthmus method, as developed at present, appears
 capable of supplying, I undertook the experiments to be de
 scribed. Excepting Mr. Bidwell's 585 C.G.S. , fields over a
 few hundred units hardly appear to have been applied in
 coils ; I therefore began with a powerful coil giving up to
 1300 C.G.S. Thence upward to 13,000 an optical method,
based on Kerr's phenomenon J, was used. I have also studied
 the effect of temperature with these strong fields ; considerable
interest having been lately attached by various authors to
theoretical thermomagnetic speculations ; and thermomagnetic
motors having been proposed by Thomson-Houston, Schwe-
 doff, Stefan, Edison, and others §. In conclusion, the important
part played by magnetization in affecting the properties of
matter is discussed.
    Throughout this paper I shall as usual denote by: .£>, mag
netic intensity; 93, induction ; when the values of these quan
tities inside the metal are considered, they are denoted by •£)'
and 93'; 3, magnetization; D, density; © = 3/D, specific
   * The magnetic intensity § in the thin air-films between the halves of
the ring evidently equals SB', the induction in the iron. Now the tractive
force per unit section is equal to the tension in the lines of force
       G=$V8»r=i8787r=2w3s-|-3$'-|-$'78^; [.-. ©'=$'+4*3]
(for notation, see § 2). This adaptation of Maxwell's formula by Row
land, Mr. Bidwell (Proc. Roy. Soc. xl. p. 402, 1880) finds " clearly erro
neous,'' though I fail to see why. He adopts the formula
                              G=2Jr3J+3$' ;
the missing term Sj'a/8»r appears, from the action-at-a-distance point of
view, to correspond to the mutual electrodynamic attraction of the two
half-coils, neglected by Mr. Bidwell.
   t Ewing and Low, Phil. Trans, clxxx. p. 221 (1889).
   t See du Bois, Wied. Ann. xxxix. p. 25 (1800) ; transl, Phil
ante, p. 263, the paragraphs of which will be referred to as he. cit.
   § See Stefan, Wicn. Berichte, xcvii. 2, p. 70 (1888). Kittler, Hand-
buck der Ekktrottchnik, ii. p. 47 (1890).

            Strong Fields at Different Temperatures.              295
magnetization, u e. moment per unit mass ; 0, temperature ;
en, rotation of plane of polarization ; K, " Kerr's constant/'
O.G.S. units are tacitly assumed, wherever the contrary is not
expressly stated ; compare loc. cit. § 5.
               I. Magnetometric Observations.
   § 3. Apparatus. — Four elongated ovoids (proliite ellipsoids
of revolution) of length 18 centira. and diameter "6 centim.
(ratio 1/30) were prepared and could be uniformly magnetized
in the coil. On account of their non-endlessness a correction
of '052 3 * had to be subtracted from the field of the coil
in order to obtain the real magnetic intensity             inside the
ovoid. The following metals were tested :—
   (a) Soft Swedish iron, carefully annealed : D = 7*82.
   (b) Hard English cast steel, yellow-tempered at 230° :
D = 7-78.
   (c) Hard-drawn best nickel wire : D = 8*82 (from the
" Nickelwalzwerk " in Schwerte, Westphalia) ; stated by the
makers to contain 99 per cent. Ni, besides SiOa and traces of
Fe and Cu.
   (d) Cast cobalt : D about 8*0 (from Messrs. Johnson and
Matthey). My friend Dr. Serda kindly analysed this for me
with the following result :—Co 93" 1 per cent., Ni 5"8 per
cent., Fe '8 per cent., Cu "2 per cent., Si "1 per cent., C *3
per cent. Bather unsatisfactory brittle material ; the ovoid
broke in the lathe ; it was thought best to scrape the frac
tured ends truly plane, and to hold them tightly pressed toge
ther in a brass tubular screw-and-nut arrangement f.
   The coil was wound to the following dimensions : length
30 centim.; inner diameter 4 centim.; outer diameter 12
centim.; 12 layers, each of 90 turns, of double cotton-covered
shellacked wire, "25 centim. in diameter ; resistance cold -9
ohm. It could be surrounded by an ice-jacket ; with a
dynamo-current of 32 amp. almost a kilo-watt of activity was
being dissipated in it, sufficient to melt a kg. of ice every five
minutes. In other cases the coil was electrically heated.
    § 4. The ovoids, fixed inside the coil, could be maintained
at 0° or 100° by ice or steam properly applied. The arrange
ment for heating them over 100° and the mode of deter
mining the field are described, loc. cit. §§4 and 14. The
whole of this apparatus was placed in Gauss's " first position,"
about 135 centim. due east of a magnetometer. It was
   * See Maxwell, Treatise, 2nd ed. ii. § 438, form. (14).
   t See J. J. Thomson and Newall, Proc. Canibr. Phil. Soc. vi. p. 84
(1887) ; Ewing and Low, Phil. Mag. [5] xxvi. p. 276 (1888).
                                 2A2

296         H. E. J. G. da Bois on Magnetization in
attempted to compensate the very considerable action of the
coil alone by that of another similar one, placed due west and
in the same circuit. Great difficulty was experienced with
this, principally due to heating of the coils and parasitic action
of distant current leads. Finally the idea of total compensa
tion had to be given up, and the remaining difference was
each time carefully determined and corrected for. The earth's
horizontal intensity at the magnetometer's site was measured
once for all ; its fluctuations being followed with one of Prof.
F. Kohlrausch's local variometers. Thus the magnetic
moments of the ovoids could be accurately obtained in abso
lute measure.
   § 5. Preliminary trials.—I began by trying whether there
was a perceptible influence of magnetic history in general ; or
of the hysteresis, due to its latest phases, in particular. The
ovoids were therefore made to pass through various magnetic
ordeals, as descending or ascending currents, reversals, &c.
None were found, however, to have an appreciable effect, except
with fields below 150 C.G.S., say, where such an influence
occurred, though slightly. The reasons for this are no doubt:—
(1) the ovoids had too little of endlessness to exhibit much
hysteresis in any case ; (2) the slightly pulsating machine-
current effectually counteracts it by its shaking action ; and
(3) probably hysteresis really comes less to the foreground
with such strong magnetizing fields.
   However this may be, I was thereby free to magnetize in
whatever manner I chose ; as a rule, two magnetometer-
readings were taken with currents reversed. The moment for
a given temperature may thence be plotted in a loopless curve
as a function of .0' only, provided the latter exceed 100 C.G.S.
say. Neither was I sensibly troubled with the well-known
acyclic shaking-in action of temperature-variations ; perfectly
Consistent results being obtained with strong fields whether on
heating or on cooling. Accordingly the moment due to a
given magnetic intensity may be considered a function of the
temperature only.
   § 6. Magnetic curves.—After much hesitation I decided
not to plot 5 as usual, but the specific magnetization ©. The
principal reason for this was that the results became more
comparable by thus eliminating the density, which depends on
temperature and other physical conditions of the material, and
could moreover not be determined for the electrolytic metals
 tested (§ 8). In fact, magnetism being an essentially mole
 cular phenomenon, it is for certain purposes more rationally

              Strong Fields at Different Temperatures.                 297
referred to unit mass, which always contains the same number
of molecules, than to unit volume, which does not. In Pl.VIII.
fig. 1 the long curves represent ©=funct. (.0') over a range
evident from the scale of abscissae. The origins do not occur
in the diagrams, excepting that for nickel, which is joined
to the first experimental point © in a manner approximately
estimated from known data. From these curves others may
readily be calculated ; in particular, those representing 3 =
funct. (33'), which will be referred to below.
   § 7. Effect of temperature.—The upper curves of magneti
zation for iron and steel correspond to 0°. It will be seen
that at first they almost coincide with those for 100°, bat that
the difference increases towards larger abscissae. For .5' con
stant*, equal to about 900 C.G.S., ©=funct. (0) was then
determined. It is represented by the short temperature-
curves to the left of fig. 1, plotted to the separate scale of
abscissae. They all show a decrease of © ; the latter evidently
always being above its critical value, below which it is known
to increase on heating. The nickel curve falls off less abruptly
 than it is known to do for weaker magnetizing fields.
 Hence in an infinitely strong field the magnetization of all
these metals would probably begin by decreasing at a quicker
rate still ; then to fall off without any abruptness towards
practically vanishing values (see § 13).
    On the hypothesis of magnetic molecules, this case corre
 sponds to the temperature-variation of the individual molecular
 moments, because the supposed infinite field would direct the
 axes of all the molecules parallel to itself. It is the simplest
 case ; the abrupt changes and other complications observed
 with ordinary fields being due to the action of temperature
 on the direction of the molecular axes. All this was theoreti
 cally pointed out by Prof. G. Wiedemann f- As far as I
 can see, my results nowhere contradict any previous thermo-
 magnetic researches, conducted with much lower fields, though
partly at higher temperatures, by G. Wiedemann, Rowland,
 Baur, Wassmuth, Ewing, Berson, Ledeboer, Tomlinson,
J. Hopkinson, and others.
    § 8. Additional experiments were made on material slightly
 differing in condition or quality from that above defined
 (in § 3). Annealing the hard-drawn nickel caused the
   * Of course it was the current, and with it the field §, which was
 actually kept constant ; but the increase of $' = § — •0623, amounts to but
 2 per cent, even when, as with nickel, 3 falls oil' from 600 to 0.
   t Leh re v. d. Eltktrizitiit, iii. § 802.

298         H. E. J. Ot. du Bois on Magnetization in
magnetic curve to rise much more rapidly at first without,
however, attaining in the end to values beyond those of the
unannealed metal. The yellow-tempered hard steel was further
tempered dark blue and finally annealed at red heat without
any very marked change in the general character of the curve
ensuing.
   The values of ©, found for iron and nickel, are 216* I and
 54*0 respectively at 25°, as interpolated on the temperature-
 curves of fig 1. Thin sheets of electrolytic iron and nickel
were now prepared in the shape of oblong ellipse^ and
 weighed. They were subjected (at ordinary temperature) to
 a field of 900 C.Gr.S., and their moments approximately
 measured with the following results :—
    a. Iron, about "05 centim. thick, originally intended for
printing Russian banknotes, and kindly given to me by
 Prof. F. Kohlrausch : ©=211-4, 30 per cent, of which was
residual.
   b. Iron, about '005 centim. thick, which I electrolytically
obtained from the so-called Varrentrapp bath: ©=2l3-7,
50 per cent, of which was residual.
   c. Nickel, about "015 centim. thick, from citrate of nickel :
© = 53"5, 20 per cent, of which was residual.
   Electrolytic cobalt could not be got in films sufficiently
thick for this purpose. The results appear to warrant the
conclusion that with these very strong magnetizing fields
much does not depend on the quality of the metal, as long as
it is tolerably pure. Nor has its condition, as resulting from
the mechanical and thermal treatment previously applied,
any sensible influence. Of course the experiments in this
paragraph are meant to be novel only with respect to the
strong fields applied.
               II. Magneto-optic Observations.
   § 9. Method ami Apparatus.—As the isthmus method is
based on the principle of tangential continuity of .j) and dis
continuity of 18 (&=•& and 2}'>53), so the method to be
described may be said to rest on the normal discontinuity
of .0 and continuity of 2? (&<.<r> and 2? = 29). In addition,
the normal component of 3 is measured by the rotation
impressed upon plane-polarized light normally reflected from
the magnetized metal. In order to obtain the former tho
latter lias only to bo divided by a factor, which I have
proposed to call " Kerr's constant " (loc. cit. § 24).
   The optical apparatus used for accurately measuring the
rotation of red light has been described at length {loc. cit.

              Strong Fields at Different Temperatures.              299
§§2, 16). Small disks M were turned out of the same
material as that above defined (§ 3), and polished on one
side. These mirrors were fixed to one pole Pj of a Ruhm-
korff electromagnet (see PI. VIII. fig. 3, full size). On its
way towards the reflecting surface and back the light passed
through the narrow bore of the other pole P2, which thus
screened off all but a small central patch of the mirror.
Here the lines of induction evidently issue normally from the
metal for reasons of symmetry. Pi and M could be kept
very nearly at 100° by means of a steam-jacket JJ.
   § 10. A very thin standard glass-plate Gr, silvered (S) at
the back, could be placed immediately in front of the mirror.
The light then being reflected in it suffers a double magnetic
rotation in the glass ; this affords a measure for the field .0
directly in front of the metal, equal, by the principle of
continuity alluded to, to the induction 2)' immediately inside
it. The glass plate had previously been magneto-optical ly
standardized by comparison with bisulphide of carbon, whoso
Verdet's constant is known from the determinations of Lord
Rayleigh and Koepsel ; such standards are very convenient.
Owing to RuhmkorfFs well-known construction the ray has
to pass through one of the coils on its way to and from M
through P3. The ensuing very slight double rotation in the
magnetized air must be proportional to the current, and may
be calculated from the data of H. Becquerel, Kundt and
 Rontgen. It was in every case corrected for, the maximum
value being + "3' ; I have actually observed about this rota
tion with a silver mirror.
    § 11. Results.—The first thing experimentally obtained
was the curve e0=funct. 08'), whose ordinates must be and
were actually found proportional to those of 3=funct. (SP) ;
the latter being calculated from © = funct. (.0'), as far as this
 goes (see § 6). In order further to exemplify the somewhat
 complicated mode of calculation the numbers for cobalt and
nickel are given in Table I. Here the italics are the three
highest corresponding values of 3 and SB', indirectly given
by the magnetometric method ; the ordinary type refers to
the five highest corresponding values of e0 and 23', obtained
magneto-optically with all possible accuracy t< The value of
 3 marked * is interpolated from those above and below ; it
 corresponds to the rotation e0 printed to its left ; the ratio of
   + /. «. from 30 observations of the analyser's azimuth ; the smaller
 values of e0 were based on 4 observations and measured only in order to
 approximately check the whole method by the proportionality of ordinates
 above alluded to.

300          fl. E. J. G. du Bois on Magnetization in
                              Table I.
                Cobalt.                            Nickel.
     e.     »'.               3-     0.       83'.                3-
                        1               o                  t    437
    100°  14120              1058   100     5980
    100   14180    -20-97    1060*  100     6420       -725     453*
    100   mio                1070   100     6490                456
    100   14650              10S1   100     6810                461
    100   16750    -22-45    1134t  100     9920       -8-29    518t
    100   19550    -23-24    1174t  100    12850       -8-36    522t
    100   21710    -23-38    1181t  100    16250       -8-43    527t
    100   23330    -23-60    1192t  100    19290       -8-40    525t
    0°    23330    -24'-39   1232 x 0°     19290       -9'-27   579 X
both quantities gives Kerr's constant for red light, in minutes
per unit magnetization, as follows :—
           Cobalt.         Nickel.          Steel.             Iron.
e0. . -20'-97              -7'-25         -24'-81            -22'-99
3 . .       1060             453            1531              1669
K. . --0198                --0160         —0162              --0138
   Inversely the four remaining values of e0 were now divided
by K, thus giving 3 = funct. (%}') marked t in the Table,
From this again © = funct. (¦£)) could be calculated, which
thus forms a continuation of the curves obtained before
(in § 6).
   § 12. In fig. 2 the results of both methods are combined
into continuous magnetic curves, now extending, at least
in the case of nickel, from .0' = 150 to .0' = 13,OOO C.G.S.
The scale of abscissae is ten times smaller than in fig. 1 , and the
additional points © are those derived from the optical method.
As the strongest field .0 of the Ruhmkorff attained about
25,000 C.G.S. it is evident that the maximum intensity <£)',
obtainable inside the metal (,jf)'=.f)— 47r3), is less the more
strongly magnetic the metal used. Thus in fig. 2 the
abscissae extend to 8500 for cobalt, to 4500 for steel, to but
2500 for iron ; the latter's curve is therefore not continued
beyond .0 = 1200, the point reached in fig. 1 ; the more so as
the iron gave somewhat irregular results on account of the
mirror's polish not being perfect. The rotational dispersion
being much greater for iron and steel contributed to make the

              Strong Fields at Different Temperatures.           301
optical measurements with the only approximately homo
geneous " red " light less accurate than for cobalt and nickel
{loc. cit. § 21) ; another reason for attaching most importance
to these latters' curves.
   § 13. Nearly all optical observations were made, with steam
on, at 100° ; cooling to 0° would not do on account of the
dew condensing on the mirror. A few measurements were,
however, made with the strongest fields at ordinary tempera
ture ; the rotations proved greater than at 100° in every
case, and their values for 0° were obtained by simple extra
polation ; they are given at the bottom of Table I. The
values of 3 marked x were calculated on the assumption of
absolute invariability of Kerr's constant with temperature,
whereas 1 have only shown the variations to be less than the
limit of experimental errors (a few per cent, per 100°, loc. cit.
§ 15). The corresponding values of © are marked x 0° in
the diagrams of fig. 2 for steel, cobalt, and nickel. From a
comparison with the short temperature-curves of fig. 1 it
would appear (always on the above assumption) as if the
decrease of magnetization from 0° to 100° were much more
marked for fields of thousands of units than for lower ones.
The conclusion of § 7 is based on this inference.
   § 14. Magnetite (see loc. cit. § 17).—Curve I. of fig. 4
represents e0=funct. ($'), experimentally determined for a
small crystal of magnetite by purely optical observations (at
ordinary temperature) ; its ordinates must be proportional to
those of 3= funct. (2?'). Now the latter function is unknown
for this material, but it may be asserted to start from the
origin very nearly as a straight line 3=3?//4'r*. On in
 spection of curve I. the two observed points O nearest the
origin are accordingly seen to lie almost in line with it.
Now multiplication of these two values of e0 into the corre
sponding ones of 47r/3}' is easily seen to give Kerr's constant
as +'0122 and +•0115 for the two points respectively ; the
mean value + "012 will be sufficiently near the truth for our
present purpose.
    We consequently divide the ordinates of e0= funct. (33') by
 •012 and thus obtain 3 = funct. ($') in absolute measure.
 Thence 3 = funct. (.0') is easily calculated and plotted as
 curve II. (fig. 4). The magnetization evidently tends
towards a limit not much above 350 C.G.S., somewhat less
 than that for nickel. Our magneto-optic method has thus
given an absolute magnetic curve, at least approximately,
   » du Boi8, Wied. Ann. xxxi. p. 952 (1887); Phil. Mag. Nov. 1887.

 302          H. E. J. G. du Bois on Magnetization, in
 without any magnetic observations having been made. In
 fact these are quite out of question in the present case ; and
 accordingly no absolute data have ever been given for mag
 netite or loadstone that I am aware of.
                            III. Conclusion.
    § 15. There can be no doubt that the curves of fig. 2,
 especially those for cobalt and nickel, show a tendency to
a limiting value of magnetization. This of course can never
 actually be observed, but the values of 3 can hardly exceed
 1630, 1200, 530 C.G.S. respectively for the steel, cobalt,
and nickel used (at 100°). Though, as explained in § 12, iron
unfortunately happened to give the least trustworthy results, I
 may infer from my observations that the value 1750 cannot
be far from the truth (also at 100°). As regards the im
portant question whether the approach is an asymptotic one,
or whether 3 reaches a maximum with finite values of i),
thence to rediminish *, I cannot pretend to decide it any
more than Messrs. Ewing and Low. The apparent slight
decrease in the case of nickel (see Table I., 3 = 525) is within
the range of experimental error.
                /
    Accordingly the general type of the well-known suscepti
bility curves *=funct. (3) has the point of inflexion I, as
was indeed first shown for iron by Frommo and Haubner
(see § 1, footnote). Its continuation beyond the final ex
perimental point P is a matter of inference. If there be an
asymptotic limit to 3, the curve will cut the axis of abscissae
in a point Q, and the shape of the end P Q will depend on
the law of approach of 3 ; e.g. if the approach be like that
   * See Maxwell, Treatise, ii. § 844. It may be well to observe that even
in a field of 35,000 C.G.S. the magnetization of bismuth, the most
dinmagnetic metal known, would reach but — -5, i.e. —fa per cent, of
the limiting value for nickel, so that its superposition on the latter would
probably escape observation.

                Strong Fields at Different Temperatures.               303
  of a hyperbola towards its asymptote P Q will be very nearly
  I P tangentially produced. These curves of course have
  nothing to do with those representing the permeability,
  jt=funct.           which have been shown by Messrs. Ewing
  and Low to tend towards the asymptote f*=l, for 5S' = «> .
     § 16. The general conclusions of these physicists are
  entirely corroborated by the present experiments, conducted
  on altogether different lines. I believe all doubts, that have
  occasionally arisen as to the existence of a limit of Magnetiza
  tion, will thereby be dissipated. In fact this quantity appears
  about to regain its physical importance, which has lately been
  perhaps too much transferred to Induction. This I will
  now endeavour to show, without thereby in the least wishing
  to contest the great advantages of induction in the mathe
  matical theory, as well as in the practical applications of
  electromagnetism .
     In 1842 the late James Prescott Joule* enunciated the
  law that the elongation of unstrained iron is proportional to
  the square of the magnetization applied. The same has
  recently been shown by M. Goldhammer to hold for the
  decrease of electric conductivity t ; and it can hardly be
  doubted that thermal conductivity varies in the same manner.
      I have shown the optical rotation to be entirely dependent
  on and directly proportional to the magnetization on reflexion
  as well as on transmission (loc. cit. § 23, and Phil. Mag. Nov.
  1887). Hall's effect probably follows the latter law %, and it
  is natural to suppose that the three analogous phenomena
  discovered by Messrs. v. Ettingshausen and Nernst will prove
  no exceptions.
      § 17. I therefore entirely agree with M. Goldhammer,
  where he points out the probability of this general law :—
     " Magnetization affects all physical properties of metals in
  a way generally depending on its direction. Whenever the
  ensuing changes are odd functions of the magnetization (both
  simultaneously reversing their sign), they are simply propor
  tional to it. In the case of even functions (always having
  the same sign), they are proportional to its square.
      This statement is an expansion of ideas put forth by Sir
     * Joule, Reprint of Papers, i. p. 245.
     t Goldhammer, Wied. Ann. xxxvi. p. 823 (1889) ; Procis-verbaux,
  Paris Electr. Congress, Aug. 30, 1889.
     % This statement, well worth safely establishing by experiment, is
  based on the following evidence: —1. By Hall, curve for Ni, Phil. Mag.
  [5] xii. p. 1G6 (1881); 2. Residual efl'ect in steel, Phil. Mag. [5] xix.
1 p. 419 (1885) ; 3. Behaviour of conducting strips of various thicknesses,
' Sillim. Journ. [31 xxxvi. p. 131 (1888) ; 4. By v. Ettingshausen and
  Nernst, table for Co and Ni, "Wien. Ber. xciv. 2. pp. 685, 587 (1886).
              I

304          H. E. J. G. du Bois on Magnetization in
W. Thomson in 1855*. The relation assumed to exist be
tween the optical phenomena and Hall's effect (as extended
to displacement currents) by Messrs. Rowland, H. A. Lorentz,
and van Loghemf appears in a certain sense as one of its
particular cases. In conclusion, it may be remarked that the
above phenomena are not actions at a distance, but actually
occur on the selfsame spot as the magnetization, which thus
appears to be their common cause, and to have a real physical
existence.
                                Appendix.
                         On Manganese Steel.
   The optical method having proved a valuable aid in the
case of magnetite, it occurred to me to apply it for scruti
nizing the behaviour of manganese steel. A piece of bar and
some wire was kindly supplied to me by Mr. Hadfield, of the
Hecla Works, Sheffield. Chemical analysis, for which I am
again indebted to Dr. Serda, gave 87*1 per cent. Fe, 11*8 per
cent. Mn, "3 per cent. Si, and some C. It is susceptible of
an excellent polish, rather better than that on ordinary steel.
However, I find it somewhat more liable to rust ; after some
months the polished surface showed small specks of oxide
under the microscope. Rough magnetometric measurement,
with the strong fields of the coil, gave an apparently con
stant susceptibility of only •001, or permeability 1*013 \;
about 25 per cent, of the magnetization being residual.
    On magneto-optic examination, in the manner above de
veloped, negative rotation was found in every case. But its
numerical value varied considerably according as different
patches of the same polished surface were made to reflect, or
as different mirrors, ground on to the same piece, were tried.
The rotation on a given patch was not proportional to the
   * Sir W. Thomson, Reprint of Papers, ii. p. 178.
   t See Wied. BeibUitter, viii. p. 809 (1884).
   X Literature on p. 34 of Mr. Hadtield's paper read before the Iron
and Steel Institute, Edinburgh, 1888; further, Barrett, Proc. Roy. Soc.
Dubl. vi. p. 107 (1888). Results of experiments made at the Clerman
marine observatory of Wilhelmshaven are given in Ann. d. Hydrogr.
xvii. p. 177 (1889), though not in absolute measure; however, on con
sidering the data given, the susceptibility may be estimated at •005 for
the thin bar, and -0015 for the thick bar used. Ewing and Low, loc.cit.,
find the permeability much larger, viz. 1"4, and constant for magnetizing
fields between 2000 and 10,000 C.G.S. This seems to show that the
magnetic properties of manganese steel are exceedingly variable from one
sample to another. [The same conclusion is arrived at by Dr. Paul Meyer,
in an article published quite recently (Elektrutechnuche ZeiUcltrift, x.
p. 582 (1889) after the reading of the present paper.]

                      Phil. Mag.. S. 5. Vol. 29. R. VIII.
                       t        V
                    >
                 . M                                    o
                                                        o
                                                        s
                           t1
                            6
                   II
                                                        o
                                                        o
                                                         o
                         ~   1
                    \
                       \                                 §
                              P
                                                         a
    3000    4000
                  f}              ;—i
u Bros lrth


             Strong Fields at Different Temperatures.                305
field of the Ruhmkorff, as the constant permeability at first
led me to expect, but tended towards a limit. The largest
rotation obtained was about J of the maximum for iron. All
this appears to me to show the material to be essentially he
terogeneous, relatively strongly magnetic layers being inter
posed between the feebly magnetic mass. Probably the
structure on the whole is laminar, and so fine-grained that to
ordinary chemical mass-tests it appears perfectly homogeneous.
The ultimate heterogeneousness is only revealed by the mag
neto-optical method, in which the action is restricted to a
surface patch a few millim. in diameter and a fraction of a
wave-length in thickness. Microscopical examination of a
mirror showed a faint indication of streaks in the polished
surface, and the specks of rust alluded to appeared to be
 arranged in definite configurations. The crystallographic
method of corrosive etching was now resorted to : a drop of
dilute nitric acid produced a peculiar network of microscopical
 surface figures, not revealed by a common steel mirror after
the same treatment. This affords another proof for the hetero
 geneousness of manganese steel, which thus appears to be
 rather an unsatisfactory alloy for the physicist to deal with*,
 however interesting it may be to the engineer.
    I believe great care should be taken in drawing conclusions
 from the greater or less attraction of manganese steel filings
 by strong magnets, this attraction proving an altogether false
 criterion. I have not been able to file my samples ; but
 small particles scratched off with a glass-cutting diamond
 were readily attracted by any magnet. A piece of wire was
 then drawn out to ^ millim. diameter, and a number of small
bits, about 1 millim. long, cut off. These also behaved like a
heap of filings, and were attracted by a magnet as long as
separate. But on kneading them together with very little
 wax, the lump was as unaffected by the magnet as a larger
 piece of wire or bar.
    I think all this is only due to the diminutive dimensions
 of the particles, and to nothing else, because they may thus
 come very near the edges of the steel magnet. Here the
 space-variation of .52, on which the attraction depends, pro
 bably is considerable. In connexion with this it may be re
 membered that mineralogists extract ferruginous minerals,
   * In fact the ordinary theory of magnetic induction ceases to be ap
 plicable to heterogeneous solids; all results obtained by the magneto
 meter, isthmus, Quincke's, or any other method must therefore be re
 garded as untrustworthy. If, for example, the laminte are, on the whole,
 perpendicular to the field, the constant permeability, found by Messrs.
 Ewing and Low, comes out quite naturally.

306    Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
though quite unmagnetic in large lumps, out of the crushed
rocks with magnets. Magnetic ore-separators are also said
to be used on a practical scale.
   In conclusion I may mention that M. Heusler, of tbe
Isabellenhiitte, Dillenburg, kindly sent me an alloy which he
defined as follows:—y3-93"5 per cent. Mn, 1—1*2 per cent.
Fe, -2--5 per cent. Si, and carbon. This gave not the
slightest trace of an attraction by the pole of a steel magnet
or of the Ituhmkorff, whether in a piece or pounded almost
to dust.
   I beg to tender my best thanks to Prof. F. Kohlrausch, in
whose laboratory these experiments were carried out.
  Phys. Inst, of Strasburg Univ.,
          Nov. 1, 1889.
XXXIII. An Improved Method of Determining Moisture and
   Carbonic Acid in Air. By J. S. Haldane, M.A., M.D.,
   and M. S. Pembrey, B.A., Fell Exhibitioner of Christ
   Church, Oxford. (From the Physiological Laboratory,
   Oxford.)*
WE were originally led to undertake the present investi
         gation by difficulties experienced in measuring the
respiratory exchange of oxygen and carbonic acid in animals.
In the method which we wished to employ the results depend
on an accurate determination of the difference in the per
centage of moisture and carbonic acid in the air entering and
that leaving a ventilated chamber in which the animal is
placed. As the ventilation current is large, the difference to
be measured is a small one, and errors of analysis are corre
spondingly important, especially in short experiments.
   Although the object of our work was thus originally physio
logical, we have been guided chiefly by regard to the wider
applications, particularly in meteorology, of the methods in
question.
                 I. The Determination of Moisture.
   Of the various methods in use for determining moisture in
air the " chemical " method is generally acknowledged to be
the most accurate when properly carried out. This method
consists in the aspiration of a known volume of the air
through one or more weighed tubes filled with a substance
which absorbs moisture, such as anhydrous phosphoric acid
or pumice soaked in sulphuric acid. The increase in weight
of the absorption- tubes gives the weight of moisture contained
in the air. The great disadvantage of this method as used
                * Communicated by Prof. Odling, F.R.S.

      of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.              307
hitherto lies in the fact that for an accurate analysis a very
long period of experiment is necessary. The changes in the
amount of moisture which in ordinary cases occur during
the period of experiment are thus not indicated, and the
method is rendered useless for many purposes, besides being
very inconvenient.
   The details of the method have recently been reinvestigated
by Shaw, in a research undertaken at the request of the
Meteorological Council*. He found that with a U-tube filled
with pumice and sulphuric acid and weighing about 170
grammes, the absorption was complete with a rate of aspira
tion of about 8 or 10 litres per hourf. With double this
rate there was a considerable escape of moisture through the
first absorption-tube %. Thus, with the faster rate of aspira
tion, the increase of weight of a second absorption-tube had
to be added to the result. But since it was found that be
tween the weighings the 6econd tube frequently varied con
siderably in weight from accidental causes, the advantages of
the faster rate were neutralized.
   We have endeavoured to improve the method in three
directions :—(1) by reducing to a minimum accidental varia
tions in the weight of the tubes ; (2) by increasing the
efficiency of the absorbing tubes, and thus making a very
rapid rate of aspiration possible ; and (3) by making the
apparatus more convenient.
                                   Fig. 1.
       Absorption apparatus for Moisture and Carbonic Acid, Xi.
a. Tubes filled with pumice soaked in sulphuric acid. b. Tube filled with
                    soda-lime. c. Plug of cotton wool.
   The absorption apparatus which we finally adopted is shown
in fig. 1. We shall describe it in detail because, as will be
   * Phil. Trans, vol. A, 1888, p. 73.     t Ibid. p. 84. \ Ibid. p. 88.

308     Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
seen below, the disadvantages of the chemical method, as
ordinarily used, are dependent on a want of attention to
details. It consists of a pair of test-tubes, containing pumice
soaked in sulphuric acid. The test-tubes are 4x1 inch,
and made of thin glass. Each tube is provided with a
double-bored cork about £ inch thick, which is fitted with
glass tubing of about -^g- inch internal diameter, and in the
form shown in the figure*. The tubing must fit firmly. The
corks are covered with a layer of hard paraffin inside and out.
They are pushed down a very little below the tops of the
tubes, the end of each tube being first wiped inside free of
acid, and then wanned to soften the paraffin on the cork and
so facilitate its entrance. To enable the longer limb of the
tubing to be pushed down, a passage should first be cleared
in the pumice with a piece of glass rod. A layer of paraffin
is spread smoothly over the top of the cork until it is just
level with the edges of the tube. The apparatus must be
absolutely tight, and should allow air to pass perfectly freely
when suction is applied. It should finally be carefully
cleaned with a wet cloth to remove any traces of acid, and
then dried.
   The pumice is sifted through a wire sieve with about 7
meshes to the inch, and shaken in a fine one to remove the
powder. It is then heated to redness by playing on it
with a large blowpipe-flame, and thrown still hot into " pure
redistilled " sulphuric acid. The superfluous acid is then
poured off, and the pumice preserved for use in a stoppered
bottle. Before using the tubes for experiments we have
always taken the precaution of washing them out with air,
as the air passed through them at first usually tastes slightly
of sulphurous acid.
    Each pair of tubes when filled weighs about 80 grammes,
and can therefore be weighed on any ordinary balance.
    To diminish to a minimum errors arising from accidental
variations in weight of the tubes, we adopted the plan of
weighing against a counterpoise consisting of a similar
absorption-tube, and of about the same weight. This coun
terpoise is always kept in the same place as the absorption-
tubes. Since during an experiment the absorption-tubes will
   * The longer piece of glass tubing in the first Bulphuric acid absorption-
tube is made somewhat shorter than the corresponding tubing in the
other absorption-tube. The inconvenience arising from the collection of
water in the first tube is thus avoided.
  Since writing the above we have been supplied by Messrs. Qallenkamp
with pairs of tubes made in one piece. These are more brittle, but other
wise very convenient.

       of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.                 309
have been warmed above the temperature of the counterpoise,
the weighing must be deferred for half an hour, so as to allow
their temperatures to become equal again. The tubes are
weighed unstoppered. If several tubes are to be weighed
the stoppers * are removed before weighing from the whole of
the tubes, including the counterpoise, and not replaced until
the last tube has been weighed. No absorbent is kept inside
the balance-case. The tubes should be lifted by the wires
attached to them for hanging on the balance.
    We found the following form of aspirator very convenient,
especially when the apparatus had to be carried to a distance.
Two bottles (fig. 2), each holding about 3200 cub. cent, up to a
mark in the neck, were arranged as shown in the figure, and
connected together by a piece of stout, non-collapsing rubber-
                                   Fig. 2.
tubing provided with a screw-clip for regulating the rate of
aspiration. The burette clips are for starting or stopping
the flow. The bottles are covered outside with a layer of felt,
to keep the temperature of the air and water equal during an
 experiment, and also to prevent breakage. A vertical strip on
 each bottle is, however, left uncovered, so that the height of
 the water may be watched during the experiment and the
    * The stoppers used aro the ordinary ones, consisting of a short piece
 of black rubber about J inch long, closed at one end by a piece of glass rod.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 179. April 1890.                  2 B

310     Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
reading of the thermometer taken. It is convenient to
graduate the bottles roughly by pasting strips of paper at
intervals of half a litre up the uncovered strip of glass.
With the help of this graduation it is easy to ascertain if the
aspirator is running at about the proper rate.
    To graduate the aspirator, one of the bottles is allowed to
drain for a minute, and is then weighed accurately. The two
bottles are now connected and the weighed bottle is filled
with distilled water to the mark, the tubing also being
filled with water. The cork of the weighed bottle is then
removed, ca^e being taken to let no water escape from the
end of the long piece of glass tubing. The bottle filled with
water is thea weighed again ; and by deducting this weight
from that of the empty bottle <°nd allowing for air displaced
&c, as in the graduation of a measuring-flask, the amount of
water held by the bottle filled to the mark with the tubing in
it, is obtained. The difference between this amount and some
round number of cub. cent., sucb as 3000, is then measured
into the bottle, wlrch has been previously emptied and
drained for a minute. The cork is tlien replaced, care being
taken, as before, not to spill any of the water in the tubing.
The aspirator is now ready for use, and measures off with the
utmost exactness 3000 cub. cent, of air each time it is
reversed.
   We are now in a position to consider the advantages of the
method as thus modified. As regards, firstly, errors of weigh
ing, we found, in accordance with previous observers, that
an absorption-tube, when left to itself, varies considerably in
weight from hour to hour. The same is true of a tube
through which dry air from another absorption-tube is passed*.
There is usually a gain in weight, but sometimes a loss. This
may be due partly to variations in temperature and barometric
pressure. It is also due to gradual penetration of moisture
into the tubes and to the varying amount of moisture de
posited on the surface of the glass. The amount of this
variation in weight was often two milligrammes or more,
both in Shaw's experiments and our earlier ones with other
absorption-tubes. With the method just described the tubes
did not vary in apparent weight by more than three deci-
milligrammes in a day ; and these slight variations were in
part accounted for by small imperfections in our set of weights.
   The advantages of using a counterpoise are illustrated by
an experiment in which weighings with the counterpoise
were compared at intervals with ordinary weighings during
       * Cf. the data on this point given by Shaw, he. cit. p. 84.

        of Determining Moixtvre and Carbonic Acid in Air.          311
 several days. The differences found are shown in the follow
 ing Table :—
   Internals between weighings.  20 hours. 3 hours. H hours. 42 hours.
  Counter- J Ordinary            +0 0012   +0-0010  +0OO08 +00024
  poise tube I (66 9230 grow.)
             Ordinary                      +0-0009  +0-0008  +0-0018
               (777075)
  Tube 1 Comparative..
                                           ±0-0000  ±0-0000  -0-0004
           L (107840)
           f Ordinary            +00007    +0-0016           +0-0023
               (87-6274)
  Tube 2 Comparative..           -00001    +00002            +00002
               (20-7041)
             Ordinary            +00009    +00010   +00006   +0-0018
               (69-6367)
  TubeS Comparative.      .     +O0000     -0-0002  ±00000   -00005
               (2-7136)
    With regard, secondly, to the rate of aspiration possible
and the lasting powers of the tubes, we made a number of
experiments.
    When a single absorption-tube was used, instead of the
double ones described above, the absorption in the first tube
was perfect (at least with rates up to two litres per minute)
for a considerable time, as shown by the following expe
riments.
                             Experiment No. 1.
    90 litres of air were aspirated at a rate of 1 litre per
minute through two single absorption-tubes connected to
gether by a very short piece of rubber tubing. The aspirator
in this and the following experiment was a glass filter-pump,
the air being measured by a gas meter :—
                    Tube 1                  + 0-5142.
                    Tube 2                  + 0-0000.
                             Experiment No. 2.
    90 litres aspirated at 1 litre per minute.
                    Tube 1 . . . . +0-4712.
                    Tube 2 . . . . +0-0002.
                            Experiment No. 3.
    50 litres aspirated at 1J litres per minute.
                    Tube 1 . . . . +0-4057.
                    Tube 2 .... +0-0001.
                                  2 B2

312    Messrs. Haldane and Pembray on an Improved Method
                          Experiment No. 4.
   21 litres aspirated at 2 litres per minute.
                 Tube 1 . . . . +0-2334.
                 Tube 2 . . . . +0-0000.
                         Experiment No. 5.
   50 litres aspirated at 1 litre per minute.
                 Tube 1 . . . . +0-4163.
                 Tube 2 . . . . -0-0003.
   The same tubes were not used through all these experi
ments, as tube No. 1 had become spent in the middle of the
series. The use of double tubes enormously increases the
lasting powers, so that, as shown by the following experi
ment, a double tube may be used for 300 determinations or
more without being recharged.
                         Experiment No. 6.
   The number of analyses possible without refilling a double
absorption-tube was determined by aspirating air through
two of them at a rate of 1 litre a minute, and weighing the
second pair at intervals. 120 litres had previously passed
through pair No. 1.
             Litres of Air                 Variation in Weight
       Aspirated through Fair 1.                of Pair 2.
                 235                           -0-0005*
                 354                           -0-0002
                 418                           + 0-0000
                 568                           -0-0001
                 753                           -0-0003
               1046                            + 0-0000
               1225
               1346                            + 0-0001
               1588                            + 0-0003
               1767                            -0-0002
               1994                            + 0-0000
               2200                            -o-oooi
   At the end of the experiment the first pair had absorbed
12-8255 grammes from 2320 litres of air. Although this
pair was still absorbing moisture completely we did not con
tinue the experiment further, on account of the inconvenient
accumulation of dilute acid in the first tube.
   As in determining moisture we have generally made a
carbonic-acid determination simultaneously, our usual rate of
          * Weighed by mistake five minutes after experiment.

      of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.        313
aspiration has (for reasons given, p. 321) been about 1 litre
per minute. The following were test experiments with faster
rates :—
                           Experiment No. 7.
   25 litres aspirated at 3 litres per minute.
                  Pair (1) . . . . +0-2012.
                  Pair (2) . . . . +0-0004.
                          Experiment No. 8.
   25 litres aspirated at 4 litres per minute.
                  Pair (1) . . . . +0-3453.
                  Pair (2) .... +0-0003.
                           Experiment No. 9.
   21 litres aspirated at 7 litres per minute.
                  Pair(l) .... +0-2142.
                  Pair (2) .... +0-0001.
The rate of aspiration may thus be, if required, 7 litres per
minute.
   With the view of determining whether there is any appre
ciable constant error due to incomplete absorption of moisture
by the first tube, we have added up the variations in weight of
the second tube in all our experiments in which a second
absorption-tube was used.
       Total moisture absorbed               Sum of variations
             by first tube.                   of second tube.
          13-0522 grms.                      -0*0007 grms.
The mean variation in weight of the second tube was thus
only 0-0065 per cent. ; and a constant error of this order would
be quite inappreciable in ordinary experiments.
   Additional evidence of the accuracy of the method is afforded
by the fact that in the simultaneous determinations recorded
below (pp. 322 and 327) the two sets of results are practically
identical. We have also made for another purpose two ex
periments in which air dried by sulphuric acid was passed
through a weighed vessel containing water, and then again
through a drying apparatus. The apparatus used was on a
much larger scale, and the rate of aspiration was in one case
7 and in the other 15 litres per minute. The balance em
ployed weighed to centigrammes. The vessel containing water
lost 4'86 and 3-62 grammes, and the drying vessels gained
4*86 and 3-61 grammes respectively.
   If the modified method described above be compared with
 the old method as investigated by Shaw, it is seen that by the

 314     Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
 modified method the rate of aspiration may be more than 20
 times as fast and the accidental errors in weighing are reduced
 to a sixth or less. Thus for a given duration of experiment
 the error in the modified method is less than a hundredth of
 that by the older method. In other words, an experiment of
 one minute's duration by the modified method is equal in
 accuracy to a two hours' experiment by the older method.
     It is perhaps hardly necessary to refer to the great con
 venience of the modified method. For experiments in the
 open air sets of weighed tubes can be carried even for long
 distances in a box with places arranged for the tubes. We
 have found that no variation in weight is caused by the
 shaking, &c. (see p. 317). No precautions beyond the very
 simple ones above mentioned are necessary in weighing ; and
 with a good short-beam balance not more than three minutes
 are occupied in the whole of the manipulations connected with
 weighing. Once an absorption-apparatus is filled it is always
 ready for use, and may be used every day for nearly a year,
 The fact that only a small quantity (usually about 6 litres) of
air is needed for an analysis makes it possible to use an easily
 portable aspirator, such as that described above.
 II. Comparative Experiments with the Dry- and Wet-Bulb
    Psychrometer and the Apparatus described above. {Made
    at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, by M. S. P.)
    This series of experiments was undertaken with a view to
test the degree of accuracy attainable by ordinary observa
tions with the dry- and wet-bulb psychrometer ; and also with
the object of obtaining independent evidence as to the
accuracy of the different tables used in connexion with the
psychrometer.
    The chemical method has been recoguized by Regnault
and others as the standard with which to compare all other
hygrometers. How important the first of these observers
considered the method is shown by the following extracts
from his Etudes stir I'Hygromitrie : —" . . . j'attachais
un grand int6ret k rendre cette methode <5minemment
  ratique et facile k employer dans toutes les experiences
I iygroin6triques." *
    " La methode chimique convient ^minemment k la verifica
tion des autres methodes hygrometriques et k la determination
des constantes numdriques que plusieurs d'entre elles exigent.
J'en ai constamment fait usage, a ce point de vue, dans les
recherches qui font l'objot de mon premier M6moire." f
          * Annates de Chimie et de Physique, xv. p. lo2 (184o).
          x Ibid, xxxvii. p. 2CT (1863).

       of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.              315
    Although Regnanlt proved by experiment that the absorp
 tion of moisture was complete with the chemical method, yet
 he was prevented from bringing it into general use in hygro-
 metry by two difficulties. .These were the inaccuracy of the
 weighings, and the slow rate at which the air could be
 aspirated through the absorption-tubes *. All other observers
 who have used the chemical method have had to encounter
 these same difficulties. Even the mercury-joints and glass-
 stoppered absorption-tubes used by Shaw have not removed
 the errors arising from these causes t- Each determination
 made by these observers required about one hour, and generally
 longer. By what simple means these serious errors can be
avoided has been shown above.
    I must here express my hearty thanks to the Radcliffe
Observer for giving me every facility to carry out these
 experiments. To his assistants Messrs. Wickham, Robinson,
and Bellamy, my thanks are also due.
    Two determinations were made each time and as nearly
 simultaneously as possible. Two aspirators similar to the one
 described above were used. Four pairs of absorption-tubes
 were employed each time :—pair 1 for determination A ; pair
 2 for determination B ; pair 3 as a test pair to show if any
alteration in weight was caused by carrying the tubes from
the Physiological Laboratory (where the tubes were weighed)
 to the Radcliffe Observatory and back ; whilst pair 4 was the
counterpoise.
    The tubes were carried in a small box with partitions of
 copper wire to prevent them from knocking against each
 other. The entrance tube, by which the air to be examined
 passed into the pair 1 (or 2), was fixed through a small per
foration in a rubber partition covering a hole in the box, so
that there was no possibility of air being taken from the inside
of the box. The box and its tubes were placed about 1 foot
below the wet and dry bulbs. That the air in this position
might be fairly compared with that in the shed containing
the psychrometer is shown by experiment 6, in which pair 2
was placed in the shed close to the bulbs, and pair 1 in the
usual place below.
    In making a determination the following was the order of
   * Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. xv. pp. 153 and 164. " La me'thode
chimique est trop embarassant, et elle exige une manipulation trop longue
pour qu'on puisse l'employer souvent daus les observations me'teorolo-
giques."
   T Shaw on Hygrometric Methods, Phil. Trans. 1888, A, pp. 83 and
84. The variations in weight range from — -0009 to -|-'0023 gram, or still
higher.

316    Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
procedure. The wet and dry bulbs were first read off; the
absorption-tubes, pairs 1 and 2, were then connected by two
long pieces of rubber tubing with their respective aspirators,
and the air was drawn through them at as equal a rate as
possible. The readings of the thermometers in the aspirators
were now taken. When one known volume (2900 cub. cent.)
had been drawn through, the aspirators were quickly reversed
and started again until 5800 cub. cent, of the air had been
taken for each determination. The thermometers in the
aspirators were now again read ; the readings of the wet and
dry bulbs entered ; the apparatus disconnected; and the absorp
tion pairs 1 and 2 stoppered. Everything was easily done
in twelve minutes, whilst the actual period of aspiration
was only about half this time, as shown by the Table of
experiments.
   How closely the two determinations agree Table I. will
show, and there is no doubt that could they have been strictly
simultaneous the agreement would have been still closer.
This is well shown by a comparison of the first five or six
experiments with the last four, in which the determinations
were almost exactly simultaneous.
   To show that no practical error was introduced in the
weighings by carrying the tubes about, the variation of the
test pair 3 is given in Table I.
   In calculating the results for the psychrometer in Table I.
I have taken the mean of three readings—one at the beginning,
one at the middle, and one at the end of each period of
aspiration ({. e. one reading about every two minutes) . These
readings were obtained from a continuous photographic
 record of the wet and dry bulb taken at the Eadcliffe
 Observatory. This record can be read off to two minutes and
 one tenth of a degree Fahrenheit, and its accuracy has
 been proved by years of use and comparison with eye-
 readings. The volume of air drawn through the tubes has
 always been corrected for temperature, aqueous vapour, and
 barometric height. In calculating the tension of aqueous
 vapour from the chemical determinations I have used the
 table given by Shaw in his paper on Hygrometric Methods*.
    The mean of all these gravimetric determinations compared
 with the mean of the amounts of moisture calculated from
 the psychrometric readings is '0551 to -0549 grm., or less
 than + £ per cent. Thus although the psychrometric result
 varied from the standard chemical method in the above series
 by + 6 per cent, to — 5 per cent., the mean difference is
 insensible.
                    * Phil. Trans. 1888, A, pp. 78, 79.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO
                                            ^                                                                                                                                          sS.2                                   C
                                 12.           11.          10.                                                                                                                                                                                            ment. Experi
                                                                         9.              8.              7.              6.              5.               4.            3.              2.              1.
      stoppers
       split
       reaching
        ObThe
        weight
        slight
          oneson
          rubber
          of
          be
          to
          found
          was
          the
           aefor
             and
             in
             of
             cxr*vcoaetusonrtys,
             this
                                 10                                                                                     „22              20              „19            18              17
                                               9            8            7              „6
                                                                                                         1889
                                                                                                        Aug.
                                                                                                         5                                                                                              1889
                                                                                                                                                                                                        16
                                                                                                                                                                                                       July
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   was during
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   air
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  which   Time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aspirated.
                                                            1A.M..0-1 .7 1a.m..21-1 .27                  1a.m..52-1 .58  1p.m.2.13-12.16  1a.m..45-1 .52  1A.M..6-1 .12 1A.M..10-1 .16  1a.m..39-1 .45
                                 1a
                                  j.c.32-1 .89  a.¥.
                                                1 .24-1 .30                              1a.m..48-1 .64                                                                                                 1 .39-1 .48
                                                                                                                                                                                                        a.m.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     eentim.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cub.                            ted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  through
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       each aspira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pair.                         air yolume
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of Cor ected
                                 5755          5731         5776         5756            5709            5707            6732            5681             5780          5723            5722             5723
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     termination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,deweight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pair     of
                                  •0583        •0678                     •0510                                           •0440                                                          •0529           •0421 grm.                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gain
                                                            0575                                                                          0613            0502          0516                                                           A.
 of
 this
 tubes.
pair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      terminationpair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   de    weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of Gain                      Table
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I.
                                  •0585        ¦0675         •0572       •0510                           •0687                            •0610           •0508          •0512           •0524          •0430*grm.                                                              in
                                                                                          0564                           0435                                                                                                          B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7th
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ed. by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tables,    Glaisher'spsychrometerreadings    fromvapourcalcu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of lated
                                  •0553        •0678         •0552       •0495            •0548           •0668          •0452            •0600           •0519         ¦0520           •0552            ¦0450 grm.                                                                       Weight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of dif erencePercentage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     psychro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cent.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    per            method. chemical meter     over
                                               ±0                                                                                                                       +1
                                   -5                        -4           -3              -3              -3             +3                -2             +3                            +5              +5i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   re3adings). Dry         bulb
                                   64-6          610          641         630             62-5            65-6            615              579             63-7          61-3            583             61°6                                                    (mean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rea3 dings). Wet
                                   574           58-9         570          552             56-5           60-7            530               560            560           64-9             545             53°0                                                      of bulb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (mean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          no ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         error
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         duced                      the    thatpair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  show
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tubescarry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             weighing.                  intro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       about                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Variations
                                                                                                                                                                                          -0002
                                                                                                                                                                                          4-            + •0001 grm.
                                   -0001 +•0002                           +•0002          +¦0000                                         +•0003                           -•0002
                                                             +0001                                         -0003          -0002                           +0002

318     Messrs. Haldane and Peinbrey on an Improved Method
   During some experiments the psychrometer was very
steady; at other times it showed considerable fluctuations.
As examples may be given the readings of the wet and dry
bulbs for the experiments 1 and 5.
        Exp. 1.      Dry.    Wet. i      Exp. 2.       Dry.  Wet.
    11.39 A.M        81-4    52-9    11.45 a.m.        579   55-9
    11.43            61-8    63-1    11.49             57-9  560
    11.47            616     52-9    11.52             58-0  660
   It is to be noticed that a difference of two or three tenths
of a degree Fahrenheit in the reading alters greatly the
percentage error.
   I have also calculated out the tension given by the chemical
method, and have compared it with the results calculated
from the psychrometer by means of Glaisher's, Haeghen's,
Guyot's, and Wild's Tables.
                               Table II.
                Chemical |                Psychrometer.
  Experiment.    Method.
                           Glaisher. Haeghetis.    Guyot.   Wild.
                   mm.
     1             743       776        737         7-31      7-4
    2              915       955        9-54        9-51      9-5
    3              8-99      900        888         8-87      8-9
    4              8-78      8-99       8-74        8-77      88
    5             10-70     10-72      10-75       10-76     10-7
    6              7-63      7-78       739         7-34      7-4
                  1215      11-72      11-78       11-80     11-7
    1              9-91      9-05       9-57        957       9-6
                   8-90      8-68       845         8-43      8-5
   ,s             10 00      9-52       9-38        9-41      9-4
   11             11-82     11-84      11-93       11-93     11-9
  12              10-23      9-67       9-55        957       9-6
    Mean           964       9-57       944         944     9-44
   This Table shows that Glaisher's Tables are the most
correct as far as my experiments go. These tables were
prepared by Glaisher from the Greenwich factors and Reg-
nault's Table of pressures, and are in general use in England.
Haeghen's Tables, which are used in France and Italy,
Guyot's, which are almost identical with the last and are
employed in America, and Wild's, which have been adopted

       of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.       319
by Germany and Russia, are all reduced from Regnault's
table of pressure and psychrometric formulae.
   In conclusion may be given the results obtained by other
observers, who have compared the psychrometer with the
chemical method. Regnault *, who made 106 experiments
under very varied conditions, obtained for the mean per
centage error 2, whilst the extreme percentage error varied
from + 12 to — 10. In order to calculate out the results
from the readings of the dry and wet bulbs, Regnault
determined the values for the constant A in each series of
experiments. Each experiment lasted about one hour ; the
readings of the psychrometer were taken every five minutes,
and from the mean of these the result was calculated. M.
Iziirn made 34 comparative experiments in the Pyrenees.
These are given by Regnault in his paper f. The extreme
percentage differences are + 2 and — 3 in the first series,
and + 10 and — 10 in the second.
   Shaw made comparisons in a room with a current of air
passing over the instruments ; he does not, however, consider
them satisfactory. The tensions calculated from the psychro
meter by Glaisher's Tables were generally higher than those
given by the chemical determination, the variations ranging
from + 30 per cent, to — 7 per cent. J.
            III. The Determination of Carbonic Acid.
   The method adopted by us for carbonic acid is similar in
principle to that for moisture.
(see fig. 1) consists of a pair of test-tubes arranged in the
same way as was described above (p. 307) §. The first tube is
filled with soda-lime, and the second with sulphuric acid and
pumice. The air must arrive perfectly dry at the absorption-
tube for carbonic acid, and is therefore passed through the
previously described absorption-apparatus for moisture. The
connecting piece of rubber tubing should be as short as
possible.
   The soda-lime we have hitherto used was made by heating
together in a copper vessel 1200 grms. of caustic soda in
strong solution, and the product obtained by slaking to a fine
powder 1000 grms. of quicklime. The heating was continued
until the soda-lime became capable of being broken up into
fragments in a mortar. The fragments were rapidly sifted
  • Annates de Chimie, xxxvii. pp. 204-286 (1835).
  t Ibid. pp. 276-272.
  X Phil. Trans. 1888, A, p. 111.
  § The same counterpoise is used for the carbonic acid as for the
moisture determinations.

320    Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
in a wire sieve with about 12 meshes to the inch, and the
product freed from powder by a finer sieve. We have also
tried commercial soda-lime similarly sifted, and found that
it absorbed C02 well (see p. 321). As a precaution against
blocking of the tubing by soda-lime during the process of
fitting, a small plug may be placed in the end of the tube
and afterwards be withdrawn by a string attached to it. The
figure shows that a piece of cotton-wool is placed between
the surface of the soda-lime and the cork ; the object of this
is to prevent soda-lime being carried over in the form of
powder by a rapid air-current.
   The method was tested in the same way as that for mois
ture. As regards accidental errors of weighing, what was
said above with regard to the apparatus for moisture applies
equally to that for carbonic acid. With respect to the efficiency
of the absorption, we may first quote the results of two
experiments in which the soda-lime and sulphuric-acid tubes
were weighed separately. In the subsequent experiments
the double absorption-tubes just described were employed.
                           Experiment No. 1.
   The tubes were arranged in the following order;—1 and 2,
sulphuric acid ; 3, soda-lime ; 4, sulphuric acid ; 5, soda-
lime ; 6, sulphuric acid. 90 litres aspirated at a rate of
1 litre per minute.
         Tube 33    ...  .    +0-0463
               4        ..    +0-0463),
                              +0-0405          .,
                                         /together   ,nnai.a
                                                     +° °868.
               5      .  .    -00221
               (3             + 0-0220 }togother -0-0001.
                           Experiment No. 2.
   Repetition of No. 1 ; 90 litres aspirated at a rate of 1 litre
per minute.
              Tube 3 . . +0-0360")
                   „ 4 . . +0-0838/ +01198-
                  „" 56    ..  ..   +0-0832/ ^n.ftnru
                                    -0-08281     +0-0004.
                           Experiment No. 3.
   90 litres aspirated at a rate of 1 litre per minute.
              Soda-lime, pair 1        .   .  +0-1615.
                                  „ 2  .   .  +0-0001.

     of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.       321
                          Experiment No. 4.
   50 litres aspirated at a rate of If litres per minute.
              Soda-lime, pair 1 . . + 0-0558.
                     „         „ 2 . . +0-0001.
                          Experiment No. 5.
   21 litres aspirated at a rate of 2 litres per minute.
              Soda-lime, pair 1 . . +0-0339.
                     „         „ 2 . . +0-0003.
                          Experiment No. 6.
   In this experiment commercial soda-lime (Hopkins and
Williams) was used.
   The soda-lime contained much more water than ours, as
shown by its appearance and the amount of water it gave up
to dry air. 50 litres aspirated at a rate of 1 litre per minute.
Soda-lime, tube 1 . . . . -0-05521 .
Sulphuric acid, tube 3 . . +0-0923/together +0'0371-
Soda-lime, pair 2 .... +0-0000.
                           Experiment No. 7.
   The same soda-lime tube was used as in the previous
experiment. 50 litres aspirated at a rate of 2 litres per
minute.
      Soda-lime, tube 1 .... -0'0478\ ftn.1K
      Sulphuric acid, tube 3 . . +0 0893 J + 0'0415.
      Soda-lime, pair 2 . . . . +0-0013.
   A rate of 1 litre a minute is thus well within the limit of
safety, so that even should the aspiration be temporarily
faster, there is no risk of appreciable non-absorption of either
moisture or carbonic acid.
   The number of analyses possible without refilling the
carbonic-acid tubes was determined in the same way as for
the moisture-tubes, i. e. by passing air through two pairs at a
rate of 1 litre per minute, and weighing the second tube at
intervals.
                          Experiment No. 8.
   120 litres of air had already been passed through pair No. 1.
        Litres of air aspirated       Variation in -weight
            through pair 1.                of pair 2.
                 235                       +0-0003
                 354                       -0-0001
                 418                       +0-0010
                 568                       +0-0049

322    Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
    At the end of the experiment pair No. 1 had absorbed
 0"4371 gram of carbonic acid from 688 litres of air. We
 concluded that 500 litres of air might be safely passed
 through an absorption-apparatus. Other experiments con
firmed this conclusion.
    The mean error of the method for carbonic acid was
estimated in the same way as with the method for moisture
 (p. 311).
      Total CO, absorbed by tubes No. 1 . .                0-6464
      Sum of variations of tubes No. 2            . . + 0*0007
    The mean error was thus about 0*1 per cent.
    The method is thus exceedingly accurate, in this respect
far exceeding, as will be shown below, the other methods
in common use.
    For free air about 20 litres or more, according to the
accuracy aimed at, will be required for an analysis. For
vitiated air, such as that of schools, 3 to 6 litres will suffice.
   The result of a pair of simultareous experiments made out
of doors may be quoted here. 18 litres of air were aspirated
in each case.
                                No. 1.
           Sulphuric acid pair                      + 0-0820
           Soda-lime pair                           + 0-0109
                                No. 2.
           Sulphuric acid pair .... +0-0819
           Soda-lime pair                           + 0"0109
   The methods just described have now been in use in this
laboratory for nearly a year. They have also been used for
some months in experiments out of doors at the Radcliffe
Observatory here, and in the country in Scotland. So far as
our own experience of them goes they have successfully
stood the test of every-day use.
   Wo may now review shortly the literature bearing on the
determination of carbonic acid in air, and record some experi
ments which we made with a view to testing the two methods
at present in common use in this country.
   The first attempt at a quantitative analysis of the carbonic
acid in free air seems to have been made by A. von Hum
boldt *. His numerous results were, curiously enough,
entirely illusory, since he concluded that about 100 vols, per
10,000 of air were usually present. In 1802 Dalton t, who
               • Gilbert's Annalen, iii. p. 79 (1800).
               t Manchester Lit. Phil. Soc. Mem. 1802.

       of Determining Moisture and Carbonic A cid in Air.             323
made the first approximately correct analyses, reduced the
amount to 6*8 vols. ; and De Saussure * had, about 1830,
brought it down to a mean of about 4,1 vols, for country air.
This result was confirmed by Watson (1834) and Boussin-
gault (1844), who used other methods, and for long was
supposed to be nearly correct. Still more recent researches,
particularly those of Angus Smith t in Scotland, Schultze in
Germany, Reiset % in France, and Miintz and Aubin in
France§ and other countries, have gradually reduced it by
about a third more.
    There still, however, exists a considerable amount of ap
parent contradiction on the subject. Not only are the mean
results of different observers different, but there is perhaps
still greater want of agreement as regards the limits within
which the proportion of C02 varies. That the uncertainty
and want of agreement which prevails is probably due to the
imperfection of some, at least, of the methods employed will,
we believe, be evident from the experiments to be recorded
below. The subject of the variations in the carbonic acid of
free air will, however, be taken up in a future paper.
    The methods at present in use for the determination of
carbonic acid in air are, practically speaking, of two kinds :
(1) those in which the C02 is absorbed by standardized
baryta-water, which is afterwards retitrated ; (2) those in
which it is absorbed by potash, and afterwards liberated by
acid and measured in the form of gas||.
   The method best known in this country is that of Petten-
koferll, or, more correctly, of Dalton** and Pettenkofer. In
this method a large bottle is pumped full of the air to be
examined. A measured quantity of standardized baryta-
   * Annalei de Chimie, xliv. p. 5.
   t ' Air and Rain,' p. 59.
   % Annales de Chimie, xxvi. p. 145 (1882).
   § Ibid. xxvi. p. 222 (1882), xxx. p. 238 (1883).
   || A valuable critical account of the methods hitherto used is given by
Blochmann, Liebig's Annalen, ccxxxvii. p. 30 (1887).
  ^| Abhandl. der techn. Commission der Bayer. Akad. ii. p. 3 (1858) ;
and Liebig's Annalen, Suppl. ii. p. 23 (1861).
   *» The form finally given to Dalton's method is described in a paper by
Watson, communicated by Dalton to the British Association (Brit.
Assoc. Report, 1834, p. 583). Watson used a large bottle, which ho
filled with air with the help of a pair of bellows. He then added lime-
water, and after shaking allowed the bottle to stand for several days, at
the end of which time he filtered oft the carbonate, and titrated with
dilute sulphuric acid. Pettenkofer independently invented a similar but
improved method. He introduced baryta-water as an absorbent, and
turmeric as an indicator, and avoided the nitration. Watson's mean
result for country air (4-l vols.) was about the same as that obtained by
the earlier observers who used Pettenkofer's method.

324    Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
water is then added, and the bottle closed and shaken, so as
to bring the air in contact with the baryta. After a certain
time the baryta solution is again titrated, and the C02 esti
mated from the loss of alkalinity of the baryta-water.
   For certain cases where the bottle method is not suitable,
Pettenkofer recommends that a measured quantity of air
should be allowed to bubble through a long tube placed nearly
horizontally, and containing a known quantity of baryta-water.
The COj absorbed by the baryta is estimated in the same way
as in the first method. Pettenkofer found that about 5 litres
per hour is the maximum rate at which the air can be passed.
   Keiset* has recently devised an apparatus which allows
large quantities of air to be aspirated through baryta-water.
With this apparatus he was able to aspirate as much as 100
litres through 300 cub. cent, of baryta-water in an hour. The
absorption of COj appears to have been complete. Each
experiment lasted several hours. He used an enormous
aspirator, mounted on a cart, and capable of holding 600 litres
of water.
   The method in which the CO» is absorbed by potash, and
afterwards liberated by acid and measured in the form of gas,
was in its first form used by Mangon and Tissandiert for
balloon experiments. A rough form of this method has been
for some years in use at the Paris Observatory. The method
has been brought to great perfection by Miintz and Aubin J,
whose test-experiments show that an accuracy to about 2 per
cent, of the COj estimated may be attained when 200 litres of
air are used. For absorbing the COa they use tubes about a
metre long, filled with pumice soaked in caustic-potash solu
tion free from C02. After the experiment the COj is liberated
by the addition of acid, and collected over mercury with the
help of a mercury-pump. The apparatus and manipulations
required are very complicated, so that the method is not likely
to come into general use. Miintz and Aubin confirmed and
extended Eeiset's conclusions, and found that the mean pro
portion of C02 in country air is about 2-85 vols, per 10,000,
and that it very seldom rises above 3" I or falls below 2*6.
The experiments of these three observers are certainly the
most reliable of any hitherto published.
   Gravimetric methods of determining C02 in air were at one
time much employed, although they have been practically
disused since the introduction of Pettenkofer's method. In
             * Loc. cit. p. 164.
             t Coniptes Rendut, lxxx. p. 076 (1875).
             t Annaltt de Chemie, xxvi. p. 222 (1882).

        of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.           325
 1832 Brunner* described a gravimetric method. He aspi
rated the air at a rate of about 30 litres an hour through two
absorption-tubes. The first contained asbestos soaked in sul
phuric acid ; and the second, which was 3 feet long, was filled
in the first two thirds with moist slaked lime, and in the last
third with sulphuric acid and asbestos. He tested the com
pleteness of the absorption of the C02 by allowing the air to
bubble afterwards through baryta-solution, which remained
clear. The increase in weight of the first tube gave the mois
ture, that of the second the C02 in the air aspirated. He
says he always obtained for free air results lying between
De Saussure's maximum and minimum (3-7 and 6*2 vols, per
10,000).
     Brunner's method, with various modifications, has been
used by a number of subsequent observers. The most reliable
results were those of Boussingault, who obtained with large
volumes of air a mean of 4"0 vols, per 10,000 for Paris airf.
The results of several other observers were certainly quite
unreliable.
    In 1856 HlasiwetzJ published a paper in which he criticised
adversely the gravimetric method. He made a number of
analyses by different forms of this method, and found that not
only did analyses simultaneously made often entirely disagree,
but that in eleven out of fifty-six analyses the absorption-
apparatus for COs actually lost in weight. These results he
set down partly to unavoidable "errors of weighing," and
partly to the fact that COs is absorbed by sulphuric acid.
Hlasiwetz's criticisms appear to have been generally accepted
as conclusive ; and since the publication of his paper the
gravimetric method has been almost entirely given up, though
still described in some text-books.
     Soda-lime has for long been in use as an absorbent for COs
in combustions. It was first used by Mulder § in 1859, and
Fresenius || has shown its superiority to potash-solution &c.
 Its successful use by one of us in a new form of animal-
respiration apparatus^! suggested the working out of the
method described above.
    We have made experiments with a view to testing by our
   * Annalen der Physique, xxiv. p. 670,
   t Annalen de Chimie, x. p. 466 (1844).
   X Sitder. der Wiener Akad. (Math.-nat. Kl.) xx. p. 189.
   § Zeiitchr. fiir Anal. Chem. i. p. 3.
   || Ibid. v. p. 89.
   % A full account of this apparatus will shortly be published. A pre
liminary jjaper on the subject was published in the 'Proceedings of the
Oxford 1 niversity Junior Scientific Club ' for October Term, 1888.
    Phil. Mag. 8. 5. Vol. 29. No. 179. April 1890.              2C

 326     Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
 gravimetric method the bottle method and also the tube
 method of Pettenkofer.
     The bottle method is in general use in this country and in
 Germany, and is in many ways exceedingly convenient.
 There are reasons, however, for suspecting that even in expe
 rienced hands it may give seriously inaccurate results for free
air. Thus although the French experiments referred to above,
and a series at present in progress by our own method, show
that the real proportion of carbonic acid is, as a rule, under
3 vols, per 10,000, and fluctuates within pretty narrow limits ;
yet with, the Pettenkofer method a very different average
proportion is often obtained, and the apparent limits of fluc
tuation are, as a rule, much greater.
     We may quote a few recent instances. Marcet and Lan-
driset* found at two country stations near Geneva 2*7 to 4-JJ
vols, per 10,000, mean 3*76 vols. Carnelley, Haldane, and
•Anderson t, who titrated with the barium carbonate in sus
pension, found in the outskirts of Dundee and Perth 1*7 to
3"5 vols., mean 2"9. FeldtJ, who also titrated with the car
bonate in suspension, found in Dorpat 1*85 to 365, mean
266 vols. The results of pairs of simultaneous analyses made
 by him sometimes disagreed by as much as 30 per cent.
 Uffelmann§, in Rostock, found a mean of 3"5 vols., whereas
Schultze at the same place had previously obtained an average
of 2"9 vols. Yet these three observers seem to have used very
nearly the same modification of Pettenkofer's method. All
titrated straight into the absorption-bottle, the carbonate being
still in suspension.
     In the following comparative oKperiments, which were
nearly all made within doors, every care was taken to obtain
 the air from the same place in the room, and at the same
 tinio in each pair of determinations. The bottles were
pumped full of air when the aspiration through the tubes was
half over.
     For the Pettenkofer analyses wo used two largo bottles of
 10,680 and 10,800 cub. cent, capacity, with ground-glass
stoppers || . Before each analysis these bottles were washed,
 first with tap-water, and then with distilled water, and dried.
They were not washed with acid. The air was pumped into
the bottle with a bellows, 100 cub. cent of oaryta-water
   * R. Meteorol. Soc. Journ. xiii. p. 167 (1887).
   t Phil. Trans., B, 1887, pp. 66, 68.
   X Der Kvhlensaiirtgehalt der Luft zu Dorjtat, 1887.
   § Archivfiir Hygiene, viii. p. 252 (1888).
   || India-rubber caps are objected to by Blochmann, Liebig's Anttalen,
ccxxxvii. p. 30 (1887).

aI  had
 leaked,
 sThe
  pand
   the
   volume
   ibe
    tofrom
     rafound.
    cthe
       mloactiusoletradurequite
                          dxt
                            ptwo    ghemelatnpektonafheoruster, .d
                             PTtcsewerenotiormand
                                    soctuibe                                                        12 U 10 9 8
                                                                                                                                                    7 6 5                      4            3 21                                      Number.
                                                              ex(4)
                                                           pair    cA
                                                                    pby
                                                                     this
                                                                     used
                                                                     in
                                                                  sacid
                                                                     ea+0
                                                                       3
                                                                       and
                                                                       xNo.
                                                                        rp*c0001
                                                                            and
                                                                            the
                                                                            -btwoin
                                                                        variedeio0rmni-e0dont0s2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        aspirated. Lof      itres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           air
                                                                                                                                                                                                12
                                                                                                                                                                                              '(a)
                                                                                                                                   18        18 12 12 .(*)      is               («)
                                                                                                                                                                                  18'.(»)12            12 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GMraevitmhetoridc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      moisture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pairs.
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                0962 0-0960 01040 01095 00920 00920                                    of in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   weight        Increase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       acid carbonic of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pairs.                       Increase
                                                                                                                                    00929 0-0106 0-0083 00079 00176 0-0175[00211
                                                                                                                                                                           1] 0    0211 0 0219 0-0218 00108» 0-0115
                                                                                                                                                                   4-74
                                                                                                                                                                    ¦ 5-67¦                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10,000.002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            per              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vols,
                                                                                                                                    25-09 2-84 3-33 317                                      8-70 435 4-63
                                                                                                  3-00]i
                                                                                                  1     3-041 \   2-9i2-90/
                                                                                                                  r    1J   2-971 J24-891t3-20/            \f
                                                                                                                                                            3-53            1 \f
                                                                                                                                                                              6-49         1t
                                                                                                                                                                                    6-421 1012/  9-301
                                                                                                                                                                                                 f                            10,0 0.COa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             per              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vols,
                                                                                                                                              / 3-52
                                                                                                                                                1 3-89              (  1
                                                                                                                                                                       5-20                            4-67 513
                                                                                                             I-10
                                                                                                             81                  \24-9
                                                                                                                                  f                    3-98 1
                                                                                                                                                       f
                                                                                                                                                       1          f
                                                                                                                                                                 5-48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Percxentsage     PMettenhkofde.r
                                                                                                                                    ..-1 „18 „17 „18 ,.13 „tt „12t „7                                                   mresturlitc.graviover
                                                                                                                                                                                                              cent.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             per11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          double
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          erence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         det rminations. fin         centage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Perdif
                                                                                                      1 6 2                           0 9                 11 5 1
                                                                                                     tt        N         ft          »                   11                     11

328     Messrs. Haldane and Pembrey on an Improved Method
added, and the bottle allowed to stand, with occasional
shaking, for at least two hours. The baryta-water was then
removed to a clean and dry cylinder, corked up, and titrated
after the carbonate had subsided. We used as a rule either
30 or 40 cub. cent, of the baryta-water in the titration, which
was performed twice with the,, ordinary oxalic-acid solution
(1 cub. cent. =-001 gram. of'C02), rosolic acid or phenol-
phthaleine being used as an indicator. The end reaction was
always sharply defined, and the two results never differed by
more than 0*1 cub. cent.
   The above Table shows that with air containing a small
proportion of carbonic acid the Pettenkofer method gave
results from 8 to 27 per cent, higher than those given by the
gravimetric method. As the proportion of carbonic acid
rises (Experiment No. 9), the difference tends to disappear.
Judging from these experiments the result for outside ait-
would usually be about 15 or 20 per cent, too high by the
bottle method.
    It will be seen that the pairs of determinations made with
the gravimetric method agree with the utmost closeness, both
 for moisture and carbonic acid.
    We have not succeeded in tracing satisfactorily the reasons
for the inaccuracy of our results with the bottle method.
Although these results were all too high, other observers
have, as before mentioned, obtained results which were often
almost certainly too low.
    We at first thought that the error might be due to contact
of the baryta-water with air during the manipulations in
 volved. In the first four or five analyses we had simply
 followed Pettenkofer's plan of pouring the baryta-water out
 of the large bottle through a funnel into the narrow vessel
 used for allowing the carbonate to settle. To avoid the
 exposure to air implied in this operation, we in the later
experiments removed the baryta-water with a pipette pro
 vided with a piece of rubber tubing for applying suction.
 As the pipette was washed first with some of the baryta, it
 was free from carbonic acid. Our results, however, were
little, if at all, better.
    Another possible source of error is the state of the glass
walls of the bottle. Pfluger * found in making the titrations
for Kjeldahl nitrogen determinations that it was impossible
to titrate accurately in flasks which had previously been
washed with acid. The glass seemed to retain some of the
acid in spite of washing, and give it up again slowly during
the analysis. Wo made several experiments with a bottle
                     * Pfliiger's Archiv, xxxvi. p. 105.

       of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.    329
which had been washed with mineral acid and then allowed
to stand full of water for a day; but the result was not always
higher with this bottle.
    In the bottle experiment No. 6 (b), which gives the worst
result of all, a smaller bottle of about 3 litres capacity was
used. In Parkes's ' Hygiene/ 7th edition (1887), p. 711, it
is stated that the results Tby the bottle method vary with the
different sizes of bottle. It seems likely that as a rule the
 results will be less correct the smaller the bottle used.
   When the results are too low this is as likely to be due to
insufficient time being given for the carbonate to settle out
as to incomplete absorption. If the attempt is made to titrate
too soon, the result may be much too low, and the end reaction
will be very indefinite.
   It is no conclusive test of the correctness of the bottle
method that two simultaneous experiments give the same
result. If the conditions are kept the same in the two
experiments, the results must be the same whether right or
wrong. In the above experiments we usually varied the
conditions somewhat as regards details supposed to be un
essential. In experiments where the conditions were carefully
kept the same, results were practically identical. There are
doubtless several sources of error, which may neutralize one
another more or less. The subject is complicated by the fact
that nearly every observer introduces, often unconsciously,
some new modification of the method.
   We have come to the conclusion from the above experi
ments that the bottle method in its ordinary form is of very
limited use for experiments on free air, though usually quite
accurate enough in the case of vitiated air.
   Biochmann * has recently described a modification of the
bottle method which enables him both to avoid all possibility
of contact of the baryta-water with air, and at the same time
to titrate with perfectly clear baryta-water. For want of the
special apparatus required we have not yet tested this method.
   We used Pettenkofer's tube method in some of our
earlier experiments for the purpose of testing the efficiency
of the absorption of carbonic acid by soda-lime. Before we
had overcome the difficulty caused by errors of weighing, we
believed that any carbonic acid which had escaped absorption
by the soda-lime would be indicated best by Pettenkofer
tubes filled with baryta-water. Accordingly in different
experiments the air was passed through one or more Petten
kofer tubes after it had passed through the soda-lime. We
always found that the baryta-water had lost distinctly in alka-
              • Liebig's Annalen, ccxxxvii. p. 72 (1887).

330     Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid in Air.
Unity after the experiment. There were, however, several
reasons for doubting whether this was really due to escape
of carbonic acid through the soda-lime. We therefore made
the following experiment.
   A current of air, after passing through sulphuric acid and
soda-lime absorption-tubes, was divided by means of T-tube3,
and passed through six Pettenkofer tubes placed beside one
another on a board. The loss of moisture from the baryta-
water in these tubes was determined by means of a sulphuric
acid absorption-tube placed in the air-current beyond them.
The moisture which had collected in the tubing connecting
the Pettenkofer tubes and this absorption-flask was washed
into the flask by means of a current of dried air. 60 litres
of air were aspirated in one hour.
   In addition to the six Pettenkofer tubes through which the
air was passed six others were taken, and charged with the
same quantity of baryta solution in exactly the same way as
the first set. These dummy tubes were kept stoppered
during the experiment.
   All the tubes were washed before the experiment, first
with dilute nitric acid, then three times with tap-water, and
finally with distilled water. At the end of the experiment
the baryta from each set of tubes was poured into a small
flask, and at once corked and allowed to stand for a time.
During these manipulations every precaution was taken to
avoid unnecessary contact of the baryta-water with air. The
results are given in full.
              Sulphuric acid, pair 1. +0*4183.
              Soda-lime, pair 1.         +00554.
  Baryta-water from ( (1) 40 c. c. =39*9 c.c. standard oxalic,
first set of Petten--?
kofer tubes.           ((2)     „     = 39*9 „        „        „
   Loss of water from same tubes by evaporation 0*8408 gram.
  Baryta-water from C (!) 40 c. c. =39*65 c. c. standard oxalic,
dummy set of Pet-<
tenkofer tubes.        (.(2)     „    =39-75 „        „        „
                         Mean . . 39*7
   Standard baryta-water 40 c. c. =40*25 standard oxalic.
   Therefore
loss of alkalinity in 1st set= 6 x 0*35 = 2*1 c. c. standard oxalic
and loss by evaporation =                  0*84        „       „
                                           "2*94
loss of alkalinity in 2nd set = 6 x 0*55 = 3*3

  Structure of the Line-Spectra of the Chemical Elements.     331
   The dummy tubes had thus actually lost slightly more in
alkalinity tlian the tubes through which the air had passed.
This loss is about equal to what would be caused by the
absorption of the carbonic acid contained in 6 litres of pure
air.
   It follows from this and the other experiments just referred
to that the error with the tube method may be considerable,
at least in experiments of not more than two or three hours'
duration.
XXXIV. On the Structure of the Line-Spectra of the Chemical
   Elements. By J. R. Rydberg, Ph.D., Docent at the
    University of Lund*.
                     (Preliminary Notice.)
THE researches, the most important results of which are
         given in the following pages, will be published
with full details in the Svenska Vetensk.-Akad. Ilandlingar
Stockholm. They have extended hitherto only to the
elements which belong to the groups I., II., III. of the
periodical system ; there is, however, no reason to doubt but
that the laws I have found can be applied in the same way
to all elements.
    In my calculations I have made use of the ware-numbers (n), ¦
instead of the wave-lengths (X) ; n = 108.       ifX be expressed
in Angstrom's units. As will be seen, these numbers will
determine the number of waves on lcentim. in air (760 niillim.,
 16° C. according to Angstrom), and are proportional, within
the limits of the errors of observation, to the numbers of
vibrations.
    1. The " long " lines of the spectra form doublets or triplets,
in which the difference (v) of wave-numbers of their correspond
ing components is a constant for each element.
    This law, found independently by the author, has already
been announced by Mr. Hartley for Mg, Zn, Cd. The values
of the constant differences (y) vary from v=3*l in the spec
trum of Be to v=7784"2 in the spectrum of Tl. In each
group of elements the value of v increases in a somewhat
quicker proportion than the square of the atomic weight.
For instance :—
                  * Communicated by the Author.

 332           Dr. J. R. Rydberg on the Structure of the
            Element ...    B.        AL        Ghv.       In.       TL
                          10-9      27-04     699        113-4     203-7
                          105      1096      823-6      2212-4    7784-2
             100 v         8-84     14-99     16-86       17-20     18-76
    In accordance with analogy, the spectral lines of Li (the
 one element, besides H, in which only single lines are ob
 served) ought to be double with v=0-8, corresponding, for
instance, in the red line (X= 6705*2) to a difference in X of
0*36 tenth-metre. The most refrangible of the components
should also be the strongest.
    The elements of the groups I. and III. (atomicity odd)
have only doublets ; triplets are found in the elements of
group II. (atomicity even). As examples may be cited the
doublets of Tl and the triplets of Hg.
                                   Thallium.
 Xl ... 5349-5 3528-3 3229-0 2921-3 2825-4 2710-4 26691 2609-4 2552 0 2517-0
  r ... 7792-6 7786-6 7794-9 7785 6 7766 1 7773-9 7783 1 7781-2 7794-2 7780-7
 X,... 3775-6 27671 2579-7 2380O 2317-0 22387 22100 2169-0 2128-6 2104-8
                                   Mercury.
        *1        5460-5   3662-9    3341-2     30210     2925-2    2798-5
                   4633-0   4644-0    4638 0     4602-9    4644-7    4626-6
        K         4358-0   3130-4    2892-9     2652-2    2575-3    24777
         'i        1763-4   1766 1    1776-4     1761-9    1769-0
        *         4047 0   2966-4    2751-5     2533-8    2463-7
   With the triplets the ratio of the two constant differences —
                                                                            vi
increases from 2-01 in Mg to 2*63 in Hg. Also with these
elements (of group II.) there are doublets, which follow the
same rule as the others ; the value of the difference v0 in these
doublets is about 2-2 times as great as the first difference v1
of the triplets in the same element. For example, we have:—

              Line-Spectra of the Chemical Elements.          333
                         Oa.         Zn.          oa.
                        223-2       876-5       2483-8
                        1032        388-4       1172-5
             "o           216         2-23         2-12
             *1
    These doublets contain the strongest lines of the elements
of group II.
    2. The corresponding components of the doublets form series,
of which tlie terms are functions of the consecutive integers.
Each series is expressed approximately by an equation of the
form
                      n=n°-(^7r                                w
where n is the wave-number, m any positive integer (the
 number of the term), N„— 109721 "6, a constant common to
 all series and to all elements, n0 and ft, constants peculiar to
 the series. It will be seen that n0 defines the limit which the
 wave-number n approaches to when m becomes infinite.
    Messrs. Liveing and Dewar were the first to remark the
 existence of the series, as well as their different appearances.
 They are of three kinds : diffuse, sharp, and principal series.
 The first two are formed by the above-mentioned doublets or
 triplets ; in the elements of the groups I. and III. there are
 consequently four different series of these two kinds, in the
 elements of group II. there are six. I have named them
first, second, and third diffuse or sharp series. The lines of
 the first series of each kind are the strongest and the least
 refrangible.
    Hitherto I have found the principal series only in group I.
 They are double, but the doublets are not of the same kind as
 those described in section 1 ; the components approach each
 other when m increases (see section 3). I name the stronger
 of the two series, which is also the most refrangible, first
principal series. The principal series contain the strongest
 lines of the spectrum (in group I.), then come the diffuse
 series (the individual lines of which are in reality double ; cfr.
 section 4), the sharp series are the weakest. In the individual
 groups the intensity decreases as the order of the series
 increases, in the same way as the lines grow weaker in the
 individual series with increasing m.

334            Dr. J. R. Rydberg on the Structure of the
   As an example of the series and their calculation, the prin
cipal series of Li is as follows :—
                                                 109721-6
              Formula: n = 434877-
                                               (m + 0-9596)*
     m ...    1.     2.      3.    4.       5.     6.      7.    8.     9.
   X obs. 67052 32320 2741-0 2661-5 2475-0 2425-5 2394-5 2373-5 2359-0
   X calc. 67048 3229-8 2740-5 25623 2475-3 2425-9 2394-9 2374-1 2359-5
    Diff.    -0-4    -2-2   -0-5  +0-8    +0-3 +0-4 +0-4        +0-6   +0-5
   3. The different series of the elements are related to each
other in a way which proves that they all belong to one system
of vibrations. To_ show these relations, I will cite as an
example the formulae of the diffuse and sharp lines of Na :—
                  Diffuse Group.                           Sharp Group.
                                     109721-6        » = 24485-9- 109721-6
First series          n=24481-8-
                                                                  (m+0-6445)2'
Sccond series        n=2449G4—       109721-6                       109721-6
                                                     » =245005
                                  (m+0-9887)2'                    (m+0-6445)8"
    The series of the same group (diffuse or sharp) have the
same value of ft ; the difference of their values of n0 is equal
to v or (vi and v2). This follows from the fundamental pro
perty of the doublets. With Na we have v=14'6.
    The series of the same order (first, second, third) have the
same value ofn0 in the different groups; they are distinguished
by the values of /j,. The difference, for instance, of the num
bers 24481-8 and 24485*9, which are perfectly independent of
each other, amounts only to 0-7 tenth-metre. We find in all
the revised spectra the same accordance when we calculate
the values of uq, using only the last terms of the series. For
example, if we denote the values obtained from the diffuse
series by nt and those from the sharp series by n3 :—
           Element ...       Li.        Mg.         Od.         Tl.
               »i         28598-5     39777-9     40775-9     414859
               "j         286011      397799      407891      41486-5

             Line-Spectra of the Chemical Elements.           335
    Between the principal and the sharp series there is also a
very close relation. For if we write the equation (1) in the
more symmetrical form
it is found that this equation, without varying the constants mi
and fa, will represent a principal series or a sharp series, ac
cording as we assume the one or the other of the integers w?i
and m2 to be variable ; to the number which is left unchanged
we must assign the value 1.
    To calculate with great approximation the spectrum of one
of the alkaline metals, we use only four constants (with Li
but three) , the common constant N0 not included.
    By the proposal of a system of notation for series and
lines, I have tried to show a way by which we can indicate
shortly the connexion of the different parts of a spectrum
with the whole system of vibrations, and which at the same
time allows the correspondence of the lines of different ele
ments clearly to appear. A few examples will suffice to show
the arrangement and the use of this system. K [Dj, 4]
denotes the fourth line of the first diffuse series of the spec
trum of potassium (X=5801) ; Mg [S2] the (whole) second
sharp series of Mg (\= 5172-0, 3331-8, 2938 5, 2778-7, 2695,
 2646); Rb [P12, 2] the second doublet of the principal group
of Rb (\=42<J2 and 4216); the single lines are denoted bv
Rb [P„ 2] and Rb [P„ 2] respectively.
    4. The wave-lengths {and the wave-numbers) of corresponding
 lines, as well as the values of the constants v, n^, fi of corre
sponding series of different elements, are periodical functions of
the atomic weight.
    As an example, the wave-lengths of the second term (wi = 2)
of the diffuse series may be taken together with the values of
v (with the triplets Vj and v2), which are given in smaller
figures in their respective places between the wave-lengths.
These values of v are means from the differences of the wave-
numbers of all doublets which have been employed in the
 calculation. The components of the doublets are themselves
 double ; the less refrangible of the secondary components is
the weaker, but corresponds to the constant difference, and is
consequently to be reckoned as the true component of the
doublet.

 336         Structure of the Line-Spectra of the Chemical Elements.
    Group of             Li.        Xa.          K.        Cu.
    element*.                                                          Ag-      Au.
                                   8199                  52171     j 54700 f 5862 0
                     16102                     12330               1 5460-0 158300
 '>     T. '                       14'<         56'4      242-2
                  V  (0-8 calo )                                      917-2    8819-6
                                   8187                  5152-6      5208-7    47920
                        Be.         Mg.         Ca.        Zn.        Cd.       Hg.
                                             f 4455-2
                      3130-3      3837-9 14454-0         3344-4 /3611-8 ( 3662-9
                                                                   1 3009 4 1 3654-4
                         81         41-4        103-2     888-4      1160-2    4637-3
       II.    ¦                             / 4435-3               / 3466-7 f 3130-4
                      3130-0      3832-1                 3301-7
                                            1 44345                1 3465-2 1 3124-5
                                    206         61-4      187-4      538-4     17B60
                 *3               3829-2       4425-0    3281-7      3402-7    21)66-4
                         B.         Al.                                In.      TL
                      2497-0      3091-9                           f 3257-8 f 3528-3
                                                                   1 3255-5 13517-8
     -I          V      10-6
                      2496-2
                                   109-6
                                  3081-2
                                                                     2212-4
                                                                     30387
                                                                              7784-2
                                                                               2767 1
     The lines of Li and K are, in all probability, double like
the others, but their components have not yet been separated.
     The periodical variation of the constants allows of calcula
ting by interpolation the spectrum of an element when the
spectra of the adjacent elements in the periodical system are
known. To show how far such an interpolation can go, I will
cite the wave-lengths of the first terms of the diffuse and
sharp series of Ga. They are calculated without making use
in any way of the (two) measured lines of this element, or
even having them present in the calculation.
     The interpolated constants are (c/r. section 3) :—
    First series              4711
                          47547-1                     Diffuse group         0-8363
                                        831-6
    Second series         483'787 J                   Sharp group           0-1568
and the thereby calculated wave-lengths :—
                             Diffuse group.                     Sharp group.
                         1.         2.          3.         2.          3.       4.
 First series ...    6663-4      2949-2     2494-3      4173-7     2737-0    24274
 Second series. . .  6313-5      2878-6     24436       4033-7     26701     2379-3

             Absolute Viscosity of Solids and Liquids.              337
   The sharp doublet (m = 2) is nearly coincident with the two
lines which hitherto have been measured. The wave-lengths
of these lines are, viz :—
     After Lecoq de Boisbaudran.   After Deville and Mermet.
            4170                         41711
                                               Y *=820-3
            4031                         4033 J
The accordance is even better than could well be expected.
   Finally, I will remark that the hypotheses of Mr. Lockyer
on dissociation of the elements are quite incompatible with
the results of my researches. The observations of Lockyer
within the spectra of Na and K prove only that, with lumi
nous atoms as with sounding bodies, the relative intensity of
the partial tones may vary under different circumstances.
For the lines in question belong, without doubt, to the same
system of vibrations.
   Lund, February 1890.
 XXXV. The Change of the Order of Absolute Viscosity encoun
    tered on passing from Fluid to Solid. By Oarl Bakus.
 1. nnO my knowledge nobody has thus far defined the dif-
      -L ference between the solid state and the fluid states
 quantitatively. In the case of liquids and gases viscosity can be
 absolutely expressed with facility, and the data have therefore
 to be stated with considerable rigour. This is not true for
 solids, where the results are relative throughout.
    The present paper submits two methods for the coordination
 of the viscous behaviour of solids and of liquids. In descri
 bing the differential method applied by Dr. Stroubal and
 myselft> we incidentally pointed out the way in which the
 relative viscosity of two solids may be stated in terms of the
 respective sectional areas, by which the motion at the junction
 of the two counter-twisted wires or rods is annulled. Suppose
 that one of the wires is a solid, whereas the other is a very
 viscous liquid. Then if the viscosity of the latter can just be
 measured by transpiration-methods (§§ 4, 5), it follows that
 the viscosity of the true solid with which it was counter-
 twisted may also be absolutely expressed. This indicates the
 first method of the present paper (§§ 8, 9).
      * Communicated by the Author.
      t Barus and Strouhal, American Journal, xxxiii. p. 29 (1887).

338      Mr. C. Barus on the Change of the Order of Absolute
    My second method for measuring the viscosity of solids
absolutely is direct. It is capable of yielding results of any
desirable accuracy, supposing the necessary facilities for an
adjustment free from vibratory disturbances are given
(§§ 12, 13).
                          Gases and Vapours.
    2. Results for the viscosity of gases and vapours are given
by many observers *. The data present some curious aspects ;
thus, for instance, the viscosity of vapours t is frequently
smaller than the viscosity of gases. The order of viscosity
(n) is about 10~*g/cs (cf. § 18.). Results for the viscosity of
substances in the neighbourhood of Andrews's critical tempe
rature are not available. Such an investigation would be
highly desirable (§ 18).
                                 Liquids.
    3. The literature contains extensive researches and is
systematized in Landolt and Boernstein's Physical Tables J.
The data are easily expressed absolutely, by aid of Slotte's §
 values of the viscosity of water between 0° and 100°. If
 water at 20p be taken as a type liquid, i) = '01 (g/cs) {cf. § 18).
                              Viscous Liquids.
    4. Data are wanting.
     My experiments were made with marine glue ||. The
 method is simple. A fairly wide capillary tube, a be, pro
 vided with a cylindrical open reservoir, a, at one end, was
 half filled with marine glue, the thread extending from the
 reservoir, a, as far down as the middle, b, of the tube. The
 other (open) end of the tube was inserted into the flask, dddd,
 from which the air was then exhausted. Thus a pressure of
 about 1 atm. is continually brought to bear on the reservoir a
 of the tube, the other end, c, being in vacuo. A lateral arm,
 e, closed by fusion, facilitates the exhaustion. A small vacuum-
    * Summarized in O. E. Meyer's Die kmetische Theorie der Gate,
 Urobilin, 1677, pp. 138 et seq.
    t The most complete set of data are those of Puluj, Phil. Mag. [5] vi.
 p. 167 (1878). Lothar Meyer, E. Wiedemann, and others have contri
  buted to the subject.
    X Physikalisch-chemitche Tabellen : Berlin, J. Springer, 1883, p. 163.
     § Slotte, Wied. Ann. xx.p. 267 (1888). References to other researches
 (O. E. Meyer, Poiseuille, Rosencranz) are there given.
     || A valuable cement being (nominally) a specially prepared mixture of
 rubber and shellac It has a pitchy consistency, and can be thickened
 by adding shellac.

      Viscosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid.         339
gauge, gg, held in place by a Fig. 1.—Apparatus for the Secular
layer of paraffin, h, shows the        Transpiration of Viscous Liquids.
observer to wbat degree the
vacuum is maintained in the
lapse of time. A number of
tubes, a be, may be inserted
side by side, and it is always
necessary to coat the stopper
with cement.
    5. The transpiration-equa
tion due to Poiseuille, theoreti
cally corrected by Hagenbach*,
has the form
       ifPr
 V= Svl          Z'WTrIt'       0)
where rj is the absolute visco
sity of the liquid, tithe volume,
and m the mass transpiring
through the capillary length I
and radius r, in the time t.
In the present case of exces
sively slow transpiration the
correction may be neglected.
P is the pressure-excess, in
dynes per square centimetre.
All magnitudes are to be ex
pressed in O.G.S. units.
     In the above form of appa
 ratus (fig. 1) I is not constant,
and v is measured in terms of
 the increase of length of the
 capillary thread ab (fig. 1).
 Hence the differential equation
 corresponding to (1), since
 do = irridl, is
                               _Prf<8                                 (2)
                             '    8/ dl'
 Integrating between 0 and t, and between lt and l3,
                        ,=Pt^/4(V-V)                                  (3)
 Here /j is the original length (<=0), and lt the final length
    * Pceg. Ann. cix. p. 358 (18C0). This reference is incidental, or I
  should have to refer to Poieson, Navier, Stokes, Stefan, Helmholtz, and
 others.

340     Mr. C. Barus on the Change of the Order of Absolute
of tho thread of marine glue. The effect of the cylinder of
viscous fluid in the reservoir a may be neglected from its
large radius.
    5a. By way of digression I may add another similar case ;
viz. that of a viscous liquid like glycerine, transpiring in a
vertical capillary tube, in virtue of the weight of its own
column only. In this case P=(L +                      8 being tho density
of the liquid, g the acceleration of gravity, L the initial head
of the column. Inserting these quantities and integrating,
equation (2) becomes
                    v=              gg?             t
                          8(Z,-/1 + Lln^)
   An example of results obtained in this way is given in the
following Table. The observations, though made upon a
single descending thread at the end of each half minute, are
grouped in two batches. The tube was dry ; perhaps a moist
tube (adhering thin film of glycerine) would have been
preferable.
                  Example.—Viscosity of Glycerine.
r=*0505 centim. ; L= 1*35 centim. ; o"=l-26; A<= 120 sec.
              t.       1.       1-        t.       /.
             sec.     cm.     g/ct.      sec.     cm.
              30     1007                270     2982       5 53
            150      20-30   J 5-06      390     38 60
              60     12-72   ] 5 07      300     31-95    I 5 46
            180      22-75               420     40-83
              00     15-30   } 611       330     34 20      5-44
            210      2510                450     4304
            120      1780    | 513       360     3640     » 5-43
            240      27 43               480     45-22
    To account for tho difference of r\ in the two sets of results
is beyond the present purpose. It is noteworthy * that each
measurement of rj occupies but two minutes, even admitting
that the tube is unfavourably wide ; for in the case of viscous
liquids the temperature-effect is of great importance, and this
expeditious method therefore has some advantages. The
experiment may be varied by observing the descending upper
   * Cf. Graham, Phil. Trans, cli. p. 382 (1861) :—" The liquid (glycerine)
is too viscous to be transpired by means of the bulb and capillary em
ployed in these experiments." I am not aware that the viscosity has
been measured since.

       Viscosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid.         341
  meniscus, while the lower end of the capillary is submerged
  in glycerine.
     6. By applying equation (3) I obtained the n expressed in
  the following Table :—
              Table I.—Transpiration of Marine Glue.
   P= 10' dynes ; r='0406 centim. ; temperature (say) = 25°.
                   Date.              t.        /.     DXlO-»-
                                     sec.     cm.         cjgt.
         May 7, 1889. 12"                 0    3-7
         Dec. 7, 1889, 12h        185 x 10"    7-2        200
     This is a striking result, remembering that a sphere of the
 cement, if placed on a plane surface, will run out to a flat
 cake in a few months. Nevertheless this type of viscous fluid
 is 20 billion times as viscous as water at the same temperature.
    After long continued transpiration the thread of marine
 glue shows two strata. The advance portion is amber-coloured
 and less viscous, the rear portion brown, clearly containing
 most of the shellac. Hence the observed rj is probably some
 what low. (Cf. § 10.)
     7. Paraffine (melting-point 55°) treated in the same way
 showed no transpiration. The tube (2/3 = '082 centim.) was
 nearly of the same bore as above, and the length of thread in
 the most favourable case 2"2 centim. The motion, if any,
 must have been below "01 centim. Hence the viscosity of
 the paraffine must be greater than 2 x 10ugjcs at about 25°.
 It is nearly impossible to insert a capillary paraffine thread in
 a tube, free from the vacuum- bubbles due to contraction on
 cooling.
                                Solids.
    8. Having obtained the result in § 6, I proceeded to use it
for obtaining the viscosity of hard steel by the method of
comparison indicated in § 1. The apparatus was essentially
like that of my earlier experiments*. To secure additional
safety f I introduced the principle of substitution, whereby
the steel wire and the rod of marine glue were consecutively
subjected to known torsion-couples, in ways otherwise iden
tical. From the enormous viscosity of steel, as compared
   * From the context it appears that the method of substitution is pro
bably necessary.
   t American Journal, xxxiv. p. 2 (1887).
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 179. April 1890.                2 D

342        Mr. C. Barns on the Change of the Order of Absolute
even with marine glue, a beam of this substance, say a deci
 metre thick, would show about the same deformation initially
as a steel wire only a millimetre thick, ccet. par. So large
a mass of the cement is inconvenient to handle. I therefore
 used a rod about 4 centim. thick and suitably apportioned the
 torsion-couples in the two cases. The results are given in
 Tables II. and III., where 2p is the diameter, I the length, of
 the similarly twisted rods. This twist t is given in the first
 column, and is proportional to the applied couples. N de
 notes the viscous motion at the index, at the time specified,
 and is given in scale-parts (distance between mirror and scale
 200 centim.). Reduction of N is not necessary, since the
 present purposes are comparative. The steel wire is twisted
 alternately in opposite directions to allow for the accommo
 dation. In Table II. this precaution is superfluous, the sub
 stance being a fluid. The three sets of data are merely given
 to show the behaviour more fully. Other experiments made
 with the cement may be omitted here.
Table II.—"Viscous Deformation of Hard Steel. Wire No. 1.
                   p = 0*40 centim. ; I = 30 centim.
  T.     Time.    NxlO1.       T.    Time.   NxlO3.        T.    Time.   NxlO1.
        minutes.     cm.           minutes.    em.              minutes.    cm.
+8-7         0    Twisted.   -5-7       0    Twisted.    +5-8       0    Twisted.
             2         0                2     - 0                   2         0
             3        70                3     - 71                  4       40
             4       115                4     -125                  3       72
             6       187                6     -200                  6      122
             8      235                 8     -258                  8      160
            10      278                10     -301                 10      190
            12      315                12     -840                 12      212
       Table III.—Viscous Deformation of Marine Glue.
                      p = 2 centim. ; / = 30 centim.
  r.      Time.   NxlO".       r.    Time.   NxlO3.        r.    Time.   NxlO'.
       minutes.     cm.             minutes.    cm.             minutes.    cm.
 #1-4       0          0      1-4       0         0       f-4       0         0
            2       260                 2      250                  2      220
            3       480                 3      450                  3      420
            4       710                 4      700                  4      610
            5       910                 5      900                  6      810
                                                                    6     1010
   * This refers to the applied couple.   The initial twist of the bar of marine
glue is practically aero.

      Viscosity encountered on -passing from Fluid to Solid.            343
    9. From these Tables the mean rate of motion of marine
glue appears as 2 centim. per minute, whereas the corre
sponding mean motion for hard steel is (say*) *4 centim. per
minute, for the three cases. The couple acting on the cement
is 1/4 .r, while the couple in the other case is 5*7 x. Since the
cement is a fluid, the rate of motion for identical couples
would be 8 centim.
    The principle given in § 1 may now be applied, whereby
viscosities are inversely as the fourth power of the radii,
cast. par. Let ¦»' and ij be the viscosities of marine glue and
hard steel respectively. Then
                          2-00
                   ;=V( 04 /^---V* 1078                                 (1)
From Table I., i/' = 200 x 106 ; hence the mean viscosity of
originally untwisted glass-hard steel, during three consecutive
alternate twists of 12 minutes each, just within the limits of
rupture is at least
                          •7 = 25 x 1015 ff/sc                           (3)
    10. The present results subserve their chief purpose in
 furnishing an estimate of the order of viscosity of glass-hard
steel ; for the unavoidable errors encountered in a comparative
 method like the present are not insignificant. In the first
 place the thread of marine glue observed for transpiration in
 § 6 during half a year is not identical with the rod of this
 material which is twisted (§ 8), neither as to temperature nor
 composition (cf. remarks end of § 6). Possibly better results
 might be obtained with old pitch. Again, the rod of marine
 glue, while it is being twisted, is also being appreciably
 stretched by its own weight. This complicates the angular
 measurement. Finally, the sectional error of an opaque rod,
 not necessarily free from air-bubbles, is considerable. Equa
 tion (3) must therefore be looked on as assigning an order to
 the viscosity of hard steel above 1016 glct.
     11. Before giving the results of the following direct method,
 it is expedient to insert a paragraph on the viscosity of solids
 generally. In § 8, while the steel wire is strained by the
 couple almost as far as the limits of elasticity permit, the rod
 of marine glue is initially scarcely strained at all. In the
 latter case, however, the unstable configurations essential to
 viscous motion are supplied in relatively great numbers by
 the ever changing distribution of the heat-agitation within the
 body. In a homogeneous solid free from strain (soft steel)
    * The viscosity of solids being a function of time, strain, and tempera
 ture. This distinction is beyond the purposes of the above paragraph,
 but will be fully carried out below, in §§11 et seq.
                                    2 D 2

344      Mr. C. Barns on the Change of the Order 0/ Absolute
such configurations practically vanish as to number. I doubt
whether in soft steel the viscous deformation due to instanta
neous exceptionally intense molecular motion at different
points within the solid, could be recognized at ordinary tem
peratures. The case is different when the solid is under stress.
Any twist, no matter how small (?), is accompanied by a pro
portionate amount of permanent strain, with which a cor
responding amount of instability is necessarily associated.
Hence it must be borne in mind that the viscosities expressed
absolutely below refer to steel in a condition of strain just
within the elastic limits.
   I can here merely allude to the very recent and suggestive
paper of C. H. Carus-Wilson (Nature, xti. p. 213, 1890), in
which the behaviour of steel near the elastic limits is inter
preted in analogy with the well-known circumflexed iso-
thermals of condensible gases, due to James Thomson.
   Now it is clear that if stressed steel be left to itself, the
number of unstable configurations becomes rapidly less as the
time after twisting increases. Energy is dissipated. The
viscosity of solids is therefore essentially a time-function as
well as a strain-function.
   1 2. The apparatus with which the following absolute results
   Fig. 2. —Apparatus for measuring the Absolute Viscosity of Solids.
                                                d
                                                                      -r-
                                                              ^!!£
were obtained is shown in fi 2. A A and B B are two
massive torsion-circles, the hollow
                                  \       cylindrical shafts, qo, of

     Viscosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid.           845
which are firmly clamped to supports projecting from the
wall of the room. The steel wire, to to, to be tested is tensely
drawn between the cylindrical cores, a I, a' I', and clamped
without torsion. To accomplish this the ends of the wire are
bent hook-shaped, and inserted in flat fissures at the ends of
the rods a I, a' I', the clamp-screw (shown at a') passing
through the hooks of the wire. The middle part of tow
carries a pair of plates, be, held together by four screws in
such a way as to clamp the wire firmly between the plates.
A brass rod of screw-wire, dd, is soldered to the upper plate,
and when in adjustment is horizontal and at right angles to
the axis of w to. Thus the rod dd is virtually the beam of a
balance, and two small nuts, m m', symmetrically placed near
the ends of d d, are provided with hooks from which a scale-
pan, A A, may be suspended. The latter carries a light hori
zontal disk, v v, to be submerged in water (not shown), with
the object of deadening vibrations when the apparatus is in
adjustment. The upper plate be also carries an adjustable
mirror, N, for angular measurement, as well as an index, fg,
moving across a stationary graduated dial (not shown) by
which the amount of twist holding the weight, P, in equili
brium is roughly registered.
    In adjusting the apparatus, the scale-pan A A is removed
and the rods o / so placed that the lever d d is vertical. After
clamping a I (care being taken to avoid twisting tow) the
scale-pan is attached at ml, and additional weights P added to
hold the lever dd horizontal. Hence the two halves of the
wire to to are twisted 90° each for the whole length. Other
twists may be applied by rotating the torsion-circles together
(it would be necessary to connect them rigidly for this pur
pose) and adding suitable weights P.
    To fasten the wire securely between the plates the lower
one is clamped horizontally in a vice. If there were rota
tional sliding possible here it would be detected in examining
very viscous wires. Some difficulty is experienced in fixing
to to in place quite free from initial torsion. There is also
some flexure ; but for wires of the radius given these discre
pancies may be disregarded. When A A and B B are rigidly
connected, the twist of the wire tote may be expressed in
terms of the load P.
    13. To complete the results obtained with this apparatus,
 let 2<f> be the amount of angular viscous motion*, in radians,
 of any right section of the wire relativo to another right
 section, whose distance from the first is the unit of length.
 Suppose, furthermore, that in the plane of a right section
     * The factor 2 is supplied conformably with my earlier notation.

346    Mr. C. Barus on the Change of the Order of Absolute
there is no shearing. Then 2d<b/dt=2Ci is the common
angular velocity, per unit of length, with which the shear is
increased. Consider an elementary cylindrical shell whose
length I is the effective length of either half of the wire w w
(fig. 2), and whose right section ia2wrdr. Then the amount
of force distributed uniformly over 2-rrrdr will be
                       df=Vi^±(l2Ctr)                                (4)
Multiplying by r, and integrating between 0 and p, the radius
of the steel wire,
                        iPX=i,,^2C„                                   (5)
where P/2 is the weight at the end of the lever-arm X, per
effective half of the wire. In any given adjustment PX/7rp4 = A
= constant. Hence
                               1,-A/SO,                               (6)
In these equations it has been assumed that \i)r3dr=t}t\r3dr.
Hence under all circumstances ^ is a mean value defined by
these integrals.
   14. Results obtained with the apparatus § 12, are given in
Tables IV. to VII. Here p is the radius, I the length of each
effective half of the steel wire. P is the total force (being
the weight plus the weight of the scale-pan) acting at the
end of the lever X (see fig. 2). The rate of twist is given
under t, and 2 «I> is the total yield during the interval of
experiment. N denotes the actual scale-reading observed by
the telescope (scale-distance from mirror, R = 200 centim.)
at the time given ; and 2 <b is the viscous angular motion
between two right sections of the steel wire 1 centim apart.
   In the second half of the tables, 2 C< is the time-rate of
change of 2<p, computed for consecutive intervals of 500
seconds each. The final column contains the corresponding
absolute viscosity. All times are reckoned from the moment
of twisting. To obtain 2C« I availed myself of graphic
methods *, these being in conformity with the mean accuracy
of the work. Table IV. contains results for the wire No. 1,
already tested in Table I. Three twists are applied, alter
nately in opposite directions. In Table V. the same wire is
similarly examined, after it has been softened by heating to
  • Of course r set of smoother values might be obtained by computing
the constants of the curves <f> from Kohhautch'e exponential formula, Rna
the tangents fiom the values obtained.

        Viscosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid.              347
 redness and cooling in air. Table VI. contains data for a
 new glass-hard steel wire, originally free from stored twist.
 Table VII., finally, contains the viscous behaviour of a wire
 tempered at 450°, which was used as a normal in my former
 differential experiments.
 Tablb IV.—Absolute Viscosity of a Glass-hard Steel Wire.
                            No. 1. Fourth Twist.
 l=12'9 centim              p=-0405 centim.; P=82x981 dynes;
                                 \=9*43 centim.
      T.                                                           ,(X10_1S-
     2*.      Time.    NxlO1.      20X10".     Time.   2CX109.
                                                        Radians
  Rudians.      Sec.    Centim.   Radians per   Sec.   per centim.    g/c».
                                    centim.              per sec.
      •12          0   Twisted.                    0
                420          0          *0      500        735         122
                720        104        202      1000        462         194
               1020        180        349      1500        310        291
               1860       320         621      2000        222        405
               2220       360         698      2500        183        491
              2820        417         808      3000        150        600
              3480        465         901
                     No. 1.    Glass-hard.    Fifth Twist.
    -12            0   Twisted.                    0
     009        480         *0          »0      500       *910          99
                840       120         233      1000        474         190
               1320       235         450      1500        347        259
               1860       329         638      2000        270        333
              2400        402         779      2500        230        391
              2940        464         900      3000        210        428
              3480        520        1008
                     No. 1.     Glass-hard.   Sixth Twist.
       12          0   Twisted.                    0
  -009          360          0           0      500        467        193
                960       120         233      1000        265        339
              1260        160         310      1500        193        466
              X800        210         407      2000        156        577
              2340        250         485      2500        138        652
              3120        306         593      3000        126        715
              3900        353         684
   * The minus signs, being without interest in this and the following similar
series, are omitted for breTity.

348      Mr. C. Barus on the Change of the Order of Absolute
Table V.—Absolute Viscosity of Soft Steel, being Wire
    No. 1, heated to redness and cooled in air. First Twist.
Z=130 centim. ; p =-0405 centim. ; P = 82x981 dynes;
                               X=9"43 centim.
     T.     Time.     NxlO2.       2*XlOe.      Time.  20,xl0".    „xio-15-
   2*.
                                                        Radians
 Radians      Sec.     Centim.    .Radians        Sec. per centim.    g/cs.
                                 per centim.             per sec.
     •12         0    Twisted.                       0
 -•007         420           0          0         500     220          409
               900         40          77        1000      89         1010
             1500          63         121        1500      63         1430
             2100          80         154        2000      47         1920
             2700          92         177        2500      34        2650
             3380          98         188        3000      26        3460
             3780         103         198
                   No. 1. Softened.          Second Twist.
  -12            0    Twisted.                       0
   •010       360          0            0         500     164          550
             1020        50            96        1000     116          776
             1500        70          135        1500       59        1520
             1983        82          158        2000       40        2250
            2.r>20       93          179        2500       30        3000
            3120        100          192        3000       15        6000
                    No. 1.     Softened.      Third Twist.
    •12         0    Twisted.                        0
-007          240         0             0         200     138          652
              840        42           81        1000       70        1290
            1560        64           123        1500       40        2250
            2100        74           142        2000       28        3210
            2520        76           146        2500       17        5300
            2640        78           150        3000       14        6400
            3120        81           156

     Viscosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid. 349
Table VI.—Absolute Viscosity of Glass-hard Steel.                 Wire
                         No. 2. First Twist.
Z=13-0 centim. ; /j='0405 centim.; P=82x981 dynes;
                             X=9"43 centim.
    r.                                              2C,xlO'. ¦rixlO '
   2*.
           Time.    Nx 10'.    20x10".       Time.
                                                     Radians
 Radians.   Sec,    Centim.    Radians              per centim.
                              per centim.     Sec               gic*.
                                                      per sec.
     13        0   Twisted.                      0
 -•009       120         0          0          500     660       136
             420       186        358         1000     325       277
             720       270        520         1500     230       391
            1030       335        644         2000     180       500
            1K20       410        789         2500     140       643
            2100       458        881
            2580       495        952
            3000       518        9%
                No. 2.     Glass-hard.      Second Twist.
  -•13          0   Twisted.                     0
   ¦010      240         0           0         500     683      131
             600       144        277         1000     392      229
             900       220        423         1500     285      316
            1260       288        554         2000     240      375
            1800       365        702         2500     205      439
            2100       404        777
            2460       450        865
            2700       470        904
            3000       502        965
                 No. 2.    Glass-hard.      Third Twist.
               0    Twisted.
             240         0           0
             600       117        225
                         Wire breaks spout meously.

350      Mr. C. Barus on the Change of the Order of Absolute
 Table VII.—Absolute Viscosity of Steel, annealed at 450°.
                 Wire No. 15. Twisted indefinitely.
 J=13-6 centim. ; p = -0405 centim. ; P=82x981 dynes;
                            X=9"43 centim.
     r. .   Time.   NxlO2.     20x10".   Time.   2C,xl0*. H.xlO ™.
    2*.
                                                  Radians
  Radians.   Sec.   Centim.    Radians    Sec.   per centim. glcs.
                             per centim.           per sec.
       12       0  Twisted.                  0
   -¦002      240       0            0     500       177      508
              720      51          94     1000        69     1300
             1200      71         131     1500        40     2250
             1860      86         158    2000         32     2810
            2520       95         175    2500         25     3600
            2000      101         186    3000         20     4500
            No. 15.     Tempered at 450°.     Next Twist.
   -•12         0  Twisted.                  0
    •003      240       0            0     500      111       811
              600      26          48     1000       46      1950
            1200       43          80    1500        40      2250
            1740       54         100    2000        34      2650
            2580       68         125    2500        31      2910
            3240       81         149    3000        30      3000
            No. 15.     Tempered at 450°.      Next Twist.
     •12        0  Twisted.                  0
  -¦003       240       0          0       500      180       500
              660      48        88      1000        82      1100
            1260       78       143      1500        67      1570
            1740       92       169      2000        48      1870
            2520     112        206      2500        45      2000
            3120     126        232      3000        42      2140
    Some irregularities are apparent, largely introduced by
vibrations against which our laboratory facilities afford no
adequate protection. Vibrations increase the rate of twist

      Viscosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid.             351
periodically, and thus supply a greater number of instabilities
than correspond to the mean twist (position of equilibrium) in
question. They may also have a more direct molecular effect
in decreasing viscosity. When the rate of twist in the two
wires is unequal, viscous motion will also be in excess of the
true value. This also applies in case of slightly different
lengths, /, of the two effective halves of the wire. In the case of
No. 15, which had become somewhat worn by use, the load P
probably strained the wire too near the elastic limits. This I
infer from the observed successive reduction of viscosities
from twist to twist, clearly indicating that an excess of insta
bility is being supplied. It is therefore better to accept the
behaviour of No. 2 (soft) as typical of No. 15 ; for the normal
viscosities of the two states of temper are identical.
                                Discussion.
    15. Turning first to the values of <f>, it is seen at once
that they substantiate the inferences of my earlier papers
throughout*. They therefore need no further comment here.
Tables V., VII. contain data for my normal wire, by aid of
which the differential results of the earlier papers may be
reduced to absolute values. I have endeavoured to make the
angles t of nearly the same value in all cases, so that ^/t
 may be comparable.
     16. The spontaneous breaking of the glass-hard wire in
 Table VI. deserves mention. It occurred during the third
 twist, and at a time when the wire was in no way interfered
 with. This corresponds to the spontaneous explosion of hard
 projectiles frequently observed. It also corresponds to the
 spontaneous rupture of stressed glass, whether the stress be
 stored internally or applied externally. I have observed this
 interesting phenomenon in glass under a great variety of
    * Phil. Mag. xxvi. p. 183 (1888) ; ibid, xxvii. p. 155 (1889).
    In the deductions of the former paper (p. 189) I neglected the elastic
 motion, in virtue of which, at every stage of viscous yielding, the rate of
 twist is maintained constant throughout the system. After correcting
 for this,
             L^=2/'{^0-n + (p(o-/3)+^1(L-«)}-2/<pT;
 which under the simplified conditions of experiment becomes \jr = l(<p — </>').
 Hence it follows that the data {(f> — <f>') of the two papers cited are
 relative, and must be multiplied by ln2 to reduce them to the dimensions
 denned in the text. Beyond this the error is without importance, the
 data applying at once to rods initially somewhat harder than those
 actually observed.

  352     Mr. C. Barus on the Change of the Order of Absolute
  conditions. In all cases there is gradual molecular change,
  and the solid finally breaks without any apparent cause.
      17. The chief results of Tables IV. to VII. are the values
  fit, whether they be regarded as time-functions, or as ex
  ponents of the solidity of steel.          In fig. 3 these data are
  constructed graphically. An inspection of the figure shows
  at once that both solid viscosity and its rate of increase with
  time are magnitudes which increase together (Tables IV., VI.
  compared with Tables V., VII.). After about an hour has
  elapsed since twisting, the viscosity of hard steel may be quite
  as large as the initial viscosity of soft steel ; but at corre
  sponding times the viscosity of soft steel continues to be
  more and more pronouncedly the greater.
      The curves are not consistent as to curvature. This may
  be best inferred from the hard wires, where the viscosities
  are smaller, the deformations large, and the observations there
  fore as a whole much more accurate (Tables IV., VI.).
  Hence I regard the promiscuous irregularities of fig. 3 as due
  to errors of observation and construction. According to the
  law of F. Kohlrausch*, — d<f>/dt = a^>/tn, where a ana n are
  constants. In case of small torsions or short times, —dfyjdt
  = acf>/t suffices. Thus for the purpose of deducing the time-
  rates, k, of increase of solid viscosity, it is permissible to re
  gard the curves of fig. 3 as essentially linear.
      This is done in the following table.
    Table VIII. —Mean time-rate of increase of the absolute
                     Viscosity of Steel, hard and soft.
                  Hard Steel.                        Soft Steel.
                 Twist No.    :X10"                 Twist No.    KXlO
                                                                   a/afi.
    Table IV...       4         220     Table V.         1         1200
                    -8          140                    -a          1400
                      r,        240                      8         l'JOO
     Table VI...       l        230     Table VII.       1         1500
                   -2           140                    -2          1200
                                                         3         1000
    Mean rate r               194x10"   Mean rate k              1400X101*
    Mean viscosity at 600     140xlOl! Mean viscosity at 500 sec 570x10"
               • Kohlrausch, Pogg. Ann. cxxviii. p. 210 (1866).
^

   Viscosity encountered on passing from Fluid to Solid. 353
Fig. 3.—The Absolute Viscosity of Hard Steel (Tables IV., VI.) and of Soft
     Steel (Tables V., VII.), considered in its variation with the time
     elapsing after twisting.

354             Absolute Viscosity of Solids and Liquids.
   The general explanation of these results has been indicated
in § 11. In a liquid or a viscous fluid under moderate stress
the instabilities are supplied by the mere thermal agitation at
ordinary temperatures, at the same rate in which they are
used in promoting viscous motion. Hence viscosity is con
stant at a given temperature. In a solid under stress the
instabilities are expended at a rate decidedly greater than the
small rate of continuous supply. Thus viscosity decidedly in-
increases with time. Suppose, therefore, a solid of initially
greater viscosity starts on its viscous deformation at an instant
when the viscosity of a solid of initially smaller viscosity has
been increased by time to the initial value of the former case.
This can actually be realized by twisting a soft steel rod about
an hour later than a hard steel rod (fig. 3). Then, in suc
ceeding times, even though the substances start at a state
where both are equally viscous, the viscosity of the initially
more solid body will rapidly overtake the other ; for the
supply of instability due to temperature alone is continuously
greater in one case than in the other.
   18. Summarizing the results of the above paragraphs, the
viscosities of the three states of aggregation may be expressed
in terms of the absolute gjcs scale as follows :—
Table IX.—Viscosity, considered in its Variations with the
                            State of Aggregation.
        Oases and Vapours.              Andrews's
                                      critical state.           { Liquids.
   Substance.                           Sub
                           1-          stance.     1-   Substance.          1-
  * Ether, 0         6-8 xlO"5            ?        ?   Ether, 30...      9xl0~*
  *H2,        0
                     87 xlO~S
                                                       Ether, 10... 1-9 xlO"8
  * Air,      0
                                                                       3-0xl0~S
                      1-75 xl0~*                       Water, 97 ...
  to,         0      212x10"*                          Water, 20... 10x10"*
                                                      § Glycerine...     5
                     10~6 to ?            ?      to?                    ? to 10~*
     Puluj, l.e.                        tO. E. Meyer, I. c. p. 142.
    Landolt and Boernstein's Tables, I. c, and Slotte, /. c.
     A rough measurement of my own, § 5a. Graham's results, ' Phil. Trans.'
   1, p. 373, refer to dilute glycerine.

           Permanent Elongation of Hard-drawn Wires.                      355
                           Table IX'. (continued).
             Viscous Fluids.                           Solids.
       Substance.              V-             Substance.              n-
                             2X1C      Paraffineat20° (m.p. 1 >2xl0n
                                          66").                \
                                                                    io" to
                                       t Hard steel, glass &c. \r 6x10"
                                                                 f 6x10" to
                                                                 \6xl019
  Range                   103 to 10"                              10u to 10"
   t During the first hour (500 to 3000 seconds) after twisting just within the
elastic limits,
    The limits here defined are somewhat arbitrary. They will
be made more definite when a greater number of substances
lying on the boundary between the classes have been examined.
Information is lacking and particularly desirable in the
neighbourhood of Andrews's critical temperature. From
Table IX. it does not seem improbable that the critical tem
perature may be definable by a narrow limit of viscosity, quite
apart from the substance operated on. What this limit may
be I do not venture to assert, seeing that the viscosity of gases
decreases on cooling, whereas that of liquids increases on
cooling.
    Table IX. gives the positively astounding range of varia
tion of 17, the chief variable of our material environment—a
variable which throughout the whole enormous interval in
question nowhere fails to appeal to our senses.
   Phys. Lab., U.S. Geological Survey,
         Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
XXXVI. On the Effect of Permanent Elongation on the Cross
    Section of Hard-drawn Wires. By Professors T. Gray
    and 0. L. Mees*.
IN the course of a series of experiments on the torsional
        rigidity of metals, forming part of the course of instruc
tion in elasticity in the mechanical laboratory of the Rose
Polytechnic Institute, we were somewhat surprised to find a
   • Bead before the Physical Society of Glasgow University, February 28,
1890. Communicated by Th. Shields, M.A., Secretary.

356    Profs. Gray and Mees on the Effect of Permanent
hard-drawn iron wire increased in total rigidity by being
slightly stretched above its elastic limit. Slight changes in
the modulus of rigidity, due to stretching, are of common
occurrence ; but we had not previously noticed, nor heard of
anyone else having noticed, such a change as to overbalance
the effect of increased length and probably diminished section.
The result seemed to make it probable that there was an
actual increase of diameter produced by pull when the elastic
limit is reached. As to whether actual permanent stretch is
necessary to produce this effect we are not yet certain ; but
there seems, from subsequent experiments, little doubt but
that, for several metals, hard-drawn wires do expand laterally
when they begin to take a permanent longitudinal set.
   The observation here referred to seemed so interesting,
that we instituted careful observations on the effect of slight
stretching (that is to say, permanent stretching of from ^ to
Aj of 1 per cent, of the original length) on the density of
hard-drawn iron, brass, German silver, and pianoforte-steel
wires. The results indicate that for an elongation of less than
± per cent, the section of the wire is slightly increased, above
which the section diminishes. The experiment is, however,
by this method exceedingly tedious and difficult, and hence
the exact elongation which gives the greatest increase of sec
tion has not been determined. One or two of the results are
quoted below mainly for the purpose of indicating the mag
nitude of the quantises concerned. These changes are very
small ; and as they enter into the experiments on density
determined by weighing in water as the differences between
quantities of comparatively large magnitude, we cannot
assume the results to be more than an indication confirmatory
of the result obtained from the elasticity experiments. It
may be remarked, however, that experiments on this subject
were made by several members of the senior class both on
soft and hard wires, with the consistent result that they ob
tained sometimes a gain, sometimes a loss of density for the
soft wire, but always a loss of density in the hard wires.
The specimens which showed most decided results were
cut from two coils of very hard wire, one brass and the
other German silver. The brass is so hard as to render
it difficult to obtain permanent stretch without fracture.
The results with iron and steel have not been quite so
conclusive, owing to difficulties with oxidation during the
density-determinations. A pianoforte-steel wire does, now-
ever, show signs of slightly increasing in volume just before
breaking. The difference between the elastic strength and
the rupturing strength is not great in pianoforte-wire, and it

       Elongation on tlie Section of Hard-drawn Wires.       357
is difficult to avoid fracture. We hope, however, to make a
more systematic investigation, and to get over these difficulties
by improved apparatus and methods of experiment.
   Confining our attention to the brass and German-silver
wires, the results indicate that if the stretch does not amount
to more than from J0 to ^ of 1 per cent, the diameter
increases. The elastic effect previous to the point where
stretching is about to begin is for those wires in accordance
with other well-known results of experiments on this subject,
in so far as the diameter diminishes with increase of length ;
but we have not yet got a means of measuring with such
accuracy as to give quantitative results as to the ratio of con
traction to extension. The change from contraction to expan
sion seems to take place very near to the limit of elasticity, if
not after that limit has been reached. A short distance
beyond this limit contraction again sets in ; and if the exten
sion be as much as half of 1 per cent., the diminution of
density, although noticeable, is not sufficient to produce
increase in diameter.
   The method of experiment which was used for the observa
tions on which we base some of the above remarks on the
effect of elastic stretch, was to pass the wire along
the axis of a glass tube about 5 millimetres in dia
meter, which was hung on the wire in the manner
indicated in the sketch by means of a rubber stopper s.
The tube was then filled with water, and the position
of the surface of the water read on a scale fixed on
the back of the tube. The wire was then stretched
and the fall or rise of the water observed. A dimi
nution of volume was observed until the wire reached
about the elastic limit, at which point the water rose,
slightly indicating a swelling of the wire. We have
made several attempts to increase the sensibility of
the above arrangement by means of index-tubes
fused into the side of the main tube, aided by narrow
contractions in tbe tube, itself filled with mercury,
from which the wire was protected at that point by
a thin coating of shellac varnish. As yet, however,
we have not been perfectly successful. The unstable
condition of the mercury in the narrow contraction
of the tube renders this method unsatisfactory.
Should mercury-tubes prove superior, however, in
experiments with iron and steel, we will platinize the
other metals and use mercury.
   The following are a few of the results obtained by the
measurement of density before and after stretching, the
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 179. April 1890.        2 E

358            Prof. J . J. Thomson on the Passage
method being the determination of the loss of weight when
immersed in water. Very careful precautions were taken to
eliminate all trace of air from the wire and from the water by-
placing the vessel in the receiver of an air-pump and working
the pump continuously for an hour or more. Care was also
taken to minimize the effect of capillarity, and to correct for
temperature in the measurements. Boiling the water by
passing a stream of steam through it, causing a current to
play on the wire, was also tried, with the result that the iron
and steel wires tarnished too much to render the results of
any great value. The effect of stretching was slightly dimi
nished, a result which might possibly be due to annealing.
                        Percentage   Areas of section Areas of section
     Kind of Metal.     permanent   before atretchine, after stretching,
                        elongation. in square centim. in square centim.
                           010           0-01262           0-01268
                           0-20          001261            001269
                           012           0-008255          0-008300
   German-silver ... •
                           0-20         000827             000834
  XXXVII. On the Passage of Electricity through Hot Gases.
   By J. J. Thomson, M.A., F.R.S., Cavendish Professor of
   Experimental Physics, Cambridge *.
 GASES exhibit the most remarkable differences of be
      haviour with respect to the passage of electricity through
them : the same gas under different circumstances may be
either an insulator and require the electromotive intensity to
exceed a certain value before any electricity at all can pass
through it, or it may be a conductor and unable to insulate even
a difference of potential as small as j0Vo °f a vo't (Blondlot,
 C. R. civ. p. 283). The study of the changes in the condition
of the gas which accompany these remarkable changes in its
electrical properties can hardly fail to afford most interesting
information as to the method by which electricity passes
through gases, and possibly through solids and liquids as
well. As one of the simplest changes which can take place in
the condition of a gas is that occasioned by a rise in tempe-
                    * Communicated by the Author.

                of Electricity through Hot Gases.             359
rature, I have during the last year made a series of experi
ments on the changes which take place in the electrical
properties of gases when they are heated.
   Before describing these experiments I will sketch briefly
the electrical properties of a gas, such as air, at the tempera
ture of about 16° C. In order to get electricity through the
air at atmospheric pressure, the electromotive intensity has to
exceed 30,000 volts per centimetre ; as the pressure of the
air diminishes, the electromotive intensity required to produce
discharge diminishes almost exactly in the same proportion.
This goes on until the electric strength of the air reaches a
minimum, after which any further diminution in the pressure
causes the electric- strength to increase; the pressure at which
the electric strength is a minimum depending on the size and
shape of the vessel in which the air is contained.
   These results are, I think, in accordance with the view of
the electric discharge through gases which I gave in the Philo
sophical Magazine for June 1883, and which, I think, derives
great support from some of the experiments described below.
According to this view, the provision of a supply of atoms by
the splitting up of the molecules is the essential accompani
ment of the electric discharge through gases. We may regard
the atoms in the molecule as being in oppositely polarized
states ; one atom behaving as if it were charged with a quantity
of positive electricity, the other as if it were charged with an
equal quantity of negative. When the atoms are together
in the molecule they neutralize each other's action at points
outside the molecule, which behaves as if it were electrically
neutral ; but as soon as the atoms soparate, since each one is
essentially polarized, the gas acquires energetic electrical pro
perties, and by the motion of its atoms electricity can be carried
from one part of the gas to another. The ease with which
the gas can be made to conduct electricity depends upon the
ease with which its molecules can be split up into atoms.
   Let us consider what, according to this theory, happens
when a spark passes between two parallel plates. In some
one or more of the molecules near the negative electrode the
atoms separate, the positively charged atom goes to the nega
tive electrode and the negative atom is repelled. If F is the
value of the electromotive intensity between the plates, d the
distance of the molecule which is ultimately split up from
the electrode, the work done by the electric neld on the posi
tive atom when it reaches the negative electrode is Fde, where
e is the charge on the atom ; the work done in the same time
on the negative atom will not be greater than this, so that
the whole work done on the atoms in the molecule will not
                               2E2

360            Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Passage
be greater than 2Frf«. But if the molecule is split up by
the electric field, the work done by the field must equal tbo
difference between the energy of the molecule and its atoms,
a constant quantity if the temperature remains constant.
Thus Yd is constant, so that F must vary inversely as d. Now
the effects produced by the collisions between molecules are
probably so vigorous, that the electric forces trying to split
up the molecules will have to commence their work afresh
after each collision : in this case d is the free path of a
molecule in the neighbourhood of the electrode, and the force
required to produce discharge varies inversely as the free path
and therefore inversely as the density. This investigation, or
a similar one, will hold if we suppose that the splitting up of
the molecules is helped by the presence of an " electric double
sheet " near the surface of an electrode, corresponding to a
definite difference of potential between the electrode and the
gas, or whether we suppose short " Grothaus chains " to be
formed, and the splitting up to pass from one molecule in
the chain to another, being helped by the chemical forces
between the molecules.
   If we suppose the charges on the atoms to be the same as
those deduced from electrolytic considerations, the force be
tween the atoms in the molecule is so much greater than the
force tending to separate them, in a field of 30,000 volts
per centimetre, that it seems almost necessary to assume that
the decomposition is helped in some such way as has just been
suggested.
   The increase in the strength when the density of the gas
falls below a certain value may be accounted for by the
diminution in the number of atoms available for carrying the
electricity, by the interference of the vessel with the free path,
and it may be by the increased difficulty of forming a
" Grothaus chain " in a rare gas.
   We ought also to notice that since Fd must be constant,
and since d cannot be greater than the distance between the
Slates, the electric strength must be infinitely great when the
  istance between the plates is indefinitely small.
   According to this view, the molecules of a gas are essen
tially electrically neutral, and any electrification in the gas
must be due to the presence of free atoms. Now the most
careful experiments seem to show that air is incapable of
receiving a charge of electricity ; for Nahrwold's experiments
(Wied. Ann. xxxi. p. 448) show that apparent exceptions to
this rule may be explained by the presence of dust, either
originally present in the gas or given off from the electrodes.
   Perhaps the most conclusive evidence of the impossibility

                 of Electricity through Hot Gases.             361
 of communicating a charge of electricity to a gas in a normal
 state is afforded by Blake's discovery (Wied. Ann. xix. p. 518),
 confirmed by Sohncke (Wied. Ann. xxxiv. p. 925), that the
 vapour arising from an electrified liquid is not electrified.
    The effect on the electric discharge of the disintegration of
 the electrodes seems to have been too much neglected. Me
 tallic electrodes give off particles of the metal freely under
 many circumstances. Thus, for example, it has been known
for a long time that they do so when they glow ; and the
recent experiments of Lenard and Wolff (Wied. Ann. xxxvii.
p. 443) prove that they do so when exposed to ultra-violet
light. Now a gas when exposed to ultra-violet light allows
electricity to pass through it. This might either be due to
the decomposition of the gas by the ultra-violet light (of which,
however, there does not seem any direct evidence), or the
discharge may be carried by the particles which the electrodes
 give off under the influence of ultra-violet light. The dis
 covery by Wiedemann and Ebert, that electricity will not
pass through the gas unless the cathode is illuminated, how
ever brightly the rest of the field may be illuminated, points
to this explanation ; as Lenard and Wolff found that a posi
tively charged plate does not give off particles of metal when
illuminated, though a negatively electrified plate does so freely,
and an uncharged one also, though not to so great an extent as
a negatively electrified one.
    Dr. Schuster has lately found (Proc. Roy. Soc. xlii. p. 371)
that a gas through which an electric discharge is passing is
unable to insulate the smallest electromotive intensity due to
a source independent of that producing the discharge. This
is easily explained on the preceding view ; for the discharge
splits up the molecules, provides a supply of atoms, and thus
turns the gas into a conductor. In this case the atoms are
supplied by the splitting up of the molecules by the electric
field. There are, however, other ways of splitting up the
molecules, of which raising the temperature is one ; it is
therefore interesting to study the effect of heat on the elec
trical conductivity of gases. The following experiments were
made for that purpose.
                 Results of previous Experiments.
    Previous experiments on the electrical conductivity of hot
gases have given apparently conflicting results.             Thus
Becquerel, whose experiments have been confirmed by Blond-
lot, found that hot air conducted ; while Grove could not
detect any conduction between white-hot platinum wires sur

362           Prof. J. J. Thomson on (he Passage
rounded by steam ; and neither Maxwell nor Hittorff could
find any trace of conduction through hot mercury-vapour. I
have repeated all these experiments and verified the results.
Hittorff found, too, that the conductivity of a flame was very
much increased by putting volatile salts, such as the chlorides
of sodium and potassium, into it, and that the increase in the
conductivity depended on the nature of the salt.
                  Methods of Experimenting.
   I have used three different methods of investigating the
conductivity of hot gases, as the method which is the most
convenient for one gas is not always so for another. In all
these experiments the conductivity of the gas was sufficiently
large to enable the current sent through a centimetre or two of
the gas by a few Daniell's cells to be easily measured by a gal
vanometer of about 4000 ohms resistance. The galvanometer
method, when available, is much more convenient and easy to
use than the much more delicate one in which a leak through
the gas is detected by an electrometer. Whatever method is
employed it is essential that the current measured really
passes through the gas, and is not due to the defective insula
tion of the electrodes which carry the current into it. The
effective insulation of these electrodes requires considerable
care, because no substance is known whose insulation can be
trusted even at temperatures very much lower than those used
in these experiments. It is therefore necessary to keep the
places at which insulation is essential quite cool. The only
really effective way of doing this is to keep such places well
away from the hot gas and well screened from currents of hot
air. In the following experiments this was done by making
the upper part of the electrodes pass through vertical glass
tubes, to which two long horizontal pieces of glass tube were
fused; these pieces were about 8 inches in length, and were
supported at the ends away from the electrodes by passing
through holes drilled in solid pieces of ebonite, supported by
retort-holders. These pieces of ebonite remained cool even
when the gas had been kept at a white heat for some hours,
and though they were tested repeatedly they were never found
to leak. The electrodes were connected with the battery by
long overhead wires insulated by pieces of sealing-wax placed
so far from the hot gas that they never became appreciably
warm.
   In the greater number of experiments the gas to be investi
gated was contained in a platinum tube made by Johnson and
Matthey. It was 7 inches long and 1 inch in diameter. Into this

                 of Electricity through Hot Gases.           363
tube the terminals insulated in the way just described dipped.
The platinum tube was wrapped round with asbestos tape,
•then placed in an iron tube, and the whole arrangement put
 into one of Fletcher's muffle-furnaces, fed by 1-inch gas-pipe
and a large air-blast worked by bellows such as are ordinarily
used for forges.
    If the substance experimented on was solid or liquid at
ordinary temperatures, the gas was produced by dropping the
 solid or liquid into the tube and allowing the vapour from
 it to drive the air out ; if the substance was gaseous at ordi
 nary temperatures, a stream of it was conducted through
 the stem of a clay tobacco-pipe to the bottom of the tube
 and allowed to run until it had driven the air Out.
    The method of procedure was very simple. . . The electrodes
in the tube were placed in series with the galvanometer and
with a large Daniell's battery arranged in boxes with twelve
cells in each ; a reversing-key was placed in the circuit. When
the gas had reached the requisite temperature, the supply of gas
to the furnace was stopped, the battery put ou. one way, and
the deflexion of the galvanometer read ; the battery was then
 reversed and the deflexion again read. Though the deflexions
are given in some cases the results must be considered as
qualitative rather than quantitative,, as the temperature was
 only fixed by describing the glow from the tube as dull red,
 bright red, yellow, bright yellow, and white.
    It was found as soon as different gases were tested that
they differed enormously in their power of acquiring con
ductivity by heating. Some of them, such as air or nitrogen,
only acquired it to a very small extent; and I shall afterwards
give reasons for believing that most of this can be accounted
for by convection-currents produced by the disintegration of
the electrodes. In other cases, however, notably for hydriodic
acid gas, iodine vapour, bromine vapour, the vapour of sodium
 chloride, hydrochloric acid gas, the vapOUrs of sodium and
 potassium, the gas acquired very considerable conductivity
 when the temperature exceeded a red light; so much so in fact
that at a white heat two or three Leclanche cells were sufficient
 to throw the light reflected from the galvanometer-mirror
 right off the scale. The difference between the conductivity
 for the two classes of gases is so great that it suggests that
 the method by which the electricity is conveyed from one
 electrode to the other is not the same in the two cases.
    It ought to be mentioned that even in the case of those
 gases which conduct best, there was not sufficient conductivity
 to produce a current that could be detected by the galvano
 meter until the electrodes began to glow; and from some

364              Prof. J. J. Thomson on tlie Passage
experiments which I shall describe later I am inclined to think
that in order for the electricity to get with ease from the
gas to the electrodes the latter must be glowing (and there
fore disintegrating?).
    The results obtained by using the platinum tube are given
in the following table. The results for metallic vapours are
not given here, as with this arrangement the temperature
could not be raised high enough to volatilize many metals, so
that a different method had to be used for these.
                                        Behaviour when heated to a
        Subetance.                               yellow heat
Air                                Small deflexion, about 10 or 12 di
                                      visions for 156 Daniells.
Nitrogen                           Much the same as air.
Carbonic acid                      Bather less than air.
Ammonia                            Rather less than air.
 Steam                             Considerably less than air.
Hydrochloric acid                  Large deflexion ; spot driven right off
                                       scale b3r 12 Daniells.
 Hudriodic acid                    Very large deflexion indeed ; larger
    *                                  than for HC1.
 Sulphuric acid . ,                Small deflexion ; very little more
                                       than air.
 Nitric acid                       About the same as air.
 Iodine                            Very large deflexion ; comparable
                                       with HI.
 Bromine                           Large deflexion.
 Potassium iodide                  Conducted fairlv well, but not so
                                       well as III, HC1, or I.
 Sal-ammoniac                      Conducted well.
 Sulphur (surrounded by nitrogen). Small deflexion.
 Sulphuretted hydrogen (dittoJ      Very small deflexion until the tem
                                       perature was raised to a white
                                       heat.
 Mercury                            Very small deflexion indeed ; much
                                        smaller even than air.
 Sodium chloride                    Large deflexion.
 Potassium chloride                  Large deflexion.
      In this table the gases which conduct well are printed in
  italics. Several of these are known to dissociate at high
  temperatures ; thus iodine and bromine are known to do so
  to a very large extent, and the dissociatiou of the vapour of
  hydriodic acid, perhaps the best conductor in the list, is
  rendered very striking by the change in the colour of the
  vapour, which is brown at low temperatures and purple at
  high. There are, however, many substances in the list whose
  dissociation has not been observed, and in some cases cannot
  be great; thus the experiments on the vapour-density of

                of Electricity through Hot Gases.            365
hydrochloric acid at high temperatures, and Scott's determina
tion of the vapour-density of KI, show that there cannot be
any very great amount of dissociation for these substances.
I thought, however, it would be interesting to test whether
or not there was any dissociation of the KI and HC1, since they
conducted electricity when raised to a red heat. The po
tassium iodide was tried first. The stem of a long clay tobacco-
pipe was placed in the platinum tube, one end reaching down
to the bottom (the hottest part) of the tube, the other end
connected by a glass tube with a bulb filled with a solution of
starch; another glass tube was fixed on to this bulb and con
nected with a water-pump, so that when the pump was
working, the gas from the bottom of the platinum tube bubbled
rapidly through the starch solution: it thus passed very rapidly
from a very hot to a cold place, so that if any dissociation
took place in the platinum tube the constituents might not have
time to combine before passing through the solution, where
the presence of free iodine would be detected. On trying the
experiment, a very distinct blue coloration of the solution
was obtained, though no such coloration was produced by
driving hot air through the bulb just before the KI was put
in the platinum tube. The experiment was repeated several
times, always with the same results; and we may therefore
conclude that free iodine was present, in other words, in the
KI which conducted the electricity there was dissociation.
   A similar experiment was then tried with the hydrochloric-
acid gas, the only difference being that the bulb now contained
a solution of starch and iodide of potassium instead of a
solution of starch alone. If the HC1 is dissociated into H and
CI, and if these gases can be withdrawn from the hot platinum
tube so quickly that they have not time to recombine, on
bubbling through the solution the free chlorine will set free
iodine from the potassium iodide and produce a blue colora
tion of the solution. On trying the experiment, the solution
began to change colour as soon as the gas commenced to
bubble through, and in less than a minute became almost
black. This was not due to any oxide of nitrogen, because
the coloration did not take place when air from the bottom
 of the hot platinum-tube was sucked through the solution,
nor was it due to any impurity in the hydrochloric acid, for
it did not occur when the HC1 was allowed to bubble through
the solution without being heated.
   A similar experiment was tried with NaCl, and free chlorine
was found in the hot vapour of this gas, though the effects
produced by it were not so large as in HC1, where the solution

366     On the Passage of Electricity through Hot Gases.
became black at once. Sal-ammoniac, another good con
ductor, is known to dissociate into ammonia and hydrochloric
acid. In fact, whenever a gas became a good conductor when
heated, I was able to detect dissociation by purely chemical
means.
   The converse statement is not, however, true ; there are
many cases in which dissociation takes place without the gas
acquiring the power of conducting electricity. Thus, take the
case of ammonia; this at high temperatures is known to
dissociate into nitrogen and hydrogen ; but ammonia heated
to a temperature above that of dissociation, the dissociation
being proved by the absence of any effect on litmus-paper of
the hot gas rising from the tube, was an excessively bad con
ductor, being worse than air. Again, steam at high tem
peratures dissociates into hydrogen and oxygen ; but steam
even at these temperatures does not conduct electricity. The
dissociation of the steam which would not conduct was proved
by sucking the hot gases quickly from the platinum tube; when
a series of electric sparks were passed through the gases thus
sucked over, a large condensation took place.
   There are, however, two kinds of dissociation— the one
where atoms or unsaturated bodies are produced, as in the
dissociation of iodine, bromine, chlorine, hydrochloric acid,
hydrobromic acid, and hydriodic acid ; the other where a
complicated molecule is merely split up into simpler mole
cules, as for example ammonia, which at temperatures below
that at which the molecules of nitrogen and hydrogen dis
sociate, dissociates into nitrogen and hydrogen molecules ; or
 steam, which at temperatures below that of the dissociation
of hydrogen and oxygen dissociates into molecules of these
   It is the first kind of dissociation which is always accom
panied by conduction, while the second kind has little if any
 thing to do with it. This is just what we should expect if we
accept the view of the passage of electricit}' through gases
 given above, for in the first case we have the charged atoms
 which can carry the electricity, while in the second we have
merely neutral molecules which have no such power.
                          [To be continued.]
\

                             [   367     ]
XXXVIII. On an Apparatus for the Distillation of Mercury
• in a Vacuum. By Wyndham R. Dunstan, M.A., F.C.S.,
    Professor of Chemistry to the Pharmaceutical Society of
    Great Britain, and T. S. Dymond, F.I.C., F.C.S.*
      [From the Research Laboratory of the Pharmaceutical Society.]
 DISTILLATION of impure mercury constitutes the best
        method of removing foreign metals, and distillation in a
 vacuum is the only feasible plan of conducting the operation
 in the laboratory. It is doubtful whether mercury can be
 completely freed from zinc by distillation, and it is therefore
 safer to remove this metal, before distillation is resorted to,
 by agitating the mercury with warm concentrated hydro
 chloric acid.
    Different forms of apparatus for distilling mercury in a
 vacuum have been described by Weinhold, Weber, Wright,
 and Clark. The action of these different pieces of apparatus
 is primarily dependent on the same principle . but that de
 scribed by Clark (Phil. Mag. 1884, xvii.p. 24) is undoubtedly the
 most convenient and is the form which is ordinarily used. It
 possesses, however, several disadvantages. It is inconveniently
 long, being at least 5 feet in length, and needs a special place
 in the laboratory where it must be permanently fixed. More
 over the apparatus is only applicable when a comparatively
 large quantity of mercury is available, since at the con
  clusion of the operation there remains in the apparatus
  between one half and one quarter of a litre of undistilled
  mercury, the amount being chiefly dependent on the diameter
  of the distillation-tube. To this residue more mercury must
  be added before distillation can be recommenced.
     The still we are about to describe does not entail these dis
  advantages. It is easy and inexpensive to construct, and
  when once started is automatic in its action. It is rather
  more than a metre long, and when required for use can
  immediately be clamped on a retort-stand and may be as
  readily dismounted again. The residue of undistilled mer
  cury which remains in the apparatus is less than 20 cubic
  centimetres.
     The apparatus is constructed in the following manner:—
  A bulb A is blown on one end of a piece of thick-walled soft
  glass tubing B, and is made to assume somewhat the shape of
  an oblate spheroid, so that nearly the whole of the mercury may
  be distilled out of it. The other end of the tube has a small
       * Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 7, 1890.

368    Messrs. Dunstan and Dymond on an Apparatus
elbow-bend to admit of its connexion with the reservoir H by
means of the stout rubber-tubing G. The diameter of the
bore of this glass tube is 3 millim., and its length 1 metre,
measured from the point at which it joins the bulb to the
bend at the other end. To the summit of the bulb is sealed
a piece of tubing which is bent round one side of the bulb
and terminates in the limb C, which acts as a Sprengel pump.
The length of the tube from the lower surface of the bulb to
the bend at its other end is about 1 metre, and the bore has a
diameter of 1'5 millim. The upper part of this limb, at a dis

          for the Distillation of Mercury in a Vacuum.        369
tance of about 5 centim. from the bulb, is expanded to form a
chamber D for the condensation of the mercury vapour ; this
chamber is 1 decim. long and 1 centim. wide. The other end
of the limb is for convenience bent twice at right angles F,
and beneath it is placed a receptacle for the distilled mercury.
The movable reservoir H, attached by means of at least
1 metre of stout rubber-tubing, known as " pressure " tubing,
to E is a large tap-funnel having a capacity at least twice
as great as that of the bulb A. It is provided with a tightly-
fitting indiarubber cork carrying a small tapped tube K, which
projects just below the cork, and a thistle-funnel L which
extends to the bottom of the reservoir. The apparatus is
supported by a clamp immediately below the chamber D,
and it rests on the bend E of the stout limb B.
    Before the still is set in action it must be thoroughly dried.
The reservoir H is then filled with dry mercury and raised
until the liquid has ascended to the summit of the bulb A, and
has commenced to fall over into the limb C. The reservoir
is now slightly lowered, and by means of the tap J the flow
of mercury is checked until it falls only moderately fast (as
in a Sprengel pump) down the limb C. In about five minutes
the chamber D will have been exhausted of air. As soon as
the sharp " click " of the falling mercury is heard and the
descending column in C is almost continuous, the reservoir is
lowered until the bulb A is about half full. The reservoir H
is now adjusted to act automatically in maintaining a constant
level of mercury in the bulb A. The stopcock J having been
shut, the bulb is heated and the distillation allowed to proceed
for about half an hour until the vapour-pressure of the
mercury for the maximum temperature to which the bulb will
be raised has been attained. Air is then sucked out of the
tube K until bubbles pass up through the mercury, when the
 tap in K is instantly closed. The tube of the funnel L now con
 tains no mercury, the pressure of the air and of the mercury in
 the reservoir being exactly equal to the atmospheric pressure
 acting through L. The level of the mercury in the reservoir
 must now be adjusted until the surface of the mercury in the
 bulb is distant from the bottom of the reservoir (above J) by the
 height of the barometric column less the vapour-pressure of
 mercury for the temperature at which distillation occurs. This
 temperature having been ascertained, the adjustment may be
 made after direct measurement of the mercurial column. It may
 also be effected perhaps more readily by raising the reservoir
 little by little until on momentarily opening the stopcock J air
 is observed to bubble through the mercury. As soon as this
 occurs, the stopcock J is left open. The mercury from the

370       Messrs. Dunstan and Dymond on an Apparatus
reservoir H will now be automatically supplied to the bulb A.
As the mercury distils out of the bulb more rises from the
reservoir to take its place, and air enters from the funnel L
and bubbles through the mercury in the reservoir into the
closed space above. Through this action of the reservoir the
level of the mercury in the bulb will remain the same until
the whole of the mercury contained in the reservoir has been
distilled.
   In order to heat the bulb A the tabes just below it are
surrounded by the ring-burner M, which may be a circular piece
of metal or glass tubing perforated at regular intervals with
small holes ; the flames proceeding from these perforations
should be very small, and must on no account be allowed to
impinge on the bulb or on either of the tubes. The bulb is
now enclosed on all sides so that a hot air-chamber may
result. This is best done by cutting a circular disk N, whose
circumference is somewhat greater than that of the ring-
burner, out of asbestos millboard, incisions being made to
correspond with the tubes so that the disk may slide under
the bulb and rest on the burner itself. On this disk as a
base a cylinder of the same material, or of glass, is placed,
the cylinder being wider and taller than the bulb. The
cylinder is closed at the top by a rather larger and circular
piece of asbestos millboard, in the centre of which a small
round hole should be cut. By partially or entirely cover
ing this hole with a small disk of millboard, it is easy to
regulate the admission of air to the chamber. The cylinder
is prepared from the millboard by thoroughly wetting it and
rolling it round a bottle or wooden block of the proper size.
When dry the cylinder is removed and secured by twisting a
piece of thin copper wire round it. The bulb is thus heated
in the air-chamber, and not by direct contact with the flames,
and the bulb is effectually protected from the disastrous
effects of draughts of cold air.
   The temperature of the air-bath when distillation is pro
ceeding ranges between 200° and 300° C. Since fresh mer
cury is automatically supplied to the bulb the still requires
no attention, and may safely be left at work day and night
provided that the gas pressure is almost constant. This may
of course be ensured by fixing a gas-regulator in the air-bath.
We have found, however, that an ordinary Sugg's dry governor
introduced between the gas supply and the Durner answers
the purpose sufficiently well.
   When the still is started for the first time the air-film on
the glass is detached and passes away down the limb C. The
distillation consists in continuous evaporation from the
liquid surface unaccompanied by actual ebullition, or by the

          for the Distillation of Mercury in a Vacuum.        371
" bumping " and spirting which are so noticeable when mer
cury is distilled under the ordinary atmospheric pressure.
   The rate of distillation is mainly dependent on the capacity
of the bulb A. We have generally worked with a bulb
rather smaller than that described above, because it is easier
to blow it of sufficient thickness. As the still is automatic
in its action and needs ho attention the quick distillation of
a large quantity of mercury is not a point of much importance.
It has frequently happened that the distillation has come to
an end during the night, both the reservoir and the bulb being
discovered nearly if not quite empty. This, however, has oc
casioned no inconvenience ; it is only necessary to introduce
more mercury into the reservoir and from thence into the bulb.
This can be done without extinguishing the burner. The
stopcock J is closed and the tap K is opened. Mercury is then
poured through the funnel L. The stopcock F is now opened
very gradually, so that cold mercury may not suddenly rush
against the hot glass, until the bulb is half full, when the stop
cock J is closed again. A piece of rubber-tubing is now attached
to K, and air is sucked out until bubbles begin to rise through
the mercury in the reservoir, when K is shut ; after the lapse
of about half an hour the stopcock J is opened. When a dis
tillation has been finished and the apparatus is not further
required for the present, it may be left standing with the
stopcock J closed, and the end F dipping into mercury or
otherwise sealed ; it can then be started again at any moment.
To empty the still, F is closed and the apparatus is carefully
tilted so that the mercury remaining in C may flow into the
chamber D. If now the end F be cautiously unclosed air will
enter the apparatus through the empty limb C.
    When this apparatus is at work in a dark room the re
markable phenomenon of the " flashing " of mercury is
observed. It is seen in the condensation-chamber D. As the
 mercury liquefies flashes of green light are produced, which
 exhibit the spectrum of mercury. It would seem that this
 is an electrical effect arising from friction between mercury
 and glass. We have noticed that it is enormously intensified
 when one of the dischargers of a Wimshurst machine is
 brought near the chamber 1). Under these circumstances the
 entire chamber becomes illuminated with a magnificent green
 light.
    The apparatus may also be conveniently employed for
 observing the electrical discharge through mercury-vapour at
 different temperatures. For this purpose the ascending
 column of mercury in B and the descending column of mer
 cury in C are used as electrodes. One terminal from the coil
  dips into the mercury in the reservoir H, the other into the

372                 Notices respecting New Books.
distilled mercury which has collected in the receptacle under
F, and below the surface of which the extremity of the tube
C is immersed.
   We are now making observations on the character of the
discharge which occurs under these conditions, in the absence
of any foreign metal.
              XXXIX. Notices respecting New Books.
Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society. Vol. VI. Part 1.
                       8vo. Edinburgh: 1890.
I. ATE. EALPH RICHAEDSON, W.S., in an Inaugural Address
   •^"-*¦ gives a detailed aud at the same time a comprehensive view
of "Darwin's Geological Work," and warmly insists on the good
results of his researches and published views ; and he appends a
list of Darwin's geological writings. II. "The Classification,
Determination, Distribution, Origin, and Evolution of the Normal
Micas," is the title of a paper by Mr. A. Johnstone, F.G.S. He
arrives at the conclusion that—as the mica in recent igneous rocks
is almost always biotite, and that this must therefore have been a
product of igneous fusion, — and, as the micas of the older rocks
are referable to biotite, hydrobiotite, muscovite, and hydromuscovite,
the first may be safely considered as the original mica, and the
others as varieties derived from it by water, C02, and other natural
agents. 111. The supposed High-level Shell-beds in Easter Ross
are shown by Mr. Hugh Miller to be only recent mussels and lim
pets thrown out on the blown sand which has now invaded the
village. ! IV. Mr. John Henderson treats of " The Succession of the
Lower Carboniferous Series to the West of Edinburgh, with special
reference to the district around Cramond." This is in continuation
of former researches, and is to be followed by remarks on higher
beds in a future paper. V. "An Old Man and Woman ; or Human
Bones hi a Scrobicularia-bed at Newton Abbot, Devonshire," are
described by W. Pengelly, E.E.S., in a paper of remarkable per
spicuity and interest, every point of observation and treatment
being well and clearly dealt with. The conclusion arrived at is
that " the man and woman represented by the relics under notice
were as old as the era of the deposition of the Eaised Beaches of
Devonshire, and therefore older than the period of their upheaval ;
but for this we are by no means unprepared, as the mollusks of the
said beaches limit them to a Post-glacial age ; and the caverns of
the neighbouring Torbay district have undoubtedly established for
Devonshire Man a very early Post-glacial, if not, as I believe, a
Pre-glacial Antiquity." VI. " Improvements in the Methods of
determining the Composition of Minerals by Blowpipe-Analysis,"
by A. Johnstone, F.G.S., is a very careful uiineralogical paper,
treating of the improved and newest methods and results, as
more particularly set forth under the headings (A-J) in Tables of
the operations of qualitative blowpipe-analysis at pages 47-52.
VII. This is the Anniversary "Address on Eecent Progress in

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            373
Palaeontology as regards Invertebrate Animals," by Prof. H. A.
Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.G.S. After pointing out the false
position taken by those who would suppress Palaeontology as an
independent branch of Biology, he proceeds to mention the dis
covery of the probably Foratniniferal structure of some oolitic
grains,—of the probable occurrence of Badiolaria in Ordoviciau
chert of South Scotland, and of the possible proof of fossil Badio-
larian deposits being of deep-sea origin,—of the recent advances
in our knowledge of fossil Sponges,—of the Stromatoporidae and
the true Hydrocorallines,—of the true Coral groups and other
Coelenterata,—the Monticuliporoids also, and the fossil Echino-
derms, Annelides, Crustaceans, Arachnides, Insects, and Polyzoa.
The Brachiopoda and Mollusca proper are slightly touched on,
except the fossil Pteropods, which are more especially treated of.
In conclusion Dr. Nicholson states " that the ascertained facts of
Palaeontology indicate, with an ever-increasing clearness, the exist
ence of some general law of Evolution, by the operation of which
new forms of life have been successively introduced upon the earth.
As to the precise modus operandi of this general law, Palaeontology
does not, in my opinion, at present afford a decisive answer. That
one great factor in the process has been the operation of ' Natural
Selection,' as explained and defined by Darwin, does not, I think,
admit of reasonable doubt. That 'Natural Selection' has been
the sole agency at work is, however, a different and more doubtful
point ; and Palaeontology, at any rate, does not seem to me to be
yet in the position to supply the final solution to this most difficult
and complex problem."
           XL. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
     ON ELECTKICAL VIBRATIONS IN STRAIGHT CONDUCTORS.
                         BY PROF. J. STEFAN.
         distribution of a constant electrical current in a conductor,
     or its branching into several conductors, takes place in such a
manner that, for the same strength of the total current, the disen
gagement of heat, according to Joule's law, is a minimum. This
principle has been demonstrated by Kirchhoff for conductors of
any given shape. It holds, however, only when the individual parts
of the conductor contain no special electromotive forces ; it does
not hold therefore for variable currents in which inductive actions
occur in the conductors.
   In currents of rapid variability, particularly with periodical
currents of very high number of vibrations, the influence which the
resistances exert on their regulation becomes less in comparison
with those of the inductive actions ; and with periodic currents to
the greater extent the higher the number of vibrations. In solving
many questions relating to the behaviour of such currents we can
entirely neglect the resistance of the conductors, and can use
equations which hold for currents in conductors without resistance.
G. Lippmann was the first to direct attention to these equations
and their application.
   Fhil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 179. April 1890.            2 F

374            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   From these equations we may deduce the following principle :—
The branching or distribution of a variable current takes place in
such a manner that for any time its electrodynamic energy is a
minimum for the same magnitude of the total current. As this
energy may also be represented as a magnetic one, which has its
basis in the magnetization of the conductor and of the medium
surrounding it, the principle may also be so expressed. The dis
tribution of the current takes place in such a manner that for the
same magnitude of the total current its magnetic energy is a
minimum.
   In a straight conductor of circular section, which is exposed
to no lateral actions, electrical currents can only be symme
trically arranged about the axis. In whatever manner the
density of the current may vary from the axis towards the surface,
the external magnetic action of the conductor is the same as if the
entire current was concentrated in the axis. The minimum of
magnetic energy is determined, therefore, by the fact that this
energy has the smallest value in the space occupied by the con
ductors. This smallest value, and indeed the value zero, is attained
when the entire current is condensed in an minutely thin layer on
the surface of the cylindrical conductor, for such a current-tube
has no magnetic force on the space enclosed by it.
   If the section of the conductor is not circular there is also a dis
tribution of the current on the surface which makes the magnetic
action at any point in the interior equal to zero, and corresponds
to the minimum of magnetic work. This distribution is conform
able with that which an electric charge acquires when it is on the
conductor in a condition of equilibrium. Just as the resultant of
the electrical forces of such a charge is zero at any point of the con
ductor, this is also the case with the resultant of the various cur
rent-filaments lying in the surface, if the density of the current
along the periphery varies in the same manner as the density of
the statical electrical charge. If, for instance, the section of the
conductor is bounded by an ellipse, the densities in the various
points of the ellipse will be as the perpendiculars which fall from
the centre on the tangents to these points.
   In his Inst published experiments H. Hertz has given very
striking proofs that electrical vibrations of very high frequency
can only move along the surface of the conductor. It also follows
from his observations on such movements in band-shaped conductors,
that the density of the current at the edges of the band is far
greater than that in the middle of the broader side.
   It may here be observed that the principle of distribution pro
pounded not only serves for estimating the deportment of vibra
tions, but may also be applied to rapid electrical impulses, such as
lightning-flashes, or constants of very short duration.
   The velocity with which electrical waves travel in a conductor
depends on the product of two factors—the coefficient of self-
induction, and the capacity, both referred to unit length of the
conductor. With the distribution of the current-density on the
surface of a conductor, described above, the magnetic energy, and

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             375
therefore also the self-induction, is independent of the magnetic
nature of the substance. In consequence of this, electrical waves
of high periods travel in an iron wire with the same velocity
as in one of copper. According to an experiment made by Hertz
this, as a fact, is the case. Hertz explains this by the assumption
that the magnetism of iron cannot follow such rapid vibrations.
According to what is here stated the matter is much simpler : the
iron remains free from any magnetic action of these vibrations.
   From the experiments of H. Hertz, it results that the propaga
tion of electrical waves in thin and thick wires takes place with
the same velocity. According to the distribution of such waves on
the surface of a conductor, it follows that this velocity in a straight
conductor is independent, not only of the magnitude, but also of
the form of the section. The coefficient of self-induction may be
expressed by twice the potential of the electrical charge on itself
divided by the square of the quantity. If in calculating the potential
of the current we take the formula propounded by Neumann for the
potential of two elements of current, this, in a straight conductor in
which only parallel elements occur, reduces to the potential of two
elements of the statical charge. If now the current-density as well
as that of the charge in the surface are divided according to the
same law, the same calculation must be made to determine the two
potentials. Both are in like manner dependent on the size and
shape of the section ; and accordingly the product of the coefficient
of induction and the capacity, as well as the velocity of propagation
of the waves, are independent of the size and form of the section.
The identity in the form of the electrodynamic and electrostatic
potential has the consequence that the distribution of the current
on such conductors as are parallel, and not connected with each
other, may be determined by the rules of electrostatics. Here the
potential of a conductor, which is only evoked by the induction of
the other, must be called zero.— Wiener Berichte, January 9, 1890.
        ELECTRICAL VIBRATIONS IN RAREFIED AIR WITHOUT
                   ELECTRODES. BY JAMES MOSER.
    Incited by the view of Heaviside and Poynting, that electrical
 vibrations penetrate into a wire from the surface, and influenced
 by Hertz's experiments with the wire cage*, the author has used
 rarefied spaces without electrodes as conductors in which electrical
 vibrations occur.
    A glass tube which contained a gas of constant rarefaction was
 surrounded with a wider tube, and the rarefaction varied in this
 by means of the air-pump. The following results were obtained: —
    (a) At the ordinary atmospheric pressure in the outer tube the
 inner tube becomes luminous.
    (6) With a sufficient rarefaction of the outer tube the pheno
 menon is reversed ; the inner tube becomes dark and the outer one
 luminous. Here there is obviously a screening action.
                  * Wiedemann's Annalen, xxxvii. p. 395.

376           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   In the course of the preceding research the rarefaction was
pushed still further, and
   (c) The outer tube was again dark, the inner one luminous ; so
that to the eye this third stage was like the first one.
   The more perfect vacuum exerts therefore no screening action ;
it has lost the power of conducting the electrical current.— Witner
BerichU, January 9, 1880.
ON THE FORMATION OF OZONE BY THE CONTACT OF AIR WITH
    IGNITED PLATINUM, AND ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY
    OF AIR OZONIZED BY PHOSPHORUS.            BY PROFS. ELSTER AND
   GEITEL.
   The authors sum up the results of their investigations in the
following terms :—
   ( 1) Incandescent surfaces of platinum ozonize the surrounding
air, even when combustions are excluded.
   (2) When air is ozonized by contact with moist phosphorus
it is seen to conduct electricity in the same manner as the gases of
flame do.
   (3) It could not be found that this process of ozonization had
any electromotive force, or that the air which had been subject to
it had any unipolar conductivity.
   (4) The mere presence of ozone already formed, as well as the
production of clouds from ammoniacal salts in the vicinity of phos
phorus, are not connected with the origination of the conductivity
of the surrounding air, or at any rate only to a subordinate extent.
—Wiedemann's Annalen, March 1890.
  NOTE IN CONNEXION WITH DROPPING-MERCURY ELECTRODES.
                            BY J. BROWN.
   In the Zeitsehrift fur physikaliscTie Cheinie, iv. p. 577, there is a
reference by Prof. Ostwald to my paper on " Helmholtz's Theory
of Mercury-dropping Electrodes," communicated to the Philoso
phical Magazine for May 1889 by Dr. Lodge, as secretary to the
Electrolysis Committee of the British Association.
   Prof. Ostwald, however, considers only one of my experiments,
viz. that which deals with the current in a wire connecting the
dropping mercury with the mercury resting on the bottom of the
vessel containing the electrolyte in which the drops form. My
experiment shows that this current varies in a direction inverse to
the change of resistance of the electrolyte, and is therefore con
ducted by the electrolyte, and does not consist of charges carried
down by the drops as assumed by Helmholtz.
   It is perhaps unnecessary to refer to Prof. Ostwald's criticism
further than to point out that his method of explaining away my
conclusion is inconsistent with the fact brought forward by me,
but apparently not considered by Prof. Ostwald, that the current
flows just the same whether the drops fall into the resting mercury
or not, provided they form in the electrolyte in contact with the
resting mercury.

         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                    AKD
             JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
A JOUKNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS.
   CHEMISTEY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. Gd.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies onty
       on hand—price on application.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.    Price £2 4s.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.        „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.       „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
THE ANNALS AND MAGAZINE
                                      OF
        NATURAL HISTORY,
                                  INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                        MONTHLY, PRWE 2s. Gd.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices:—
    The  First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.     Trice £10.
    The  Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.      „   .£10.
    The  Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.       „   £12.
    The  Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.      „   £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Eed Lion Court, Fleet Street.

             CONTENTS of N° 179.-Fifth Series.
   XXXII. On Magnetization in Strong Fields at Different Tempe
ratures. By H. E. J. G. du Bois, of the Hague. (Plate \111.) page 293
   XXXIII. An Improved Method of Determining Moisture and
Carbonic Acid in Air. By J. S. Haldane, M.A., M.D., and M. S.
Pembret, B.A., Fell Exhibitioner of Christ Church, Oxford.
(From the Physiological Laboratory, Oxford.)                                  306
   XXXIV. On the Structure of the Line-Spectra of the Chemical
Elements. By J. B. Rtdberg, Ph.D., Docent at the University of
Lund                                                                          331
   XXXV. The Change of the Order of Absolute "Viscosity encoun
tered on passing from Fluid to Solid. By Caul Babus                           337
   XXXVI. On the Effect of Permanent Elongation on the Cross
Section of Hard-drawn Wires. By Professors T. Grat and C. L.
Mees                                                                          355
   XXXVU. On the Passage of Electricity through Hot Gases. By
J. J. Thomson, M.A., F.B.S., Cavendish Professor of Es-perimental
Physics, Cambridge                                                            35S
   XXXVIII. On an Apparatus for the Distillation of Mercury in a
Vacuum. By "VVtndham R. Dunstan, M.A., F.C.S., Professor of
Chemistry to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, and T. S.
Dymond, F.I.C., F.C.S                       '                                 367
   XXXIX. Notices respecting New Books : —Transactions of the
Edinburgh Geological Society, Vol. VI. Part 1                                 372
   XL. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On Electrical Vibrations in Straight Conductors, by Prof.
         J. Stefan                                                            373
      Electrical Vibrations in Rarefied Air without Electrodes, by
         James Moser                                                          375
      On the Formation of Ozone by the Contact of Air with Ignited
         Platinum, and on the Electrical Conductivity of Air ozonized
         by Phosphorus, by Profs. Elster and Geitel                           376
      Note in Connexion with Dropping-Mercury Electrodes, by J.
         Brown                                                                ib.
     It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
        Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 29.                          MAY 1890.                            No. 180.
                                      M A V Q 1QQA
         Published the First Day of every Moiith.—Price 2s. 6d.
                                       THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                   MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
              JOURNAL OF                         SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of Tilloclis 'Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholson s 'Journal,' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                   CONDUCTED BY
         SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
         GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. F.R.S.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                           FIFTH           SERIES.
                         N° 180.— MAY 1890.
                              WITH ONE PLATE.
   Illustrative of Eev. F. J. Smith's Paper on a New Form of Electric
                                  Chronograph.
                             >fj LONDON:
        PBINTKD BY TAYLOB AND FBANCIS, BHD LION COUBT, FLKBT BTBXBT.
   Sold by Kent and Co. ; Simpkin Marshal), and Co. ; and Whittaker and Co. ; —
     and by A. and C. Black, and T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
     Glasgow :—Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin:—Putnam, New York ; — Veuve J.
     Boyveau, Paris :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

                         Errata in No. 176 (January).
                       Page 10, columr i 1, for f" read f"
                            n       M    2, „ '<r n *'
                            it      M    3, „ /         « /'
                            M       M    4, „ a         i. <*"
                            n       IJ   7. „ g'       ».  y'
                            n       »    8. ii   </'   ii  .'/"
For MACMILLAN AND BOWES' new CATA-
    LOGUE OF BOOKS on the MATHEMATICS,
    see the end of this number.
                Medium 8vo.    Vol. 1. l'art I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. Gd.
                 PHYSICAL                    MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                        UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
                 PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
          Demy 8vo, price 12*., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                        JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                  OF THE LATE
                  J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
            Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
    Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                   and Portrait.
   Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                 D.C.L., F.R.S.
            Taylor and Francis, lied Lion Court, Fleet Street, F.C.
                                Price £7 10s. ft/.
               TAYLOR'S SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS.
Selected from tho Transactions of Foreign Academies of Science and Learned
Societies, and from Foreign Journals. First Series, August 18.'3l> to September
18C>2: 21 parts. New Series, Nat ural Ilistory : 4 parts. Natural Philosophy:
4 p.\rts.
  A complete set of this valuable Work, containing memoirs by Arago, Italard,
Pecquerel, Berzelius, Bessel, Hiot, Botto, Bunseo, Burmeister, Carus, Cauchr,
Chevreul, Clausius, C'lapeyron, Cruger, Danielssen, Dove, Ehrenberg, Emmerich,
Kncke, Fresnel, Gauss, Goldschmidt, Hansen, Ilelmholtz, Henry, Hoffmann,
Hoffmeistar, Holtzmann, Jacobi, Jamin, Knoblauch, Koene, Korea, Krohn,
Lamont, Lenz, Le Verrier, Liebig, Lciwig, Magnus, Melloni, Menabrea, Meyen,
Mitscherlich, Mohl, Moser, Mossotti, Miiller, Neumann, Nobili, Ohm, Ostro-
gradshy, 1'elouze, Peltier, Plateau, Flacker, Poggendorff, Poisson, Pouillet,
Provostaye, Uedtenbacher, liegnault, Riess, Romer, Lose, Iiudberg, Savart,
Schleiden, Schmidt, Schultess, Seebeck, Sefstiom, Senarmont, Siebold, Vorany,
Vogt, Von liaer, Von Wrede, Walckenaer, Wartman, Wichura, Wiedemann,
Weber.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                 THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL                          MAGAZINE
                                 AND
          JOURNAL                 OF      SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                          MA Y 1890.
XLI. A Neto Form of Electric Chronograph. By Rev.
   Frederick J. Smith, M.A., Millard Lecturer in Mechanics
   and Physics, Trinity College, Oxford*.
                             [Plate IX.]
DURING the last two years a research has been carried
        on by me on the subject of the acceleration-period of
explosions f. In order to deal with the time-measnrements
which arose out of the investigation, it was found necessary
to devise a chronograph which would register a large number
of events following each other after small periods of time. As
the chronograph used in these experiments has been found to
be of use in other branches of scientific work, viz. in deter
mining the velocity of shot, and many physiological time-
measurements, I beg to offer an account of its construction
and use to the readers of the Philosophical Magazine. The
instrument has been called the Electric Tram Chronograph,
because the moving surface is carried upon wheels running
on rails.
   The instrument has, in common with other forms of time-
measuring instruments, a moving plate on which traces are
made by means of electromagnetic styli. In other respects it
greatly differs from other forms of time-measuring instruments.
   In order that an electric chronograph may be of general
           * Communicated by the Author.
           t Proceedings of the Royal Society, xlv. p. 461.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 180. May 1890.             2 G

378            Rev. F. J. Smith on a New Form
use, several conditions have to be complied with ; some of
these are as follows : —
   (1) The moving surface on which the time-traces are made
should be both long and wide. It should be long, so that
periods greatly differing in their duration may be recorded
on the same surface close together. It should be wide, so
that a large number of time-determinations may be made and
compared side by side on the same plate.
   (2) The experimentalist should be able to vary the velocity
of the moving surface.
   (3) The surface should so move that all the time-traces may
be in straight lines, and the velocity of the surface should be
uniform during an experiment. The necessity for uniform
 movement is forced upon one by the experience of the diffi
culty found in subdividing a tuning-fork trace as recorded
by a pendulum-chronograph. When a time-record is made
on a surface which is moving at a uniform velocity, the diffi
culty of accurately subdividing a single vibration at once
disappears.
   (4) The marking-points of the electromagnetic styli,
actuated by springs, when released from an electromagnet,
should make a sharp and definite mark ; also the time between
the breaking of the circuit and the marking should be as
short as possible, and it should be constant in value.
   These ends have been attained in the following manner :—
To a vertical carriage, running upon wheels, between two rails^
a sheet of smoked glass is fixed. The carriage is impelled by
means of a cord attached to a weight ; after the weight has
acted upon the carriage through a certain length of fall it is
arrested, and the carriage moves with the velocity it has
attained : this velocity is found to be practically constant for
the whole length of the trace. It will be noticed that this
arrangement embodies the principle of the Atwood machine.
It will also be noticed that the impulse given by means of the
falling weight gives a maximum velocity at the point where
its pressure is taken off. With respect to pressure given by
a spiral spring, as used in the well-known shooter employed
in physiological work, exactly tho opposite of this takes place.
The writing-points of the electromagnetic styli and the tracing-
point of the tuning-fork are placed so as to mark the moving
surface.
   The distance between tho markings of the styli is obtained
in terms of the length of the vibrations of the fork : from this
the time between two or more markings is determined. This
will become clear from the consideration of the following
detailed description of the instrument.

                      of Electric Chronograph.                  379
     The rails.—Two steel rails, A B and C D, each 2 metres long
 (Plate IX. fig. 1), are attached to three cast-iron standards :
 two of these, M and N, are shown. Each standard is fur
 nished with two levelling-screws. The upper rail is adjustable,
 so that it may be placed parallel to the bottom rail, and at a
 correct distance from it for the width between the wheels of
 the carriage. (The rails are slightly inclined from D to C.)
    The carriage, E F, is built up of bars (which are not shown)
 so as to be both light and rigid. It runs upon three wheels,
each wheel being carried on two steel points ; the points are
adjustable, so that the face of the carriage can be placed
parallel to the plane of the rails. To the front of the carriage
 a sheet of smoked glass is fixed with clips and screws. The
carriage is furnished with a catch which engages with a detent
 at H ; by this it is held back against the pull due to the weight,
 W, until required to run past the styli. A projection at the
back of the carriage engages with a leather brake-band.
    The brake.—A band of leather, L, is fixed to the standard,
M, and also to a strong spiral spring at the back of the upper
rail : the projection previously mentioned rubs under the band
and brings the carriage to rest without any concussion.
    The weight.—A gut-band or cord, passing over the pulleys,
Q, P, R, is fixed at G ; it is provided with a small ball which
engages with a fork fixed to the back of the carriage. The
weight impels the carriage until it is arrested by contact with
an adjustable table T; the carriage then runs on with the velo
city acquired. The velocity is found to be practically uniform
throughout the whole length of a time-trace. The cord, if
free, has a velocity approximately double that of the driving-
weight.
   Electromagnetic styli.— These are shown at A A (fig. 2).
An electromagnet of peculiar construction is mounted upon a
brass plate, which carries a T-shaped lever ; to this a writing-
point of aluminium, mica, or parchment-paper is attached.
The lever is held by the electromagnet, as long as a current is
acting upon it, against the pressure of a spring : when the
current is broken the lever rises and gives its marking. The
electromagnet is so constructed and wound that its period of
" latency ' is exceedingly small, and also constant within
close limits. By means of a flat rectangular spring the stylus
is attached to a pillar furnished with a sliding-holder B : each
stylus can be easily adjusted to a vertical line for experiments
in which a large number of markings are required in succession.
    The pillar-support.—It has been found that, unless the sup
port of the styli is free from vibration, the trace produced by
them is not worth much. The pillar used in connexion with
                               2G2

380             Eev. F. J. Smith on a New Form
the instrument consists of a heavy iron casting, C C (fie. 2)
fitted with a slide, B, the slide can be raised or lowered by
 means of a screw with a milled head, the styli are attached
to the slide B. By raising the slide after each experiment a
 large number of traces can be made side by side, and by the
 addition of an extra carrier as many as 10 styli can be carried.
 The pillar can be rotated on a triangular base, which is sup
 ported upon three levelling-screws. The screws rest after the
 method of Sir W. Thomson, viz. in a hole, a groove, and on a
 plane, on the slab which supports the chronograph. The
 points of the styli are adjusted to the face of the glass by a
 screw S. A simple pillar, A', can also be used when only one
 set of traces is required.
    The tuning-fork.—A tuning-fork T is carried upon a pillar,
which slides upon a block in which a V-groove is cut j a screw-
stop limits its position against the glass. The fork may be
 driven electrically, or it may be excited otherwise. In the
experiments on explosions the fork was started by means of a
 wedge, which kept the prongs apart, being suddenly with
drawn by means of an electromagnet.
    The latency of electromagnetic styli.—While going through
a large number of papers upon investigations in which electro
magnets were used for measuring time, it was found that in
nearly all cases it had been assumed that the armature of an
electromagnet was detached at the instant of the circuit being
broken ; also, that in two instruments of similar construction
the armature was released at the same instant. Several electro
magnets of chronographs were examined: in some cases, where
much iron was used in the cores, the time between breaking
and release of the armature was as much as 0-04 second ; also
two apparently similar shaped electromagnete with similar
windings, equal currents being used, differed in their action by
some hundredths of a second. The experiments showed in a
very definite manner that some electromagnets were not to be
depended upon for close and accurate work.
   In order to produce an electromagnetic stylus free from
these evils a large number of experiments were gone through
on the relative proportions of the cores and their yoke, also
upon the winding. It was found that the yoke should be made
large as compared with the cores ; the dimensions finally
adopted were :—
      Cores .... 2 millim. diam. ; 10 million, long.
      Yoke      .... 20 millim. x 5 millim. x 5 millim.
   The method of measuring the period of delay spoken of,
which may be called the latency of the stylus, is as follows, it

                     of Electric Chronograph.                   381
may be taken as an example of the way in which the instrument
is used (see fig. 3) :—A piece of warm glass is smoked over
the flame of a paraffin lamp furnished with a wide wick ; it
is then attached to the carriage, and the stylus to be tested is
adjusted to the surface of the glass, also the tuning-fork is ad
justed so that its writing-point lightly touches the glass ; an
electric circuit is then completed through the break I (fig. 2),
and the stylus prepared for giving a signal. The carriage is
then brought slowly past the stylus, the result of which is that a
vertical mark I H (fig. 3) is produced ; the carriage is then
held back by the detent, the stylus is again prepared, by the
armature being caused to touch the poles of the electromagnet,
the fork is excited, and the carriage released : the markings
KNML and A B are then produced. The tuning-fork point
is brought against the glass so that a straight line may be
drawn by it, the intersections of this with the curved line deter
mine the limits of any vibration. The length of the traverse
 I N, duly turned into time, is the latency of the stylus. Lines
are drawn by a needle's point through the points I and N, cut
ting A B in E F; the value of E F is then determined by means
of a micrometer microscope, constructed as shown in fig. 4.
 In all cases of estimating time the fork is excited for each
observation, the writing-point of the fork being placed verti
cally above the writing-points of the styli, so that the velocity
of the moving surface is common to both the fork and the
 stylus. The needle-point for scribing the vertical lines is
carried on a kind of dividing-engine. The styli are found to
have a latency of almost perfect constancy, its value being
0*0003 second. The first stylus constructed by me, and used
in the Physiological Laboratory of the University, was not
proportioned as the later ones have been ; it was tested by
Prof. Or. F. Yeo, and his result published in the 'Journal of
Physiology,' vol. ix. nos. 5 and 6, gave as a value of latency
0-00062 sec. The improved result, viz. 0*0003, has been
arrived at by a careful selection of the iron used, and a modi
fication of the winding of the bobbins ; by the reduction of
the latency the marking is rendered much more definite and
readable. The two facsimile tracings (fig. 5) show the nature
of the markings of a time-trace of a slow explosive wave. BA
or BA equals 0*00227".
   The micrometer-microscope is mounted on a bridge E F
(fig. 4) attached to an inclined table A B ; it is carried by means
of a slide, which permits movement parallel to the trace which is
put under it; the slide is moved by a screw having 40 threads
to the inch ; the screw has a micrometer-head divided into 25
large divisions, each of these is again divided into 4 parts, so

382         On a New Form of Electric Chronograph.
that ^nxToo=?o1ff?i °f an m°h can ^® read with ease. The
microscope is furnished with a fine fibre which is brought
over the trace to be measured; a rod of rectangular section
HK is attached to two links or rods, L H, M K; the links
being equal and moving about the points M, cause the rod to
move always parallel to itself: upon the rod the trace rests;
any part of the trace can be brought under the microscope.
 The markings appear as ratber wide lines of light; a V-shaped
 scale in the field of the instrument enables one to bisect these
 lines. Fig. 3 gives an illustration of its use. The centre of
 the field is brought over C, the index of the micrometer-screw
 being at zero; then the microscope is moved by the screw till
 the centre coincides with D. The length C D is then re
 corded, let it be L ; then the micrometer is brought to zero
 again, and E is brought under the centre, and E F is then
measured in the same manner as C D, let it be I ; then, if
a; denote the time of traverse over E F, and t the time of one
vibration,
                         L : I : : t : x,
 and
                                  It
 Fractions of a vibration can thus be easily estimated with
 great accuracy. This proportional method of subdividing the
 vibrations depends upon the fact that the velocity of the
 carriage is practically uniform.
     The method of preserving time-traces.—After the smoked
 glass has received records of time-traces it may be preserved
by being varnished. It is a somewhat difficult matter to
cover a smoked plate with photographic varnish without
making either streaks on the plate or removing a good deal of
the carbon surface ; but if the varnish be diluted with about
 25 times its volume of strong methylated spirit, it may be
 [>oured over the plate without injuring the trace. When it
  las dried off ordinary photo-varnish may be applied without
any risk of doing harm. In the first case the plate should
be cold, in the second it may be a little heated before a fire
previous to the application of the thicker varnish. The traces
can then be used as negatives to print from in the usual way.
Eastman's bromide-paper in rolls has been found to be most
convenient for reproducing the traces. One of these is shown
at fig. 5. The lines are thicker than those usually made, as
a thicker deposit of carbon was used to get a very dense
negative to make a print for this communication to the Philo
sophical Magazine.

  Phil. Mag. S.5.Vol.29.Pl.IX.
¦


  Electrical and Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.    383
   I wish to add that Mr. A. W. Price has greatly assisted
me in the manufacture of the new instrument. The method
of increasing the velocity of the carriage by the introduction
of a pulley attached to the driving-weight is due to him.
XLII. On the Electrical and Chemical Properties of Stannic
   Chloride ; together with the Bearing of the Results therein
   obtained on the Problems of Electrolytic Conduction and
   Chemical Action. — Part I. Experimental Observations.
   Part II. Theoretical Considerations. By Ward Coldridge,
   B.A., Scholar of Emmanuel College, Cambridge* .
                        Introduction.
THE germ from which this work has been developed was
       found in Faraday's statement that Stannic Chloride is
a nonconductor. In the first instance this led to an investi
gation of the lower limit of its conductivity ; the result which
is here recorded was submitted to the Meeting of the British
Association at Bath in 1888 by my friend Mr. W. N. Shaw,
Fellow of Emmanuel College, who experimented with me on
this point : in the second instance I examined the condition
requisite for the development of electrolytic power ; the
results obtained are here for the first time recorded.
   It is claimed that, by taking advantage of the suitable
chemical and physical properties of stannic chloride, a defi
nite advance has been made towards the resolution of the
ambiguous statement that " heterogeneity is necessary for the
development of electrolytic power," and that the results of
Part I. throw light on the nature of an effective impurity,
and in so striking a manner exhibit the parallelism between
the chemical and electrical properties that the conviction
arises of an ultimate explanation common to both. I have
endeavoured to arrive at a single consistent view which shall
explain the phenomena observed ; and in stating the idea I
have carefully abstained from wandering into disquisitions on
other ideas, as that of Arrhenius's vagrant atoms, which,
according to my notion of the stability of the fundamental
chemical molecule, are untenable.
   The field of research from which these results have been
gathered is a fertile one. Incidentally some opportunities
are mentioned : I am conscious that pure pentachloride of
antimony, inter alia, would yield interesting results.
   With much pleasure I acknowledge my indebtedness to
                 • Communicated by the Author

384         Mr. W. Coldridge on tlie Electrical and
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S., for the suggestion of ex
amining the conductivity of the chloride at the boiling-point ;
and to W. N. Shaw, Esq., as well for the use of his room at
the Cavendish Laboratory as for the interest he has kindly
evinced in my results ; and, lastly, to Professor Dixon, F.R.S.,
who has kindly read my manuscript.
           Part I.—Experimental Observations.
    Preparation of Stannic Chloride.—Stannic chloride was
prepared by passing a current of dry chlorine gas over melted
tin. The collected distillate was a yellow powerfully fuming
liquid ; the yellow colour was due to an excess of chlorine,
which was removed by allowing the liquid to stand for two
days over granulated tin. After decantation it was distilled
from a fresh quantity of granulated tin. The liquid then
boiled at a perfectly fixed temperature of 112° C, which is
accurately the boiling-point observed by Andrews, and differs
considerably from Dumas's value of 120° C. The liquid thus
obtained is perfectly colourless : it exhibits a great attraction
for moisture, combining to produce a white crystalline solid,
SnCI4.5HsO (Lewy), insoluble in the chloride.
   Electrical Conductivity of the Pure Chloride.—The conduc
tivity of the pure stannic chloride was examined by placing
it in a V-tube with platinum electrodes : in the circuit were
included a high-resistance galvanometer (4000 ohms), and
twenty secondary cells of electromotive force of 40 volts. On
completing the circuit by depressing a key not the slightest
effect was observable ; the insulation was absolute within
these limits of delicacy, and was in marked contrast to the
conductivity of a pencil-streak of black-lead on paper, for,
with the latter in circuit instead of the former, the spot of
light immediately moved off the galvanometer-scale.
   In order to test whether the insulating power was appre
ciably affected by elevation of temperature, the containing
V-tube was heated in a bath of aniline. But as the tempera
ture rose to 20c, 30°, 40°, 100°, and oven to the boiling-point
when the stannic chloride was distilling freely—and this last
observation is of particular import because the physical homo-
Eeneity of the liquid agitated now with bubbles of vapour
  as been disturbed—no conductivity could be observed. To
arrive at some concept of the degree of insulating power,
the following experiment was performed. The same galvano
meter was placed in circuit with the resistance of one megohm
and supplied with the electromotive force of one Daniell cell ;
the deflexion then observed was thirty-five of the scale-
divisions of the galvanometer. An electromotive force of

             Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.       385
forty volts would give this deflexion through a resistance of
forty megohms. Thus, then, the lower limit to the value of
the conductivity of the above column of pure stannic chloride
cannot be less than one thousand and six hundred megohms.
There is thus in this chemically homogeneous liquid a high
degree of insulating power, and one admirably adapted for
the study of the influence on its electrical conductivity of the
destruction of that homogeneity. The agents used to produce
the required heterogeneity may be classified :—
                       A.   Dry gases.
                       B.   Liquids.
                       C.   Solids.
 Class A. The Effect of Dissolved Gases on the Conductivity.
    I. Chlorine Gas.—A specimen of stannic chloride of a yellow
colour was prepared as above, save that the excess of chlorine
was not removed by granulated tin. The experiments above
described, using the yellow liquid with the excess of chlorine,
were again performed, and precisely the same results were
obtained ; so that the dry chlorine gas was without effect on
the conductivity. It will suffice to note that no compound of
tin and chlorine exists in greater proportion than one atom of
tin to four atoms of chlorine.
   II. Dry Hydrochloric-Acid Gas.—The hydrochloric acid
was carefully dried by sulphuric acid. It was then passed
for a quarter of an hour through a V-tube containing the
tetrachloride. An absorption of the gas was indicated by the
fall in temperature of the liquid through four to five degrees,
which may, however, have been due to the evaporation of the
stannic chloride, and on tightly corking both arms of the
V-tube the liquid rose to different levels.
   The accompanying diagram illustrates the arrangement of
apparatus which I used both here and in subsequent experi
ments to detect the existence of a polarization effect. The
battery used to electrolyse this tetrachloride saturated with
hydrochloric-acid gas consisted of twenty-five storage-cells.
On making the primary circuit, a small direct current passed,
producing a deflexion of thirty scale-divisions. The cell had
thus a resistance of above 5 x 107 ohms. Calculating from the
magnitude of this direct current, it was not to be expected
that a polarization-current would be observed : in fact, after
passing the primary current for half an hour, no current was
detected on making the secondary circuit.

386          Mr. W. Coldridge on the Electrical and
     Diagram of the Electrical Apparatus used in these experiments.
                                                              ¦ Steraft
                                                                 cells
           Befltclinf
  ©        Galvanometer
                                     Jjiauid to
                                   be ejxzmlned
                                      Suit, class .1
                                              - B
                                              - c
   After resaturating the tetrachloride with hydrochloric-acid
gas an increased conductivity was registered.
   An additional experiment was then made to determine
whether this conductivity was merely a residual phenomenon
duo possibly to the incomplete drying of the acid gas. But
the same order of conductivity was observed on saturating a
fresh quantity of the tetrachloride with the acid gas, which
had been completely dried by sulphuric acid and a column of
{mosphorous pentoxide. Now the pure tin tetrachloride is at
 east a comparative insulator, and liquid hydrochloric acid
exhibits the same property. Yet when dry hydrochloric-acid
gas is dissolved in the tetrachloride, some conducting-power
is developed. Now it is known that a compound, 2HC1.
SnCl4 6 HjO exists ; and, further, compounds 2 NaCl . SnCL,,
&c. are of frequent occurrence and of a common type ; there
can therefore be but little doubt that a compound, 2 HC1 . SnOL,,
is formed on passing the dry acid gas into the tetrachloride,
and to the presence of this compound must the developed
conductivity be due. The observed development is accurately
analogous to that with which Moissan endowed liquid hydro
fluoric acid by dissolving in it the freely soluble, thoroughly
dried hydrogen-potassium fluoride. In the one case
              2HC1 . SnCl4 is dissolved in SnCl4,
in the other
              HF,KF             „       „        HF.»
   III. The Effect of Dry Sulphuretted Hydrogen.—Sul
phuretted hydrogen was generated and washed in the usual
                      * Comptes Rendu*, 1887.

            Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.        387
way, and then thoroughly dried by the use of tubes containing
calcium chloride and by a column of phosphorus pentoxide.
The gas thus carefully dried was passed for an hour into the
tetrachloride. The only alteration in appearance was due to
the separation of some white crystals, resembling in appear
ance the hydrate SnCl4 5H20. After filtration the colourless
liquid, which smelt strongly of hydrosulphuric acid, and
fumed in the air as the original unaltered liquid does, was
tested for conductivity. But within the limit of these experi
ments the conductivity was unaltered by the presence of the
hydrosulphuric acid. In striking contrast with this result is
the effect observed on merely placing a few drops of absolute
alcohol on one of the platinum electrodes, shaking it until no
more than a mere film adhered and then replacing it ; a de
flexion is immediately registered and stannic sulphide is
formed on the electrode.
    These observations at once raised a question of considerable
chemical interest as to the nature of this nonconducting pro
duct : had there or had there not been chemical action ? In
 Watts' 'Dictionary of Chemistry' the following statement
 is given on the great authority of Dumas :—
    " Stannic chloride quickly absorbs sulphydric-acid gas,
 giving off hydrochloric acid, and forming a stannic sulplio-
 chloride,
                         SnS2.2SnCl4.
 The compound obtained by the perfect saturation with sul
 phydric-acid gas is a yellowish or reddish liquid heavier than
 water. When heated it gives off SnCl4 and leaves SnS2."
    This abstract is in accord with the account of Dumas's
 observations, given in Fremy's Encyclope'die Chemique.
 According to these dicta, the answer to the above question
 must be that there is chemical action. Assuming for a
 moment that the statement is categorically correct and com
 plete, and that the liquid is indeed a chemical compound,
 SnSj . 2 SnCl4, then even this compound is a nonconductor.
  But this point is hardly worthy of expression ; because the
  fundamental assumption, the existence of the liquid compound
  SnS2.2SnCl4 can be completely disproved. Attention was
  directed to the following points in the above statement :—
     (a) "That sulphydric-acid gas is quickly absorbed and
  that hydrochloric-acid gas is evolved."
     The idea is obviously that the following changes occur:—
               (1)   SnCl4+ 2H2S = SnS2 + 4HCl.
               (2)   SnS2 + 2 SnCl4= SnS, . 2 SnCl4.

388          Mr. W. Coldridge on the Electrical and
   (b) " The product is a yellowish or reddish liquid heavier
than water."
   It was noted that no mention is made of the white crystal
line compound.
   (a) "On heating the liquid, SnCl4 is evolved and SnS2
remains."
   This observation as to the residue of stannic sulphide was
verified, and beautiful specimens of the " mosaic gold " were
obtained. But it should be noted that the liquid has boon
heated.
   The following experiments were then made :—
   (a) The fumes which are evolved on passing in dry hydro-
sulphuric acid smell strongly of the sulphuretted hydrogen
even when the gas was slowly delivered, and immediately
blacken moist lead-acetate paper : they are moreover acrid,
and distinctly smell of the tetrachloride rather than of hydro
chloric acid. But to establish the presence of the tetrachloride
vapour, a test more reliable than the sense of smell was
required. The following was devised :—A glass rod with a
drop of water at the end was held in the fumes ; after a
minute, whilst the dry liquid below remained colourless and
clear, here in the drop of water stannic sulphide was deposited.
The fumes therefore contain the vapour of the tetrachloride
and sulphuretted hydrogen, which are caused to combine by
the action of the water. Thus, then, the statement that hydro
chloric-acid gas is evolved, if it be in the least degree posi
tively true, is fatally incomplete.
   (0) The liquid compound, the supposed stannic sulpho-
chloride, was next distilled. The warming was gently regu
lated ; as the temperature rose gradually to 50°, 60°, 70°,
sulphuretted hydrogen was copiously evolved in such quantity
that the liquid assumed the appearance of boiling, whereas
distillation had not commenced. At 112° C, the boiling-
point of stannic chloride, a free distillation commenced, and
the greater portion of the tetrachloride was thus recovered.
Finally the temperature rose, a solid residue melted, and
stannic sulphide remained, though, from a gravitation expe
riment, in less quantity than was required by the hypothetical
constitution "SnS2 . 2SnCl4." A veritable compound stannic
sulpho-chloride could not at low temperatures evolve sul
phuretted hydrogen copiously and then distil at the ordinary
boiling-point of stannic chloride.
   (c) The presence of the residue of stannic sulphide proved
that, on passing dry hydrosulphuric-acid gas into the cnloride
and then subsequently heating, some reaction occurred. But
the question remained as to how far this production of the

            Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.         389
sulphide was a function of the temperature-change. Was its
formation induced by the elevation of temperature ? It was
noticed that, on warming up the product obtained by passing
the dry gas into the liquid, the white crystals dissolved and
the liquid became yellow ; there was thus a probability that
these white crystals would prove the key to the change.
Some of the crystals were separated and heated ; they then
evolved sulphuretted hydrogen, hydrochloric acid, and left a
residue of stannic sulphide. But it still remained to examine
whether the unheated saturated stannic chloride contained
any stannic sulphide. This point was determined by evapo
rating the saturated liquid to dryness without heating it, an
operation which could be effected by taking advantage of the
volatility of the tetrachloride. A current of thoroughly dried
air was steadily driven into the saturated tetrachloride : fumes
of the tetrachloride mixed with sulphuretted hydrogen were
evolved ; but in the end, when all the liquid had disappeared,
it was found that not a trace of stannic sulphide had been
formed, and that in its place was a residue of the white crys
talline solid. Therefore, then, dry sulphuretted hydrogen
may be passed into the tetrachloride, and, if the temperature
be not raised, not a trace of stannic sulphide is formed : by
far the greater part there is no combination, to the smaller
extent these crystals are formed. The transformation which
these crystals undergo when heated fully explains the forma
tion of the stannic sulphide observed by Dumas. The com
position of these crystals was determined. A small tube was
weighed and about ten grams of the tetrachloride were placed
in it, and saturated with dry sulphuretted hydrogen ; the
liquid was then evaporated to dryness by a current of dry air.
 In this way, in two experiments, were obtained in the tube,
         (1) 1*15 gram of the compound SnCl4, wH3S.
        (2)     -926
The tubes were then carefully heated by a spirit-lamp. The
solid melted and evolved sulphuretted hydrogen ; and next,
as the heating was continued, hydrochloric acid, and a residue
of stannic sulphide to the amounts respectively,
                          (1) -48 gram,
                          (2) -365 „
which numbers correspond closely to the value n=5. These
white crystals, which are the sole product of the action of
dry sulphuretted hydrogen on stannic chloride, are thus
SnCl4 . 5H2S, analogous to SnCl4 . 5H30.
   The reaction which occurs on heating is thus :—
               Snfll, . 5H2S^SnS2 + 4HCl + 3HaS.

 390           Mr. W. Coldridge  o on the Electrical and
 The effect of adding a drop of water to these crystals is to
 produce stannic sulphide ; and this action is thus in harmony
 with that described above of holding the drop of water in the
 mixed vapours*.
    Judging, then, from the fact of the unaltered boiling-point of
 the liquid, and from the analogy of SnCl4 5H3S to SnCl, 5H20,
 and from the fact that the former as well as the latter separates,
the conclusion that the sulphuretted hydrogen is merely
mechanically mixed with the chloride is strongly supported.
  Class B. The Effect of various Liquids on the Conductivity.
    I. Chloroform.—Chloroform was first taken because of the
 similarity of its chemical structure to that of stannic chloride.
    The conductivity of chloroform was found likewise to be
 nothing within the range of these experiments. The tetra
chloride mixes perfectly with the chloroform. In the first
 instance the proportions taken were two volumes of the former
to one of the latter. The conductivity of this mixture was
nothing. In the next experiment one volume of the tetra
chloride was diluted with five of the chloroform. But there
was still no conductivity.
    In each instance the result was checked by placing a streak
 of black-lead on paper in circuit instead of the mixture.
    There would seem a priori to be no chance of a reaction
between so stable and saturated a compound as chloroform
and stannic chloride ; as an experimental fact the mixture
does not conduct. The test was applied of passing in dry
sulphuretted hydrogen ; no precipitation of stannic sulphide
resulted ; the behaviour was the same as if no chloroform had
been present, and in marked contrast to the influence of water
or absolute alcohol.
    II. Absolute Alcohol.—Rectified spirit of good quality was
dried by standing over lime and by subsequent distillation
from lime. The phenomenon observed on adding a drop of
this alcohol to stannic chloride is analogous to that which
occurs when water is added. A white beautifully crystalline
compound is formed and much heat is evolved. By adjusting
the quantity of alcohol and cooling the vessel with water the
whole of the liquid can be transformed into a mass of these
crystals, which dissolve again on adding more alcohol. This
alcoholate has probably the constitution SnCl4 . 5C2H5OH, as
would be concluded from its analogy to the amyl alcoholate
described by Bauer and Klein {Zeits.f. Chemie [2] iv. p. 370).
   * My best thanks are due to the authorities of Exeter Grammar School,
who placed their laboratories at my disposal during the Christmas vaca
tion, and to my friend Mr. J. M. Martin, who helped me in the manipu
lation involved in the examination of the above change.

             Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.         391
   The solution of the alcoholate conducts with facility ; and
that electrolysis is proceeding is shown by a polarization-
effect of considerable magnitude. The electrolyte remains
clear and colourless. There were no signs of an evolution of
gas at the anode, and no tin was deposited at the cathode ;
but the difference between the electrolyte before and after the
passage of the current was shown by its behaviour towards an
alcoholic solution of mercuric chloride. The unolectrolysed
solution of the stannic chloride gave no precipitate of calomel,
but that through which the current had passed at once preci
pitated calomel. In one experiment, when a concentrated
solution of the tetrachloride was electrolysed for two hours,
the whole was converted into a magma, and some of the solid
adhering to the electrode when dissolved in alcohol gave the
 reaction for the stannous salt. In this experiment a copper
 voltmeter showed that a current of between *1 and "15 of an
 ampere had passed.
    The production of calomel in the electrolysed solution shows
 that the current has transformed the stannic salt into a stan
 nous salt, stannic chloride into stannous chloride. The
 absence of an evolution of chlorine gns is accounted for by
 the certain action of electrolytic chlorine on the alcohol.
    Qualitatively it has been proved that alcohol added to
 stannic chloride induces such a condition of instability as to
 render it capable of electrolytic conduction. Moreover this
 power of electrolytic conduction is closely analogous to the
 power of sulphuretted hydrogen to precipitate stannic sulphide.
 Mention has been made of the fact that the placing of a mere
 film of absolute alcohol on one of the platinum electrodes
 produces in the stannic chloride saturated with sulphuretted
 hydrogen a slight conducting power and the precipitation of
 stannic sulphide. When more alcohol is added, there results
 a copious precipitation of stannic sulphide ; and when sul
  phuretted hydrogen is passed into the alcoholic solution of
 stannic chloride an immediate precipitation of stannic sulphide
  occurs.
     III. The Effect of Dry Ether.—Advantage was next taken
  of the curious fact that ether combines with stannic chloride
  to form a compound, SnCl4 2(C2H6)20, which is soluble in
  excess of ether. Absolutely dry ether was prepared in the
  usual way. On adding the ether to the chloride a mass of
  white crystals are formed, which are difficultly soluble in the
  ether at the temperature of the laboratory. Ether was added
  to the crystals and shaken ; the cell was then placed in circuit;
  a deflexion of sixty scale-divisions was registered. But on
  concentrating the solution by placing the cell in warm water,

 M2          Mr. W. Coldridge on the Electrical and
the conductivity improved and became comparable with that
of the alcoholic solution.
    After passing the direct current for thirty hours, a slowly
diminishing polarization-current was registered producing at
 first a deflexion of thirty scale-divisions. The electrolysed
product contained some stannous salt.
    On passing dry sulphuretted hydrogen into the cold ethereal
solution an emulsion is formed, and the tetrachloride separates
 at the bottom of the ether. The distinction between the
action of ether and of alcohol under these circumstances will
bo adverted to in Part II.
    IV. Effect of Strong Aqueous Solution of Hydrochloric
Acid.—Instead of taking, as in the previous experiments, a
V-tube for the electrolytic cell, a cell of the same pattern was
used as that described and devised by Mr. Fitzpatrick (Brit.
Assoc. Reports). It is a glass cylinder closed at the ends,
where wires leading to the circular platinum electrodes enter;
and midway between the electrodes there is an open tube
fused into the cylinder. A drop of strong hydrochloric acid
was poured down the central tube on to the surface of the
chloride : as long as it remained unmixed the effect was nil,
but on admixture the cell conducted. The same E.M.F. was
used as in B. I , II., III., viz. that of twenty-five storage
secondary cells and a polarization-current of approximately
2 x 10"7 C.G.S. units, which is equivalent to a scale-deflexion
of sixty scale-divisions. The act of mixing was accompanied
by the evolution of heat and by the formation of a subsequently
dissolved gelatinous substance. This reverse current was con
stant at the temperature of the room for nearly an hour : this
constancy and its high E.M.F. led me to observe it at differ
ent temperatures. The primary current ran for three minutes;
at a temperature of 31° the polarization-current gave a de
flexion which diminished from 77 scale-divisions to 56 in the
course of fifteen minutes ; at a temperature of 41° it fell from
79 to 63 scale-divisions in twelve minutes; at 51°, from 79 to
55 in ten minutes ; at 71°, some hydrochloric acid boiled off
explosively ; at 90° more was expelled, the polarization was
weaker, and decayed from 55 to 0 scale-divisions deflexion at
96° C.

             Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.         393
     V. The Effect of Absolute Alcohol on the Tetrachloride
saturated with Sulphuretted Hydrogen.—Incidentally, in de
scribing the effect of sulphuretted hydrogen on the alcoholic
and ethereal solutions of stannic chloride, I was compelled to
state some of the results which would naturally have fallen
under this heading. It has been recorded :—
    (1) That stannic chloride saturated with sulphuretted hy
drogen does not conduct.
   (2) That a mere film of absolute alcohol adhering to one
electrode is sufficient to endow such a solution with some
conductivity.
   To amplify (2) : the actual deflexion observed was forty
scale-divisions. On pouring a little alcohol down one arm of
the cell the conductivity increased so that a 150 scale-division
deflexion was registered. Directly the alcohol reached the
solution there was a vigorous interaction and stannic sulphide
was precipitated. After a similar quantity had been added to
the other arm and the cell shaken, the current through the
galvanometer was sufficiently great to turn the mirror at
right angles to its original position.
     Class C. The Effect of Solids on the Conductivity of the
                          Tetrachloride.
   The endeavour to destroy the chemical homogeneity of the
stannic chloride was a failure, owing to the insolubility of the
solids that were tried. Attempts were made with
   (1) The crystalline hydrate,
                          SnCL, . 5H30.
   (2) The crystalline sulphydrate,
                          SnCU.5H,S.
   (3) Dry sodium chloride.
    (4) Moist sodium chloride.
   (5) The double ammonium stannic chloride.
After failing to obtain other than a negative result with
sodium chloride, it seemed possible that if the chloride of the
alkaline metal was first combined with stannic chloride the
double salt might dissolve. The success that Moissan enjoyed
by adding to the liquid hydrofluoric acid, the double potassium
hydrogen fluoride, suggested this attempt. Some quantity of
the double ammonium stannic chloride, (2NH4C1 . SnCI4), was
prepared according to the directions given by Bongartz and
Classen (Ber. xxi. p. 290), who determined the atomic weight
of tin by electrolysing a solution of this salt in the acid am
monium oxalate. The double chloride was perfectly dried by
standing over phosphorus pentoxide in a desiccator. A gram
of this dry salt was added to the stannic chloride in the V-tube.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 180. May 1890.          2H

394                 Mr. H. Tomlinson on the Villari
The effect on the conductivity, even after heating to and at
the temperature of 100° C, was nothing. A drop of water
added to the double chloride before adding it to the stannic
chloride was powerless to promote conductivity.
   The fact, then, is that neither the crystalline hydrate, nor
sulphydrate, nor moist nor dry sodium chloride, nor the moist
nor dry ammonium stannic chloride have any influence on the
conductivity of the stannic chloride. The solids remain out
side the sphere of action : and, like the drop of strong hydro
chloric acid as long, as, it was unmixed with the stannic
chloride, and like the perfectly dissolved chloroform and the
gases chlorine and sulphuretted hydrogen, having produced
no effect on the chemical homogeneity of the stannic chloride,
which remains stannic chloride, they were without influence
on its eloctrical conductivity.                  . . .: ;..,/ .
              .''•¦ •¦•       [To be continued.]
  XLIII. The Villari Critical Points of Nickel and Iron*.
                    By Herbert Tomlinson, F.R.SJ
 WE owe to Vilkiri the discovery that the magnetic per-
          ' meability of iron is increased by longitudinal traction
provided that the magnetizing force does not exceed a certain
limit, but beyond this limit the traction produces decrease of
Eenneabilify so that for a certain value of magnetizing force,
  nown as the Villari Critical Point, longitudinal traction has
no effect in either direction. Several experimenters have
verified and extended Villari's discovery, notably Sir William
Thomson and Prof. Ewing, but, as far as theauthor is aware,
no observer has been as. yet able to find a similar critical
point for nickel. If, however, we confine ' ourselves to the
consideration of the temporary magnetization f, aVillari critical
point in nickel can be detected with comparative ease. In the
present investigaticn the ballistic method of observation has
been emp'oyed, the arrangements of which have been already
described §. The nickel wire used contains nearly 98 per
cent, of nickel and only 0'7 per cent, of iron ; the iron wire
is also, judging from its small specific resistance, nearly pure.
The mode of conducting the experiments may be illustrated
by the aid of fig. 1 ; this figure refers to a piece of well-
  • Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 21, 1890.
   t The author begs to acknowledge with thanks the assistance which he
has received in this investigation from the Elizabeth Thompson Science
Fund, U.S.A.
   J The magnetization which disappears on the removal of the magneti
zing force.
   § Phil. Mag. xxv. p. .'J72.

                    Critical Pointn of Nickel and Iron.                    395
  annealed iron wire 1 millim. in diameter. The wire was in the
  first instance loaded with 12 kilos (the highest load employed
• in the experiment), and was subjected to a magnetizing force
  of 15*5 C.G.S. units which was alternately applied (always
  in the same direction) and removed until the deflexions of the
  ballistic galvanometer became constant. The load was thjn
  entirely removed, and the same force was again applied and
  removed as before. A load of 2 kilos was now put on the wire,
                                    Fie. 1. —Iron.
         +1D
      |¦
       a -70
  and the same operations were repeated witli tins and the sub
  sequent loads up to 12 kilos. Next the load was again entirely
  removed, and a similar series of observations was made with a
  magnetizing force of 10'5 C.G.S. units, and so on until the
  force had diminished to 2"8. The entire set of experiments was
  then repeated with ascending forces up to 1 5*5 ; this set did not
  sensibly differ from the one taken with descending magnetizing
  forces. As might be expected, each change of load produced
    * If P„ and P„ represent respectively the permeability with no load
  and a load of ?i kilos, the percentage alteration of permeability is taken to
                                          cording as the permeability is de-
           * 0.               *Q
  creased or increased bv loading.
                                      2 H 2
                                                                                /¦

396            Mr. H. Tomlinson on the Villari
an alteration in the residual magnetization, but this alteration
does not concern us, and only the temporary changes, i.e.
those which take place after repeated application of the force
and when the deflexion on closing the battery-circuit is equal
to that on opening it, are recorded in the figure.
   It may be noticed that the Villari critical point depends
upon the load, the greater the load the smaller the critical
value of the force. This fact has been already observed by
Sir William Thomson, but for a given load the Villari critical
point is much lower when only the temporary magnetization
is taken into account than when, as in Sir W. Thomson's
experiments, the whole magnetization is observed. It occurred
therefore to the author that though it might not be possible
to reach the critical force for nickel as far as the total mag
netization is concerned, such a value could nevertheless be
found for temporary magnetization, and this has proved to be
the case.                 Fig. 2.—Nickel.
   Fig. 2 refers to a nickel wire of '8 milliin. diameter, which
shows Villari critical points quite as striking as those of iron,
but with this difference, that the critical value is greater the

                  Critical Points of Nickel and Iron.
greater the load, and for a given load is much greater in
nickel than in iron.
    With iron wire the curves may, and do, sometimes cut the
load line twice, so that for a given value of magnetizing force
there may be two loads which have no effect on the temporary
magnetization. In fig. 1 none of the curves actually cut the
load-line a second time, because the loading was not carried
quite far enough ; but with subsequent experiments made
with the same wire and with the same loads at a temperature
of 200° C. the two points of cutting were easily obtained,
within certain limits of magnetizing force, whilst the next
figure shows that with greater loads the second point can be
reached at the ordinary temperature of the room.
                                 Fig. 3.—Iron*.
    Fig. 3 illustrates the effect of loading on an iron wire
of '077 millim. diameter, which in the first instance was
   • In this experiment a load of 2 kilos was left permanently on the wire,
 <o that the initial load is 2 instead of 0.

3(J8            Mr. H. Tomliuson on the Villari
well annealed, but was subsequently loaded to very nearly
its breaking-point, and was in consequence permanently
lengthened by about 10 per cent., whereas the wire referred
to in fig. 1 was not loaded sufficiently to produce any sensible
permanent extension. For a magnetizing force of 3 C.G.S.
units the curve cuts the load-line twice, but for higher forces
the first cutting-poiut disappears and we have only the
second one.
   The maximum decrease of permeability is greater the
greater the mngnetizing force up to a certain limit of the1
latter, which limit other experiments (not illustrated by the
figure) proved to be about 16 C.G.S. units. Beyond this
limit the maximum decrease begins to become slowly less, as
is shown bv the dotted curve of the figure for which the
magnetizing force was 73.
    The curves for nickel can never be made to cut the load-
line twice, for the wire of fig. 2 was stretched within one or
two per cent, of its breaking-point, suffering thereby a per
manent elongation of about five per cent, of its original
length. The curves, however, show a maximum decrease of
permeability with a load of about 24 kilos.
    The observations hitherto recorded were only made at the
different stages of loading, but subsequent ones showed that
with nickel the readings on unloading were very nearly the
same as those en loading, there being vrry little lagging of
mechanical strain behind stress. Prof. Ewing has pointed
out also that nickel exhibits very little magnetic hysteresis.
With iron there is a very sensible lagging of mechanical
strain behind stress, but the only effect of taking a mean
between the observed changes on loading and unloading
would have been to make the curves more parabolic in shape
and not to alter their main character.
    For the next two figures observations were made both on
loading and unloading, and though the magnetizing force
employed was here very minute, the curves show pretty
nearly the Name amount of lagging of mechanical strain
 behind stress which is experienced when much higher forces
 are used. For these very minute forces, of course, the
apparatus had to be made much more sensitive, and tho
number of turns in the secondary coils was very great.
 Fig. 4 refers to the same kind of wire as that used in the first
 experiment. The wire in this case was, however, previously
loaded to nearly its breaking-point. If the mean be taken of
the percentage alterations of permeability on loading and
unloading, the curve becomes exactly parabolic, with its axis
 vertical and its vertex at the point where the vertical from

                 Critical Points of Nickel and Iron.                     399
                                Fig. 4.—Iron.
the load 16 kilos, cuts the curve. Both the loading and un
loading curves lie entirely above the load-line, and there is no
point of cutting this line;
   Fig. 5 deals with a nickel wire of the same degree of
purity as the first but 1£ millim. in diameter. The stress
                              Fig. 6.—Nickel.
                               Kilos on lever.
                     2       4        «       ft     10      i* '*
     1 kilo on the lever represents a stress of 2-C8 kilos per sq. millim.
was carried by the aid of a lever to very nearly the breaking-
point of the wire. There ia in this case no perceptible lagging
of mechanical strain behind stress, the curve on loading being

400       The Villari Critical Points of Nickel and Iron.
identical with that on unloading. With nickel the curve lies
entirely below the load-line and never cuts the line.
   In figures 4 and 5 the curves are described as having been
obtained with a magnetizing force of 003 C.G.S. units ;
but other experiments showed almost precisely the same
curves to be obtained for any force between 0*03 and 0'3
 C.G.S. units. Between these limits of force the whole of the
 magnetization is practically temporary provided the wires
have been stretched to the extent these were.
    From what has been said and from the figures it is easy to
 see what would be the general character of the curves, show
ing the relation between change of temporary permeability
and change of load for any magnetizing force whatever. If
a piece of iron wire be tested with loads nearly up to the
breaking-point, then for magnetizing forces ranging from 0
to somewhere about "3 C.G.S. units the curves will be identi
cal with those of fig. 4, and will not cut the load-line. For a
value of force above *3 the curves will cease to be identical, the
maximum increase of permeability will become less and less
as the force increases until for a certain force the curve begins
to cut the load-line. As the force increases beyond this value
the point of cutting approaches nearer and nearer to the origin
of coordinates, and the curve begins eventually to cut the
load-line in two points. The first point of cutting, as the
force increases still further, gets nearer and nearer to the
origin, whilst the second point gets further and further away
from it ; and when the magnetizing force reaches a value but
little over 3 C.G.S. units, the first point vanishes and the
second point only remains. Finally, with a sufficiently high
force it would seem that the second point also cannot be
reached and the curve now lies entirely beneath the load-line,
whereas for very minute forces it lies entirely above this line.
   With nickel the curves for very minute magnetizing forces
are, like those of iron, exactly the same for different values of
the force, but instead of lying above the load-line lie entirely
below it. Beyond a certain limit of the force the curves
cease to be identical and the maximum decrease of per
meability begins to become less and the curve near its origin to
bulge more and more towards the load-line, until for a value of
force a little over 21 C.G.S. units the permeability begins to in
crease with small loads and to cut the load-line in one point,
which gets shifted further and further away from the origin
as the force increases.

                                    [    401    ]
        XLIV. On a New Method and Department of Chemical
                     Research. By Dr. G. Gore, F.R.S.*
                                    CONTENTS.                                    moi
Method or Woekiko                                                                401
                           Curves op Electromotive Force.
              A. By Varying the Strength of the Solution at Both Metals.
                                                       Strength of Solution.
                                                     Substance.          Water.
Curves of Chlorine, Bromine, anrl Iodine         •001 to 01 grain in 155 grains. 403
           HC1, HBr, and HI. Weak                 001 to 01 „             „      405
           HNOa. and HaSO.                        001 to 01 „             „      408
           H,SO. at 60° C                        -001 to 01 „             ,.     407
      „    HCI, HBr, and HI. Strong              -1 to 1          „       „      409
      „    HCI with Cadmium as Positive Metal '1 to 1             „       ,,     409
           KC1, KBr, and KI                       1 to 1          „       „      410
           KBr, at 60° C                          1 to 1          .,      „      411
           NaCl, NaBr, and Nal                   -1 to 1          „       „      412
           KCIO,, KBrO,, and KIO,                7 to 17          „       „      413
           K2SO, Knd NbjSO.                       1 to 1          „       „      414
           KC1+KI, and KCl+NaCl                   1 to 1          „       „      415
      „    Isomeric Solutions                    -01 to -1        „       „      416
            B. By Varying the Strength of the Solution at One Metal only.
Curves of KBr, NaCL and KC1                                  1 grain in 465.      417
            C. By Varying the Temperature of the Solution at Both Metals.
Curve of HCI from 10° to 100° C                            -03 grain in 465.     419
          D. By Varying the Temperature of the Solution at One Metal only.
Curve of Cold Zinc and Hot Platinum from 17° to 100° C. 39 grains in 465. 420
   „     Cold Platinum and Hot Zinc from 15° to 100° 0. 39 grains in 465. 420
                      E. General and Theoretical Considerations.
                              Method of Working.
    IN an investigation " On the Change of Potential of a Voltaic
          Couple by Variation of Strength of its Liquid" (Roy. Soc.
    Proc. 1888, xliv. p. 296), I showed that by immersing a small
    pair of unamalgamated zinc and platinum plates in distilled
    water, then adding to the water successive small and equal
    quantities of a particular halogen, acid, or salt, until a more
    or less saturated solution was formed, and measuring by the
     method of balance with a galvanometer in the circuit, with a
     suitable thermoelectric pile (see Proc. Birm. Phil. Soc.
    iv. p. 130 ; also ' The Electrician,' 1884, xii. p. 414), aided
    when necessary by a zinc-platinum distilled water-cell, or a
     Clark's standard cell, the degrees of electromotive force pro
     duced by each addition of substance, the changes of tbat
     force did not vary by a regular gradation. And 1 stated that
                          * Communicated bv the Author.

  402            Dr. G. Gore on a New Method and
  " by plotting the quantities of dissolved substance as ordinates
  to the degrees of electromotive force as abscissse, each sub
  stance or mixture of substances yielded a different curve of
  electromotive force on uniformly changing the degree of
  strength of its solution." And that " with a given voltaic
  couple at a given temperature, the curve was constant and
  characteristic of the substance." The examples given in this
  paper illustrate these statements, and the measurements were
  made by the above method.
     Instead of employing a thermopile, the following plan with
 the " voltaic balance" might be adopted :—1st. Balance two
 small zinc-platinum voltaic cells with distilled water in each,
 and a galvanometer of 100 ohms resistance in the circuit, then
 add gradually sufficient of the exciting substance to one of the
 cells to just visibly upset the balance, and note the quantity
 added. 2nd. Balance the cefls with a very weak solution
 containing one unit quantity of the substance in each celi ;
 then add a sufficient excess of the substance to one cell to
 again upset the balance, and note the amount of excess. 3rd.
 Balance the cells with a two unit quantity solution, and upset
 the balance again in like manner. And so on through such
 a series of strengths of solution as may be desired to obtain
 a curve. The proportions of excess of substance added to the
 amount of water in the cell represent the relative amounts of
voltaic energy of the different strengths of liquid.
    This method is very much more sensitive than the one with
the thermopile, for whilst the latter only divides the range of
difference of potential between water and chlorine for example
 ( = •753 volt), in practical working into about 15,000 parts,
the former divides it into 1200 millions. On the other hand,
whilst by the thermopile method the values of the unit of
measurement are equal throughout a series, those of the
numbers obtained by the voltaic-balance one vary with the
degree of strength of the solution. The following instance
illustrates this :—
    The liquid employed was a solution of potassium sulphate,
and the balancing couples were formed of zinc and platinum.
The table shows the degrees of strength of the solution, and
the proportions of additional salt required with each to upset
the balance.
       Strength of Solution.               Excess of K2S0..
     KjSCV            "Water.            K2SO«. •        Water.
   10 grain        155 grains.        •30 grain    = 1 in 51'6
     •5 »                             •25     „    = 1 in b'0-0
                     n     »          •20 „        = 1 in 77-5
     •1 ,,

                Department of Chemical Research.             403
   The degree of sensitiveness of the balance therefore in
creased directly as the degree of dilution of the solution.
  A. Curves obtained by Varying the Strength of the
                   Solution at both Metals.
   Nearly all the measurements of electromotive force given in
this paper were made with highly pure substances, and in sec
tion "A," with the exception of one instance only (see fig. 8),
each curve starts from the potential of unamalgamated zinc
and platinum in distilled water at about 16° C. = T 127 volt.
The quantity of distilled water employed as the solvent was
in nearly every case 155 grains, and the series of degrees of
strength of the solutions of each substance were usually such
as could best be worked by the process, t. e. neither too strong
nor too weak, and were with different substances either the
same or so arranged as to best enable comparisons to be made
between the results of the different series of measurements ;
they were not always sufficiently strong to fully develop the
most characteristic curves.
   For each separate measurement, with the solutions of the
halogens and the strong ones of the acids, a fresh portion of
the original liquid was taken ; with those of other substances
the zinc was so feebly acted upon and the liquid so slightly
altered in composition, that this was not found necessary. With
solutions of salts, the presence of films of oxide upon the zinc
was tested for by replacing the saline liquid by distilled water,
and then observing whether the cell was still exactly balanced
by a zinc-platinum water one. No trouble was experienced
from polarization caused by hydrogen in the platinum plates,
nor by atmospheric air dissolved iu the water.
          1. Curves of Chlorine, Bromine, and Iodine.
   The range of strength of the solutions of each substance
was from "001 to "01 grain in 155 grains of water. With
solutions of these substances the degree of electromotive force
increased somewhat with the period of immersion ; this diffi
culty was due to the great chemical energy of the substances,
and was overcome by making the fluctuations of the gal
vanometer-needles equal on each side of zero.
   These curves show :—1st. An increase generally of electro
motive force attending increased strength of solution* 2nd.
A much greater increase caused by the first amount of sub
stance added than by the subsequent additions. 3rd. A
gradation of degree, both of first increase and of maximum
electromotive force in the three curves, varying inversely &i

404    Dr. G. Gore on a New Method and
                      Fig. 1.
              Curves of CI, Br, and I.
 2-000

               Department of Chemical Research.              405
the magnitudes of the atomic weights of the substances. 4th.
A general similarity of form, sufficient to show a graduated
degree of likeness. And 5th. A sufficient degree of difference
of form to characterize each individual substance.
               2. Curves of HC1, HBr, and HI.
                       a. Weak Solutions.
   Each acid was pure and colourless. The solutions were of
the same range of degrees of strength as those of the halogens,
in order to compare the effects of the two groups of sub
stances ; and the curves are all drawn on the scale of magnitude
in each direction as those of the halogens.
                              Fip. 2.
              Curve of HC1 at VfC— Weak Solution.
                              Fig. X
          Curves of HBr and HI at 16° C— Weak Solutions.
  VolU.

406             Dr. G. Gore on a Ntrtv Method and
    The curves show :— 1st. That the union of hydrogen with
 the halogens greatly diminished the electromotive force. 2nd.
A feeble increase of electromotive force, greatest at the com
 mencement, especially with hydrochloric and hydrobromic
 acids, attending increased strength of the solution. 3rd. A
 less degree of family likeness than in the curves of the halo
 gens. 4th. The substance of largest molecular weight gave
'the smallest increase of electromotive force. And 5th. Each
 substance gave a characteristic curve. The general feeble
 ness of character of the curves was due to the weakness of
 the solutions (compare fig. 7, of curves of solutions 100 times
 stronger).
                  3. Curves of HNOs and H2SO,.
    The .acids were pure and the range of degrees of strength
 of their solutions was the same as those of the weak ones of
 hydrochloric, hydrobromic, and hydriodic acids.
                                 Fijr. 4.
    Volu.      Curve of HNO, at 14° C— Weak Solution.
    l'SSOl
                                   Fig. 5,
               Curve of H..SO, at 15' C- Weah Solution.

                Department of Chemical Research.           407
   The curves are drawn upon the same scale as those of the
weak solutions of the above-named acids. 1st. They are very
greatly different from those of the halogens, and show very
much smaller degrees of electromotive force. 2nd. Their
differences from those of hydrochloric, hydrobromic, and
hydriodic acid of the same range of degrees of strength are
also quite conspicuous. And 3rd. They are sufficiently unlike
to be characteristic of each substance and to be clearly dis
tinguishable from each other. The solutions employed were
too weak to fully show the characteristic forms of the curves ;
the degrees of strength were chosen chiefly to enable the
curves to be compared with those yielded by the halogens and
by their acids.
                  4. Curve of H2S04 at 60° 0.
   The range of degrees of strength of the solution was the
same as in the previous case, viz. from '001 to '01 grain of
the substance in 155 grains of water.
                               Fig. 6.
             Curve of H..SO. at 60° C-      ution.
   By comparing the curves obtained at the two different
temperatures, we find that a rise of temperature caused a
general increase of electromotive force, greatest at the com
mencement, and quite sufficient to distinguish the one curve
from the other. The difference would probably be much
greater with stronger solutions (compare figs. 9 and 10 of
KBr at 18° C. and 00° C).

408       Dr. G. Gore on a New Method and
                          Fig. 7.
       Curves of HC1, HBr, and HI.—Strong Solutions.
Volt*.

                 Department of Chemical Research.            409
                 5. Curves of HC1, HBr, and HI.
                        b. Strong Solutions.
     These solutions were one hundred times stronger thai)' the
  previous ones in order to fit them for comparison with those
  of the corresponding salts ; they contained from "10 to I/O
  grain of substance in 155 grains of water. The degrees of
  electromotive force of the solution of hydrochloric acid were
  variable, and those of the other two acids less so.
     These curves are drawn upon a scale 2*92 times as large
  vertically as those of the previous ones, in order to fit them
  for comparison with those of the corresponding salts. They
  show :— 1st. A general increase of electromotive force attend
  ing gradually increased strength of liquid. 2nd. A much
  larger increase produced by the first amount of substance
 added than by the succeeding ones. 3rd. A g'radation of
 degree of general increase of such force varying inversely as
 the magnitudes of the molecular weights of the substances.
 And 4th. A great dissimilarity of form characteristic of each
 individual substance.
     By comparison with the curves yielded by the weak solu
 tions of the three acids, those of the strong ones show :— 1st.
 A much greater increase of electromotive force, both on the
 addition of the first amount of the substance and by the subse
 quent additions. 2nd. A more distinct relation of those
 increases to the magnitudes of the molecular weights of the
 substances. 3rd. Much more characteristic curves. And 4th.
 A much greater degree of irregularity of form of curve ; this
 greater irregularity of form was a genuine effect, and was not
 due to temporary fluctuations of the current.
       6. Curves of HC1 with Cadmium as Positive Metal.
    The range of degrees of strength of the solutions in this
case was the same as that of the '"' strong " solution of the
same acid in the immediately previous group of acids, and the
scale of magnitude upon which the curve is drawn is the
same. The electromotive force was variable, owing to the
strength of the solutions, and of course started from a lower
point than when zinc was used as the positive metal.
    On comparing the curve with the one yielded by zinc in the
same degrees of strength of solution of the same acid, we
find :—1st. Quito a different form of curve. 2nd. A smaller
increase of electromotive force on adding the first portion of
acid. 3rd. A general decrease of that force by the further
additions. And 4th. A curve characteristic of the substance.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 180. May 1890.        2 I-

410            Dr. G. Gore on a jy«w Method and
                             Fig. 8.
           Curve of HO with Cd at 14° 0.—Strong Solution.
 Gruinx.   —  ci  N
                 7. Curves o/KCl, KBr, and KT.
    All the substances were highly pure, colourless, and inodo
rous ; the iodide was very faintly alkaline. The solutions were
of the same range of degrees of strength as the strong ones of
the corresponding acids, viz. from "1 to 10 grain of substance
in 1 55 grains of water. The electromotive force of the zinc-
platinum couple increased somewhat with the period of immer
sion. The absence of solid films upon the zinc was proved
by occasionally replacing the saline liquid by distilled water,
and observing whether the cell was still exactly balanced by a
zinc-platinum water one.

               Department of Chemical Research .              411
                             Fig. 9.
   The curves of these substances are all drawn upon the same
scale of magnitude as those of the " strong " solutions of the
corresponding acids. They show:—1st. A much greater
increase of the electromotive force caused by the first amount
of substance added than by the subsequent ones. 2nd. A
gradation of degree of first increase and of maximum electro
motive force, varying inversely as the magnitudes of mole
cular weight of the substances. 3rd. Large differences of
form, characteristic of each individual substance. And 4th.
The substitution of potassium for hydrogen in the correspond
ing acids lowered the electromotive force in all three cases, and
the amount of this reduction varied inversely as the magni
tudes of the molecular weights of the substances ; the union
of potassium with the halogens had similar effects, but in
much greater degrees (compare the respective figures).
                  8. Curve of KBr at 60° C.
   The range of degrees of strength of the solution in this case
was the same as in the previous one when the liquid was at
18° (J., and was from "10 to TO grains of substance in 155
grains of water.
                              2 I 2

 412            Dr. G. Gore on a JVw Method and
                                Fig. 10.
                         Curve of KBrat 60 D C.
     On comparing the two curves obtained at the two tempera
  tures we find considerable differences, viz. :— 1st. A great
  unlikeness of general form. ¦ 2nd. A general and large
 diminution of electromotive force at the higher temperature.
  And 3rd. A much smaller increase of that force on the
 addition of the first portion of the substance. The differences
 would probably have been less conspicuous if the solutions
 in each case had been much weaker. These results support
 the conclusion that potassium bromide behaves to a certain
 extent like a different substance at each different temperature.
               9. Curves of NaCl, NaBr, and Nal.
    The chloride contained a trace of sulphate, and the bromide
 and iodide were very faintly alkaline. The solutions were
 of the same range of degrees of strength as the corresponding
 salts of potassium ; and the curves are drawn upon the same
scale of magnitude.
    These curves show:— 1st. A general increase of electromotive
force by increase of dissolved substance. 2nd. A great
difference of form, and strongly characteristic curve in each
case. And 3rd. The substitution of sodium for potassium in
each salt considerably reduced the degree of electromotive
 force produced by the first addition of the substance, and the
amount of this reduction varied inversely as the molecular
weights of the salts. The curves are widely different in form
from those of the corresponding salts of potassium, and this
is no doubt entirely due to the difference of metallic base ; in
each group, however, the curve of the chloride intersects that
of the bromide.

                Department of Chemical Research.            41a
                               Fig. 11.
                   Curves of NaCl, NaBr, and NaT.
                                                           NaBr at 13° C.
                                                           NaCl at ir.» C.
                                                           Nal at 11°C.
            10. Curves o/KC10„ KBr03,             KI03.
    The chlorate contained a trace of chloride. In consequence
of the degrees of electromotive force produced by solutions of
these salts being so little greater than that produced by water
alone, viz. 1*127 volt, it was necessary to use much stronger
solutions than those of the previous substances ; the ones
employed contained from -7 to 1*7 grains in 155 grains of
water.
                               Fig. 12.
                 Curves of KC103, KBr03, and KI03.
Volta.

414             Dr. ti. Gore on a New Method and
    The curves show :—1st. A striking similarity of general
form, very different from that of the corresponding chloride,
bromide, and iodide ; this was probably chiefly due to the
general feebleness of the action. 2nd. A very small increase
of electromotive force in each case on adding the first portion
of substance, and on subsequent additions ; and the amounts
of these increases, contrary to what happened with other
groups of substances, varied directly as the magnitudes ot the
molecular weights of the salts, but the degree of reversed
action was not conspicuous. 3rd. A sufficient difference of
form to characterize each substance. And 4th. The chemical
union of oxygen with the three corresponding halogen salts,
reduced the general electromotive force in each case, and the
amount of reduction varied inversely as the magnitudes of the
molecular weights of the salts (compare fig. 9).
                11. Curves of K2S04 and Xa.,SO«.
    The potassium salt was very pure ; the sodium one con
tained traces of chloride. The solutions were of the same
range of degrees of strength as those of the halogen salts of
the same metals, viz. from "1 to l'O grain of salt in 155 grains
of water.
  1-15
  114
   llf.
   1U 1
  Grama, ©r r>o

                Department of Chemical Research.             415
                                Fig. 14.
                       Curve of Na.S04 fit 17° C.
 Grain,.                             3
   These two curves are largely alike, due to their being those
of closely allied salts of the same acid ; but somewhat different
in consequence of difference of their metallic bases. They are
both considerably different from those of the chbrides, bro
mides, and iodides of the same metals.
           12. Curves of KC1 + KI, and KC1 + NaCl.
   The measurements of electromotive force of these were
made to ascertain the influence of more complex compounds
upon the amount of that force. The salts were mixed in the
proportions of their molecular weights, and the proportions of
mixtures taken were the same as those of the same salts
separately in previous experiments, viz. from '1 to I/O grain
in 155 grains of water.
                                 Fig. 15.
                      Curve ofKCl+KI ntlG°C.
  Grains.   3 ?, » a S3 8 3 ,5 :? 8 S S S S 3 $ $ 8

1 16          Dr. G. Gore on a JVete Method anil
    1st. Each of the curves is strikingly unlike in general
 form each of those of the constituent salts of the compound,
and the form is not in either case an average of that of the
two ; each of them also shows a great reduction of electro
motive force due to the chemical union of the two constituents.
 2nd. In each case an increase of strength of solution is
attended hy an increase of electromotive force. 3rd. The
 two curves are each characteristic of the individual substances.
    The amounts of voltaic energy of the dissolved salts separately
 before chemical union were :—KC1 = 699,803, NaCl = 207,589,
and KI = 16,361; and after the union those of the compounds
 were :—KCl + KI = 7,571,and KCl + NaCl = 5,959 (see "Re
 lative Amounts of Available Voltaic Energy of Aqueous Solu
tions," Proc. Birm. Phil. Soc. vii. part i.).
               13. Curves of Isomeric Electrolytes.
    I have already shown (see Phil. Mag. October 1889,
 p. 289, " On the Molecular Constitution of Isomeric Solu
 tions ") that aqueous isomeric electrolytes yield different
 amounts of voltaic energy with a zinc-platinum couple. In
 the present case I employed the same pair of mixed aqueous
 solutions as were used in that research, viz. an unstable one
 " A " having a composition represented by the formula
 Na2S04 + 2HN03, and yielding an average voltaic energy
  = 77,446 ; and its stable isomer " B " represented by
 2NaN03 + H,S04, and yielding 32,722. The degrees of
 strength of the series of solutions employed were those which
 were the most easily worked, and were from "01 to -1 grain of
 the mixture in 155 grains of water. The constituent solutions
 of "A," previous to being mixed, contained "01 grain of
 substance per cubic centimetre ; if they were stronger than
 this there was risk of the liquid undergoing a chemical change
 during the mixing.

               Department of Chemical Research.            417
   These- curves show much more completely than any single
pair of measurements of voltaic energy could do, the con
siderable differences between the molecular and chemical
constitutions of the two liquids. Nearly throughout its entire
range the curve of " A " shows a greater degree of electro
motive force than that of " B."
   As the unstable liquid " A " is readily changed into the
stable one "B" by merely heating it to nearly 100° C. in a
stoppered glass flask during fifteen minutes, and then would
give the curve of " B," it is evident that the method of exami
ning aqueous solutions by means of curves of electromotive
force is applicable for detecting and measuring chemical and
molecular changes in them.
B. Curves by Varying the Strength ok the Solution at
                       One Metal only.
   The kind of apparatus employed is shown by the annexed
sketch, and is formed of glass. A weak solution, containing
 1 grain of the substance in 465 grains of water, was put,
together with the negative metal, platinum, into the short leg
 of the tube, and successive portions of solution, of regularly
 decreasing strength, in 465 grains of water, were put, to
 gether with the positive metal, unamalgamated zinc, into the
long leg, and the electromotive force with each strength of
solution- was measured. The positions of the metals were
 then reversed, and the measurements repeated. The glass

418            Dr. (}. Gore on a Neir Method and
tap was closed during the process of changing each strength
of liquid. In consequence of the much greater conduction
resistance in the constricted portions of the solutions, the
degrees of electromotive force were all much smaller than if
the two metals had been near each other in the same leg. The
following are the results obtained with solutions of KBr and
NaCl :—
                               Fig. 18.
 Curve of KBr, by Varying Strength of Solution at One Metal only, at
VolU.                         Itf0'5 C.

                    Department of Chemical Research.                419
                                  Fig. 19.
    Curve of XaCl, bv Varying Strength of Solution at One Metal onlv,
 .  Volt..                       at lo° C.
    1-07                                                              By variation at
                                                                        Ft only.
                                                                      By variation at
                                                                        Zn only.
Grain.. »         £  S    o     2      g     §    55    3§S
     The carves show that the variation of strength of the liquid
had a large effect upon the electromotive force at the surface
of the zinc, but scarcely any such effect at that of the pla
tinum ; and we ma}' conclude that when such variation of
strength occurs at both metals simultaneously, the effect upon
the electromotive force, and consequently also upon the form
of the curves, is nearly wholly due to changes of chemical
action at the surface of the zinc, and but little to such changes
at the platinum.
     In a third similar experiment, with a solution of 1 part of
potassium chloride and 465 parts of water at 150,5 C. in the
short leg, and one of the same salt, varying in strength equally
in nine successive portions from 3 to 147 grains, in 465 grains
of water in the long leg, the changes of strength had no per
ceptible influence upon the electromotive force, which re
mained constant at T1544 volts whichever metal was in the
longest leg.
C. Curves by Varying the Temperature of the Solution
                           at Both Metals.
                         Curve of Dilute HC1.
     The solution contained -01 grain of HC1 in 155 grains of
water, and the electromotive force was measured every five
Centigrade degrees from 10° C. to 100° C.
                                  Fig. 20.
         Volts-             Curve of dilute HC1.
Centigrade      X
   decree*.

420           Dr. G. Gore on a New Method and
   This curve shows :—1st. That the electromotive force varies
with the temperature. And 2nd. That a regular variation of
temperature of the solution is attended by an irregular change
of electromotive force. It is probable that the curve obtained
by varying the temperature is characteristic of the substance,
and would be different with every different substance and
degree of strength of its solution.
   In a similar experiment with a solution of "027 grain of
chloride of ammonium in 465 grains of water, the electro
motive force of the zinc-platinum couple remained constant
at "9084 volt at all temperatures between 14° and 100° C,
and then very slightly increased.
 D. Curve by Varying the Temperature of the Solution
                     at One Metal only.
   In these measurements the large bent glass tube was em
ployed (see section " B "). The liquid consisted of 39 grains
of potassium chloride dissolved in 465 grains of previously
boiled distilled water. In one series of measurements the
zinc was immersed in the heated portion of liquid and the
platinum in the cold portion ; and in the other series the
reverse. The following are the curves obtained :—
                              Fig. 21.
                      Curves of KCI Solution.
                                                        Zn at 17° C.
                                                        Temperature      of
                                                           Pt varied.
                                                        ±*t at lo° 0.
                                                        il Ili|pi-1ULUH' at
                                                           Zn raried.

                 Department of Chemical Research.            421
   The two curves are very different. The greatest variation
of electromotive force was at the zinc, and was =¦ '103 volt,
whilst that at the surface of the platinum was only = '04 volt.
   The results show that the change of electromotive force
which occurred on gradually heating an electrolyte and the
two metals in it is a concrete effect of two influences, one of
which is situated at the surface of the positive metal and the
other at that of the negative one. Each of these two in
fluences itself would also probably be a compound effect of
the separate actions of heat upon the metal and upon the
liquid.
   These general effects of variation of temperature described
in sections " C " and " D " are very similar to those of change
of strength of liquid given in sections " A " and " B."
       E. General and Theoretical Considerations.
   The evidence obtained hy this research shows :—1st. That
every different electrolytic substance when in aqueous solution
gives, by varying the degree of strength of its solution (or by
varying its temperature), a "different curve of electromotive .
force. 2nd. That this curve is characteristic of the substance.
3rd. That under these conditions, substances which constitute
a recognized chemical group yield a series of curves which
usually exhibit a gradation of likeness of form. 4th. That
the degrees of electromotive force of such a group usually
vary in magnitude inversely as the amounts of the atomic
and molecular weights of the substances. 5th. That a much
greater increase of electromotive force is usually caused by
the first amount of substance added to the water than by the
subsequent amounts. 6th. That the chemical union of two
substances to form a soluble salt is attended by a definite
decrease of electromotive force and a definite change of form
of curve. 7th. That the substitution of one halogen, acid, or
metallic base for another in the composition of a soluble
electrolytic salt, is accompanied by a definite amount of change
of that force and of the form of its curve ; and it will be
possible to trace, by means of these changes, the presence of
each halogen, acid, and metal in the various solutions of its
salts. 8th. That isomeric solutions of electrolytic substances
give different curves under the same conditions, and may thus
be distinguished from each other. 9th. That molecular and ,
chemical changes and their rates, in electrolytes, may be
examined and measured by this method. And 10th. That if
the solutions of the substances are too weak, the characteristic
forms and differences of the curves are not fully developed,

  422            Dr. G. Gore on a AW Method and
  and if they are too strong tbe measurements of electromotive
  force are more difficult to make. As the measurements were
  made at the null point when no current was passing, the
  curves represent the electromotive forces and molecular
  motions which exist under that condition ; when the current
  passes, the molecular movements are greatly altered.
     The changes of electromotive force and forms of curve
  obtained,—1st, by the same variations of strength of the
  same solution at two different temperatures; 2nd, by vary
  ing the temperature of a solution without changing its
  strength ; and 3rd, by varying its temperature at the posi
  tive metal only, or at the negative one only,—support the
  Jeneral view that each substance becomes more or less a
    ifferent substance at each different temperature, and that the
  degrees of property of each substance at different tempera
  tures are practically infinite in number.
     The results in general support the kinetic theory that the
  most fundamental attribute of matter is motion, that a mass
  of matter is a mass of motion, that each substance consists
  essentially of a collection of molecular motions, and that the
• chief properties of bodies are consequences of such motions.
  Changes of volta-electromotive force are now generally
  recognized as being due to those motions, and as being dis
  turbances of the universal aether which pervades all bodies
  and all space. Each degree of such force may also be
  regarded as a concrete result of an extensive series of mole
  cular vibrations of extremely varied degrees of amplitude ;
  this series being characteristic of the particular material
  combination producing it, analogous to the collection of
  vibrations producing a beam of light of a particular burning
  substance. The curves represent in addition the changes in
  amount of these motions ; and by observing these changes in
  a single substance under a sufficient variety of conditions, a
  more or less complete graphic delineation of them as repre
  senting that particular substance might be obtained. When
  we are able to fnlly interpret the language or meaning of
  the.je curves, we shall learn a very great deal respecting the
  internal motions and changes of substances, and the conditions
  of conversion of potential into kinetic energy.
      As each curve is a geometrical and quantitative representa
  tion of a series of such changes, a complete collection of such
  curvos, yielded by all kinds of aqueous solutions, would con
  stitute an extensive system of representations of the molecular
  motions of substances somewhat like that of the luminous
  spectra of bodies ; and the magnitudes and harmonic relations
  of the degrees of electromotive force represented by the

                Department of Chemical Research.             423
curves will form a very large basis of study for mathema
ticians, such as the spectra of bodies now afford. The entire
subject appears to be nearly as large as that of spectrum
analysis, and is not altogether unlike it.
    The whole system of curves may be viewed as being in
gome respects analogous to the absorption-spectra of liquids,
and in a less degree to the spectra of gases. The relations
between the different curves are probably more complex than
those between the spectra of liquids, because the electrodes
take part in the action ; and still more complex than those
between the spectra of gases, because of the influences of the
solvent and of the electrodes, and because each dissolved
substance is in the liquid state and under the influence of
cohesion.
    As the magnitudes and forms of the curves are manifestly
 related to the atomic and molecular weights of the dissolved
 substances, they are doubtless also related to the periodic
 series, and in this direction a study of them by mathematicians
 will lead to the acquisition of new knowledge. And as they
 reveal the kinetic changes which isomeric and other sub
 stances undergo when they pass from one state of chemical
 equilibrium to another in cases of chemical union, substitu
 tion, and decomposition, &c, they are evidently related very
 intimately to Newton's third law of motion.
    With regard to the latter suggestion, in several researches
 (see " Relative Amounts of Voltaic Energy of Electrolytes,"
 Boy. Soc. Proc. November 1888, xlv. p. 266 ; " On Loss of
 Voltaic Energy of Electrolytes by Chemical Union," Proc.
 Birm. Philos. Soc. December 1888, vi. p. 225; "Relative
 Amounts of Available Voltaic Energy of Aqueous Solutions,"
 ibid. vii. part 1 ; " Examples of Solution Compounds," ibid.
 and 'Chemical News,' April 1890), I have largely shown,
 by means of the " voltaic balance " method, that chemical
 union in definite proportions by weight of substances whilst
 in aqueous solution together is apparently universal ; that
 elements unite with elements, with all kinds of acids, and
 with all classes of acid, neutral, and basic salts ; that acids
 unite with acids, each with every other one, and each
 •acid with every salt ; and salts with each other in almost
 endiess variety ; and apparently that all kinds of dissolved
 chemical compounds, with but few if any exceptions, unite
  together more or less distinctly, in those definite proportions
 indiscriminately and without limit of kind, provided no sepa
 ration of substance by precipitation or otherwise occurs.
 Also, by repeatedly doubling the molecular weight of a
 " solution compound " by successive additions to it of other

  424            Dr. G. Gore on a New Method and
  dissolved substances of equal chemical value, each addition
  producing a new state of chemical equilibrium, in which
  chemical action and reaction are equal, I have by the same
  method shown that chemical union of substances whilst in
  aqueous solution together extends to largo aggregates of
  molecules of the most varied kind and of considerable degrees
  of complexity (Proc. Birm. Phil. Soc. vi. p. 225). This
  universality of chemical union of substances whilst in solution
  together indicates the existence of an equally general cause
  of such union, and that cause must be a molecular one.
     " The theory most consistent with these facts is a kinetic
  one, viz. that metals and electrolytes are throughout their
 masses in a state of molecular movement. That the molecules
 of these substances, being frictionless bodies in a frictionless
 medium, and their motion not being dissipated by conduction
 or otherwise, continue in motion until some cause arises to
 Erevent them. That every different metal and electrolyte
   as a different class of motions, and that the molecular motion
 of each substance varies at a different rate by rise of tem
 perature." This theory has been employed by me to explain
 certain thermoelectric phenomena in electrolytes (see Roy.
 Soc. Proc. 1883, xxxvi. pp. 54-55). " In accordance with
 this theory chemical action is an effect of molecular motion,
 and is one of the modes by which that motion is converted into
 electric current." " These statements are also consistent with
 the view that the elementary substances lose a portion of
 their molecular activity when they unite to form acids or salts,
 and that electrolytes have usually a less degree of molecular
 motion than the elements of which they are composed "
(ibid.).
    A kinetic theory must agree with mechanical laws ; we
 cannot create motion or energy, all motion arises from pret-
existing motion, every efficient cause of material change is a
kinetic one ; the immediate source of all chemical change is
the latent molecular motion of the combining or mutually
acting substances. As neither mere difference of substance^
nor union in definite proportions by weight, is in itself an
active influence, neither can it be the immediate kinetic cause
of chemical change; but as both these circumstances in
variably attend chemical union, and no such union occurs
without them, we may conclude that they are necessary con
ditions of the union.
    By adopting the above theory, "that electrolytes are
throughout their masses in a state of molecular movement ;
that the molecules of these substances, being frictionless
bodies in a frictionless medium, and their motion not being

                    Department of Chemical Research.             425
    dissipated by conduction or otherwise, they continue in
    cessantly in movement nntil some cause arises to prevent
    them," and associating it with Newton's third law of motion,
    viz., that "the actions of bodies npon one another are
    always equal and in opposite directions," we are driven to the
. inference that what we term " chemical affinity," or the
. immediate active cause of chemical union, is latent or potential
    molecular motion and the mutual impact and momentum of
. the molecules of the uniting substances. When two dissolved
    substances are brought by admixture of their solutions into
    mutual contact, a portion of the molecular motion of. the one
 . substance is neutralized by an equal amount of opposite
 . motion of the other, and the two portions are converte d into
    free heat, electric current, or other form of energy, and the
    molecules thus brought into nearer proximity retain their
    new positions and distances : this agrees with the usual evolu
    tion of heat, loss of voltaic energy, depression of electromotive
    force, and frequent increase of density, which occur during
    chemical union. According to this view, every dissolved
    chemical compound is an instance of balanced molecular
    motion, and it is the neutralized portions of motion which
    escape as heat and electric current. How far there is any
    originality in these ideas I leave to other persons to decide.
       Many of the facts evolved by the several researches I have
    referred to point towards the conclusion that measurements
    of volta-electromotive force and voltaic energy are essentially
    measurements of " chemical affinity " between the dissolved
    substance and the positive metal. An analogous idea has
  , already been suggested by other investigators. E. F. Her-
    roun, adopting a view of Helmholtz's, has inferred that " the
    electromotive force of a voltaic cell is a measure of the actual
    transformation of free energy," and concluded that it "fur
    nishes a more accurate measurement of the free energy, and
    therefore of true chemical affinity, than data derived from
    calorimetric observations " (Phil. Mag. 1888, xxvii. pp. 230,
    233). The amounts of voltaic energy lost by two substances
    during their act of chemical union clearly indicate to a large
    extent the quantities of opposite molecular motion neutralized
    by their union. For instance, a much larger amount of such
    motion is neutralized by the union of sodium with chlorine to
    form sodic chloride than by that of hydrogen with chlorine to
    form hydrochloric acid ; and no doubt, by investigating the
    losses of electromotive force and voltaic energy attending the
    chemical union of substances in aqueous solution, we may
    learn a very great deal respecting the quantitative relations
    of " chemical affinity " between metals and electrolytes ; but
       Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 180. May 18U0.          2 K

42(5    New Method and Department of Chemical Research.
 a great obstacle to making accurate measurements of such
 " affinity " by this method is the unmeasured portion of energy
 lost by "local action." It may be further remarked that,
 disregarding " local action," this chemical union and neutrali
 zation of opposite molecular motions only occurs whilst the
 circuit is closed ; and that at the instant of closing the circuit,
 potential energy is converted into kinetic energy, and a multi
 tude of electromagnetic waves of very varied lengths are
 generated and radiated into space : the conversion of energy,
 therefore, in this kind of case depends upon closing of the
 circuit.
    The results obtained by varying the strength or the tempe
 rature of the liquid at each metal separately support the con
 clusion that, in an ordinary voltaic cell, nearly the whole of the
 energy is due to action at the zinc, and but little to that at the
 platinum ; and that the latter acts nearly wholly by obviating
 the greater counter electromotive force which would occur by
 using a more corrodible metal, and by diminishing the resist
 ance which a less conducting substance would offer. The
 mere absence of an obstacle to a change cannot be an active
 cause of that change ; and any substance which takes an
essential part in any physical or chemical action, and (like
 the platinum plate) remains exactly the same in every respect
 after the action as it was immediately previous to it, cannot
have been a real cause of that action, or of any loss or gain of
energy attending it. The presence of the negative metal is
only a static permitting condition ; it enables, without any
 expenditure of energy on its own part, the opposite potential
molecular motions of the positive metal and the liquid to
 neutralize each other and to be converted into voltaic current.
    The method described in this paper is not merely a technical
 one of detecting substances, nor is it specially fitted for such
a purpose ; but it is an extensive new department of chemical
and molecular research, and a general system of representation
 by means of geometrical curves, not only of individual sub
stances, but of some of the fundamental changes of molecular
motion of substances which are inseparably related to their
chief chemical properties ; and it will in this way supply
mathematicians with a new and extensive series of facts,
representing, in terms of electromotive force, the degrees of
volta-chemical action of metals and electrolytes upon each
other. One of the chief uses of it as a method of research
will be to examine the molecular structure and chemical com
position of dissolved substances, to detect differences and
changes in them caused by heat, light, chemical union, sub
stitution, or decomposition, &c. ; and to detect and measure

                     The. Nature of Solutions.               427
molecular and chemical differences in isomeric liquids. It
may be used to detect and measure the changes gradually
produced by light and heat in chlorine water and bromine
water, the influence of light upon nitric acid, the degrees of
retarding effect of coloured glass screens &e. upon various
chemical changes caused by light, the gradual oxidation of a
solution of sulphurous anhydride by exposure to air, the
spontaneous decomposition of aqua regia, the rate of de
composition of a solution of potassic iodide by chlorine water,
the speed of displacement of one acid by another, &c., &c.
The examples given and researches suggested are sufficient
to indicate the very great extent of the subject.
                 XLV. The Nature of Solutions.
          By Spencer Umfreville Pickering, M.A.*
IN the March number of the Journal of the Chemical
      Society there was published a paper by the present writer,
" On the Nature of Solutions," which had been honoured by
an adverse criticism from Prof. Arrhenius (Phil. Mag. 1889,
xxviii. p. 36) eight months before its appearance in extenso.
    It is impossible to answer the objections raised by Prof.
Arrhenius without giving some account of the work itself ;
and, as this work is of a character calculated to interest many
physicists, it may be advisable to give here a somewhat fuller
resume" of it than would otherwise be necessary.
    Solutions of sulphuric acid formed the subject of the inves
tigation. Series of density-determinations with solutions of
different strengths were made at 8°, 18°, 28°, and 38°, each
series consisting of 50 to 100 determinations. A still more
 elaborate series of determinations of the heat of dissolution at
 18° were made, as well as some of the heat-capacity of solu
 tions up to 12 per cent, in strength. From the density-results
 at 18° the contraction on mixing was calculated, and these
 values treated independently. The density-results, moreover,
 at the four different temperatures gave the means of calcula
 ting the expansion by heat for various intervals of temperature ;
 and, finally, F. and W. Kohlrausch's determinations of the
 electric conductivity were re-examined, the first examination
 of them having been made by Crompton (Chem. Soc. Trans.
 1888, p. 116).
    Different solutions were for the most part used in investi
 gating the different properties, and the total number of deter
 minations made amounted to 600 or 700.
    The results were examined by plotting them out, and by
                  * Communicated by the Author.
                               2K2

428                 Mr. S. U. Pickering on the
differentiating them; the differentiation being performed
either on the experimental values themselves or on the smooth
curves representing them, generally on both.
   For a direct differentiation the difference between the values
obtained for the densities, or any other properties, of two solu
tions was divided by the difference in their percentage com
position. The result gave the first differential coefficient; that
is, the rate of change in density between these two percent
ages, or, as it has to be less perfectly expressed, at a point
intermediate between the two. If the densities themselves
form a continuous and regular curve, the differential deduced
from them will form either another continuous curve or a
straight line ; whereas, if the densities are represented by
several different curves, the differential will consist of as many
other curves or straight lines. Thus, differentiation was used
primarily as a means of rendering more apparent any sudden
changes of curvature in the figure representing the experi
ments ; but it generally indicated the nature of the component
curves of the latter, since parabolic curves of the second order
give straight lines as their first differential.       In all cases
either the whole or else the greater part of the first differential
figures obtained were curvilinear, but, on proceeding to a
second differentiation, a rectilinear figure was obtained.
   The only case in which the second differentiation could be
 performed on the first differential values themselves was that
of the electric conductivities ; in the other cases the magnitude
of the errors of the experiments approached too nearly to that
of the quantities constituting the second differential to render
such a method practicable. In such cases it was necessary to
reduce the error by plotting out the first differential points,
drawing a smoothed curve through them, and performing the
second differentiation on readings taken from this. Prof.
Arrhenius objects to such a process : but it is one which every
physicist uses to reduce experimental error, and objection
might as well be made against taking the mean arithmetically
of several determinations at the same point, as against taking the
mean of a curve diagrammatically from several determinations
along its course. To say that in such a case the mean value
taken, or the mean curve drawn, " entirely lacks experimental
foundation," and still more, to say that I admit that it does so,
is certainly incorrect.
   In all cases, except that of the densities and electric con
ductivities, the first differentiation was applied to the smoothed
curve drawn to represent the experiments, as well as to the
experimental values themselves : the two first differential
figures thus obtained were treated separately and the result.*
compared.

                         Nature of Solutions.                   429
    It was found impossible to draw any of the figures obtained
with the help of a bent ruler, except in different sections. In
some cases these sections cut each other on prolongation,
this is so with the heat of dissolution and the expansion-
results ; in others they meet tangentially, this is so with the
first differentials of the densities and conductivities ; while in
one case, that of the heat-capacities, they do not meet at all.
But this want of continuity is probably only apparent. In all
cases therefore, except the last mentioned, the whole figure is
continuous. The fact that it can only be drawn in separate
sections does not prove that it is made up of so many separate
curves. This is only rendered probable by the fact that each
section is shown by subsequent differentiation to be within
experimental error a parabolic curve, and is proved by the
fact that all the very different figures representing the differ
ent properties all require to be drawn in the same number of
sections, and give the same number of lines for the second
differentials, thus showing changes of curvature in the original
figures at the same points.
    Prof. Arrhenius attacks me on the subject of this smoothing
of the curves, remarking that if "Mr. Pickering had 'smoothed '
 his curve properly he would evidently have removed these
 angular points or sudden changes of curvature." The ques
tion hinges on the interpretation of the word "properly."
 Prof. Arrhenius seems to think that the " proper " amount of
 smoothing to be made is such that all sudden changes of curva
 ture should be obliterated ; and this, too, in an investigation the
 sole object of which is to ascertain whether there are such sudden
 changes or not. I must beg to differ from him. The " proper "
 amount of smoothing I take to be such as will allow but little
 more error in the experimental points than the known errors
 of the determinations, or than that which seems to be the
 probable error according to the irregularities of consecutive
 points in the figure. If with such smoothing we are led to
 conclusions which are obviously false, or which are at variance
  with the results obtained from independent sources, then and
  then only must we admit some further unknown source of
 error, and increase the smoothness of our drawings.
     Even excessive and unwarrantable smoothing will not help
 us in reducing the whole figure to one regular curve, but
  results only in emphasizing the more marked changes of cur
  vature as the less marked ones disappear. This was found to
 be so even in the case of the curve for the heat of dissolution
  of solutions from 5 per cent, in strength upwards ; a curve
  which, of all the instances examined, was that in which the
  changes were the least marked, and in which the figure
 presented the greatest seeming regularity.

430                Mr. S. U. Pickering on the
   There can be no question but that the method of analysing
results by differentiation presents many difficulties, and must
be used with extreme caution ; nor can it be denied that many
of the changes of curvature which I consider to be probable
are but, faintly marked, and are by no means beyond question.
This must inevitably be the case if these changes are due to
changes in the unstable and partially dissociated hydrates
constituting the liquid. Their existence can be established only
by the concordance of the indications obtained from many
independent sources, and can scarcely be refuted by a hasty
criticism (such as Prof. Arrhenius's) of results which had not
been published.
   Figs. 1, 2, and 3 give rough illustrations of the six experi
mental curves examined. They show how very different the
figures are in the different cases, and how improbable it would
be that they should all split up by mere cbance into the same
number of sections, and exhibit changes at the same points*.
Illustrations of the first differentials derived from them would
lead to the same conclusion.
                                    Fig. 1.
                               Per cent. H,SO,.
  * Diagrams representing on a larger scale the portions below 10 per
cent, would show the differences in a still more striking manner.

                        Nature of Solutions.                    431
                                       Fig. 2.
                                    Per cent. HjSO,.
                                   Fiff. 3.
    •            M            €#                 *»
                                Per cent. H ,S(),.
  Note.—Points have been inserted in these diagrams through error ;
they do not represent the experiments, which are very numerous.

432                    Mr. S. U. Pickering on the
    The number of more or less sudden changes of curvature
noticed amounted to seventeen, and, of the eight separate
series of determinations,
                      1 showed 1 of the changes,
                      2    ¦•  1       n      it
                      3    n    1     i>      ••
                      4    ¦>  4      >>      »i
                      5    II  1      •>      >i
                      6    »   7      »       ii
                      7    »   2      >)      ¦>
and it may be fairly stated that in no case did any of the
series fail to show a change except through lack of sufficient
data.
    The concordance, moreover, of the actual position of the
changes shown by the various properties was certainly better
than might have been expected, considering the great difficulty
in determining the exact point at which any two constituent
curves cut or touched each other. The average difference
between their position as shown by the different individual
properties (or by the same property at different temperatures)
and by the mean results was only 0'388 per cent., and. in only
nine cases did it reach or exceed 1 per cent.
    Another point which adds confirmation to these results is,
that in every case where the hydrate indicated is sufficiently
simple to admit of its composition being determined accu
rately (that is, where a difference of 2 to 11 per cent, would
be caused by the addition of one more water-molecule) , the
changes occur at a point corresponding, within the possible
limits of error, to a definite molecular composition*. There
are seven such cases available, and the found and calculated
values show an average difference of only 0*226 per cent., or
about 0-057 HgO ; the maximum reaching but 0-48 per cent
or -Ath H,0.
    A comparison of the density-results at the four different
temperatures is very instructive. The first differentials show
gradual changes in their general character as the temperature
alters, the curvature in the various portions becoming more
marked as the temperature is lower ; yet, in spite of these
alterations in general appearance, the points at which definite
alterations in curvature occur remain unaltered f. The con-
   • Prof. Arrhenius implies that they do not; hut as my found values
were not published at the time when he wrote, I do not see how he was
in a position to judge.
  t In attacking Mendeleeff, Prof. Arrhenius falls into the error of con
founding changes in general direction, especially positions of maximum

                          Nature of Solutions.                          438
tractions also are well worth attention. They are deduced
from the densities, but form a figure totally unlike the density-
curve (fig. 1) ; and the first differential obtained from them
is also totally unlike that from the densities. Yet the second
differential figures in the two casss exhibit a similarity of the
closest description, not only in general appearance, but in
the inclination of almost every line constituting them, as well
as in the position of the changes which they show.
    Prof. Arrhenius attempts to dismiss the argument based on
the concordance of my results from independent sources, by
stating " that Mr. Pickering with his multitudinous arbitrary
constants can fix the points 'where the breaks occur' just where
he chooses." Had Prof. Arrhenius waited to see my results
before he attacked them he would have found that, so far from
working with " multitudinous arbitrary constants," I worked
with no constants at all*; and he would also have found that
an attempt to place the breaks by means ofconstants, or drawn
curves, at points other than those at which they really occur
 led to a signal failure, even when the attempt was made on a
 portion of the density-curve where the true breaks or changes
of curvature were but feebly marked (see p. 78, he. cit.).
    The multiplicity of the hydrates as well as the complexity
of the highest ones (containing as much as 5000 HS0) may
 no donbt prove a stumbling block to others as well as to Prof.
 Arrhenius. But till we have gained some slight knowledge
of the constitution of solutions, it is surely well not to turn
 onr backs on any evidence which may be forthcoming, and
 brand it as a reductio ad absurdum before it is produced.
 Organic chemistry would be non-existent had it met with
such a reception.                            >
    Prof. Arrhenius's attack reaches a climax when he states
 that " Mr. Pickering has deduced from the specific gravity
 quite different hydrates from Mendeleeff, and from the elec
 tric conductivity quite different hydrates from Crompton."
This statement is certainly a most unfortunate one ; for,
 though I altogether disagree with Mendeleeff's views as to
 the nature of the density first differential, and though I think
 that Crompton's conclusions were scarcely justified by the
 elevation, with definite changes of curvature (p. 34). It is obvious that
 the highest or lowest point in a curvilinear figure may occur in the middle
 of the most regular portion of it, and such points have nothing to do with
 the changes of curvature here dealt with.
    • I prefer imagining that Prof. Arrhenius really did think that I
 worked by fitting equations with arbitrary constants on to my curves ;
  but it is rather difficult to reconcile such a view with his previous
 remarks.

434         Mr. T. Mather on the Shape of Movable Coils
facts at his disposal*, yet the hydrates which I mention as^
existing include those which both Mendel^eff and Crompton
mentioned, thus:—
                                                         Mean from all
     From Densities.          From Conductivities.           sources.
   Mendeleeff.   Pickering.    Crompton.   Pickering.        Pickering.
   About 84-5     At 84'48     About 84-5   At 840         84-24 per oent
      „   781      „ 7307         „  731     ,. 73 (?)     73-04
      „   47-6     „ 5033         „  47-6                  4992
                   „ 18-fi        „  18-5                  18-93     „
      „    3-5     „ 415          ,.  3-5   „    3-5        399
    I have mentioned above that the second differential is recti
linear in every case ; but I do not by any means think that it
has been proved to be absolutely so. The investigation was
purely experimental in its nature ; and the point of chief
importance was that the lines ultimately obtained by differen
tiation should be straight within the limits of experimental
error, for their being so proves that each of them is derived
 from an independent curve, which, within these same limits, is
regular.
XLVI. On the Shape of Movable Coil* vsed in Electrical
    Measuring-Instruments. By T. Mather, Assistant in the
    Physical Department, Central Institution t.
IT is with some diffidence that I venture to bring the sub
       ject of this note before the Society, because it concerns
such a fundamental point in the construction of measuring-
instruments having movable coils, such as d'Arsonval galva
nometers, electro-dynamometers, wattmeters, &c., that it is
almost certain to have been worked out before. However, as
the matter is not touched upon in the ordinary text-books, I
bring it forward in the hope that it may serve to recall atten
tion to a subject which, judging from the construction of such
   * It is not difficult to see how both Mendeleeff and Crompton arrived
at partially right conclusions from erroneous or insufficient premisses (loc.
cit. pp. 79, 86, 125).
   t Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 21, 1890.

           used' in Electrical Measuring-Instruments.          435
instruments as are in common use, has been almost entirely
ignored.
    In a paper "On Galvanometers," by Prof. Ayrton, Dr.
Sumpner, and the writer, read before the Society on Jan
uary 17th, it was pointed out that the coils of d'Arsonval
galvanometers should be narrow and long, and that there
should be no internal core. Mr. C. V. Boys had evidently
arrived at the same conclusion long before the date referred
to, for the coil of his radio-micrometer is a proof of this.
    The object of this paper is to determine the best shape of
the section of the coil perpendicular to the axis about which
it turns.
    The subject will be dealt with as concerning coils suspended
in uniform fields, but similar reasoning may be applied to
other instruments in which movable coils are used.
    Let the point 0 (fig. 1) represent in plan          Fig. 1.
the axis about which the coil turns, and assume       ¦*.
 it is placed in a magnetic field whose direction
 is perpendicular to A B.
    Let P be an element of the section of the
 coil, then the deflecting moment exerted by unit
 length measured at right angles to the paper is
                     HCar sin d ;    .  .  . .  (1)
 where H is the strength of field, C the cur
 rent-density per unit area, a the area of the
 element, and r its distance from the axis.           B
     The moment of inertia of the element about 0 will be
                              war\                              (2)
  where w is the mass per unit cube.
     Now in ordinary commercial instruments it is important
  that the period of oscillation should not be inconveniently
  long, and that the power consumed by the instrument should
  be as small as possible ; then, since for a constant period the
  controlling moment at unit angle must be proportional to the
  moment of inertia, the problem resolves itself into finding the
  shape of the section such that the total deflecting moment for
  a given total moment of inertia is a maximum.
     The ratio of the Deflecting Moment to the Moment of
  Inertia for the element above considered is
                    HCar sin 6
                           ~s—j    «• «• •
                       war
  since H, C, and w may be considered constants.

436       Mr. T. Mather on the Shape of Movable Coils
    The ratio    ^— thus is a measure of the efficacy of the
element and its position.
    If we now draw a curve whose polar equation is
                             r=xl sin 0,
then, as in Maxwell (vol. ii. p. 332), it may be shown that a
given length of wire wound within this space is more efficient
than if wound outside it. Hence the curve r=x^ sin d,
i. e. a circle tangential to A B at O, is the best form of the
section of a movable coil, just as in the case of sensitive gal
vanometers the best shape is given by
                            r*=j,,'sin0.
    The complete section is given in fig. 2,        FiflT- 2.
and .consists of two circles touching at 0.
The circles C and D have section-lines
 in different directions to indicate that the
current passes in opposite directions in the
 two.
    The problem may be treated in another
way ; for it resolves itself into finding the
shape and position of an area having a
given moment of inertia about a point in
its plane such that the moment of the area
about a coplanar line through the point is
a maximum.                                             n
    Taking the point as pole, and the line as the line of refer
 ence, the expression
               j"jV sin Odrdd is to be a maximum,
 whilst
                  r3 dr dd is constant.
This may be solved by the Calculus of Variations with the
result above obtained. By this method Dr. Sumpner (to
whom the writer suggested the problem) arrived at the solu
tion some time before the author considered the subject from
the first point of view.
    In order to illustrate the sort of improvement obtained by
 winding coils to this shape, a table is appended, the first
 column of which shows various shapes of section, the
 second column the value of the ratio moment of area
 -5- moment of inertia of area, and the fourth column the
 deflecting moments of the various shapes all having the unit

           used in Electrical Measuring-Instruments.         437
moment of inertia. From this last' column it may be seen
that the ordinary Siemens dynamometer type of coil, and those
of d'Arsonval's galvanometers and wattmeters, are far from
being the most efficacious.
   The numbers in column 4 are obtained on the assumption
that the coils are long in proportion to their breadth ; and
when this condition is not fulfilled (as it very seldom is), the
numbers would be still further reduced, for the parts of the
wire at right angles to the axis of suspension add to the
moment of inertia but not much to the deflecting force.
   This consideration is of importance where the coils are of
sections such as (4), (7), (8), (9) ; for as the coils are wide,
the useless moment of inertia sometimes amounts to one fifth
the useful. In such a case as (8) the real numbers represent
ing the efficacy of the coil, as compared with one made to
section (1) of the same moment of inertia, would be about 1
to 3. These latter numbers represent approximately the
efficacy of the coil of an ordinary Siemens dynamometer
reading up to 60 amperes, as compared with that of a coil
made to the best shape. It is thus possible to increase the
deflecting moment for a given current threefold by changing
the shape of the movable coil and arranging the fixed coils to
produce the same strength of field as at present used.
   Of course the new coil would be heavier than the old one,
and would therefore require a stronger suspension which
might introduce more vagueness of zero ; but as the friction
at the mercury-cups is considerable, the necessity for using a
stronger suspension would not seriously interfere with the
accuracy of the instrument.
   It will be noted that in the preceding part of this paper the
moment of inertia of the suspended coil has been assumed
constant ; it is perhaps desirable to give reasons why this
assumption is made.
   In most instruments having movable coils which are in
ordinary use, the current is led into and from the coil either
by mercury-cups, or by wires which also serve as the control,
or by flexible wires independent of the control.
   Taking the first case of mercury-cups, it may be noted that,
owing to friction and viscosity, a certain minimum control
is necessary to give the requisite definiteness of zero. As
time is generally of importance in making commercial mea
surements, the period of oscillation may be taken as constant.
Therefore, as both control and period are determined by
circumstances other than those affecting the shape of the coil,
the moment of inertia may be taken as constant.
   When the current is led into the coil by the torsion-wires.

438      Mr. T. Mather on the Shape of Movable Coils
the smallest size of the latter is usually determined by con
siderations of heating, and their length is limited by questions
of portability, compactness, and resistance. This means that
the control cannot be diminished below a certain minimum,
and hence, by reasoning as in the last paragraph, the moment
of inertia of the coil must not exceed a certain value.
   The third case, where the leading-in wires are independent
of the control, the conditions are somewhat similar to those
in the first case ; for the size of these wires is determined by
considerations of heating by the current to be measured, and
they necessarily possess some viscosity or internal friction,
which requires a certain control to give definiteness of zero.
   In addition to the assumption of constant Moment of
Inertia, the field in which the coil swings is taken to be uni
form and parallel ; and consequently the reasoning will not
apply to radial fields which exist in instruments such as the
new d'Arsonval milliamperemeter, having a range of 180°.
In such case it would be advantageous to make the coil of
a section similar to that in No. 4 (see table), keeping the
radius b as small as possible.
   The shape given in No. 1 of table cannot be imitated
exactly in practice, for insulation-space is required between
the two halves, and unless the coil is used in a zero-instrument,
parts near the axis might oppose the rest when a considerable
deflexion exists. Shapes (3), (5), and (6) are also open to
the same objection, but this is easily surmounted by allowing
a small space to exist about the axis ; in fact some such space
is almost necessary to enable the coil to be wound conveniently.
   Again, in Siemens dynamometers for fairly large currents
it would be difficult to make the coil of the best shape, owing
to the space required for the mercury-cups being considerable;
but a much closer approximation to this shape than the one
often employed could be used.
   In ordinary d'Arsonvals, which deflect through a consider
able angle, the shape should be modified so that no part of it
crosses the line A B (fig. 2) even at the maximum deflexion,
for any such part would oppose the rest of the coil. The
resulting figure would be lemniscate-shaped. There are some
cases, however, such as deflexional dynamometers, where it is
advisable to make the coil of such a shape as to cross the line
A B when deflected ; for then the deflexion would increase
less rapidly than the square of the current, and hence the
instrument would have a greater useful range for a given
length of scale.

                     used in Electrical Measuring-Instruments.                     439
                                                                 Deflecting
      Shane of Swtfnn        Deflecting moment Proportions in moment
                                                                  per unit
                             Moment of inertia particular cases. Moment          Instrument.
                                                                 of inertia.
                                       4
 1.                                   8S-                            1-02
         ^^^^
                 11
                  !i -
 2.                i
                                  4 sin 9          9=30°.            0-91
                                    m '            0=45°.            0-95
                 >
 3.                                   8                              0-80
                                    3ni'
 4.                           4 Bin 9 A,1-*,'                                 Low-resistanoe
                                39 b'-b*                             0-44 |      d'Aroonyal.
                                      34           2<i=A.           0-97
5.                               2(6»+a>)-         4a=4.            0-91
         KBBR*
                 -**
6.                                     3
                                      44"                           0-79
        111
                                                                                   Jolin's
                       Mt            3*               <=lI54        0-47 { High-resistance
                                                                                d'Arsonral.
7.                     Im                                                  f Wattmeter (Oanz
       s                                                            0-38 | and Co.), 60
                 J'                                                             amperes.
8.                                                                           Dynamometer
      •                                                             0-40        (Siemens), 60
                                                                                amperes.
                                                                             Dynamometer
                                                                    0-53        (Siemens), 600
•J. nmmm                             34                                         amperes.
               j                                                             Wattmeter
                                                                    0-49       (8iemens), 600
              1i                                                               amperes.

                            [  440    ]
    XLVII. The Magnetization of Iron in Strong Fields.
            By Shelford Bidwell, M.A., F.R.S.*
IN the Philosophical Magazine for April 1890, p. 293,
      Mr. Du Bois takes exception to the equation
                        W<7=27rIs + HI,
which I employed (Proc. Roy. Soc. no. 245, 1886, p. 486)
in calculating the curve of magnetization from observations
of the pull Detween two halves of a divided ring-electro-
magnet.     He objects that a term q— ought to have been added
for the mutual attraction of the two half coils of wire.
  In point of fact this attraction was found to be quite in
significant, and was purposely neglected. Within the limits
of the magnetizing forces used it would have no effect what
ever upon the calculated values of I as given in my table.
The greatest magnetizing force employed was 585C.G.b. units,
when the weight supported was 15,905 grammes per sq. centim.
Substituting these values for H and W, and putting ^r = 981
and 7r=3,14, we get from my equation
                           1=1530-4.
                    H3
If we add the term rj— the solution is
                           1 = 1530-2.
The value given in my table (in which decimals are dis
carded) is
                            1 = 1530.
For the greatest value of H the error is therefore only 2 in
the first place of decimals: for smaller values it would of
course be less ; and it is clear that, whatever the results of my
experiments may be worth, they are not affected by the
omission to which Mr. Du Bois calls attention.
   I regret that, through a mistake, I found fault with Bow-
                         Bs
land's expression W<7= 77—. It would certainly have afforded
a better and more direct_method than my own of arriving at
the values of B.
                  * Communicated by the Author.

                             [ U1 ]
 XLVTII. On the Passage of Electricity through Hot Gases.
    By J. J. Thomson, J/.J., F.R.S., Cavendish Professor of
    Experimental Physics, Cambridge.
                       [Continued from p. 366],
               Conductivity of Hot Metallic Vapours.
 TO vaporize such metals as silver or tin a higher tempora-
        ture is required than can be produced bjr the arrange
 ment which sufficed for the substances hitherto described.
 The method used to determine the conductivity of metallic
 vapours was as follows:—In a brick made of " ganister" a
 vertical channel was bored, into which an earthenware crucible
 was placed ; this vertical channel was in communication with
a horizontal one which conveyed the flame of a large oxy-
hydrogen blowpipe. The terminals conveying the current
dipped into the crucible, which was kept full of nitrogen
when the metal used was one that readily oxydized. In this
furnace silver could be volatilized, and the electrical conduc
tivity of it and most of the metals more volatile than it were
tested.
   The metals tried were sodium, potassium, thallium, cad
mium, mercury, bismuth, lead, aluminium, magnesium, tin,
zinc, and silver. Of these the vapours of mercury, tin, and
thallium did not seem to conduct at all ; at any rate their con
ductivity is less than that of air ; the vapours of the other
 metals conducted very much better than air, the best con
ductors being the vapours of sodium and potassium, which
conducted even better than iodine.
   The difference between the behaviour of the vapours of
mercury, tin, and thallium and that of the other metallic
vapours is very remarkable. I thought at first it was con
nected with the behaviour of the salts of these metals when
used as electrolytes, as the chlorides of mercury are such bad
conductors as hardly to deserve the name of electrolytes, while
one of the chlorides of tin is a non-conductor ; however, Mr.
T. ('. Fitzpatrick, who kindly determined for me the con
ductivity of thallium chloride, found that it was normal, so
that the behaviour of the metallic vapours does not seem neces
sarily connected with the conductivity of the salts of the metal.
   The vapour-densities of most of the metals seem to show
that the molecules of metals are monatomic ; if we suppose
the atom is able to possess and give up a charge of electricity,
this fact would explain the conductivity of their vapours.
   If tin and thallium were found to be exceptions to the rule
that the molecule of a metal is monatomic their want of con
ductivity would be explained. The vapour-density of mercury
shows that if its molecule is diatomic all the compounds of
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 180. May 1890.         2 L

442            Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Passage
mercury wo know are molecular compounds—that is, tbey
contain the molecule of mercury and not the atom ; the other
alternative would be that the atoms of mercury differ from
other atoms in not being charged.
        Furtlier Experiments on the Conductivity of Air.
   Some experiments, in which Ihe arrangement was slightly
altered, seem to throw light on the way in which air conducts
electricity : the electrodes, instead of being placed as in the
previous experiments in a platinum tube closed at one end
and heated by a furnace, were placed at opposite ends of a
vertical thin platinum tube open at both ends, which could be
made white hot by passing the current from a large num,ber
of storage-cells through it. With this arrangement it was
 found that the current through the hot air was very different
according as the upper terminal was positive or negative.
 When the upper electrode was negative there was hardly any
 deflexion, but when it was positive there was a deflexion of
 70 or 80 scale-divisions. In this experiment there is no
appreciable difference of temperature between the top and
 bottom of the tube; there is, however, a rush of heated air up
 the tube ; and the experiment shows that the positive current
 of electricity travels much more easily against the current of
 hot air than with it, indicating I think that the current is
 largely due to convection and that the particles carrying the
 current travel from the negative to the positive pole. This
 seems in accordance with the experiments of Lenard and
 Wolff already mentioned, for they found that negatively
 charged platinum disintegrated much more readily than un
 charged or positively charged platinum.
    When the tube was placed in a bell-jar, filled with one of
 those gases which conduct electricity well, such as hydro
 chloric-acid gas, it made but little difference to the current
 whether the top or bottom electrode was negative, though on
 admitting the air this difference was at once detected. This
 indicates, I think, that the main part of the current through
 air is carried in a different way from that in which it is
 carried through one of the better conducting gases.
              Laws of Conduction through Hot Gases.
    It is known that the conduction through hot air does not
 obey Ohm's law (Blondlot, Journal </e Physique, 2* serie, t. vi.
 March 1887). The following experiments, although they
 cannot lay claim to any very great accuracy, show that the
 conduction through those gases which conduct electricity
 well does not depart very much from Ohm's law. The great
 difficulty in these experiments is to keep the temperature

               of Electricity through Hot Gases.             443
constant. I found it impossible to do this for any length
of time, and so endeavoured to make the experiments as
quickly as possible. For this purpose a series of small storage-
cells were arranged within easy reach of the observer, and
connected in such a way that the number of cells in the
circuit could be altered by lifting a wire from one mercury
cup and putting it in another. The following are the results
obtained in this way with hydrochloric-acid gas at a yellow
heat, the observations made within a short time of each other
being enclosed in brackets :—
       Number of Cells.   Deflexion.     Deflexion per Cell.
                                             9-0
                                             8-75 !
                                            10-0
                                             8-75
                                             4-4 S
                                             5-0 J
These experiments seem to indicate that these gases obey
Ohm's law.
 Influence of the Temperature of the Electrode on the Passage
                of Electricity through Hot Gases.
    The condition of the electrodes exerts a most powerful
 influence on the passage of electricity through the best
 conducting gases. This was proved by several experiments
 in which cold electrodes were suddenly dipped into a gas
 maintained at a temperature sufficiently high to make it
 conduct. This experiment was tried in three ways—first,
 with the platinum tube heated by the furnace ; secondly, with
 the tube heated by the current ; and, thirdly, with the cru
 cible heated by the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe. In all these
 cases an arrangement was fitted up which enabled the
 observer to lift the electrodes (or one of them in the case of
 the tube heated by the current) out of the hot gas, allow
 them to cool, and then rapidly replace them. It was always
 found that however hot the gas might be no deflexion of the
 galvanometer occurred when the cold electrodes were first
 placed in the hot gas, and that the time when the mirror of
 the galvanometer began to move was just the time the elec
 trodes began to glow. The experiment was repeatedly tried
 both with thick and thin platinum wires, and with thin carbon
filaments and thick carbon rods. The cooling of the gas by
contact with tho electrode does not seem sufficient to explain

 444            Prof. J . J. Thomson on tlie Passage
 this effect, as before the hot gas can be cooled it mast come
 into contact with the electrode ; and as there is a strong up
 current of hot gas fresh supplies of it are continually coming
 into contact with the electrode ; so that if the hot gas could
 give up its electricity to the cold electrode there would be a
 current through the gas. The difficulty with which cold
 metals get electrified by hot gases is also shown by the
 following experiment :—two platinum electrodes were im
 mersed in iodine at a yellow heat, and a piece of platinum
 foil, whether insulated or uninsulated is immaterial, was
 arranged so that it could be lowered between the electrodes
 or raised from the hot gas at pleasure. Initially the platinum
 foil was out of the iodine and a current was flowing through
 the hot gas ; the foil was then lowered into the hot gas and
at once stopped the current. As soon, however, as the foil
 began to glow the current recommenced, and the system finally
conducted as well as before the introduction of the foil. These
experiments seem to show that for electricity to get from the
gas into the electrode, or in other words for the atoms to give
up their charges to the electrodes, the latter must be at least
red hot. Whether this is due to the disintegration of the
electrodes at a red heat, or to the increase in the temperature
of the electrode producing an increase in that action between
the gas and the metal which manifests itself in the case of
some gases and metals as chemical action, is a point which I
hope to investigate more fully.
             Influence of the Material of the Electrode.
    Electrodes of platinum, iron, carbon, gold, and aluminium
were tried ; the experiments with the aluminium electrodes
were not, however, satisfactory, as the electrodes melted as
soon as the temperature was high enough to make the gas
conduct. The resistance of a conducting gas, such as iodine,
seemed practically the same whichever of the first four sub
stances were used. Copper electrodes seemed also to behave
in the same way until they got covered with a coating of
oxide.
                   Symmetry of the Conduction.
    There does not seem to be in the conduction of electricity
through those hot gases which conduct the most readily, that
dissimilarity in the properties of the positive and negative
electrodes which is found in the discharge through vacuum
tubes and in the more closely analogous case of conduction
through flames. Tlus was tested by using two electrodes, A
and 15, which were very unlike in shape and size: in most of the
experiments A was a piece of platinum foil, while B was a thin
platinum wire. The deflexion of the galvanometer was observed,

                 of Electricity through Hot Gases.             445
first when A was the positive and B the negative electrode ; and,
secondly, when B was the positive and A the negative elec
trode. No difference could, however, be observed between the
two cases. This is in striking contrast to the results of a
similar experiment made by Hankel (Wiedemann's Elektrici-
tdt, iv. p. 891) with different-sized electrodes immersed in a
flame ; for Hankel found that the deflexion of the galvano
meter when the largest electrode was negative was greater
than when it was positive in the proportion of 294 to 34.
We must remember, however, that though a flame is no doubt
very hot gas, the condition of this gas is not nearly so simple
as that of the hot gas which w;is the subject of our experiments.
For, in the first place, the temperature of the flame varies
greatly from place to place, and, secondly, there seems to be
a separation of the electricities in the flame, so that the nega
tive electricity is in one part of the flame and the positive in
another. In the hot gas with which we had to deal the
temperature was very much more uniform than in the case of a
flame, and there was no evidence of the positive electricity
being in one part of the gas and the negative in another, as is
the case in the flame : this separation of the electricities might
easily give rise to a want of symmetry in the conduction.
   Another way in which the symmetry of the conduction was
tested was by raising one electrode out of the hot gas and
keeping it out until it was cool, then suddenly plunging it
into the hot gas again. In this case it was found that there
was no conduction until both electrodes were glowing, how
ever the signs of the hot and cold electrodes were changed.
The same thing was tried in a slightly different way by
having two earthenware crucibles at a white heat connected
by a strip of platinum foil with one electrode dipping into one
crucible and the other into the other; a gas which conducted
well was put into one crucible, while the other crucible con
tained air. No difference in the deflexion of the galvanometer
could be detected when the signs of the electrodes were
reversed.
                            Polarization.
   A great many experiments were made with various hot
gases, such as iodine, hydriodic acid, hydrochloric-acid gas,
and the vapours of sodium and potassium, to see if the passage
of the electricity through these gases produced any polarization
of the electrodes. The result of these experiments was that
when all the sources of disturbance were eliminated no effect
of this kind could be detected. In the first set of experi
ments a commutator was used which first sent the current
through the gas, the galvanometer being out of circuit ; on

446            Prof. J. J. Thomson on the Passage
reversing the commutator, the battery was thrown out of
circuit and the galvanometer in. In this case no deflexion of
the galvanometer was obtained though the current from 150
Daniell's cells had passed through the gas for several minutes.
As, however, it seemed possible that the polarization of the
electrodes, if it existed, might have disappeared in the short
time taken to reverse the commutator, another experiment was
tried. In this a very large resistance, formed by rubbing
graphite on a piece of ebonite, was put in parallel with the
hot-gas resistance. The graphite resistance was so large that
practically all the current went through the hot gas ; and the
galvanometer-needle was so still that any disturbance of it
could easily have been detected. On breaking the battery
circuit, however, no kick of the galvanometer could be
detected, though as before the current from a battery of 150
Daniel l's cells had been flowing through the hot gas for
several minutes.
   Electrolytic polarization is connected with the work re
quired to split up the electrolyte into its ions. In the case of the
hot gas on our supposition the molecules are already split up
into their ions, so that the absence of polarization in this
case is not inconsistent with its presence in electrolysis.
   At first sight it might seem that the fact that those gases
which dissociate conduct electricity on a scale altogether
different from those which do not, points to the theory that
the conductivity of electrolytes is due to the presence in the
liquid of free ions, the number of these being very large, in
some cases so large that it corresponds to a dissociation of
 more than DO per cent, of the electrolyte. I think, however,
 that a closer examination of the case will lead to the opposite
conclusion. Let us take the case of iodine for example,
 which at high temperatures is known to dissociate largely.
 The specific resistance of iodine vapour at a yellow heat is
 comparable with -^6 of a megohm, or about the same order of
magnitude as that of glass at the temperature 300° C. This
 resistance is enormously greater than that of a solution of
 potassium iodide for example, containing the same number of
 molecules per unit volume as the gas ; on the hypothesis of
 free ions, with definite electrical charges, we should expect the
 opposite result, as we cannot suppose that the resistance to the
 motion of the free ions is as great in the gas as it is in the
liquid. The agreement between the conductivity of a salt
 solution and the effect produced by the presence of the salt on
 the freezing-point and vapour-pressure does not seem to bo
 at all a conclusive argument as to the existence of these
 free ions ; for exactly the same result would follow on the hy
 pothesis that the conductivity was proportional to the chemical

                of Electricity through Hot Gases.            447
action botween the salt and the solvent, if the thermal effect
accompanying this action were to follow tho logarithmic law,
that is if the thermal effect produced by increasing the
quantity of water by unity wore inversely proportional to the
quantity of water already present.
    From the consideration of the preceding experiments we
may deduce, I think, the conclusion that it is the atoms, as
distinct from the molecules, which are instrumental in carrying
electricity from one place to another, and that the molecules
are electrically inactive.
    Many interesting questions arise as to how the atoms effect
this transference of electricity. Does each atom, for example,
carry a charge equal to that (tO-u in electrostatic units)
deduced from electrolytic considerations, and is this charge
unalterable ?
    In this connexion it is important to notice that all that
electrolysis teaches us is that each ion which conies up to tho
electrode receives from it a definite and calculable charge.
It does not, however, give us any information about the
charges on ions under other circumstances. If we adopt the
view enunciated by v. Helmholtz, in the Faraday lecture, that
chemical forces are electrical in their origin, wo must suppose
 that the charges on the atoms are susceptible of change, for
the hydrogen ascending from the kathode is in the molecular
 condition, each molecule consisting of two atoms with equal
 and opposite charges ; the charges on one or both of these
 atoms must have undergone some change, for when the atoms
 were in contact with the kathode they were presumably in the
 same electrical condition. It seems probable that when two
 atoms come very near together they may affect the charges on
 each other, the gain of the one being equal to the loss of tho
 other. To fix our ideas we may imagine that the electric
 charge is measured by the momentum corresponding to some
 coordinate helping to fix the configuration of the atom, and
 that when two atoms come quite close together their momenta
 change, the one gaining as much as tho other loses.
    If we had a collection of charged atoms of this kind, even
 though the charges might not all be numerically exactly
  equal, if combination began the molecules formed would be
 electrically neutral, for the potential energy, other things
  being the same, is a minimum when this is the case.
     It may perhaps give a clearer idea of the theory we are con
 sidering if we take the particular case of a charged metal plate
  and'eonsider what are the conditions under which it can lose its
  charge. According to our view the charge on the plate implies
  the presence of atoms of the metal of which the plate is made;
  and in order for the plate to lose its charge, these charged

448         Passage of Electricity through Hot Gases.
atoms mnst be neutralized by combining with oqual and
oppositely charged atoms, or perhaps by acting on atoms
quite close to them. In any case, for the charge to diminish
there must be atoms in the neighbourhood of the plate. If
the electric intensity in the neighbourhood of the plate is
sufficient, these may be supplied by the splitting up of the
molecules by the electric field, and we have the electric dis
charge ; or the atoms may, as in our experiments, be supplied
by the dissociation of the molecules by heat. Besides the
mere existence of the atoms, the conditions must be such that
they come into intimate contact with those of the metal.
   A possible way of supplying the atoms necessary to get rid
of the charge might be by chemical action of the gas on the
electrodes. In this case, however, the leak would be much
less than if the whole body of the gas contained free atoms, as
in the preceding experiments. I tried some experiments on
the conductivity of gases which slowly acted on the elec
trodes, and also of mixture of gases, such as chlorine and
H2S, which slowly act upon each other, these experiments
being made at a temperature less than 100° C. I was not able
to be sure of any leak by the galvanometer method, and a
similar remark applies to an experiment when the electrodes
were made white hot while the gas was cold. It must be
remembered that the galvanometer method, although more
convenient, is not nearly so sensitive as the electrostatic
method; so that these results only show that the conductivity
in these cases is not comparable with that of some hot gases.
It is known that the leak from a hot platinum wire can be
detected with an electroscope.
   The connexion on this view between the conductivity of
metals and their tendency to assume the atomic condition,
which is exemplified by the abnormal vapour-densities of
these substances, will at once occur to the reader.
                     Unsaturated Compounds.
   It is very interesting to see whether the molecules of un
saturated compounds posses* the same electrical properties as
atoms or not. I accordingly examined the electrical pro
perties of two gases, which on the ordinary electrical theory
of chemical action would be unsaturated, viz. NO, and ozone,
prepared by passing air through a tube in which the silent
discharge was taking place. I could not ascertain that these
gases behave in any way differently from air. They transmit
electrostatic induction : for example, a gold-leaf electroscope
will work perfectly well inside a glass vessel filled with 2sO
or ozone, and the leaves will be attracted by an electrified
body outside the electroscope. A current from a battery
containing a moderate number of cells will not pass through

                   Notices respecting New Books.                  449
 these gases when cold, nor will a current go through NO
when the electrodes are made to glow by insulated batteries ;
so that in this case the want of conductivity cannot be due to
the electricity being unable to get from tho gas into the elec
 trodes. These experiments show that the molecules of those
 gases are electrically neutral. This cannot be the case if we
 suppose the atoms to be charged with definite and equal
 quantities of electricity ; for if this were so, 03, the molecule
 of ozone, would have a resultant charge. We must therefore
 either suppose that the charges on the atoms are capable of
variation, or else that the resultant effect of the charges on
 the atoms is to be got by combining the charges like vectors
and not like sculars, for if this were so it would be easy to
explain the neutrality of Os.
              XLIX. Notices respecting Neio Books.
Algebra: an elementary Textbook for the higher classes of Secondary
    Schools and for Colleges. By G. Chhtstal, LL.D. Part IL
   (Edinburgh: Black. 1889. Pp. xxiv + 588.)
TN this splendid volume we have the fulfilment of the Author'*
¦*¦ promise, and, we presume, the completion of his labours upon
Elementary Algebra. Of what sort this work is will be recog-'
nized by readers of the first volume when they are assured that the
present instalment is even more worthy of praise, if that be pos
sible, than its predecessor. There is no shirking of difficulties, for
our Author is a past master of his subject ; and from a large
acquaintance with what has been written upon it, both recently
and long ago, is able to bring forth things new and old out of his
ample store. Still he does not exhibit his wares from a vain
desire to show off, but has ever an eye to what will be useful to
the student subsequently. Hence in his chapter on Probability
he omits " matter of doubtful soundness, and of questionable
utility,1" and fills the place usually occupied therewith with " a
useful exposition of the principles of actuarial calculation." There
is a very full analytical Table of Contents which puts the student
easily in possession of the beads of the matters discussed in the
text. There are, as before, valuable historical notes, and to
crown all there is a full Index of Names of Mathematicians whose
works have been cited in the two volumes. Much time has been
devoted to the construction of the work ; this is evident on the
most cursory examination, but we feel convinced that Dr. Chrystal
has an ample reward in the admiring gratitude of his readers.
They feel that if the Author has given so much of his valuable
labour to make the path, if not smooth for them, at least plain,
and has collected so many objects of interest for their inspection,
it is but meet that they should not flinch from doing their best
to master what he has put before them. Our Author, it is well
known, has clear and pronounced views on the teaching of Mathe
matics, and in his preface he comments on points to which we will
now briefly refer. The practice of " hurrying young students into
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 180. May 1890.             2M

450            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
the manipulation of the machinery of the Differential and Integral
Calculus before they have grasped the preliminary notions of a
Limit and of an Infinite Series" he pronounces to be to a large
extent an " educational sham," which is a " sin against the spirit
of mathematical progress." Hence, after devoting the two opening
chapters to the subjects of Permutations and Combinations, and
the general theory of Inequalities, he discusses very fully and
admirably in the following two chapters the doctrine of Limits
and the convergence of infinite series and of infinite products:
these are followed by chapters applying the previous results to
Binomial and Multinomial series for any index, and to Exponential
and Logarithmic series. All this forms a good introduction to the
theory of Functions, such as has been opened up by the labours of
Cauchy, Riemann, Weierstrass, and others, and will enable the
student who assimilates the results to get an intelligent hold upon
the Calculus. This account of the function-theory is further illus
trated in other three chapters, in which the Author treats of
Graphs of the circular functions, Eiemann's surface, hyperbolic
functions, Gudermannian functions, the numbers of Bernoulli and
Euler, and a host of other choice matters, succeeded by explana
tions of the method of finite differences, Recurring series, and a
group of miscellaneous methods. The concluding five chapters are
devoted to Continued Fractions, properties of Integral Numbers,
and, as we have already mentioned, Probability. This is a very
scanty account of much admirable work, but the analysis of one
chapter would occupy too much space. The dip we have made
here and there (ou the ex pede Herculem theory) will be enough
to assure those of our readers who have not yet got the book that
 there is a rare treat in store for them if they will but get it. The
 " got-up " and other features make the volume a handsome addition
 to one's book -shelf.
             L. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      ON ELECTRICAL OSCILLATIONS IN STRAIGHT CONDUCTORS.
                           BY PROF. STEFAN.
  TF a variable current is transmitted through a wire which is snr-
  ¦*¦ rounded by a concentric metal tube, a current is induced in this
 tube. The direction and magnitude, as well as the distribution in the
 tube, may be directly deduced from the principle of least magnetic
 energy when the current in the wire is supposed to be given. The
  minimum of this energy is obtained by the following arrangement
  of the currents :—The central current is condensed in an infinitely
  thin layer on the surface. The induced current flows in an infi
  nitely thin layer on the inner surface of the tube, and has at any
  instant the same intensity as the current in the central wire, but
  the opposite direction. With this arrangement magnetic forces
 are only effective in the space between the surface of the wire and
  the inner surface of the tube. The interior of the wire as well as
  that filled by the mass of the tube, and in addition the whole
  external face, are free from magnetic forces.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             451
   The tube laid round the wire neutralizes also its inductive action
in the entire outer space ; it forms a complete screen for the indu
cing as well as the magnetic forces of the wire surrounded by it.
The screening action of the tube, according to this view, consists in
the fact that the actions of the central current are neutralized by
those of the induced current in the tube.
    This case is completely analogous to the electrostatic problem of
the distribution of electricity on two concentric cylinders, of which
the inner one is insulated and the outer put to earth. In like
manner the problem of the distribution of the current, even when
the wire and the tube are not concentric, and have other than
circular section, is to be solved by the analogous problem in elec
trostatics. The screening action of the tube is complete even under
these altered conditions.
    The influence of the screening-tube on the velocity of propaga
tion of waves in the wire results in the following manner :—By
restricting the magnetic field to the space between the wire and the
tube, the self-induction in the wire is considerably diminished. For'
a circular section and concentric positions this diminution may be
easily given. An increase of the velocity of propagation corre
 sponds to this, if the capacity is almost the same, which, according
 to electrostatic rules, is the case so long as the tube is insulated.
 But if this is put to earth, the capacity of the inner wire is increased
 in proportion as the self-induction is diminished, and consequently
 the velocity of propagation remains unchanged.
    The capacity may, however, be considerably increased by filling
 the space between the wire and the tube with a stronger dielectric
 than air ; by interposing, for instance, a glass tube between the wire
 and the tube. This glass tube has no influence on the self-induction,
 but the capacity is almost doubled. The velocity of propagation
 sinks thus in the ratio of */2 to 1. Sir W. Thomson has already
 remarked this influence of the insulating medium on the velocity
 of propagation.
     If a current is divided at two equal wires, one of which is sur
 rounded by a tube but the other not, the former will take a far
 greater part of the current than the second, owing to the greater
 diminution of the self-induction, which is due to the enveloping
 tube.
     If, now, a second straight wire is placed parallel to a conductor
  through which a current is passing, the primary current distributes
  itself on the surface of the first, and the induced one on that of the
  second conductor, in the same way as a given charge would be dis
  tributed on the first, and the induced one on the second conductor,
  if the latter were put to earth. If the first conductor has a circular
  section, the current is not distributed uniformly over its surface, but
  has a greater density on the side nearest the second conductor than on
  that away from it. If this condensation is visible, as in a Geissler*!!
  tube, it presents the phenomenon of an attraction of the current
  towards the approached conductor. As a matter of fact, there is'
  an electrodynamical repulsion between the conductor of the pri
  mary current and the approached conductor, which is observed at

  452          Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  a higher degree of rarefaction, and therefore at an increased resist
  ance, in which the apparent attraction no longer occurs.
     A conductor also which does not encircle the one carrying the
  current partially exerts a screening action, and to a greater extent
  the longer it is. Prof. Hertz has shown that a system of parallel
  stretched wires may also act as a plane-shaped conductor. Such
  a system of wires can, however, only exert a screening action if
  the primary current can induce currents in those wires ; .such
  wires form, therefore, no screen when they are placed at right
  angles to the primary conductor. Induced currents form also an
  essential condition that a conductor can reflect inducing actions.
  The reflected actions are the actions of the currents which are
  induced on the surface of the reflecting conductor.— Wiener Beriehte,
  January 16, 1890.
       ON THB OSCILLATIONS OF PERIODICALLY HEATED AIR.
                           BY DR. MARGULES.
    Prof. Hann's investigations on the Daily Oscillation of the
  Barometer led the author to calculate the variations in pressure
 which result from periodical changes of temperature in the air.
 Plane waves of temperature progressing in a plane stratum of air
 produce pressure-waves of equal period, the amplitude of which is
 greater the nearer the velocity of propagation of the constrained ap
 proximates to that of the free vibrations. If the atmosphere were cut
 into a great number of zones each of which was traversed by a daily
 wave of temperature, the zones near the equator would have waves of
 pressure in which the maximum coincided with the maximum of
 temperature ; near the poles the phases would be opposite, at 50° of
 latitude the amplitude would be very great, and in two adjacent zones
 of opposite phase. The magnitude of the differences of pressure be
 tween two separate zones which thus results shows that the transfer
 ence to annular spaces of the calculation which holds for plane waves
 is not sufficient, and that the movements of the air upon the globe
 must be calculated without diaphragms, if waves of temperature
 travel from meridian to meridian. The calculation for the spheroid
 at rest shows, as already demonstrated by Lord Bayleigh in a
 recent paper (Phil. Mag. February 1890), that the semidiurnal
 waves of pressure on the earth are far smaller than the diurnal
 ones, even if the corresponding waves of temperature are of the
name amplitude. But the semidiurnal variations of temperature
 (which are obtained by decomposing the daily curve of temperature
by the method of periodic series) are small compared with the
diurnal ones. How, notwithstanding this, the relatively large semi
diurnal variations of pressure may be explained, has incidentally
been indicated by Sir W. Thomson. The calculation for the rota
ting spherical shell, made in a manner analogous to that for La
place's calculation of ebb and flow, confirms Thomson's supposition.
Small semidiurnal variations of temperature are sufficient, with a
corresponding choice of the mean temperature, to produce very
great variations of pressure.— Wiener Beriehte, March 6, 1890.

   WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOB AND FRANCIS.
The     London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine.
      Monthly. 2s. Gd.
 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. 2*. Gd.
 The Observatory, Monthly Review of Astronomy. Is.
Aelfric Society's Publications. 15 parts. 37s. Gd.
Aitchison's (J. E. T.) Catalogue of Plants of Pun<ab. 10*.
Baird's (Major) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. Gd.
Clummo's ( Capt. ) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 6«.
Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
Davis's (J. B i Crania Britannica. £6 10s.
Davis's i J. B.) Thesaurus Craniorum. 20s.
 Douses Introduction to Gothic of Ulfilas. 10-. Gd.
English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School. 3s. Gd.
Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
     Surgeons. Gd.
   Ditto for Diploma in Public Health. Gd.
Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics. 1 Us.
Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T. Blai r#.s->, F.K.S.
           Mammalia, Part I. 10s.
           Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
           Birds. Vol. I. 20s.
 Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 50s.
Glaisher's Barometer Tables. Is.
Glaisher's Diurnal Range Tables. Is. Gd.
Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. Gd.
Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. each .
Hopkins's i E. ) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 10«.
   Ditto Illustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
Lewis's ( G. ) Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s. 6V. ; on one. side, .'is. Gd.
Lodge's Electromotive Forces in Voltaic Cell. 2s. Gd.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, Memoirs. Vols. 8 and
     10. 7s. each.
M'lntosh's Marine Invertebrates. 21s.
Mcring ton's French Primer. 2s. Gd.
Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. Gd.
Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3s. 6rf.
Merington's Perrin's Fables. 2s. Gd.
Merington's Reading made easy. 2s. Gd.
Moon's Theory of Infinite &.C. Is.
Mulcaster's (J. W.) Statics. 7s. Gd.
Olsen's (O. T.) Piscatorial Atlas. Coloured, 52s. Gd. j uncoloured, 42s.
Owen's (Sir R.) Aspects of Body in Vertebrates and Invertebrates.
     2s. Gd.
Pascoe's Classes, Orders, &c. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. Gd.
Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
Pascoe's Notes on Natural Selection and the Origin of Species. Is.
Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. Gd.
Pengelly's (W.) Lignite of Bovey Tracey. 16*.
Phillips's Geology of Yorkshire. 2 parts. 30s. each.
Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol.1. Parti, -is.
Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
Royal College of Surgeons Calendar. 1 s.
Sharp's (Dr. D.) StaphylinidaB of Japan. 3s. Grf.
Smith's < R. A. ) Century of Science in Manchester. 10s.
Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £0 lis. ; Ser. 2, £1 4*.
Thomson's (Sir W.J Tables for facilitating Sumner's Method at Sea
     10s. Gd.
  Forms for ditto. Sun, Is. Stars, Is.
Univ. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. Gd.
Univ. Coll. Pathological Catalogue. 2 Parts. 2s. each.
Univ. Coll. Library Catalogue. 3 Vols. 7s. Gd.
Univ. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. Gd.
Walker's (Rev. R.) Constitution of Sun. 3«.
Wheatstone's ( Sir C.) Scientific Papers. 15s.
Wiegmann's Herpetologia Mexicana. Part I. Coloured Plates. 40*.

             CONTENTS of N° 180.-Fifth Series.
   XLI. A New Form of Electric Chronograph.                         By Hev.
 Frederick J. Smith, M.A., Millard Lecturer in Mechanics and
 Physics, Trinity College, Oxford. (Plate IX.)                           page 377
   XLII. On the Electrical and Chemical Properties of Stannic
Chloride ; together with the Bearing of the Eesults therein obtained
on the Problems of Electrolytic Conduction and Chemical Action. —
Part I. Experimental Observations. Part II. Theoretical Con
siderations. By Ward Coldbidge, B.A., Scholar of Emmanuel
College, Cambridge                                                              383
   XLUI. The Villari Critical Points of Nickel and Iron.                   By
Herbert Tomlinson, F.R.S                                                        394
   XLIV. On a New Method and Department of Chemical Be-
bearch. By Dr. G. Goke, F.B.S                                                   401
   XLV. The Nature of Solutions.               By Spencer Umfrevillb
Pickering, M. A                                                                 427
   XLVI. On the Shape of Movable Coils used in Electrical
Measuring-Instruments. By T. Mather, Assistant in the Physical
Department, Central Institution                                                 434
   XLVII. The Magnetization of Iron in Strong Fields.                      By
Shelford Biuwell, MA., F.E.S                                                    440
   XLV HI. On the Passage of Electricity through Hot Gases. By
J. J. Thomson, M.A., F.K.8., Cavendish Professor of Experimental
Physics, Cambridge                                                              441
   XLIX. Notices respecting New Books:— Dr. G. Chrtbtal'b
Algebra : an elementary Textbook for the higher classes of
Secondary Schools and for Colleges                                              449
   L. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     On Electrical Oscillations in Straight Conductors, by Prof.
        Stefan                                                                  450
     On the Oscillations of Periodically Heated Air, by Dr. Margules 452
•«• It ia requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed,
       post-paid, to tli>' Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 29.                         JUNE 1890.                                 No. 181.
          Published the First Day ofpvery, Month.-—Price 2s. 6d.
                                        THE '
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
              JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloclis 'Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholsons 'Journal,' and Thomsons 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                    CONDUCTED BY
         SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
         GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. F.R.S.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH SERIES.
                          N° 181.- JUNE 1890.
                               WITH ONE PLATE.
      Illustrative of Mr. J. C. McConnel's Paper on the Theory o£
                                     Fog-Bows.
                                , jL 0 N D O N :
        PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RUD LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
   Sold by Simpkin Harthall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co , Ld. ; and Whittnker and Go. j —
     and by A. and C. Black, ai.d T. and T. Clark, Edinourgh; Smith and Son,
     Glasgow: — Hodges, Pigjis, and Co., Dublin; —Putnam, New Tork : — Veuye J.
     Eoyve&u, Paris : —and ^sher and Co., Berlin.

                      Just Issued : free on application.
(No. 230.) A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS on the MATHEMATICS, pure
    and applied, containing many works of the Old Mathematicians.
    Mathematical and Astronomical Journals, Observations, &c. ; inclu
    ding many from the Libraries of the late Arthur Buchhcim, MA.,
    and E. Temperley, M.A. (Part I. A—L.) On Sale by MACMILLAN
    AND BOWES, CAMBRIDGE.
 (No. 231.) A CATALOGUE OP BOOKS on the MATHEMATICS,
    pure and applied. (Paet II. L— Z.) On Sale by MACMILLAN
    AND BOWES, CAMBRIDGE.
                 \_For this Catalogue see end of this Magazine.]
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE.
                  22 ALBEMARLE STREET, LONDON, W.
   The next ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING will be held at LEEDS,
commencing on WEDNESDAY, September ii.
                                    Presidetit-Elect,
     Sir FREDERICK AUGUSTUS ABEL, C.B., D.C.L., D.Sc, F.K.S.,
                                        V.P.C.S.
   Notice to Contributors of Memoirs.—Authors are reminded that, under an
arrangement dating from 1871, the acceptance of Memoirs, and the days on which
they are to be read, are now, as far as possible, determined by Organizing Commit
tees for the several Sections before the beginning of the Meeting. It has therefore
become necessary, in order to give an opportunity to the Committees of doing
justice to the several Communications, that each Author should prepare
au Abstract of his Memoir, of a length suitable for insertion in the pub
lished Transactions of the Association, and the Council request that he will send
it, together with tho original Memoir, by book-post, on or before August <>,
addressed thus : —" General Secretaries, British Association, 22 Albemarle Street,
Loudon, W. For Section                    " Authors who comply with this request,
and whose Papers are accepted, will be furnished before the Meeting with
printed copies of their Reports or Abstracts. If it should be inconvenient to
the Author that his Paper should be read on any particular day, he is requested
to send information thereof to the Secretaries in a separate note.
                Medium 8vo.      Vol. I. Part I., is. ; Part II., Is. 64.
                  PHYSICAL                      MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                          UNDER THE DIRECTION OP THE
                  PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

    /WOO                  .1(100            oooo                 ;n
                                                                    Phil. Mag. S 5. Vol. 23. PI X
                                                                 7000            i.
  M
      —i_                _ .                                i.
                                  77   ^
                   -         ^^
                        ^^
  .»•        ;    .^^'"
               -faitvu
           i                        ..       1
           1
 'in-      '
                                    f            1        I
                                  J                            I
                                 3iLA
                i-^
 37'              ^        ^-
                                                             *-
3tf
        - -4- =-
       '"^"^
                                                    4-
                                          ~~^~"~ "- -l
                                                      x 7
35*     -i—
                                                        1
               ~
                    ^~~^~^-+-
                               "~~~~\^
                                         f p-^ ^X-
IT         1         - -~                           it
                       """\
                               ^"^L
                                         \
.„•      '                             :       :      i
                                                   Mintern Brca liuv

1*
                   {   JUN     16 1890
                          K       THE'
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
     PHILOSOPHICAL                            MAGAZINE
                                   AND
          JOURNAL                   OF        SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                            JUNE 1890.
  LI. The Theory of Fog-Bows. By James C. McConnel,
            M.A., Fellow of Clare College, Cambridge* .
                                [Plate X.]
THE supernumerary bows often seen within the ordinary
        rainbow received their first explanation, bordering on
the truth, from Thomas Young f. In the principal plane
through the centre of the drop, as we increase the angle of
incidence from zero to a right angle, the deviation of the rays
from their original direction at first diminishes, gradually
reaches a minimum, and finally increases again. So for any
deviation slightly greater than the minimum there are two
emergent rays which have travelled paths of slightly different
length and are in a condition to interfere. By the interference
of such Young supposed the supernumerary bows to be formed.
    Now the wave theory in its essence knows no such thing
as rays, and they should be regarded merely as convenient
symbols for obtaining approximate results when the wave-
surfaces are spherical. In all ordinary cases the wave-surfaces
may be treated as spherical, but the rainbow is an exception.
The wave-surface of the emergent light changes the sign of
its curvature at a point corresponding to the ray of minimum
 'eviation ; and thus we have diffraction phenomena, depend-
  ig merely on the peculiar shape of the wave-surface, without
uiiy limitation by screens.
   • Communicated by the Author.
   t Phil. Trans. 1804 ; or Encyc. Brit., eighth edition, art. " Chromatics.'
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 181. June 1890.                       2 N

454               Mr. James C. McConnel on the
    On these lines Sir George Airy* worked out the true
theory ; showing not onty that the light attains a principal
maximum in one direction and a series of lesser maxima in
neighbouring directions, but also that the principal maximum
does not, as Young supposed, fall exactly in the direction of
minimum deviation. The amount of its divergence is de
pendent on the diameter of the drops. The smaller the drops
the smaller is the rainbow, and the further are the supernu
merary bows separated from the principal bow and from each
other.
    When the sun is shining on fog or mist, a bow is often
seen differing considerably in appearance from the ordinary
rainbow—far broader and, though quite bright, nearly colour
less. The breadth may be as much as 6° or 7° instead of 1£°
as in the rainbow, and the colouring seldom surpasses "a
faint dull red and orange at the outer border and a slight blue
tinge " at the inner. The mean radius is a few degrees less
than in the rainbow. Verdett considers this to be a degraded
form of the primary rainbow. According to Airy's theory
the radius would be diminished by smallness of the drops;
and Verdet attributes the whiteness (1) to the faintness of
the illumination, and (2) to the irregularity in size of the
drops. There can be little doubt that the main contention is
correct, and more satisfactory reasons may be adduced for the
want of colour, as we shall see.
    At the top of Ben Nevis there are many opportunities for
seeing fog-bows, and the observers there are provided with a
special instrument X for taking their angular dimensions.
Mr. Omond has kindly sent me a list of such observations
from May 1886 to October 1887, extracted from the Proceed
ings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh for 1887. Those
relating to fog-bows are quoted below. The temperatures
(Fahr.) were taken in a Stevenson screen at the times named.
    (1) " October 7, 1886. Temp. 39a8. At 12 h. a solar fog-
bow. No colours, only a broad white band.
           Radius to inside of bow . . . 36 20
                „      outside „           ... 43 36
    (2) "October 22. Temp. 31°\5. Fog-bow seen at 11 h.
25 m. Colours as in fig. 1." [They are, from the outside
inwards, brownish red, pale green, pink, light blue, red,
  * Trans. Camb. Phil. Soc. vi. p. 379 ; viii. p. 505.
  t Levant d'Opttque Physique, i. p. 422.
   \ This instrument, named a stephanome, consists of a graduated bar,
at one end of which the eve is placed and on which slides a cross bar
carrying certain pointed projections. With its aid faint objects, for
which a sextant would be useless, may be measured to within 5'.

                       Theory of Fog-Bows.                  455
light blue, red.] " No measurements were got. The pink
was a badly-defined space, not a true band. A coloured
glory was seen at the same time.
   (3) " November 12. Temp. 27°-9. Double fog-bow seen
at 13 h.; outer bow white, inner bow red and blue, red being
inside.
   (4) "November 16. Temp. 22°-0. Fog-bow seen at 11 h.;
red outside and white inside. A fainter bow was seen inside
this one at times.
   (5) " December 16. Temp. 150,7. Glory and fog-bow
seen at 15 h., too fleeting to measure. The glory was double
with reds outside ; the fog-bow a broad whitish band, with
occasionally another bow inside it more sharply defined and
coloured, but the order of its colours was not observed.
   (6) " December 26. Temp. 18°. At 12 h. 30 m. misty
glory and double fog-bow seen ; outer bow had red outside
and inner bow red inside. No measurements got.
   (7) "December 30. Temp. 24°- 2. Double fog-bow seen
at 11 h. Red outside outer bow and inside inner bow. The
following rough measurements were got :—
        Radius of outside of outer bow . . 41 22
            „      middle       „       ... 39 20
            „      inside       „       ... 36 36
            „      outside of inner bow . . 34 44
            „      inside       „       ... 32 20
The first and last measurements give the radii of the outer and
inner red respectively.
   (8) "January 2, 1887. Temp. 20°-3. Lunar fog-bow
seen at 18° h. Radius about 38° 40'.
   (9) " February 6. Temp. 22°"5. Lunar fog-bow seen at
                                           o /
2 h.           Inside radius     . . . 33 56
               Outside „         ... 40 20
   (10) " February 13. Temp. 280,1. Double fog-bow seen
at 12 h. Trace of red outside outer and inside inner bow.
No measurements got.
   (11) "April 5. Temp. 160>3. Fog-bow (faint) seen at
3h." [Lunar.]
   (12) "June 29. Temp. 42°'0. Fog-bow, occasionally
double, observed at 5 h. and 6 h.
   (13) "July 21. Temp. 460,5. A double fog-bow seen at
times. Red inside inner bow and outside outer bow ; the
rest of the bows were white.
    14) "August 19. Temp.37°-8. Fog-bow seen at 9 h. 45 m.
    15) "September 18. Temp. 45o,0. Fog-bow observed
at 13 h. 30 m., measuring 35° 16' (to inside of bow?).
                            2 N2

456               Mr. James C. M'Connel on tlie
   (16) " October 4. Temp. 43°-0. Lunar fog-bow at 23 h.
Radius to inner edge (about) 38° 5'.
   (17) " October 5. Temp. 36°-l. At 2 h. fog was begin
ning to blow across the hill-top, and on it a distinct lunar
fog-bow was seen with traces of a faint second bow outside it.
The following measurements of the inner bow were got :—
                                                 O  I
             Radius to inside edge ... 35 4
                  „     outside edge . . . 41 0
   " Temp. 340-3. A similar lunar fog-bow was seen at 3 h. ;
there appeared to be a faint trace of red about the outer edge
of the inner bow.
   " Temp. 340,1. The fog-bow was seen again at 4 h. and 5 h.
The following measurements were made at 4 h. :—
                                                   o /
          Radius to inside of inner bow . . 36 3
                „    outside of inner bow . . 41 0
   (18) " October 15. Temp. 25°'9. At 14 h. double fog-
bow and glories observed ; no measurements got."
   A remarkable feature of this list is the number of double
fog-bows. Out of eighteen bows no fewer than ten were
double. In one case (17) the outer bow was probably a form
of the secondary rainbow ; for the inner bow, according to the
measurements, extended at one edge almost up to the normal
radius of the primary rainbow. But in the other case, in
which measurements were taken (7), both bows were within
this radius, and in (3), (6), (7), (10), and (13) the inner bow
had the red inside. Assuming that the two bows are the
primary bow and its first supernumerary, the reversal of the
normal order of the colours in the inner bow is a direct result
of Airy's theory, and my main object in writing the present
article is to point this out.
   The divergence of the principal bow from its normal
position, and of the first supernumerary from the principal
bow, depends on the ratio of the radius of the drops to the
wave-length of the light. As it is greater with a given kind
of light the smaller the drops, so with given drops it is greater
the greater the wave-length. For red light it is greater tban
for blue. As long as it is small for both, it only brings the
red bow rather nearer the blue ; but, when it is greater, it
may bring the red bow to coincide with the blue ; and it may
become so great—with the first supernumerary at any rate—
as to put the red bow well within the blue. This is the essence
of the explanation ; but, to treat the matter properly, a fuller
statement of Airy's results is required.

                         Theory of Fog-Bows.                           457
   The intensity of the light in any direction is proportional
to the square of the expression
                   W = 1 cos ~ (to3 — mw) dw,                          (1)
where m is connected with the angular separation ^ of that
direction from the geometrical bow by the equation
                           X=qm                                         (2)
                                     air
a was left by Airy an undetermined constant. It has recently
been shown by Boitel* and Larmorf that, for the primary
bow                              9
                         q<= 40% (/a'-l)*"                              (3)
Thus g, which may be treated as constant for different colours,
 = 0-465 nearly.
   Everything turns on the value of W2. Airy, calculating by
quadratures, found that, for negative values of m, W2, starting
from a small value at m=0, rapidly and continuously de
creases and becomes very soon insensible ; but on the positive
side W2 has an infinite number of fluctuations, vanishing
between the successive maxima. Selected values are given in
the following table :—
                                      m.              Ws.
                                 -4-00            0-000009
                                  -100            00745
                                    000           0357
                                    0-80          0-940
            1st maximum . . .       108            1-006
                                    1-20          0-995
                                    2-50          0000
            2nd maximum ...         3-47          0-615
                                    4-36          0-000
            3rd maximum ...         6-14          0-510
                                    5-89          0-000
            4th maximum . . .       6-58          0-450
                                    724           o-ooo
            5th maximum . . .       787           0412
                                    8-48          o-ooo
   * Comptei Hewitt*, 1888 ; or Phil. Mag. August 1888. Boitel points
out that Airy's equation to the wave-surface is only a first approximation,
and has found experimentally some small discrepancy between theory and
 observation which he attributes to this. But Larmor's analysis of Miller's
observations on tine jets of water shows no discrepancies greater than 4',
uptov = 10°.
   t Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. vi. p. 283 (1888).

458              Mr. James C. McConnel on the
   Airy's calculation extended from to=;— 4tom=+4. Out
side those limits the calculation by quadratures becomes al
most impracticable, but Sir George Stokes * has found a
rapidly convergent series for W in descending powers of m.
From this follow simple approximations. For the dark bands
m=3(i— \*)\, where i is given the values 1, 2, 3 ... successively.
                                                      2
For the maxima, m=S(i— £)* and W2= ,-5-. These are
accurate enough for most purposes when t>l.
   The variations of W2 with m are exhibited graphically in
PI. X. fig. 1. It will be observed that the first band is much
broader as well as higher than the others, and that the intensity
at m=%=0 is by no means negligible. Thus, putting the
question of colour on one side, the effect of diminishing the
size of the drops is to spread out the principal bow in an
inward direction, leaving its outer edge but little affected.
After the third band the brightness diminishes very slowly.
Even the 30th maximum at m = 28"5 has the value W — 0217.
Of course the irregularity of the drops would prevent any
colour-effects or distinct bands as far out as this, and we should
only look for white light ; and this is exactly what is observed.
The space within the primary rainbow is strikingly brighter
 than that outside ; and Mr. Backhouse describes the glare
 within a fog-bow he witnessed as being not much inferior in
 brightness to the bow itself.
    Some idea of the colour-effects in two cases may be gleaned
 from fig. 2. I have taken as the representative red and violet
 of the spectrum, light of wave-lengths Op000615 millim. and
 0*000455 millim. It happens that the radii of the geometrical
 bows for these colours are 42° and 41°. The curve represent
 ing the brightness of the red is set out in accordance with
 equation (2), 42° being taken as equivalent to m=^=0.
 In the curve for violet, which is dotted in the figure,
 41° is taken as equivalent to x=®- ¦-¦De upp61- Pa'r °*
 curves represent the case when 2a, the diameter of the
 drops, is 0"3 millim., the lower pair the case when 2a = 0024
 millim. In the former the drops are of about the size
 adapted to give the most vivid colours possible in the
 principal bow and the first two supernumeraries. When the
 drops are very large, say 5 millim. in diameter, it is true
 that the principal maxima for red and violet are better sepa
 rated, but the principal violet maximum gets entangled with
 a number of the smaller red maxima. Thus, when we take
    • Trans. Camb. Phil. Soc. ix. 1850, or Collected Papers, ii. p. 829.

                       Theory of Fog-Bows.                     459
the blurring due to the finite diameter of the sun into account,
it is clear that the violet would be far more diluted with red
aud other colours than in the case illustrated. There is an
intermediate stage in which the green would reach its maxi
mum purity, but the violet would be poor.
   This first case would be realized in a rainbow formed by
unusually fine drops. The other case might be described by
an observer as a double fog-bow, the outer bow being broad—
extending from 42^° to 34J°—and colourless except for a
reddish tinge on the outer edge ; and the inner bow—extend
ing from 32° to 27£°—being brightly coloured with the red
inside. This figure shows that the whiteness of the outer
bow is sufficiently explained (1) by the immense breadth of
the bow even when formed by homogeneous light, and (2) by
the approximation of the red to the violet maximum. In this
case they are about £° apart. The fact of the third bow being
so seldom observed can hardly be due to its faintness, so we
must attribute it to irregularity in the size of the drops.
   Tims far we have only treated of two special wave-lengths.
In fig. 3 may be seen the relative positions of all the different
colours in bows of various radii. The abscissa are wave
lengths and the ordinates radii of the bows. The top curve
gives the geometrical bow, calculated by the formula?
      3coss <f>=(is— 1, sin <£ = fisin0', radius =4^>'— 2<f>}
from the values of fi for water at 0° C, quoted by Landolt and
Bornstein. The indices for Ha-, H/8, H7 are from Wiillner, the
other three from Ruhlmann. I have drawn the curve on the
supposition that the small difference between the results of the
two sets is constant. The other curves are separated from this
by distances proportional to X* and to 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, and 12
respectively, and may serve to represent either the rainbow or
any of the supernumeraries. The two dotted vertical lines
indicate roughly the boundaries of the bright part of the
spectrum. The temperature-effects are trifling and may bo
disregarded. At 60 F. all the radii are some 4' larger.
Below 32° F. the indices of refraction and, consequently, the
radii are almost constant.
   Nowhere is the superposition of colours perfect. But about
36° 45' they may be all contained within lb', so that any
supernumeraries near that radius must be colourless. At 32°
the spread of the colours is nearly as great as in the geometrical
bow, and in the reverse order. In practice, however, we
cannot expect the same vivid colouring under the most
favourable circumstances, as the first supernumerary, for

460              Mr. James C. McConnel on the
example, when its maximum is at 32°, must have a breadth of
over 5° in homogeneous light (see fig. 2).
   We are now in a position to understand the observations
better. The most complete measurements are those of (7).
Here the mean radius of the dark space between the two
bows is 35° 4(y. This is 6° less than the mean radius of the
geometrical bow. Assuming this is given by m = 2*50, the
values of m corresponding to the radii observed are as
follows :—
                                                     m.
         Outside or red of outer bow               0-12
                Middle        „                    0-98
                Inside        „                     2-12
                Outside of inner bow                2-89
         Inside or red        „                    3-88
The agreement with fig. 1 is as good as could be expected.
Also by fig. 3 the inner bow is small enough to be distinctly
coloured. The drops are larger than in the second case of
fig. 2. We find indeed for equation (2), taking x as 67r/180,
q as 0*465, m as 2*48, and X as 0*00056 millim., that their
average diameter is 0*041 millim.
    In (1) the outer radius is greater than that of the geo
metrical bow. This finds its explanation in fig. 2.
    (2) seems to be a transition stage between a rainbow and
an ordinary fog-bow.
   (5) By fig. 1 the first supernumerary is much narrower
than the main bow.
   Taking the radius of (9) as 37° 8' we find the average
diameter of the drops 0*018 millim.
    In (17) the measurements of the inner bow show con
clusively that it was the main primary bow, the drops being
much the same size as in the second case of fig. 2. So the
faint outer bow must have been a modified form of the
secondary rainbow. It may be remarked that the effect of
the drops being small on the secondary rainbow is similar to
 the effect on the primary, except that the supernumeraries
are outside and the radii are made larger instead of smaller.
    It will be observed that the air-temperature in (3), (4),
 (5), (6), (7), (10), and (18) is below freezing-point ; in (5)
as low as 15°*7 F. I have nevertheless assumed throughout
that the phenomena are due to drops of water and not to any
 form of ice. The correctness of this assumption is established
by the agreement of observation with Airy's theory, as well
as by the identity of the phenomena above freezing-point;

                      Theory of Fog-Bows.                    461
(12), (13). The suggestion that we have to deal with perfect
spheres of ice may be put on one side. In the first place, I
have never heard of such being observed ; and, secondly, if
such were to exist for a moment, either evaporation or
deposition would soon destroy the perfection of form. Nor do
I think it probable that such small drops could be raised much
above the temperature of the air by the sun's radiation.
Indeed I have often seen the air in Davos, when only a few
degrees below freezing-point, filled with floating crystals of
ice sparkling in the brilliant sunshine. I am thus led to
think that these drops on Ben Nevis were originally formed
in air above the freezing-point, and, being free both from jars
and from contact with foreign bodies, have been cooled far
below 32° F. without congelation. Drops of water suspended
in oil of the same density have been cooled by Duf'our to
 —4° F. If this opinion be correct, the drops on striking any
object should freeze instantaneously.
   I quote the following from an article in ' Nature ' (April 9,
1885), by Mr. Omond :—" In addition to the actual fall of
snow, hail, &c, there is on Ben Nevis a form of solid precipita
tion scarcely known on lower ground, but of almost daily
occurrence here. In ordinary weather the top of the hill is
enveloped in drifting fog, and, when the temperature of the
air and ground is below freezing, this fog deposits small
crystalline particles of ice on every surface that obstructs its
passage. These particles on a wall or large sloping surface . . .
combine to form long feathery crystals ; but on a post or
similar small body they take a shape more like fir-cones with
the point to windward." The deposit only forms on the wind
ward side of each object. Its rate of growth may exceed an
inch per hour. As far as I can judge from the above descrip
tion the deposit is just what might be expected from liquid
particles below 32° F., drifting with the wind. Jf the fog
particles were dry ice, how should they stick together to form
the feathers ? I may suggest further, that in the upward de
flexion of the wind by the slopes of the mountain we have an
excellent reason for the cooling of the air after the drops were
formed.
  Hotel Buol, Davos,
     April 1890.

                            [  462   ]
LIL On a Method of Discriminating Real from Accidental
    Coincidmces between the Lines of Different Spectra,. By
   0. Rungk, Professor of Mathematics at the technische Hoch-
   schule, Hanover*.
IN the Philosophical Magazine for January 1888 E. F, J.
       Love gives a method of discriminating real from acci
dental coincidences between the lines of different spectra.
The method is as follows :—The differences between the
wave-lengths of the lines compared are arranged in groups,
each group containing those observations the errors of which
lie within certain narrow limits. The number of observations
in each group is then plotted as an ordinate of a curve, the
average error of the group being the abscissa. It seems
allowable to assume that this curve will have the form of the
curve given by the law of error y=ae-^ in case the com-
cidences are real and not merely accidental. Any serious
divergence from the form of the latter curve will therefore
indicate that the coincidences are accidental. So far, I
think one may agree with the author. But he argues
further:—If the plotted curve resembles the curve given by
the law of error, the coincidences are not accidental. I do
not see the necessity to draw this conclusion. On the con
trary I am able to show that for a certain distribution of lines
in one spectrum the plotted curve must always resemble the
 error curve for any lines that one pleases to take as lines of
the other spectrum. Let \» Xx, . . . K be the wave-lengths of
any spectrum, \0 the smallest and X* the largest. What then
 is the probability that an arbitrary number \ between X0 and
JU does not differ by more than x from the nearest of the waver
lengths A**,, . • • X.? To find this probability one must add
 together all the parts between X0 and K that differ by not more
 than x from one of the numbers X<» M . . . X». This sum divided
 by X»-Xo is e<lual to tbe Probablllt7 in questl°n- Lot
 a\ ds . . dn signify the differences of two consecutive wave
 lengths in such order that a\ < <*2 < d3 • • • < <*-, and let
 dv+i be the first of these quantities, that is not smaller than
 2x, so that rfr< 2x < dv+1. Then all the intervals du d„ . . .
 d„ have to be included in the sum, whilst for each of the
 intervals dv+h dv+i, . . . dn only a part equal to 2x has to
 be added. We find therefore the probability in question
                    • Communicated by the Author.

     Coincidences between the Lines of Different Spectra.       4G3
equal to
               dl + di + . . . + <fr + 2(«— v)x
                             \t — ^o
From this expression one may deduce a simpler one for the
probability that the difference between the arbitrary number
X and the nearest of the wave-lengths Xo} XL . . . X„ lies between
d]+di + .. . + d,+ (n— v)d„+x _ di+ds+ ... +dv^ + (w— v + Y)dv
            Xn "¦()                                   X» — "-0
0r
                          (n-v)(dv+1— rf„)
                                \> — \>
Let us take^p, -jp . . -a* as abscissas, and let us draw a rectangle
over the interval ~ to —^ with ""*"' —- as base and 2             -
as height. Then the area of this rectangle will represent the
probability, that the difference of X from the nearest wave
length lies between ^ and -— (for v = 0 write d0=0).
Thus we get what we may call a curve of difference analogous
to the curve of error. The curve of difference forms the pro
file of a staircase, the steps of which may be of different
height and depth. If n is a large number and the scale of
the drawing not too large, the staircase will resemble a
 smooth curve ; and it may be seen from the following applica
tion that there are cases where it closely resembles the curve
y= -y=^e~(i>li, if one is allowed to choose the constant c
accordingly.
   I have taken as an example the first five ultra-violet bands
of the water-spectrum as observed by Liveing and Dewar*.
 They consist in 598 lines extending from 2268 to 3203"5.
                • Phil. Trans, of the Roy. Soc. 1888.

 464       Prof. C. Rungo on Real and Accidental Coincidences
    Abscissa.   Ordinate.      Abscissa.   Ordinate.      Abscissa.     Ordinate.
    •00 to  -05    1-28       •90  to  -95    •35       1-85  to 1-90      •05
     05 „    10    1-28       •95  „  100     •82       1-90  „ 200        •04
     10 „    15    1-27      1-00  „  1-05    •28       200   „ 2-05       •04
     15 „    20    1-26      105   „  110     •25       2^05  „ 2 10       •04
     20 „    25    1-24      110   „  1-15    •23       210   „ 215        •03
     25 „    30    1-18      1-15   „ 120     •20       215   „ 2-20       •03
     30 „    35    110       120   „  1-25    •18       220   „ 2-2.5      •03
     35 „    40    102       125   „  130      15       2-25  „ 2-30       •02
     40 „    45      •96     130   „  1-35     13       2-30  „ 2-35       •02
     45 „    50     •90      135   „  1-40    •11       2-35  „ 2-50       •02
     50 „    55      •82     1-40  „  1-45     11       2-50  „ 265        •02
     55 „    60     •74      145   „  150     •11       2(55  „ 280        ¦01
     60 „    65     •67      150   „  1-55    •09       2-80  „ 305        •01
     65 „    70     •59      1-55  „  160     •08       305   „ 3 35       •01
     70 „   75      •67      160   „  1-65     07       3-35  „ 3 65       •01
     75 „    80     •50      1-65  „  175     •06       3-65  „ 3-80       •01
     80 „   85      •44      1-75  „  1-80    •06       3-80  „ 5-70        00
    •85 „   -80     •39      1-80  „  1-86    •05       5-70  „ 6-70       •00
    In order to compare these values with those given by the
 law of error, I have for the sake of simplicity interpolated the
 values of the ordinate for # = 0*1, 0"2, &c, by taking the
 mean of the two neighbouring ordinates. The third column
 contains the ordinates of the curve v= —-=e-c2x3    2c           for c= 1*148.
                                              9    yw
 The table shows the close agreement between the two curves.
                  Ordinate    Ordinate                  Ordinate      Ordinate
      Abscissa.    curve of    curve of    Abscissa.    curve of      curve of
                 difference.    error.                 difference.     error.
           •o       1-28         1-30          13           14            14
            1       1-28         1-28          1-4          11           •10
           •2       1-25         1-23          1-5         •10
           •3                                                             07
                    114          1-15          1-6          08           •04
           •4         ¦99        105           1-7
           •5         •86         •93                       06            03
                                               1-8         •06           ¦02
           ¦6         •70         •81          1-9         •05           •01
           •7         •58         •68          20          •04           ¦01
           •8         •47         •56          2-5         •02
           •9         ¦37         ¦45                                     00
                                               3-0          01           •00
         10           ¦30         •35          3-5          01           •00
         11           •24         •26          40           00           •00
         12           •19         •19
   With the spectrum of the water-bands we may now compare
any other spectrum we please that lies between the extreme
lines of the water-bands. We must expect to find the number

              between the Lines ofDifferent Spectra.              465
of differences between certain limits equal to the area of our
curve of difference between the same limits multiplied by the
number of lines of the second spectrum. And if a curve is
plotted in the manner indicated by Love, it evidently must
resemble the curve given by the law of error, whatever the
second spectrum may be. In this case, therefore, the method
of Love cannot give us any information whether the coinci
dences between the lines of the two spectra are real or
accidental. But we may derive some information by con
sidering the value of the constant in the formula given by the
law of error. Supposing the coincidences to be real ones, the
differences between the lines compared must be distributed
according to the formula y= —^e-'2"".              If now we can make
                                     V 7T
an estimate of c and find it considerably larger than 1/148,
the distribution of differences ought to show a divergence
from the distribution given above. If the divergence is not
shown, the coincidences must be accidental. Only when c is
not found considerably larger than 1*148 we are left without
an answer. The distribution of differences would then be the
one given above, and would afford no reason to think the coin
cidences real ones.
    The most important verification of A. Griinwald's far-
 reaching speculations on the composition of the elements
 he believes to be afforded by the agreement between the
 wave-lengths of the lines in the spectrum of water, as de
 duced by him from those of the hydrogen spectrum, and
 their values as obtained by observation. But I find that the
 distribution of differences is in perfect accordance with the
 one expected for an equal number of wave-lengths chosen at
 random. To show this more clearly, I have taken the man
 tissas of log sin from 9° 43' to 12° 4', and of log tan from
 19° 20' to 19° 38' for each minute abbreviated to five
 figures. These numbers lie between the extreme wave
 lengths of the water-bands. The distribution of differences
 between each of these numbers and the nearest wave-length
 of the water-spectrum does not show any serious divergence
 from the distribution corresponding to the wave-lengths
 calculated according to Griinwald's theory by multiplying the
 wave-lengths of hydrogen by £ *.
    The first column of the following table contains the limits
   * I have taken TIasselberg's measurements, M6m. de VAcad. de St.
 PUersbourg, 1882, as Grinwald has preferred these to the more complete
 measurements of 1883. I have abbreviated the halves to five figures,
 adding a unity to the fifth figure when it was even.

466       Coincidences between the Lines of Different Spectra.
of the differences, the second gives the expected number of
differences within these limits, the third the observed number
corresponding to the wave-lengths calculated from hydrogen,
the fourth the observed number corresponding to the said
mantissas of log sin and log tan.
   Limits of    Expected  Observed     Limits of     Expeoted Observed
  differences.  numbers.  numbers.    differences.   numbers. numbers.
   •00 to  -05    10-4    12      6   205 to  215       06     2    1
   •05 „    15    206     16     26   215 „   225       05
    15 „   -25    20-2    19     16   2 25 „  2-35      0-4
   •25 „   -35    18-4    21     16   2-35 „  2-45 ^
   •35 „    45    16-0    19     16   2-45 „  255       0-9    1
   •45 „   -55    13-8    16     16   2-55 „  2-65
   •56 „    65    11-3    11     12   2-65 „  2-75             1
   •65 „    -76    93      8      9   2-75 „  285       0-7
   ¦75 „    -85    75      7     11   2-85 „  295
   •85 „   -95                        2-95 „  305
                                                   '           1
                   5-9     5     12
    05 „  1-05     4-9     6       1  305 „   316       0-6    1    1
  105 „   115      3-8     1      5   315 „   325
  115 „   125      31             2   3-25 „  835              1
  1-25 „  1-35     2-2    "&      3   3-35 „  345    .  0-4
  1-35 „  1-45      1-8    1      2   3-45 „  355
  1-45 ,. 1-65      1-6    3      2   355 „   3G5
  1-55 „  1-65      11                3-65 „  375       04
  1-65 „  1-75      10             1  3-75 „  3-85
  1-75 „  1-85     09     "2      2   3 85 „  5-26      1-0    1    1
  1-85 „  195      0-7                6-25 „  6-75      0-7    1
  1-95 „  205      0-7    "2       1
    As the distribution of the differences corresponding to the
wave-lengths calculated from hydrogen is in accordance with
the expected distribution, it follows either that the coincidences
are accidental or that their probable error is not smaller than
the one corresponding to c = l"148. The probable error for
c = 1-148 is 0-42. That is to say, 042 x 10~7 millim., as 10"7
millim. is the unit of the wave-lengths. It seems to me not im
possible that the probable error of the difference between Liveing
and Dewar's measurements and the halves of Hasselberg's is as
much as 0*42. One cannot therefore, without more exact
measurements, safely infer that Griinwald's coincidences are
accidental. However, one can say that the distribution of
 differences gives no more reason to believe the coincidences
 real than to believe in a connexion between the mantissas of
log sin and the spectrum of water.

                               [    467    ]
LIII. On Texture in Media, and on the Non-existence of
   Density in the Elemental ^Ether. By Or. Johnhtone
   Stoney, a Vice-President of the Royal Dublin Society,
   M.A., D.Sc, FM.S*
IN the investigations of ordinary dynamics—the dynamics
       of secondary! motion—integrations have to be ex
tended throughout the bodies with which we are dealing, or
over their surfaces. Now whenever we employ this operation,
assumptions are tacitly made which do not accord with what
exists in real objective nature.
    Suppose that the problem is to obtain the pressure of Water
against a sluice ; to ascertain the amount and distribution of
the pressure, we integrate over the surface between the water
and the sluice, and in doing so assume :—¦
    (1^ That the boundary is a surface ; and
    (2) That the elements into which we conceive this surface
   * Read before the Royal Dublin Society, February 19, 1890, and
reprinted by permission from a proof of the paper in the Scientific Pro
ceedings of the Society.
   t In the computations of ordinary dynamics, we conceive the portion of
space occupied by the body with which we are dealing to be divided into
elements of volume (the dxdydz's), which elements of volume we regard
as movable. Each of these we multiply by a coefficient called the den
sity, and call the product the element ot mass (dm=p .dxdydz). These
elements of mass we picture to ourselves as acting on one another, or as
being acted upon by external forces ; and from the laws of these actions
we endeavour to deduce the motion of the element of volume, carrying
its contents with it, and in some cases changing its form or volume.
   In this process we take no notice of any motions which may be going
on within the element of volume, except so far as that some imperfect
account may perhaps be indirectly taken of them when we multiply the
element of volume by a density. Nevertheless, in all the real cases that
occur in nature, there are, as a matter of fact, very active motions of
various kinds going oh within the element of volume : motions of the
molecules which it contains, and still more deep-seated motions within
the portion of the element of volume occupied by those molecules, or in
the interspaces between them.
   Accordingly the motions with which we deal in our ordinary dynamical
investigations are merely drifting motions—the drifting about of elements
of volume, within each of which, as events really occur in nature, there
are elaborate subsidiary motions going on. Now, secondary motion is to
be denned as the motion which consists in the drifting about, with or
without changes of size and form, of elements of volume within each of
which there are subsidiary motions.
   If the subsidiary motions consist exclusively of irrotationnl motions in
 an incompressible and perfectly fluid medium, they cannot contribute to
the density by which the element of volume in which they occur is to be
multiplied. It is, however, otherwise if there are any rotational motions
present.

468       Dr. G. J. Stoney on Texture in Media, and on the
divided for the purposes of the integration may be made as
small as we please without ceasing to be subjected to the law
in heavy liquids of pressure proportional to the depth below
 the upper surface of the water, plus that due to the superin
cumbent atmosphere.
    Both these assumptions continue approximately true when
the elements into which we suppose the surface divided are
diminished till they are as small as, or even a good deal
smaller than, the smallest speck that can be distinguished with
the most powerful microscope ; but they utterly break down
if we suppose the subdivision carried so much further as to
reach or even approach the scale of molecular magnitudes.
If, for instance, the elements into which we suppose the sur
face divided were reduced to a square tenth-metret * in size,
a patch of surface which is the millionth part of the utmost a
microscopist can see, we should have got well within the
range t of molecular differences. The boundary between the
 water and sluice would cease to be a surface : it would be the
continually shifting boundary between molecules on both
 sides in energetic motion, acting individually on each other
 in their own special ways ; which happen to be such that when
 immense numbers of these individual operations are lumped
 together they produce approximately, as the outcome of all
 that is going on, that law of pressure proportional to depth
with which we are familiar.
    Thus, what we regard as a physical property of the medium
 —in this case the law of pressure in a heavy liquid—is in
 reality a statement of what is the drift of a vast number of
individual events, grouped together by a kind of statistical
process. This we may briefly describe by saying that the
 dynamical properties of the medium are due to its texture,
   * The decimetre is the first of the metrets (». e. decimal subdivisions of
 the metre), the centimetre is the second, the millimetre is the third. The
tenth-metret is the tenth of this series. It is a metre divided by 1010.
The waves of visible light have lengths varying from 3000 to 7600 of
these tenth-metrets.
   t According to Professor Loschmidt, who first published an estimate
of the interval within which the centres of two molecules must approach
to act sensibly on one another, this interval is about a nintb-metret
(Proceedings of the Mathematical Section of the Academy of Vienna, Oct.
1865, p. 404). The mean of such intervals may, perhaps with more pro
bability, be taken as lying nearer to the tenth-metret. It is very impro
bable that it is as small as the eleventh-metret. In the present paper
I assume it to be about the tenth-metret. If, however, it lies nearer the
ninth-metret, though we shall have to change almost all the numbers of
the computation in the text, we shall arrive at a conclusion not materially
differing from that on p. 472 below.

         Non-existence of Density in the Elemental JEther.             469
meaning by the texture of a medium whatever is going on in
it at close quarters.
     It is the same with the other recognized physical properties
of media, such as what are called gaseous laws—the laws con
necting the density, temperature, and pressure of gases, the
laws of their diffusion, the law of viscosity, and so on. Simi
larly with the properties of solid bodies : all are the outcome
of vast numbers of very diverse individual events that occur
 between or within the molecules of the bodies, or between
them and the luminiferous sther.
     In order to penetrate to this world of individual actions, we
must not only descend to magnitudes that are comparable to
the intervals at which the centres of molecules are spaced
from one another, but we must also consider periods of time
that are not too vast in reference to the motions that go on
among them. A second of time is i£out of all whooping" too
long * ; but a period which is definite and of suitable brevity
is that for which I have elsewhere proposed the symbol t,
viz. the time that light takes to advance one millimetre in vacuo.
The velocity of light being 30 quadrants per second, and the
quadrant (the length of a meridian from the Earth's equator
to the pole) being 1010 millimetres, we find that
                              _ 1 one second
                           T~ 3 '       10u      '
 i. e. it is one third of the eleventhet t of a second of time. In
 this fragment of time, visible light makes from 1300 to 2600
    * See the Philosophical Magazine for August 1808, p. 140, footnote.
 Headers of the paper here referred to are requested to change the square
 of 16 in the second paragraph into the square root of 16. In that paper
 (p. 141) I estimated the number of molecules in a cubic millimetre of a
gas, at atmospheric temperatures and pressures, as about a uno-eighteen
 (10"), without being aware that a similar estimate had been obtained for
 solids and liquids by Professor Loschmidt in 1865 (Proceedings of the
 Mathematical Section of the Academy of Vienna for October 1865, p. 405).
 In March 1870 Sir William Thomson, doubtless also without knowing of
 what had been done before, published a paper in ' Nature ' on the " size
 of atoms,'' and arrives at substantially the same estimates as Professor
 Loschmidt and myself.
     The earliest determination of a molecular magnitude, so far as I am
 aware, was that made by Professor Clerk Maxwell of the mean length of
  the " free paths " of the molecules of certain gases in their excursions
 between their encounters. See Philosophical Magazine for January 1860,
  p. 32, and for July 1860, p. 31 . See also Philosophical Transactions for
  I860, p. 258.
     t The eleventhet means a unit in the eleventh place of decimals. It
  accordingly is a name for the fraction 0-000, 000, 000, 01, or ~]qu-
      Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 181. June 1890.                2 0

470      Dr. G. J. Stoney on Texture in Media, and an tlie
vibrations according to its colour, so that the mean frequency
of vibration of light is about 2000 vibrations during each t*.
 [This mean is the actual frequency of that green ray whose
wave-length in vacuo is 5000 tenth-metrets.]
    We may now get some insight into the physical events that
occur in the world into which we have passed. The pressure
of air in this room against the walls is, according to the
kinetic theory of gases, due to the walls being bombarded by
molecules of air as they fly about like missiles. It is an
elementary proposition f in the kinetic theory of gases that the
momentum communicated to the wall is substantially the same
when, as actually happens, the molecules frequently encounter
one another throughout the room, as it would be if the aerial
 missiles could be divided into three equal squadrons, one of
 which should travel uninterruptedly up and down between the
 floor and ceiling, another squadron travelling horizontally
 from side to side, and the third squadron from end to end of
 the room ; and all moving with a velocity whose square is the
 mean of the squares of all the actual velocities of molecules in
 the room. This " velocity of mean square," as it has been
 called, depends on the molecular mass and on the temperature
 of the gas; and in the case of the air in this room it is about
 500 metres per second f. Let us then suppose the wall to be
 struck by one third of the molecules in this room, rushing
 backwards and forwards between it and the opposite wall at
 this pace ; and let us endeavour to form an estimate of how
 often one of the superficial molecules of the wall will be sub
 jected to an encounter.
     The number of molecules in a cubic millimetre of the air is
 known to be about a uno-eighteen (1018)§; and there are of
 course 500,000 times this number in a column 500 metres
 long and a square millimetre in section, i. e. there are 5 uno-
 twenty-threes in this column. One third of all the molecules
 in the column are the squadron that we are to regard as tra
 velling lengthwise, half of these advancing towards one end
 and the other half retiring from it. It thus appears that the
 number of molecules within the column to be taken as travel-
                                                   5
  ling at any instant towards one end is -. . 2023. This accord-
     * Sec British Association Tables of Oscillation-frequencv, B. A. Report
  for 1878, p. 40.
     t See Maxwell's' Heat.'
     X Phil. Mag. 1867, xiv. p. l->4; or Maxwell's ' Heat.'
     § See footnote *, p. 4G9. The uno-eighteen means the number repre
  sented by 1 with eighteen cyphers after it. It accordingly is the same as
  J.U #

        Non-existence of Density in the Elemental ^Ether.              471
ingly is the number that will strike against a square millimetre
of the wall in one second. Now the time t being, as we have
found, \ of an eleventhet of a second                   x —Li of a second),
it follows that ^ x 10ls is *ne number of downright blows
that would be delivered by these molecules upon one square
millimetre of the wall in the time t.
    This is on the supposition that the molecules are divided
into three squadrons. They are not so divided in reality, and
accordingly all the strokes delivered against the square milli
metre of the wall are not downright blows, but are many of
them oblique. An easy computation shows that this will
increase the number of blows in the ratio of 3 to 2 * ; so that
   * If N be tbe number of downright blows delivered on a surface s in
the time T, and if « be the momentum communicated by each blow, then
the pressure they will occasion
                                    = N«                                 (1)
   If, on the other hand, the blows arrive from all quarters indifferently,
and if dn' be the number reaching s from inclinations Detween $ and 6+d6,
6 being measured from the normal, then will
                           dn' = k . s cos 6 . 2nd cos 6,                (2)
where k is such that k . da- is the number of blows coming from directions
lying within an element da of solid angle, that would be received in the
time T, by a unit of surface presented perpendicularly to the shower.
   The.* an' molecules communicate to s a momentum
                         = « cos 6 . 2irks cos 8d cos 6.
 Therefore the whole momentum communicated in this way from all
 inclinations
                     =2jrA»«J0                    2
                              Ci cosa fldcos 0=-irksa     ;
 and the pressure thus caused
                                        2 irket                           zo\
                                     = 3"T-                               (3)
   This is to be equal to the pressure produced by N downright blows ;
 whence, equating (1) and (3),
                                    N-|ir«*                               (4)
    Again, N', the number of blows that reach s, when molecules fly in all
 directions,
                         = §dn'= %tsk . Jo cos 6d cos 6 ;
 whence                              N'=m,*                               (5)
    Comparing (4) and (5), we find that
                                    N'_3
 as in the text.                     N *
                                                            2 0 2

472       Dr. G. J. Stoney on Texture in Media, and on the
 the real number of blows delivered upon the square millimetre
            5
is about r-g X 1012.
    Next consider the distance within which the centres of two
molecules, one a molecule of the air and the other a molecule
 of the wall, must approach in order that they may sensibly
act on one another. A circular disk, with this distance as
radius, may be considered as a target towards which the centre
 of a molecule of the air must be directed in order that this
particular molecule of the wall may be reached. Now the
distance within which the centres of the molecules must ap
proach lies more probably in the neighbourhood of a tenth-
metret than in the neighbourhood of either a ninth-metret or
an eleventh-metret*. Let us for the purpose of an estimate
assume that it is a tenth-metret. The size of the target, sup
posed flat, will then be about three square tenth-metrets.
This is 3 fourteenthets of a square millimetre (3 x —Tt of a
square millimetre). Accordingly the number of encounters
this molecule will receive in the time t will be approximately
 5                11
— . 1012 x 3 . ^ttjj = 777-. This is on the supposition that the
target to be struck is a disk, whereas it is in reality a sphere.
This will double t the number of blows it will be subjected to
in the time t; whence, finally, we may take this number to
be about 777 : in other words, this molecule of the wall is struck
           40
on the average at intervals of about 40 times t. If the colour
of the wall be green, the molecular motions which occasion
this colour are repeated in the molecule 2000 each t, and
therefore something like 80,000 in the intervals between the
shots to which the molecule is subjected by the aerial artillery.
This serves to explain why the incessant bombardment by the
   • See footnote + (p. 408).
   t N', the number of blows that reach a circular disk of radius a, is,
according to equation (5) of footnote * (p. 471),
                               N' = irV*                                 (6)
   Again, proceeding as in equation (2) of footnote • (p. 471), we find that
the number N" which would reach a sphere with radius a,
                        N"= f'/fc.Tra*. 2ird cos 6,
                              Jo
                            = 2nV*                                       (7)
   Comparing (0) and (7), we find that
                                 N"=2N'.

        Non-existence of Density in the Elemental /Ether.            473
air does not alter the colour of the wall. Between the en
counters long intervals elapso : intervals so long compared
with the motions of light, that any small * disturbance in the
periodic time which may be caused by the encounter probably
lasts for but a very trivial part of the long intervals of respite.
    Thus in both liquids and gases, what are called the dyna
mical properties of the medium do not exist when we come to
close quarters ; and, accordingly, investigations based on these
dynamical properties, and carried out by integrations, will
yield results that are valuable only when the integration
(fjT$ (#,?/, z) dxdydz) furnishes a result nearly identical
with that which would be furnished by a summation
(%(f)(.v, y, s) A# Ay As), where each of the blocks A# Ay Ar is
sufficiently large to include an enormous number of the indi
vidual operations that are in reality what actually go on in the
medium.
    We come upon the same result when we make a similar
inquiry with regard to solids. But I forbear going into
numerical details in this branch of our subject until I can
publish investigations on which I was engaged some years
ago, by which it appears that the form and dynamical pro
perties of many crystals can be connected with their chemical
constitution. When this subject is gone into, it becomes plain
that the dynamical properties of solids also, such as their
power of propagating shearing-stresses, are, like those of
liquids and gases, due to events of an utterly different kind
that occur between parts so close, and in periods of time so
brief, that enormous shoals of these events occur in a very
small fraction of a second, within elements of volume many
times smaller than the most tiny speck the microscope can
show. Accordingly, what we regard as dynamical properties
   * Probably but small ; since the periodic time seems to depend much
more on the relation which subsists (and acts without intermission) be
tween ponderable matter and the luminiferous tether, than upon the
occasional events which occur in the grappling of molecules with one
another.
   This view is borne out by observations made by the author on
the absorption-spectrum of the vapour of chlorochromic anhydride
(Cr02Cl2), the lines of which were found to have sensibly the same ap
pearance whether air was or was not present with the vapour. It was
expected that the spectrum might exhibit an appreciable difference in
these two cases, since when air is present the molecules of the vapour are
subjected to a largely multiplied number of encounters—notwithstanding
which no alteration in the appearance of the lines of the spectrum could
be detected.
   For an account of the very remarkable spectrum of this vapour, see a
paper by Professor Emerson Reynolds, F.K.S., and the Author, in the
Philosophical Magazine for July 1871, p. 41.

474     Dr. G. J. Stoney on Texture in Media, and on tlie
of solids, such as their power of propagating tensile, compres
sive, shearing, and twisting stresses, are an outcome of what
I have called the texture of the medium ; and only appear
between blocks so large that, in considering the effect of one
of these large blocks upon its neighbours, we need only take
account of the general outcome that emerges when vast num
bers of the individual events that are actually going on are
combined, and their general drift obtained by a statistical
method.
   It is especially instructive in this connexion to consider
the problems of that branch of dynamics which is called Rigid
Dynamics—such as the investigation of the motions of a top,
or hoop, or of the precessional motion of the Earth. In those
inquiries the integral calculus is employed. But the integra
tions are all such that the calculated motions of such bodies
would come out almost precisely the same, whether the abso
lute limit, as furnished by the integrals, be taken, or a sum
mation for which the volume of the rigid body is regarded as
divided into blocks as large as the smallest specks visible in the
microscope. It is desirable, however, that we should bear in
mind that there is the xoidest difference between the physical
assumptions underlying these two methods of procedure.
   If we proceed by integration, it is tacitly assumed that the
stresses characteristic of a solid body prevail between elements
of the volume however small, and differ, according to the law
laid down as the law prevailing in the medium, at situations
in the body however near. This is not true.
   On the other hand, if we proceed by summation, it is
assumed that the forces acting on each little block are distri
buted equally and without any variation of direction to the
several equal portions into which its little mass may be con
ceived to be divided, however minute this subdivision may be.
If this were the case, the internal stresses of a rigid body would
be powerless to induce rotation in any one of these blocks, or to
alter any rotation that may have pre-existed in it. Accordingly
each of these blocks would not rotate round the instantaneous
axis : it would merely revolve round it*. These, which are
the real physical meanings of the assumptions made in the two
cases respectively, are specially instructive.
   About fifty years ago Professor MacCullagh announced his
great discovery that the phenomena of light could be accounted
for, if we suppose light to be an undulation in an incompres-
  * The proper inference from this i9 that our equations have only taken
into account a part of the forces that are really acting : and this is true.

      Non-existence of Density in the Elemental JEther.       475
sible medium of uniform density, endowed with those dyna
mical properties which are embodied in his fundamental
equations. These properties are not very unlike the properties
attributed to an ordinary solid body ; and the question now
arises, whether these properties (or whatever are the real
dynamical properties of the medium in which are propagated
light, radiant heat, and other waves of electromagnetic stress)
are fundamental properties of the medium ; or whether, like
the properties of solids, liquids, or gases, they are the outcome
of events of a icholly different character happening at inter
vals so short that the elements of volume (the dx dy dz'a of
MacCullagh's formula?) contain vast numbers of them. Now
the dynamical properties of the luminiferous medium—
whether we use MacCullagh's or Cauchy's fundamental
equations—sufficiently resemble those of media which we
know to bo " textured," to make the latter supposition the
more probable, after what we have found to be the real nature
of solid, liquid, and gaseous media. And this probability is
very much strengthened by the discovery made by Helmholtz
about a quarter of a century ago, of the persistence and dyna
mical behaviour of vortex-rings and other vortex filaments in
a perfect incompressible fluid, and by the investigations to
which this discovery has led.
   One result of these investigations has been to suggest to Sir
William Thomson that the chemical atoms of which ponderable
matter consists may be simply vortex tangles in such a medium ;
and to suggest to Professor FitzGerald that the luminiferous
aether may be a medium of this kind permeated by straight
vortex filaments in all directions. Investigations are being
actively pushed forward with a view to ascertaining how far
these suppositions can bo corroborated. Other hypotheses
which may be classed with these have been advanced by
Professor Hicks and others, but I select Professor FitzGerald s
and Sir William Thomson's, both because they seem, in our
present imperfect state of information, the best of their class,
and in order to give definiteness to what further I have to say.
   Let us then imagine this room to be permeated by three
systems of wires. Let the first be a set of vertical wires from
the ceiling to the floor in rows parallel to the walls, and at
intervals from one another of one inch. Let a similar system
cross the room from side to side, passing midway between the
wires of the first set : and let a third system of wires run
from end to end of the room threading their way along the
middle of the clear passages that lie between the wires of the
other two systems. Let these wires represent straight vortex
filaments in a uniform incompressible medium devoid of

476      Dr. G. J. Stoney on Texture in Media, and on the
 any stress that resists change of form, and let the alternate
 vortex filaments of each row rotate in the same direction,
 while the intermediate ones rotate in the opposite direction,
 but let the vortex filaments be in other respects similar.
    Such would be the simplest case of a medium of the kind
 that Professor FitzGerald has conceived*. Let us next
 imagine the whole space within the room to be divided into
 large blocks of a cubic yard in size. One of these blocks will
 include a great number of the vortex filaments, and all the
 large blocks will closely resemble one another ; insomuch
 that if an undulation consisting of shallow waves each a
 quarter of a mile long were to traverse the medium, the
 blocks would appear to act on one another in a certain definite
 way. This corresponds to the way in which Professor
 MacCullagh's elements of volume, his dx dy rfc's, are in his
 formulae assumed to act, and the waves correspond to his
 waves of. light. But if the whole space were divided into
 much smaller blocks, suppose into cubes of half an inch,
 great differences would be found to prevail between these
 small blocks, and equally great differences in the way they
act on one another ; and the difference would become more
striking if the subdivision were carried so far as to render
 the blocks small in comparison with the thickness of the wires
that represent vortex filaments.
   If, now, we further conceive small vortex tangles travelling
about in this medium, the long vortex filaments opening to
let them pass, and acting in front, sideways, and behind upon
them in such a way as to urge them equally forwards and
backwards, so long as their journey is along a straight path
with uniform speed—we shall have a first sketch of what con
stitutes ponderable matter and the luminiferous aether, accord
ing to these speculations.
   The particular hypotheses which are here described may
perhaps not have quite hit the mark ; but, tbough we have as
yet only a glimmering of this great subject, it is pretty certain
that either these hypotheses, or something like them, are the
true ultimate account of material Nature.
   We must, therefore, carefully distinguish between the
elemental and the luminiferous aethers. The elemental ajther,
until motions create differences in it, is absolutely alike and
undistinguishable in all its parts ; and in the mathematical
investigation of motions in it, wherever in any of the
equations of dynamics an element of mass appears, we must
                  * ' Nature,' May 1889, xl. p. 82.

        Non-existence of Density in the Elemental JEther.            ¥11
 write everj'where the element of volume instead. It is itself
the integral of these elements of volume ; in other words, it
 is space under a new aspect. In the geometrical way of
 conceiving space, the parts into which it may be conceived
 to be divided are thought of as they would be if at rest
 relatively to one another. In the kinematical way of con
 ceiving space, which alone is in accordance with what ob
jectively exists, we are to recognize that each portion of
 volume is pervaded by the motions that actually subsist
 within it, and that it can travel about carrying those motions
 with it. In fact the volume occupied by a block of iron differs
 from an equal volume occupied by air, only by the motions
 that are going on within the one volume being different from
 those that pervade the other. In every other respect they
 are as exactly alike as one stationary portion of space is to
another. One such portion of space is not another : but it
is exactly like it ; and there is no limit to this resemblance
however small the portions compared may be. There is no
 " texture " until there is motion.
    On the other hand, when, in investigating the motions of
ponderable matter, we have occasion to conceive the bodies
we are dealing with divided into small portions, it is only if
 we stop short in our division so that the blocks we form do not
 fall below a certain size, that we are justified in treating them
as resembling one another. When we thus stop short, the
blocks are in reality accumulations of more minute internal
motions ; and if we do not stop short, but carry the division
sufficiently far, we shall come down upon the individual
motions themselves, between which of course the most marked
differences would be found.
    It appears to be the same in regard to the luminiferous
rather. It is only when we do not subdivide too far, that we
are justified in speaking of the blocks as resembling one
another. The luminiferous rather seems to be a textured
medium like ponderable matter. But in the elemental rather
—in space itself regarded as movable—there are no such
limits. Its portions, however small, resemble one another
with mathematical exactness* ; except so far as there may be
 different motions prevailing within those portions.
   * Empty coreless vortices involve the hypothesis of a medium that is
discontinuous and has boundaries ; or else (in the case of some coreless
vortices) of a medium which obeys two laws of motion, one for the part
of the medium that is interned on one side of a closed vortex sheet, and
another for the rest of the medium. Now it seems very improbablo that
the objectively existing elemental aether—space under its kinematical

  478              Dr. G. J. Stoney on Texture in Media.
      It thus appears that the distinction between different parts,
  which is implied by the term density, does not exist* in the
  elemental a?ther, and that in it the element of volume is the
  element of mass. There is, accordingly, no such physical
  quantity as density in the dynamics of the ultimate motions
  of the elemental nether. It is only when accumulations of
  these primary motions are lumped together, and whore what we
  are investigating is merely the drifting about of these accumu
  lations—it is only in this branch of dynamics that we find the
  need and the advantage of the conception of density as a
  substitute for having to take separately into consideration some
  of the motions that are really going on. In fact, if any such
  hypothesis as Sir William Thomson's is true, the density of a
  lump of iron, i. e. the coefficient by which the elements of its
  volume have to be multiplied in order to get their masses, is
  nothing but a mere function of the primary or elemental motions
  prevailing in that portion of space], and which alone make that
  portion of space differ from one in which other elemental
  motions are going on.
  aspect—is of either of these kinds ; and accordingly it is improbable that
  empty coreless vortices are any part of real Nature. This is a kind of
  objection which may raise an improbability, even a great improbability ;
  but we should be rash to rely on it as finally decisive, for the reality of
  things is not limited by our way of conceiving them.
     The objection, such" as it is, would not lie against the presence in
  nature of coreless vortices lined with a vortex sheet and filled in with a
  part of the medium devoid of rotational motion ; but such vortices would
  in some respects behave differently from empty coreless vortices.
     * This conclusion is confirmed by an important ontological proposition
  which is susceptible of demonstration, viz. that nothing that we suppose
  to exist in nature can be " real," unless it is a syntheton of perceptions
  actual, potential, or conceivable. Thus, motions and space relations may
  be " real,'' for they are such syntheta ; but a " thing to move " is not real
  except in those cases in which the motion we are considering is the
  drifting motion of volumes within which subsidiary motions prevail. In
  such cases the subsidiary motions are often thought of, and may, perhaps
  without objection, be spoken of as a thing that moves.
     f That is, on the supposition that the luminiferous aether is of uniform
  texture throughout its whole extent, as seems to be the case. If, how
  ever, the fact bo otherwise, we must regard the density of the iron as a
  function both of the elemental motions pervading its volume and of the
. elemental motions in the adjoining part of the luminiferous {ether. The
  density of the iron would then depend on its situation in the material
  universe.

                            [ 479 ]
    LIV. On the Theory of Dropping Electrodes.—Reply to
             Mr. Brown. By Prof. W. Ostwald*.
IN the April number of the Philosophical Magazine, Mr.
      Brown raises objection to a remark, which I made in the
Zeitschr. /. ph. Ch. iv. pp. 577, 578, about his supposed dis
proof of v. Helmholtz's Theory of Dropping Electrodes. I
must regret not having expressed myself clearly enough in
that remark, as Mr. Brown has not considered its essential
part at all in his note.
   Mr. Brown ascribes to v. Helmholtz the opinion that the
cause of the galvanic current, observed when a mass of mer
cury dropping in an electrolyte is connected by means of a
galvanometer with the mercury collecting at the bottom of
the vessel, is the " charges carried down by the drops." I do
not know on what passage of Helmholtz's writings Mr. Brown
supports this statement ; any such is unknown to me. Helm
holtz's assumption is, that every drop on its formation becomes
covered with an electrical double layer similar to the charge of
a Leyden jar. This double layer contains positive and nega
tive electricity in equal quantities ; its motion cannot therefore
give rise to anything that is similar to a galvanic current.
From this it follows, conversely, that the galvanic currents
produced in this way have no connexion whatever with the
motions of the drops.
   Such a connexion, however, exists with the formation and
the destruction of the drops. Every drop that is produced
takes positive electricity from the mercury, and negative from
the electrolyte, in order to form its double layer. On the
 union of the drop with the mass of mercury lying at the
bottom, the positive electricity goes over to the latter while
the negative electricity remains in the electrolyte, and moves,
in case the process continues, to the point of formation of the
drops, to produce there new double layers. This latter move
ment is of course dependent on the resistance of the electrolyte,
and Mr. Brown's observation therefore is not, as he believes,
in contradiction, but in complete agreement with the theory
of Helmholtz.
    Against this, Mr. Brown objects that currents are also ob
 tained if the dropping mercury is connected with a secondary
 mercury electrode which receives no drops. It seemed to me
 unnecessary to develop the above-given explanation also for
 this case, since every one who understands that can also here
 apply it. On Mr. Brown's account I will, however, again
                  • Communicated by the Author.

480            Mr. W. Coldridge  6*- on the Electrical and
expressly state, that also in this case double layers are formed
 on the drops, whose negative electricity comes from the elec
trolyte. The supply of this electricity depends therefore on
the conductivity of the electrolyte. The process can, however,
no longer be a lasting one, because the secondary electrode is
immediately polarized. Mr. Brown can easily convince him
self (if he has not already noticed it), that the current pro
duced under such circumstances is much weaker than the one
earlier mentioned, and that it becomes continually weaker
owing to the polarization, while the other current can be kept
for days at its original strength.
    Finally, it follows from the theory of v. Helmholtz, that a
diminishing current of opposite direction must be obtained if
the secondary electrode is connected, not with the dropping
mercury, but with that collecting on the bottom of the vessel.
This current can also easily be observed. According to Mr.
Brown's ideas, if I have correctly understood them, in this
case no current whatever could be produced.
   Briider Strasse, Leipzic.
 LV. On the Electrical and Chemical Properties of Stannic
    Chloride ; together with the Bearing of the Results therein
    obtained on the Problems of Electrolytic Conduction and Che
    mical Action. — Part I. Experimental Observations. Part II.
    Theoretical Considerations. By Ward Coldridge, B.A.,
    Scholar of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
                          [Concluded from p. 394.]
            Part II.—Theoretical Considerations.
THE first problem that presses forward for consideration is
        that involved in the nonconductivity of stannic chloride.
It is a truism to write that its insulating-power is a function
of its constitution ; but it has hitherto been difficult, from the
lack of experimental observations, to advance beyond that
truism. The fact is that a column of stannic chloride, some
three to four centimetres in length with a cross section of one
to two square centimetres, has a resistance the lower limit of
which is certainly not less than 1600 megohms. This pheno
menon is not an isolated one. Other pure liquids—water,
hydrochloric acid, hydrofluoric acid—are also nonconductors,
but liquid hydrocyanic acid is said to be an electrolyte ; and
the fused salts, of which the silver halogen compounds may be
taken as typical, easily electrolyse. Wherein, then, do these
liquids which are nonelectrolytes differ from those which are
electrolytes ? In order to progress towards a solution of this

             Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.         481
question a review will now be made :—of the chemical cha
racteristics, as far as they are pertinent, of those compounds ;
of the possible influence of their physical aggregation ; and,
lastly, of the conditions under which the power of electroly-
sability can be developed.
   To take the liquids seriatim :—
    Water is characterized by its stability and by its large heat
of formation. If it could be directly oxidized to hydrogen
peroxide, the change would involve a large absorption of
energy,
                      (H20, 0) = 23,100 cal.
Thus it is not possible for pure water to become nonhomo-
geneous through the formation of any peroxide : the only
other way in which water could become chemically nonhomo-
geneous, save through the formation of molecular aggregates
of varying complexity, would be by its dissociation in part
into hydrogen and oxygen atoms ; but this is a most remote
speculative chance and a practical impossibility.
   Hydrofluoric Acid is the only compound of hydrogen and
fluorine. There is neither a perfluoride (HF*) nor a sub-
fluoride (HjF). Moissan examined the product of the elec-
trolysation of liquid hydrofluoric acid, rendered a conductor
by the presence of dissolved potassium hydrogen fluoride, and
found no evidence of such a change as
and established that the ions, as liberated, are simply hydrogen
and fluorine.
   Hydrochloric Acid is the only compound of hydrogen and
chlorine. I think that no one has endeavoured to perform
with liquid hydrochloric acid experiments analogous to those
of Moissan's for the sake of their electrolytic importance.
   Stannic Chloride in the vaporized condition can exist per
fectly as a collection of like unit particles, molecules   SuCl, |
There is a lower compound, stannous chloride; but the forward
change,               SnCl, + Cls -*- SnCl4,
 occurs with the utmost readiness. A strong presumption
 therefore exists against the possibility of the reverse dissocia
 tion, except at high temperatures ; and there is no evidence
 in support of such an hypothesis.
    Thus, then, water, hydrofluoric acid, hydrochloric acid,
 stannic chloride, agree in their chemical homogeneity.
    Whilst there is the closest resemblance between the above

482         Mr. W. Coldridge on the Electrical and
nonconducting liquid acids and the conducting liquid hydro
cyanic acid, in point of their physical properties, it may yet
be possible to distinguish it chemically : at least it is worthy
of note that
                      (H, C, N)= -28,400,
for such a large endothermic formation is suggestive of a
tendency towards instability.
   The observations of Bleekrode and De La Rue (Proc. Roy.
Soc. xxv. p. 323), showing its power of electrolysing, are
worthy of confirmation, provided all possible precautions be
taken to ensure the use of an absolutely anhydrous specimen.
   In considering the phenomena presented by the fused salts,
it is necessary to recall the warning given by Prof. Armstrong
as to the scantiness of accurate data at the command of the
inquirer into the properties of fused pure substances. Having
noted this warning, a statement made by Faraday is very
apposite. In the first volume of his ' Experimental Researches
in Electricity,' § (390, when he is discussing the results he
had obtained with fused antimony trichloride, he suggests
that the conductivity he had observed " might be due perhaps
to a true protochloride consisting of single proportionals
(SbCl).'" In a word, Faraday surmised that the fused com
pound was not quite homogeneous. A similar suggestion
may be advanced : that silver chloride, silver iodide, selected
as two of the best examples of Faraday's law of Liquido-
Conduction, are not homogeneous compounds in the fused
state. Photo-salts—whether they be definite compounds or
mixtures is of no import—exist and are characterized by the
extreme facility of their formation. Probably with more
accurate information at command it will be possible to advance,
in explanation of the electrolytic conduction of fused sub
stances, this view of the imperfect homogeneity, itself sup
ported by separate and nonelectrical considerations ; and to
establish as an expression of a complete uniformity that no
homogeneous liquid is an electrolyte : electroHsability involves
an antecedent condition of heterogeneity.
   But in such a statement as that no homogeneous liquid is
an electrolyte it is necessary to accurately determine the sig
nificance of the word " homogeneous." Without hesitation,
for example, pure liquid stannic chloride would be spoken of
as homogeneous. The statement would be accurate if the
whole of the stannic chloride were composed of precisely similar
unit molecules. But a view has been expounded in a pro
found paper by Prof. Armstrong, "On Electrolytic Conduction
in relation to Molecular Composition; Valency and the Nature

              Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.                   483
of Chemical Change ; being an attempt to apply a Theory of
Residual Affinity " (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1886, p. 268), that
stannic chloride is not thus simply constituted, but that a
condition of more complex aggregation is attained of which
the particles could be represented thus :—
                  f SnCl4 )         fsnClJ         fsnCl,
                  >.      L                L       v
where x, y, z may or may not have the same value, and are
probably of considerable magnitude. He considers that these
groups are built up in virtue of the " Residual Affinity "
which he holds to be characteristic of the negative elements.
Such a group represented graphically would appear thus :—
           I                                     I                  I
        -CI                 01               -01-               -01-
   —CI—Sn—CI           CI—Sn—CI- _C1—Sn-Cl                   Cl—Sn-Cl—
                                              Cl!                01-I
        Jl                  cl—
           I                  I               ClI                Cl— I
        —Cl                 Cl
           I                    I
   —Cl—Sn—Cl           01—Sn—01- -Cl—Sn—Cl                   Cl—Sn—Cl—
          I                   I
        -01                 Cl                c'i                Cl
            I                I                 I                     I
This process of construction would be continued according to
the value of x in fsnOl,] .
   If a value of x=6 be assumed, the aggregation might be
 completely represented thus :—
              Cl                      •Cl-                     •Cl
               I
      Cl— Sn — Cl-                •Cl— Sn — Cl-          •Cl    Sn— Cl
               I                        I                         I
              Cl             ,         Cl                       Cl
                             z:rz
              Cl-           A          Cl                       Cl
      Cl — Sn — Cl                Cl— Su      Cl!       IC1      Su — Cl
               I                                                  I
              Cl                   — Jl_                         Cl

484          Mr. W. Coldridge on the Electrical and
Another group might be (SnCl4)10; another (SnCl4)u ; &c.
Then to call stannic chloride homogeneous, if thus composed
of aggregates of varying complexity, is to use the term in an
approximate and statistical sense, or subject to a reservation
that it applies only to the ultimate molecules and not to the
aggregates they form. The main purpose of this conception
is the vivid realization of a condition of elephantine stability,
one that shall afford a foundation for the dissociation processes
which are associated with electrolytic conductivity. Thus,
when Armstrong discusses the effect of water on the conduc
tivity of the halogen acids, he submits the view that the
dilution improves the conductivity by decomposing the more
complex molecules ; and generally he concludes, when the
molecular conductivity is low, then there are big molecular
aggregates. The liquid stannic chloride woidd consist of
massive groups. This conception is fruitful, and explains
many phenomena. But a simpler explanation may serve
these purposes as effectively. It thus becomes of interest to
consider whether it is necessary to adopt this view of the com
plex aggregates in the place of the simple molecular compo
sition, whether stannic chloride is composed
            (a)     I SuCl4Xj   fsnCl7|     I SnOlA
or
            (j8)   | SnCU I    | SnCl4 |   | SnCl4 j
   In consideration of this question, it may be advanced that
stannic chloride in the gaseous condition does consist in
molecules represented as in (a).
   Bat it may be urged that some gases which have at high
temperatures simple constitutions have at lower temperatures
more complex ones. Thus nitrogen peroxide is " NOs" at
high, and gradually passes into " N204" at low temperatures.
Mallet has observed that hydrofluoric acid is " HjFj" just
above its boiling-point. The density of acetic-acid vapour
corresponds to a molecule C3HgOj within a few degrees of its
boiling-point, and then, as the temperature rises, rapidly dimi
nishes to a density which gives the molecular weight of 60.
   Do, then, these observations lead by induction to the result
that, as the vapour of | SnCl4 1 is condensed into a liquid, the
molecules coming nearer and nearer coalesce into complex
aggregates ? If this induction be correct, then the liquid
must have the constitution y9.

              Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.          485
    But the induction is based upon a fallacy. It does not
follow, in the cases cited, because the densities rapidly increase,
relative to hydrogen, as the temperature falls, that therefore
the molecules have also become greater. For these molecular
weights are determined on the assumption that Avogadro's
law is applicable to these substances in a vaporized and imper
fectly gasified condition. Such an assumption is untenable ;
it is, as Prof. J. J. Thomson emphasizes in his lectures on the
Properties of Matter, more rational to conceive that the va
pours do not contain equal numbers of molecules. The state
ments that nitrogen peroxide is " Nj04," that hydrofluoric acid
is " H3F2," that acetic acid is C3H603*, are tainted with this
fallacy ; and the taint vitiates the induction that leads to the
conception (/8) as the constitution of liquid stannic chloride.
    Moreover, positive evidence in favour of the simpler concept
is supplied by the simplicity of the results obtained for the
molecular weights of solids and liquids, as determined by the
extent to which they lower the fusing-points and the vapour-
pressure of solvents (Raoult).
     On this ground the statement made as to the constitution
of gaseous stannic chloride may be extended so as to include
the liquid condition, provided of course a necessary degree of
cohesion sufficient to account for the viscosity of the liquid be
allowed between these simple material particles the molecules
  | SnCl4 )
    And, again, it may be maintained that the condition (a)
presents a prospect of greater stability than ifi). For an
inspection of the graphic representation of the group (SnO/l
                                                           ^      k
shows that, whereas according to (a) the chemical homogeneity
is preserved solely by the attractions of the respective atoms
of tin for their four respective atoms of chlorine, according to
 (/8) this attraction is opposed " by the straining of the chlorine
atoms at the chlorine atoms of the adjoining molecules."
     Thus, then, on account of the greater stability represented
in the simpler view, on account of the evidence in its favour,
on account of the absence of satisfactory arguments to prove
the existence of the hypothetical complex aggregates, the
simpler view (*) will here be taken and the stannic chloride
will be considered as strictly homogeneous; sic aqualiter for
the other-mentioned nonconductors. And it is advanced that
every substance tints strictly homogeneous is a nonelectrolyte
on account of that very homogeneity. This homogeneity is a
               * Horstmanu, Annakn, clxviii. VI. sup. 53.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 181. June 1890.           2 P

486           Mr. W. Coldridge on the Electrical ami
function of the chemical stability. Indeed the problem of
electrolysis is at its foundation a chemical one; but at this, its
foundation, the chemical problem resolves itself into an ante
rior physical one, namely the laws that govern the interaction,
the attraction of atoms at atomic distances. " The scientific
aim of the theory of electrolysis has been stated by F. Kohl-
rausch to consist in the reference of electrochemical phenomena
to mechanical or electromechanical laws"* : herein must be
 the solution of the problem of chemical affinity.
    To the question whether there is some physical property
 of pure water, pure hydrochloric acid, hydrofluoric acid, &c.
 which endows them with insulating-power, and the absence or
 difference of degree of which in fused salts admits of conduc
 tivity no successful answer has been given, though a great
 variety of attempts have been made. Doubtless viscosity is
 a factor in the result, and Faraday's law of liquido-conduction
 is a statement of that fact. But the influence of viscosity is
 secondary rather than primary : all the electrolytes must have
 a degree of limpidity, and as the limpidity decreases so will
 the resistance increase. As examples, Kohlrausch's experi
 ments on Silver Iodide t, Arrhenius's investigations of the
 actions of Fluidity on the Conductivity of Electrolytes % ;
 though these would have been improved by the use, as sole
 solvent, of some oily polyhydric alcohol. But limpidity, as is
 seen in the various nonconducting pure liquids, does not
 involve electrolysability. The destruction of the physical
 homogeneity, and generally the change of physical properties
 which must occur when stannic chloride is heated from 16° 0.
 to 112° C, its boiling-point, has not apparently any influence,
 and certainly not within the limits of delicacy of my experi
 ments, on its nonconductivity.
     To sum up : It has been advanced that the fact that stannic
 chloride is homogeneous, chemically homogeneous, accounts
  for its nonconductivity : similarly for the other nonelectro-
  lytes. To continue : It will be demonstrated how the results
 obtained show that where this chemical homogeneity is de
  stroyed, where the whole or part of the stannic chloride enters
 into combination so that molecular interchanges, akin to those
  which Williamson so vividly portrayed in his epoch-making
 papers on the Theory of Etherification, can occur, then the
 power of electrolytic conductivity is developed. The validity
 of this conclusion will be most cogently established by answer-
    * Report on the Present State of our Knowledge in Electrolysis and in
 Electrochemistry. W. N. Shaw, M.A. (Brit. Assoc. 1889).
    + Pogg. Ann. 1870, p. 159.
    \ Kongl. VeUnskap»-Akad. Fordhandlingar, 1886.

              Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.            487
ing the following question: Whereas hydrochloric-acid gas,
alcohol, ether, aqueous hydrochloric acid, sulphuretted hy
drogen and alcohol, render stannic chloride an electrolysable
liquid, why do not chlorine, sulphuretted hydrogen, chloro
form, the various solids mentioned in Part 1., exert a similar
influence ?
   The answer is, that the former enter into chemical combina
tion, the latter do not. To quote the concluding sentence of
Part I., the latter class of substances " producing no effect on
the chemical homogeneity of the stannic chloride, which
remains merely stannic chloride, are without influence on its
electrical conductivity : " a collection of unit particles, ^ SnCl4 J ,
even where mechanically interspersed with foreign substances*
do not conduct. But when hydrochloric-acid gas, alcohol,
ether, hydrochloric-acid solution, sulphuretted hydrogen and
alcohol, are added, electrolytic power is developed. Here,
however, there is no longer chemical homogeneity.
   The stannic chloride charged with hydrochloric-acid gas
must contain a collection of molecules of the double chloride
2HC1 . SnCl4 interspersed amongst molecules of stannic chlo
ride. There is here manifestly the potentiality of a continual
condition of interchange between the combined and uncom-
bined stannic-chloride molecules ; a condition of dynamical
equilibrium maintained by changes of this nature :—
                (3           r                     /3     r
The similar phenomenon is repeated under the influence of
absolute alcohol ; here the alcoholate SnCI4 . 2C2HsOH is
formed and dissolved in the excess of alcohol. The equili
brium would depend on, here, the interchange of the com
bined alcohol molecules for the uncombined :—
   fsiiCl^l |20aH,OHJ    + fsnOlJ — fsnCl/l +       fsnClJ 1 2C3H5OHj
      *         P              y         «             P          y
Similarly for the etherate SnCl4 . 2((Ji,H5)20 :—
   I^SnOly [2(CaHaXp] | + jltaClT) — rSnClTj +    |2(02H~^oj (SnOT)
                              ' 2P2

488           Mr. W. Coldridge on the Electrical and
   The idea of examining the influence of these liquids pro
ceeded from a study of Moissan's* work on liquid hydrofluoric
acid ; it seemed that the conductivity he developed was due
to such an interchange as :—
     ( hf j +      firl [hp"! — Thf] 'kp I               + Thf
                     P     y              ¦      P               y
and it was conceived that if a similar condition of dynamical
stability could he produced in stannic chloride, conductivity
would oe developed. The results have justified the induction.
The delicate observations made by Kohlrausch on the resist
ance of pure water, and the effect of exposing it to the atmo
sphere of a room charged with tobacco-smoke, are explicable
on the same lines ; the water would absorb traces of carbonic
acid and of the basic products, which in turn would form
hydrates, and then there would result a similar condition of
interchange.
    The generalization may now be provisionally stated :—that
such an antecedent condition of dynamical equilibrium is
absolutely essential to the development of the power of elec
trolytic conductivity. With no great difficulty, it would be
possible in terms of
    (1 ) the number of such interchanges per unit of time,
    (2) the degree to which the stability of the original unelec-
           trolysable molecule is disturbed by each interchange,
to establish a dynamical theory to explain the influence of
 (a) the concentration, (b) the temperature, on the conductivity
of electrolytes; and for this purpose would be needed accurate
measurements of the resistance of solutions (say, of the tetra
chloride in alcohol, in ether, and of their temperature-coeffi
cients). The results would emphasize the great value of some
dynamical explanation of chemical action, and the influence
of mass and temperature on its course.
    The differences observed in the action of
    (1) dry sulphuretted hydrogen on stannic chloride,
    (2) dry sulphuretted hydrogen on stannic chloride in chlo
           roform solution,
    (3) dry sulphuretted hydrogen and stannic chloride on water,
    (4) absolute alcohol on sulphuretted hydrogen and stannic
           chloride,
    (5) dry sulphuretted hydrogen on ether and stannic chloride,
   • An account of Moissan's work is given in ' Nature,' vol. xxxvii.
(1887-8); Moissan considers the potassium fluoride to be the electrolyte.

              Chemical Properties of Stannic Chloride.           489
cannot fail to be suggestive. At present it may be noted
that " where there exists an aptitude for directed decompo
sition," such as is involved in the above dynamical cone spue n,
and such as exists in the aqueous or alcoholic solution of
stannic chloride, there sulphuretted hydrogen at once precipi
tates stannic sulphide ; whereas between the dry sulphuretted
hydrogen and stannic chloride there is found only a small
quantity of addition compound (SnCl4 . 5H,S), which, when
agitated into a condition of instability by elevation of tempe
rature, gives the stannic sulphide observed by Dumas. This
influence of alcohol on stannic chloride and sulphuretted hy
drogen is typical of that of catalytic agents in general ; and
the explanation here suggested is of wide application. The
phenomena discovered by Prof. Dixon, to whom I am indebted
for a complete list of the published papers on the action of dry
substances, are of a parallel nature. He found that the com
bination of dry carbon monoxide and dry oxygen,
                          2CO + Os=2C02*,
occurs only in the path of the spark, but that when the gases
are moist the combination is explosive. Again, Dixon has
shown that, in the combustion of carbonic oxide and hydrogen,
the influence of the steam is not of a physical but of a che
mical nature f. The inactivity of dry hydrochloric acid and
dry oxygen, of dry hydrobromic acid and dry oxygen, and
their activity in the presence of water is of the same nature J
(Richardson). The observation, made by Pringsheim§, that
dry chlorine and dry hydrogen do not combine in sunlight,
but that the presence of a small quantity of water is sufficient
to determine their combination, is quite parallel. Baker has
proved that some dry solids are incombustible in dry oxygen,
though he finds that others are combustible ||.
    It cannot be maintained as a law of nature that no two pure
substances, AB, DO, combine ; either
                     (1) AB + DO=AB.DC,
                     (2) AB + DC=AD + BC,
possibly passing through the stage
                         AB.DC-AD + BC.
As an example of such a change, we have
                   SnCl4 + 5HaS = SnCl4 . 5HSS,
                   SnCl4 5H28 - SnS, + 4HC1 + 3HS8 ;
  * Phil. Trans. 1884.              t Journ. Chem. Soc. 1886, p. 94.
  I Journ. Chem. Soc. li. p. 8(W.   § Wied. Ann. xxxii. p. 384.
  || Phil. Trans. 1888, "A*'

 400      Mr. Pickering on the Theory of Osmotic Pressure
 but here, as in all the above cases, the catalytic agent, by
 producing a condition of dynamical equilibrium, greatly
 facilitates the change.
    Further instances of the precise similarity between the
 action of catalytic agents and of those substances which are
 capable of endowing nonconducting liquids with the power of
 conduction will doubtless be found, and further proof analo
 gous to those advanced here in the case of stannic chloride of
 the strict parallelism between the phenomena, of the birth of
 electrolytic power and of enhanced chemical activity, will
 trace these effects back to an identity of cause, the setting up
 of a condition of dynamical equilibrium.
   Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
 LVI. The Theory of Osmotic Pressure and its bearing on the
    Nature of Solutions. By Spencer Umfreville Pickering,
    M.A.*
 NO one can doubt the mathematical correctness of the
         conclusions which Arrhenius, van't HofF, Ostwald, and
 others draw from the premisses with which they start in their
arguments respecting osmotic pressure, nor can we doubt the
value of connecting numerous actions with one and the same
 cause, or that there are a large number of instances in which
 the observed facts are in substantial agreement with their
 conclusions. But we may, I think, legitimately doubt
 whether the premisses of the arguments are sound, whether
 the conclusions harmonize as well as they should with ex
 perimental data, whether the theory is more than a mathe
matical exercise, or more than a convenient working hypo
 thesis of a rough character, instead of being, as its supporters
 maintain, an hypothesis established so firmly that we may
 build upon it a physical theory of solution.
    The direct measurement of osmotic pressure has been made
in but a few cases, and those cases are ones in which the
substances examined are eminently unfitted for showing the
presence of any chemical action which may be present. Of
the phenomena correlated with osmotic pressure, the lowering
of the freezing-point of a solvent by the addition of foreign
substances is the one which has received the greatest atten
tion, thanks to Raoult's classical work, and is the one which
forms the main support of the theory.
   In examining the experimental facts the following ques
tions must be asked, and if the theory is correct they must be
answered in the affirmative.
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 7, 1890.

           and its bearing on the Nature of Solutions.       491
    (1) Is the molecular depression—using this term to mean
the lowering of the freezing-point produced by one foreign
molecule on 100 molecules (not parts by weight) of the solvent
—a constant, whatever the foreign substance is, provided
that the amount of the latter is not greater than that which
would give a pressure equal to that produced by it in the
gaseous state at the same temperature?
   (2) Are such deviations from regularity, as are observed
in exceptional cases, in the direction in which they should be
according to the theory ?
   (3) Ts the depression a constant whatever the solvent is?
    (4) Is the depression constant when the proportions of
the solvent and dissolved substance are varied within the
limits mentioned in (1) ?
   (5) When stronger solutions are taken, is the deviation
from regularity in the direction in which it should be
according to the theory ?
   (6) Is the deviation always in the same direction, and
always regular ?
   I believe that I can show that the answer to every one of
these questions is an unqualified No.
   The main facts of the case as elucidated by Raoult's work
are that, when various substances are dissolved in
                     Benzene,
                     Nitrol>enzene,
                     Ethylene dibromide,
                     Formic acid,
                 or Acetic acid,
the molecular depression is about 0°"63, though there are a
few substances in each case which give an abnormal depres
sion of about half this amount.
    With water the molecular depression is generally 2O-06,
but in many cases approximates to 20,61, values which
Raoult takes to be three and four times 0o-63 (l0-89 and
2°"52) respectively. Abnormally low values are in the same
proportion to the normal ones as with other solvents ; they
are about lo,03 (half of 2°*06), and are obtained with some
inorganic substances, and with the majority of organic sub
stances at present investigated.
    All these determinations apply to solutions containing about
 1 molecule to 100 molecules of the solvent, and are, therefore,
three or four times stronger than they should be in order to
be comparable with gases under ordinary conditions. We
shall have to decide whether the discrepancies which they

492       Mr. Pickering on the Theory of Osmotic Pressure
show are such as could be reasonably attributed to increasing
the pressure from one to three or four atmospheres.
        Influence of the Nature of the Dissolved Substance.
    The half values obtained in many cases are explained by
the duplication of molecules, owing to the solutions not being
sufficiently dilute ; that is, an additional pressure of two or
three atmospheres will cause the vapour-densities of hydro
chloric acid *, methyl, ethyl, amyl, and butyl alcohols f,
benzol, and many other substances to double themselves
(assuming that they retain their gaseous condition). This
may be so, but direct determinations cannot be, or have not
been, made.
    Leaving these abnormal values for the present, we find
that the normal ones exhibit the following variations:—
                                         Number of Variation in the value
                Solvent.                  instances   of the depression J.
                                        investigated.
                                              57           80 per cent.
                                               9           14 „
                                              41           12    „
                                              13            7    „
                                               5            2    „
   Water                                      59           60§   „
      „   (with organic substances) ...      29            40    „
   These variations appear somewhat too large to be attributed
to the fact that we are working at two or three more atmo
spheres of pressure than we should be.
    It is noticeable that the organic solvents, except acetic
acid, give comparatively constant results, but that, as soou as
we come to the inorganic solvent water (which we know shows
a much greater tendency to form "molecular" compounds
than the other liquids) , we get a much larger variation, and
the following values || will justify the assumption that when
other solvents of a similar nature are examined, still greater
variations will be observed.
   * Solvent, Acetic acid (Raoult, Ann. Chim. Phyt. [0] xi. p. 72, from
which paper this and other values quoted here are taken).
   t Solvents, Benzene, &c.
   X Percentage on the lowest value.
   § Omitting borax, where the value is exceptionally high.
   || Chem. Soc. Trans. 1890. The values selected refer to solutions of
the same strength as those used by liaoult. The result" with calcium
nitrate and chloride are as yet unpublished.

              and its bearing on the Nature of Solutions.                  493
                                                         Depres
            Solvent.            Dissolved substance.      sion*.    Variation*.
                              |                                      Per cent.
 Tetrahydrate of sulphuric | Water.                        008 1
       acid.                                                            100
          Do.                 1 Sulphuric acid.            004    1
 Monohydrate of sulphuric I Water,                         002
       acid.                                                      i     100
         Do.                    Sulphuric acid.            0-01
 Sulphuric acid.                Watnr.                     007 '        500
         Do.                    Sulphuric anhydride.       0-42 ]
 Hexahydrate of calcium Water.                             00031
       chloride.                                                        233
         Do.                    Anhyd. calc. chlor.        0010
 Tetrahydrate of calcium Water.                            0007
       nitrate.                                                         100
         Do.                    Anhyd. culc. nitrate.      0O15 J
   As an instance of a similar character we may quote
Heycock and Neville's determinations of the depression of
the freezing-point of sodium hy various metals t-
                Metal added.                Molec. depression.
                   Gold                              4-5
                   Thallium                         4-3
                   Mercury                           4-5
                   Cadmium                           3"0
                   Potassium                         3"6
                   Lithium                           1*3
                   Lead                              4'6
                   Indium                           3*5
   The variation here is 260 per cent.
   If such variations are not too great to be attributed to an
excess of two or three atmospheres' pressure (and I certainly
think they are), they are undoubtedly too great to permit of
a theory being founded on the assumption that they are
constant.
   It may be noted also that Heycock and Neville's deter
minations with indium, gold, and thallium extended to
solutions as dilute as the gases from these metals would be
(if their molecules are diatomic), and that even with these
" ideal " solutions the variation amounted to GO per cent. ;
had lithium and cadmium been similarly investigated we
should, no doubt, have found as great a variation as that quoted
above with the stronger solutions.
  » Most of these values are but approximations.
  t Chem. Soc. Trans. 1889, p. 007. The values refer to solutions con
taining as near as possible one atom of the foreign metal to 100 Na.

 4SM      Mr. Pickering on the Theory of Osmotic Pressure
       Direction of the Deviations with Dissolved Substances
                       which give Abnormal Values.
     The abnormally low values (i. e. half values) which some
 dissolved substances give are attributed, as has been men
 tioned, to the polymerization of their acting molecules, and
 the abnormally high values which some solvents give are, in
 the same way, attributed to a polymerization of the solvent
 molecules. This view is accepted by both the supporters
 and the opponents of the osmotic pressure theory.
     In the case of dissolved substances which give abnormally
 high values (?'. e. double values), the supporters of the theory
 hold that these substances are dissociated into their ions, and
 in this view their opponents cannot agree with them.
    The first point to settle, is whether there are any abnormally
 high values (given by dissolved substances), and it appears to
 me that there certainly are none.
    In the case of the five organic solvents examined, the
 substances giving the higher and lower values are in the
 proportion of 100 to 16, and here there can be (and is) no
 question as to which are the normal ones; even if in the case
 of water these proportions were reversed, it would be incon
 sistent to term the lower values the normal ones ; but the
 proportions are actually not reversed, the substances giving
high values being to those which give the lower ones in the
proportion of 100 to 76. I fail to see therefore what grounds
there are for saying that there are any abnormally high
 (double) values at all, or what need there is for calling in
 such a theory as that of dissociation into ions *.
    Indeed, there is a distinct difficulty, if not impossibility, in
calling the lower values (lo-03) the normal ones ; for the
normal value with other liquids is 0o,63, and the excess in the
case of water could only be explained by the water molecules
 being more complex than those of other liquids in the pro-
   * Van't Hoff's statement as to Raoult's position respecting the high
and low values of substances in water is certainly remarkable ; he says
(Phil. Mag. 1888, xxvi. p. 99), " Raoult did not discover the existence of
so-called normal [meaning small] molecular depression of freezing-point
and lowering of vapour-pressure until he investigated organic compounds ;
their behaviour is almost without exception regular." As a matter of
fact, Raoult investigated organic substances Jirst (Ann. Chim. Phy$.
1883 [51 xxviii. p. 133), and when he subsequently (ibid. 1884 [6] xi.
p. 81) found that inorganic substances gave higher values, he did not
hesitate to call these latter the normal ones.
   If we reverse the application of the word normal, we shall have to
admit that of the 150 substances examined in water, not one gave an
abnormally low value. A most improbable admission.

             and its bearing on tlie Mature of Solutions.            4!)5
portion of 1*03 to 0*63; in other words, that the water molecule
is 1£ H20, and that the atomic theory is wrong.
   The theory of dissociation into ions is, for many reasons,
inacceptable to most chemists, and its application to the
results at present under discussion affords, I think, some of
the strongest arguments against its acceptance.
   If the higher values in the case of water are due to dissocia
tion, we must conclude that all the stronger acids (e. g.
hydrochloric, sulphuric, and nitric acids) are nearly entirely
dissociated, whereas the weaker ones (e. g. hydrocyanic, sul
phurous, and boric acids) are not so ; and similar conclusions
must be drawn respecting the alkalies and salts. In fact, we
shall be driven to conclude that the more stable the compound
is the more easily is it dissociated, and that too by an agent,
water, which has, ex hypothesi, no action beyond the dilu
ting effect of its mass. Is it possible to maintain that sul
phurous acid exists intact in solution, while sulphuric acid,
which is formed from it and molecular oxygen, with the
evolution of 55,000 cal.*, and which must, therefore, be by
so much the stabler body of the two, is entirely dissociated ?
Is it possible to maintain that hydrochloric acid is entirely
dissociated at a pressure of three or four atmospheres when
 we know as a fact that it can exist undissociated at a pressure
of only one atmosphere t ?
   Indeed, it appears to me that if we acknowledge such a
dissociation we must deny the principle of the conservation
of energy. Thus, to take one instance out of many, the
molecules of Irydrogen and chlorine must } be formed from
their constituent atoms with a considerable development of
heat, say +#and +y cal. respectively, and they react with
each other to form 2HC1 with a further development of
44,000 cal. ; if this 2HC1, when dissolved in water, be entirely
dissociated into its atoms, it must absorb 44,000 + x+y cal.,
whereas, as a matter of fact, it evolves 34,630 cal. : hence there
has been a creation of (78,630 + x + y) cal. out of nothing,
   * If atomic oxygen were taken, ae it should be, the heat evolved would
be much greater.
   + In acetic acid hydrochloric acid is, according even to the supporters
of the theory, not only not dissociated into its ions, but even not dis
sociated into its fundamental molecules, it being present as 2HC1.
   X I think that we may say " must." If they were formed with absorp
tion of heat it would mean that the atoms repel each other, and such
atoms would, therefore, never combine. When we call a molecule endo-
thennic, we merely mean that it is formed from its constituent atoms
with a smaller development of heat than some other compound of the
same atoms, not that it is formed from these atoms with an absorption
of heat.

496     Mr. Pickering on the Theory of Osmotic Pressure
and that, too, through the agency of the water, which is as
sumed to have no action at all.
             Influence of the Nature of the Solvent.
   It is found that the nature of the solvent, instead of being
without influence on the results, as it should be according to
the osmotic-pressure theory, is one of the main factors in
determining them.
   Tims, for instance, sulphuric and hydrochloric acids give
the normal high values when dissolved in water, but solutions
of the same strength in acetic acid show the abnormal half-
values : formic and benzoic acids, methyl, ethyl, butyl, and
amyl alcohols, as well as phenol, all give normal depressions
with acetic acid, but abnormal ones with benzene. Many
other instances of a similar character may be selected from
Raoult's data, but none of them show the influence of the
nature of the solvent in such a forcible manner as the fol
lowing :—
                                                   Molec. Depress.
      H20 dissolved in 100 HaS04 . . .                 1-072
                        100 (H3S04H20) .               0-02
       „        „       100 (H2S04 4H20) .             0-08
       „        „       100 (CaCls 6HsO) .             0-003
                        100(Ca(NO8)24H2O)              0-007
                        100(CH3COOH) .                 0-55
The variation of this constant (?) calculated on the smallest
value amounts to 35,(300 per cent. Again,
     H,S04 dissolved in 100 H20                        2-15
       „        „         100 (H2S04H20) . .        .  0-01
                          100(H2SO44H3O) .          .  0-04
                „          100(CH3COOH) .           .  0-31
Extreme variation 21,400 per cent.     Similarly,
     CaCl2 dissolved in 100 H20                        2*773
       „        „        100 (CaCl2 6H20) .     .   .  0-010
Variation 27,600 per cent.; and
     Ca(NOs)2 dissolved in 100 H20 ....                2-50
       „          „           100Ca(NO3)24H2O.         0-015
Variation 16,600 per cent.

              and its bearing on the Nature of Solutions.            45)7
    Such numbers can certainly not be accepted as constants,
and the values are certainly largely dependent on the nature
of the solvent*.
    In the present instance the variation cannot always be
taken as a proof of the incorrectness of the osmotic-pressure
theory, for it may be perfectly legitimate to attribute it some
times to the various complexity of the molecules of the solvent.
But we cannot, however, do so in all cases, as for instance
that of formic &c. acids in benzene and acetic acid, where
the two solvents have been proved to act normally with
the majority of dissolved substances. Yet, in any case, the
absence of constancy means the absence of what would have
been a strong argument in favour of the theory, and this
absence must be felt all the more because there appears to be
no simple numerical relationship between the very different
values given above.
     Influence of Proportions taken wiih very Weak Solutions.
    My own recently published results (Chem. Soc. Trans. 1890,
p. 331) with sulphuric-acid solutions form, I believe, the only
series of determinations as yet made which would, from their
number and precision, be at all likely to settle whether the
molecular depression is really constant or not with very weak
solutions ; and the results here can leave little doubt but that
it is not so.
    Between 0 and 9 per cent, solutions the results are repre
sented by what would with rough determinations appear to be
a single line of typical straightness. The deviations from
straightness in regions below i per cent, (about 0*8 H2S04 to
 100 HjO) are less than 0°*02, and would, therefore, not have
been revealed by determinations such as have been made by
other investigators. From 4 per cent, to 0 the determinations
 (each being the mean of several observations) which I made
show mean error of 0o-0008 at most, and the number of points
determined is about 80 ; and the results obtained leave no
doubt but that the apparently straight line is really composed
of four distinct lines, three of which are straight, meeting at
 (generally) well marked angles at the percentages of TO,
0'35, and 0-07 respectively.
    The relative magnitude of these changes is best illustrated
 by drawing a straight line from the freezing-point of water
   * Combining the variations due to different solvents with those due to
different dissolved substances, we get a variation of 153,000 per cent.
 (4°-6 to 0°-003).

498        Mr. Pickering on the Theory of Osmotic Pressure
to that of a 2-5 per cent, solution (HaS04 to 200 HsO ; this
was selected merely because at this percentage the dia
gram attains the highest relative point) and plotting out the
deviations of the observed freezing-points from this line.
The accompanying figure illustrates the result. The deviation
   Deviation of the Freezing-points of weak solutions of Sulphuric Acid
                              from regularity.
Deviation.
 0-02
                                ¦i             ;)
                               Per oent HjSO,.
from straightncss amounts to at least 20 times the mean
experimental error, and 28 per cent, of the total depression.
Even if we draw our straight line from a solution of 0'44
(•08 H2S04 to 100 H30) per cent, strength—in which the
sulphuric acid would be as much expanded as it would when
a gas at ordinary pressures—the aberration, at 0"7 per cent.,
amounts to 0°008, or 20 per cent, of the total depression.
   The molecular depression calculated from these results,
together with others obtained with stronger solutions, are given
in the following table:—

              and its bearing on the Nature of Solutions.                 499
 Depression of the Freezing-point of Water produced by the
                    addition of Sulphuric Acid.
  Per cent Hj.SO*     Mols. H-S04 to            F.-P.           Molecular
                         100 tt.0.                             depression.
       0-068              0-0125             - 0 0369              2-95*
       03618              0 0667             - 0-1580              2-37
       0-44               0-O811             - 0 1874              231
       1057               01961              - 0-4214              215
       2-500              0-4708             - 0-9825              209
       4 021              0-7692             - 1-600               208
       6 000               11855             - 2-520               215
       8 585               1-724             - 3-456               2O0
      18-492              4-167              -11-83                2-84
      29-526               7-692             -34 00                3-74
      37 701             11111               -72-63                6-54
   The depression with solutions weaker than H2S04 to 100
H30 varies between 2o-08and 20,95, 42 per cent., and even be
tween 0'44 and 0 per cent, it varies from 2°-31 to 20,95,
a variation of 28 per cent., numbers which can give no grounds
whatever for the statement that the depression, even with these
very weak solutions, is independent of the strength.
   The only other determinations which, so far as I know,
exist with solutions containing less than one dissolved mole
cule to 100 of the solvent, are those of Heycock and Neville
{loc. sup. cit.) with certain alloys. Selections from those
series which were most fully investigated supply the following
data :—
        Solvent          Dissolved substance.        Molecular depression.
                                                               0
         100 Na                0114 Au                       545
                               0-296 „                       4-74
           n                   0-966 „                       464
                               0 097 Cd                      392
           n                   0-391 „                       3-71
           it                  0-648 „                       317t
   • With still weaker solutions the molecular depression is somewhat
greater: with a 0005 per cent, solution (-0009 H?S04 to 100HsO) the
value found was 3°'4, but the total depression here is so small that I have
not included it or similar values in the table.
   t With thallium, mercury, sodium, and indium, the depression was
more constant, but the data were less complete.

500               On tlie Theory of Osmotic Pressure.
    Direction of the Deviations from Constancy with Stronger
                                   Solutions.
    According to the theory of osmotic pressure the propor
 tionality between pressure (lowering of freezing-point) and
 amount of substance dissolved will hold good, as nas been re
 marked, only for very weak solutions. With stronger solutions
 the dissolved molecules will be brought within the sphere of
 each other's attraction and will, therefore, exert an abnormally
 small pressure ; that is, they will lower the freezing-point of
 the solvent to an abnormally small extent*.
    But in every case at present known exactly the reverse is
the case. Stronger solutions exhibit an abnormally large
depression, and the freezing-points fall at an increasing instead
of a diminishing rate. The table given above illustrates to
what extent this takes place in the case .of solutions of sul
phuric acid in water, the molecular depression increasing
from 2o,08 to 60-54 (213 per cent.), and the examination of
six other curves from the sulphuric-acid series, and two of a
series with calcium nitrate, supplies us with eight other in
stances of a similar character. The results may be summarized
thus :—
       Solvent.        Dissolved subetance. Molec. depression.       Increase.
                                                 o        o
  100 HaSO.               1 to 33 H,0           1-072 to 1-253        17 percent.
  100 H,SO,               1 to 5-8 SO,          0422 to 0-634         50 .,
  100(11,80,11,0)         1 to 50 H,0           0-02 to 0-31       1,450 „
  100(H,SO,H O)           1 to 50 H3SO,         0 01 to 0197       1,870 „
  100(11.80,411,0)        1 to 400 H,Ot         0 078 to 0-108        39 „
  100(It:sO44H,O)         5 to 00 H SO,J        0 27 to 0 42          55 „
  10O(Ca(NO3),4H,O)       1 to 150 H.,0         0-007 to 0326    45,600
  100(Ca(XO3)44II„O)      1 to 33Ca(N03).,      0-015 to 0-17!)  11,000 „
    It is true that these results have only recently been placed
at the disposal of the supporters of the osmotic-pressure
theory, but it is otherwise with the following values in the case
of alcohol (Raoult, Compt. Rend. xc. p. 863) and calcium
chloride (Hammerl, Wien. Sitzmigsber. Ixxviii. p. 59) §: —
   * The same will hold good if we attribute dissolution to the balancing
of the physical attractions of (1) solvent for solvent molecules, (2) dissolved
for dissolved molecules, and (3) solvent for dissolved molecules. The
stronger the solution the greater will be (2), and, consequently, the less
will (1^ be counterbalanced.
   t \Vith (K)HaO the depression is 0° 007, so that it first decreases and
then increases.
   t With 1 mol. HjSOj it is 0°-40.
   § In each case I give the values 08 determined from my own results,
but these are in good accord with those referred to above.

       Mercury-stillfor the Rapid Distillation of Mercury.             501
       Solvent.    Dissolved substance. Molec. depression.    Increase.
  100 HaO             1 to 7 CaOl,        2773 to 6-9       150 per cent.
  100 (CaCLOELO)      1 to 800 H,0        0003 to 0099     3200
  100H3O              1 to 13 02HaO       111 to 118           6     „
    The increase in the case of alcohol is small, but still there
is an increase, and not a decrease ; while in the case of water
in the hydrate of calcium chloride the increase is almost the
greatest at present known.
        Irregularity of the Deviations with Weak Solutions.
    That the deviations from constancy are not regular, and are
not even always in the same direction, will be seen on referring
to the results with sulphuric acid dissolved in water (p. 499) ;
the depression in the freezing-point of the tetrahydrate, both
by water and sulphuric acid, supplying two other instances of
a similar character.
    Since every fact which can be used to test whether the theory
of osmotic pressure is a true explanation of the nature and
behaviour of solutions, either fails to give any evidence in its
favour, or else gives evidence directly opposed to it—evidence,
often, of the strongest possible character—this theory can
certainly not yet be regarded as established.
LVII. A Mercury-still for the Rapid Distillation of Mercury
    in a Vacuum. By Fbederick J. Smith, M.A., Millard
    Lecturer in Mechanics and Physics, Trinity College, Oxford* .
 WHEN mercury is distilled in a vacuum, in the usual
            apparatus, a large portion of it when vaporized, on
reaching the internal domed surface of the bulb in which the
operation is conducted, forms itself into minute spheres, which
grow heavy and run down the inside of the bulb ; and only a
small quantity of the metal finds its way into the central tube,
from which it is caught for use.
    The advantage of the new form of vacuum mercury-still, of
 which I venture to give an account, is that all the mercury,
 which condenses in the head of the bulb, is prevented by its
 shape from returning to the mercury from which it has been
 separated by heat. This is not the case in the mercury-still
of Weinhold, or Clark, or in those stills in which only the
 mercury which collects in the eduction-tube is caught, as in
                    • Communicated by the Author.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 181. June 1890.                2 Q

502     Mercury-stillfor the Rapid Distillation of Mercury.
the beautiful new form of apparatus, devised by Messrs.
 Dunstan and Dymond, for the purification of small quantities
of mercury (supra, p. 367). In the former of these instru
ments, some portion of the mercury-vapour condenses on
the surface of the bulb and then falls back to the mass
of mercury from which it has just been separated. The
mercury-still which is described in the following lines has
been constructed with a view to obtain a more rapid yield of
pure mercury than stills of this class have hitherto been
capable of producing. The yield of mercury from the new
form of still is about four times as great as that from one of
the old pattern, the consumption of gas in each case being the
same. The construction and method of using the still are as
follows :—B K is a bulb and tube about 34 inches long, sup
ported on a stand not shown ; the bulb has a ring-shaped
channel, C C, round its upper end ; into this channel a piece
of " Sprengel " tube, D, is fused. This is furnished with two
                                   K
                                            K
                                         1-5
                                        Hj    Ql
taps of glass, E and F ; E is in connexion with a water-jet
pump, F is terminated with a piece of bent tube. A is a
cistern for holding the mercury which is to be distilled. H is
a ring of gas-jets.

       Distribution of Flow in a Strained Elastic Solid.        503
   The method of using the still is as follows;—The tap E
is opened, F is closed ; a water-pump then exhausts the whole
system, and the mercury to be acted on rises from the cis
tern A. The cistern being large and shallow, only a slight
change takes place in the height of the mercury in the bulb,
when the level of the mercury in the cistern changes. While
the pump is exhausting the ring of gas-jets is lit, and in
about ten minutes, in the case of the still in our laboratory,
the mercury fills the tube D, any metal which comes over
being caught in the bulb Gr. The tap B is then closed and
F opened ; the still then continues to work by virtue of the
vacuum formed by its own mercury. It has been found
necessary to place a gas-regulator on the pipe which supplies
the jets, as the change of pressure in the gas-mains is consi
derable. An automatic arrangement, depending for its action
upon the height of the mercury in the cistern, shuts off the
gas when the surface of the mercury falls below a certain
point. In using stills of this class the mercury before distil
lation should be carefully freed from moisture, as a minute
quantity of water will often cause a fracture in the heated tube
or bulb.
 LVIII. On the Distribution ofFlow in a Strained Elastic Solid.
   By Charles A. Cartjs-Wilson, B.A., A.M.I.C.E., De
   monstrator in the Mechanical Laboratory at the Royal Indian
   Engineering College, Coopers Hill9.
 IF a metal bar of uniform section throughout its length be
      subjected to uniform longitudinal stress, the elements of
 the bar will become distorted ; if the strain should exceed the
 limit of elasticity the distortion will be partly permanent.
    In consequence of the straining of the elements, every ele
 ment will experience a displacement relative to three fixed
 axes in the bar ; say ox parallel to the length of the bar, oy
 parallel to one side, and o z parallel to a second side, both o z
 and oy being at right angles to ox: such displacement is
 generally spoken of as " flow."
    It is clear that if the metal be homogeneous, the stress
 uniform, and the section at right angles to the axis every
 where the same, an element will experience a displacement at
 right angles to the planes xoz, yoz proportional to its distance
 from these planes ; since such displacement depends on the
 straining of the elements between it and these planes. Hence
 a bar with its sides originally parallel to ox will remain so
     * Communicated by the Phvsical Society : read May 2, 1890.
                              2Q2

504        Mr. C. A. Carus- Wilson on the Distribution
after a certain amount of flow has taken place, and lines
drawn on the sides respectively at right angles to and parallel
to o x will remain so, since the displacement parallel to o x will
be proportional to the distance from the plane y o t.
   The question I propose to discuss is how to determine the
distribution of flow when the section at right angles bo ox
varies in any way as we pass along o x.
   I will for simplicity consider a plate in which the thickness
parallel to oy is considerable compared with the thickness
parallel to oz, and I will consider the displacements in the
plane xoy.
   We may take a plate in which there is a gradual reduction
of section, in which there is what is commonly called a
" shoulder," as in fig. 2.
   It is required to determine the displacements in the plane
of the paper—the plane xoy: in other words, supposing the
plate covered with a series of lines parallel to oi and to oy
respectively, it is required to determine the curvature of these
lines due to flow.
   The distortion of the elements is caused by the shearing-
strain induced in the bar when subjected to longitudinal stress.
Since this shearing-strain is a maximum at 45 to the axis o a
of the bar, it will be convenient to consider the bar divided
                               Fig.l.
                                  o
                                a/
                       y     /
                                           \ s
                                          /cf
                       p \          //
                           \   >^ /
                             \ y c //
                           A 'c
into a number of small elements with sides making angles of
45° to the axis o x. Every such element as a b c d (fig. 1) will

                 ofFlow in a Strained Elastic Solid.                505
be subject to a shearing-strain of amount *- ; i. e. the angle
bad will be diminished by an amount"^, where p is the inten
sity of the shearing-strain on the element, and n is the
coefficient of rigidity of the metal. The effect of this shearing-
strain on the element may be described as a rotation of a d
through an angle tlf and of a b through an angle s3, where
jj + «s= £; «j and s3 may be equal, when the displacement of
c will be wholly parallel to ox; or they may be unequal,
when c will have a displacement parallel to o x and a resolved
displacement parallel to oy, which will be + ve or — ve accord
ing as si is less than or greater than s3, and which will be a
maximum if either sr or s3=0.
   The value of sx + s3, and the ratio of sY to s2 for any element,
appears to be determined by the following considerations.
If a side a b of the element be produced in both directions so
as to cut the sides of the bar, there is seen to be a tendency
of that part of the bar below this line to slide over that part
which is above. Assuming the resulting shearing-strain to
be uniform over the length ij of this oblique section, the
shearing-strain at any element in this direction, t. e. $1} will
clearly be inversely proportional to li ; s3 will also be inversely
proportional to l3, where l3 is the length of an oblique section
parallel to a d, and      + s3 will be proportional to ^ *—say
to —
    suppose, now, we take a series of elements, ax&iCxd,—
a3b3c3d3 touching one another and lying across the bar. If
we imagine the points ax, a3, a3, &c. fixed on a line parallel to
o y, it is clear that the displacements of c1; c2, c3, &c. will be pro-
fortional to the sum of the shearing-strains in each element,
  f sl + s3 is the same for each element, and «i = *2, the points
Ci,c2, c3, &c. will remain on a line parallel to oy. If, however,
Si + s3 becomes greater as we approach the middle, and less
again towards the further side, the points cu c3, cs, &c. will
be found on a line concave upwards ; if «j + s2 diminishes
towards the centre these points will lie on a line concave
downwards. If the strains should exceed the limit of elasticity
the line through c„ c3, c3, &c. will be permanently curved.
    If the points a1} Oj, a3, . . . , instead of being in one straight
line have unequal downward displacements, the form of the
curves obtained as above may be modified.
    If, now, we consider a series of consecutive elements,
a, Ci di—ax b3 c2 d3, lying in a line parallel to o x, if «j=s2 for

506        Mr. C. A. Carus-Wilson on the Distribution
each element, the points c„ c2, c3, &c. will continue to lie on
a line parallel io ox, since the displacement of each of these
points, due to the distortion of the corresponding element, is
parallel to ox. But if as we descend from the first element
we find *! becoming greater than 82, the points c2, c3, &c. will
have a displacement to the left which increases as we descend,
so the line passing through c„ c,, c8, &c. will be bent ; and if
the shearing-strains become equal again on the lowest element,
this line will be concave to the right.
     It thus appears that any                  Fig. 2.
horizontal line will be curved
concave downwards if the sum
of «] + «2 is greater at the end
 of the fine than in the centre,
 and vice versa, but that the line
will remain straight if Sy + s2 is
 constant along its length, and
 *i = *8-
    Also that a vertical line will
 remain so if s, is everywhere
 equal to s2 ; but if «i is > st,
 the line will be curved and
 concave towards the right, and
vice versd.
    We can now proceed to de
 termine the curvature of the
 lines in the case before us.
    Commencing at the upper
 extremity of the bar, fig. 2, a
 line such as ab will remain
 straight, because p is every
 where constant, and l^ = l-2.
 The line cdef will be curved
 concave downwards, since from
 c to d and from e to/ p is less
 than it is from d to e (where it
 is constant and /! = /,); d e will
 therefore remain straight, and
 cd and ef curved as shown.
 The line g h i will be concave
 downwards and curved along
 its entire length, since p gets
 less as we move away from h
 on both sides.
     The line j k I m n will
  remain straight from _;' to k,
  since p is there constant and lx — l% 5 from h to I p becomes

                 of Flow in a Strained Elastic Solid.                 507
less and greater again from
I to m, k I m is therefore con
cave upwards ; this line is
straight from m to n, since p
is constant and lt — l?.
    The line o p q is curved
concave upwards throughout
the entire length, since p di
minishes from o to p and in
creases from p to q.
   The line rst will be concave
downwards, since p diminishes
from r to s and increases from
$ to t.
    The line w v will remain
straight, since p is constant
and <] = 2g.
    To turn now to the curva
ture of the vortical lines. If
we consider one of these as
wxyz, from w to d /i = /s, at
xl3 is <Zj, while at xf li = l3
again, so that from d to x' this
line will be curved in convex
towards o x. Again, at y l3 is
 < li, and at z = l2, therefore
of y z is also curved in convex
towards o x.
    It would appear then that
the horizontal lines will have
three distinct changes of cur
vature, while the vertical lines
will be pinched in above and below the shoulder.
    To test the accuracy of these conclusions, I prepared a
copper bar as shown in the following way. The sides and
faces were very carefully planed and polished, and on one
 face I inscribed a series of vertical and horizontal lines in a
 lathe. I then strained the bar so as to produce a considerable
permanent set. An impression was then taken from the bar,
which is reproduced in fig. 3 *.
    By placing the eye very nearly in the plane of the paper
and looking along the lines, the curvatures can be seen to
follow very closely those sketched on fig. 2. I would specially
draw attention to the partial curvature of such lines as cdef
and jklm n.
   * The diagonal lines in fig. 8 were ruled on the impression to serve as
lines of reference.

                            [  508    ]
LIX. On Sensitive Galvanometers. By R. Threlfall, M.A.,
       Professor of Physics, University of Sydney, N.S.W.
   To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
      Gentlemen,
THOUGH I expect the matter will have been almost for
        gotten when this reaches England, I still desire, if
possible, to meet some of the criticisms which have been
levelled at me by Professor Gray in the Philosophical Maga
zine for February 1890, and by Professor Ayrton at the
Physical Society on January 17th. Of Professor Ayrton's
criticisms I have only as yet seen a report in ' Nature ' for
January 30, but since they appear in the main to coincide
with Professor Gray's as nearly as I canjudge, I will endeavour
to reply to both at once.
    In the first place, then, I must of course plead guilty to
having made a mistake in arithmetic (to my shame be it said),
and must express my thanks to Professors Ayrton and Gray
for pointing it out. It now appears that instead of my success
with the Gray galvanometer being a thousand times less than
Professor Gray s, it is only about a hundred times less as
compared with the performance in 1884, and three times less
as compared with his results in 1889. As the matter is one
which purely depends on instrument-making and experiment
ing, I can only say that I am very glad to find myself approach
so nearly to Professor Gray. With respect to the much graver
and more important charge that I have overestimated the per
formance of another type of galvanometer, I can only say that
the mistake rests entirely with iny critics, though very likely
through my own fault in endeavouring to achieve conciseness
of statement. That the galvanometer described did actually
attain the sensitiveness quoted, viz. 5 divisions to 10~" ampere
of current, a fresh reference to my notebook amply proves.
Neither in my paper on " The Measurement of High Specific
Resistances," nor in the following one on the Specific Resist
ance of an Impure sample of Sulphur, have I given any data
 from which this value was computed. How, then, can Pro
fessors Ayrton and Gray have concluded that I was in error ?
 Professor Ayrton, as I imagine, and certainly Professor Gray,
 have obtained their data from the resistance-measurements
 quoted ; but it is purely gratuitous on their part to assume
 that these were the data used by me, and as a matter of fact
 they were not. In writing the paper, which pretended to be
 an account of an absolute measurement, 1 gave the maximum
 sensitiveness reached by the galvanometer in order to show
that I had a good margin in the actual experiments, and was

          Prof. R. Threlfall on Sensitive Galvanometers.      509
not using the galvanometer at its limit of sensitiveness. Surely
it is not necessary to remind such well-known experimentalists
as my critics that an absolute measurement depending on the
indications of an instrument at its extreme sensitiveness are
always liable to objection. I find in fact from my notebook
that the sensitiveness mentioned having been obtained, it was
reduced (by lowering the control magnets) to meet the
requirements of the work in hand. The resistance of the
sulphur turned out to be much less than I had anticipated,
for I had got three hundred and sixty small storage-batteries
ready for the work, as well as some forty Clark-cells; so I
reduced the number of cells and the sensitiveness of the galva
nometer in what appeared to me at the time as the most
advantageous manner. On reading the paper, however, I see
that I was not so explicit (for the sake of brevity) as I might
have been. I welcome a discussion on sensitive galvano
meters, however, though it has been raised somewhat at my
own expense, because I believe that the galvanometer-method
has several advantages over the electrometer-method in high-
resistance measurements. To this, however, I will not now
refer, but will instead make some further remarks anent sen
sitive galvanometers.
    My friend Mr. Boys, at the Physical Society some time
 ago, said that my quartz fibres were too long and thick.
 Well, that is a matter of opinion. I used the finest fibres
 that I could manipulate ; and as I saw that I could handle a
 yard of them almost as well as an inch, I did not see why I
 should not reap the advantage of length. I saw Mr. Boys's
 fibres, and I do not think that he mounts much finer ones than
 I do, though as it is purely a matter of manipulatory skill I
 daresay Mr. Boys can mount finer fibres than I can. If I
 can persuade Mr. Gray to use quartz instead of silk as a
 means of suspension, I am sure he will live to bless me.
 While I am on this subject I will add, that if Professor Gray
 will reread my paper he will find he has been unjust to me in
 stating that I must have used the galvanometer near the limit
 of sensitiveness as the zero was " always on the move." He
 will find that the whole sentence runs thus : — " It is practi
 cally impossible to get a galvanometer of this degree of sen
 sitiveness to work with a silk fibre, the zero being always
 on the move." Since I gave this as one reason for having
 adopted quartz, Professor Gray will, I think, see that his
 argument, in so far as it depends on the galvanometer being
 at its limit of sensitiveness, is baseless, and that his stricture
 is unmerited.
     With respect to quartz fibres, I may say that I am forward
 ing a paper on this subject to you ; but meanwhile I desire to

510       Prof. R. Threlfall on Sensitive Galvanometers.
state here that I have gone back to Mr. Boys's method of pre
paring the quartz, which (as might have been expected) is much
better than mine. I wonder how many people have any real
idea of what a sensitiveness of" five divisions to 10-u ampere"
really means. From the glibness with which we talk of sensi
tiveness, I fancy the conception has not generally been really
grasped. Let me give an illustration. We all look on the
eye as perhaps our most sensitive organ. In the Philosophical
Magazine for January 1889 is a paper by Professor Langley,
in which an estimate is made of the minimum rate of expen
diture of energy (by radiation) which can affect the eye. The
estimates are of course rough and not very concordant, and
there is some obscurity arising from the hoary-headed diffi
culty of distinguishing between work and rate of working.
However, it follows from the data given, that an expenditure
of work at the rate of 2-6 x 10~a C.G.S. per second will affect
the eye so as to produce vision when the light has a wave
length nearly that of the line A; while an expenditure at the
rate of 2*6 x 10-" (or 5-7 x 10~18 from another part of the
paper) will produce the same effect if the light is green.
Now the galvanometer I described had a resistance of nearly
16,000 ohms; and since 10~" ampere produced a deflexion of
five divisions, we may say that we could detect a current of
10-'2 ampere (giving a deflexion of half a division). In this
case a simple calculation (without arithmetical error) shows
that the galvanometer absorbed work at a rate of about
1*6 xlO-9 ergs per second. Consequently the sensitiveness
of the galvanometer may be said to stand half way between
that of the eye for crimson and green light respectively.
   I never intended to institute a comparison hetween Prof.
Gray's form of galvanometer and the Thomson form : what I
wanted was to get a workable instrument as easily as possible,
and I found the Thomson form most easily manageable.
Though the Gray form may be workable at the hands of such
exceptionally skilful manipulators as its inventors, I do not
think that for the ordinary run of experimentalists it is to be
compared with the older form, and I certainly do not pin any
faith to silk fibres a few inches long. Though, as Professor
Gray remarks, his form of galvanometer possesses " solid
advantages," as it certainly does, still it possesses also solid
disadvantages, and these will, 1 think, in the long run be
found to predominate.
                      I am, Gentlemen,
                                Yours obediently,
  University of Sydney, N.S.W.,          Richard Thkblfall.
          March 7, 1890.

                              [  511    ]
            LX. Considerations on Permanent Magnetism.
                         By M. F. Osmond*.
  IRON possesses at least two molecular states, a and 0. a is
      soft iron, that is iron which has been annealed and cooled
  slowly. It changes into |3 during heating, at a certain critical
  temperature, and in part preserves this state during cooling,
  the more so the quicker the cooling and the larger the pro
  portion of carbon, manganese, and tungsten that it contains.
  Some /3 iron is also produced during cold hammering. Iron
  deposited electrically is also of the /3 variety.
     A bar of steel, allowance being made for the carburets
  and other compounds simply in mixture, can then be looked
  upon as an intimate mixture of a iron and j3 iron in rela
  tive proportions, which can change from point to point but
  are determinate at any point. That being so, let us con
  sider /3 as forming in a steel bar a porous framework, not
  changing under the influence of currents and of magnets.
  On the other hand, let us look upon a as composed of particles
  polarizable under such influences. (The actual mobility of
  such particles, admitted by Hughes, appears from the sounds
  and changes of volume which take place during magneti-
• zation.) The particles a so polarized will form so many small
  elementary magnets, which the magnetizing force has dis
  placed from their former normal position of equilibrium, and
  which tend to take up this position again so soon as the ex
  ternal force ceases to act.
     But in presence of the rigid network of iron /3 these po
  larized particles a are conceived as catching in the pores of
  the /3 structure, and immovable in this position, thus resulting
  in a permanent magnet. The temporary magnetism and the
  permanent magnetism determined by the action of a certain
  magnetizing force at a point of a bar will be therefore a func
  tion of the relation -j at this point.
     As an attempt to represent these ideas graphically, let
  there be a square, OAXY, of which the side represents 100
  parts. Every line m n parallel to the axis of Y meeting in p
  the diagonal OA represents a steel containing y^of iron »,
        of iron £.
     At saturation the temporary magnetism, or rather the sum
       • Communicated by the Physical Society : read April 18, 1890.

 512             M. F. Osmond's Considerations
of the polarized particles, will be exactly equal to the whole
                                                       100
of the iron », i. e. to mp. » varying from 0 to jqq> the
 temporary magnetism will be represented by the diagonal 0 A.
                Y                               A.
                                       /       f
                                    X X/ t//
                                   XS      //
                                XX      //
                             </«¦
                                 y
                                              \
                 0          "l                 -X.
   As to the permanent magnetism, in regarding it as the
relative number of particles of a which remain polarized after
the cessation of the magnetizing force, it will be a fraction of
mp, all the greater as -g is smaller for the steel under consi
deration. In other words, the polarized particles a will be '
more immovable the closer the network /S.
   Under the supposition that the quantity mr of the particles
a which remain polarized after the interruption of the
magnetizing force (that is to say, the permanent magnetism
as defined) is proportional to the percentage of iron /S, r^£,
we can write
K being a numerical coefficient equal to or less than unity.
   Since
                     mp = mO = Xf
                     np= 100— mp= 100 -mO,
                        = 100-.r,
                               „ 100 -x
   Accordingly the permanent magnetism is represented by a
 portion of a parabola whose axis is parallel to that of Y. It

                     on Permanent Magnetism.                  513
vanishes for a=0, 0 = 0 (as could be foreseen from the
properties of the irons a and /3, which have served as the
grounds of the argument), and is a maximum for a=/3.
   The number of the particles capable of remaining polarized
after the interruption of the magnetizing force will at most
form a quarter of the whole mass of the iron.
    If the magnetizing force be too feeble to produce saturation,
the lines OA, OrlL will take up a position indicated ap
proximately by the dotted lines.
   These considerations agree fairly well with many observed
facts.
    Thus all causes which tend to open, even temporarily or
only in certain directions, the network of the iron /3 (expan
sion, shocks, vibrations) set at liberty some of the polarized
particles of a, and diminish the permanent magnetism.
    The greater the proportion of /3 iron the more difficult
becomes the polarization of a, in the diminished pores, and
the greater must the magnetizing force be to produce satura
tion.
    When the proportion of carbon or of manganese is so
great that the whole of the iron on quenching or even without
this takes up the state /3, a substance will result which is
 incapable of taking up magnetism ; for example Spiegel-iron
containing 25 per cent, of manganese and upwards, and Had-
field's steel. Since hardening takes place more energetically
 at the surface than in the interior of a bar, the relation -^ will
 always be smaller there. The permanent magnetism remain
ing after saturation will therefore be stronger at the surface
 if a > (3, which is the common case. It would be more feeble
 if/3>a.
    Magnets formed of laminaj are in general more powerful
 than those of the same volume in a single piece, because
 the laminae are more hardened. But the contrary should be
 the case with metals in too hard a condition.
     It is difficult after a bar has been magnetized to saturation
 in one direction to bring it to a moment of the same value in
 an opposite direction, because certain particles of the a metal
 being held immovably cannot be displaced, &c.
     The iron /8 can also be looked upon as a medium whose vis
 cosity increases as its percentage in the mixture is greater.
     We can compare these ideas with the experiment of
  Hughes, who has obtained permanent magnets by mixing
 iron filings and wax and melting the latter, which in setting
 held fixed the polarized portions of iron.

                              [   514    ]
                LXI. Notices respecting New Books.
 Chemical and Physical Studies in the Melamorphism of Rocks, based
   on a Thesis (with Appendices) written for the Doctorate in Science
    in the University of London. By A. Ikying, DJSc, B.A., F.GJS.
    8vo. 138 pages. Longmans & Co., London.
T> OCK-METAMOEPH1SM, considered from the chemical and
-'-*' physical side, introduces the subject, which, after a definition
of " metamorphisui," as here meaning " only changes in the internal
structure of rock-masses," is divided into three divisions—paramor-
phistn, metatropy, and metataxis. The first refers to atomic, that
is chemical, changes ; the second to molecular, that is physical,
 changes ; and the third to mechanical conditions. In one case the
process is, as it were, the dissociation of a molecule into atoms ; in
the next, the breaking up of a solid into a liquid and then into a
gas, the cohesion of the mass being gradually overcome until it
becomes divided into molecules ; in the third case, we have molar
division, by pressure, percussion, or grinding. Such a change in a
rock as is due to the introduction of a new, or the removal of an
old mineral, and referred by many to metamorphism, is here
separately noticed as hyperphoric change.
    I. Paramorphism, or mineral change, divides itself into— 1.
Primary paramorphism (Genesis of Bocks), which leads to the
recognition of a universal glowing magma at an early stage of the
Earth's Evolution :—2. Secondary paramorphism, brought about by
 the action of saline (marine) waters in producing secondary
 minerals, derived from the primary minerals of the rock and not
 altering the composition of the rock when tried by bulk-analysis.
 Examples referred to are separation-products in slates and shales,
 —siliceous cements in volcanic tuffs and sarsen stones,—calcite in
 some igneous rocks,—quartz in the quartz-porphyries of Bozen,—
 facts published by Judd, Allport, Bonney, Becker, and others.
    II. Metatropy is denned and illustrated. The conversion of
 coal into anthracite and graphite, with a slight change in chemical
 composition, may be metatropic ; the formation of palagonite and
 hvdrotachylite from the glass of basalts by hydration,—the change
 of anhydrite into gypsum, of arragonite into calcite by dry heat,
 and of calcite into arragonite by solution and heat,—the results
 of contact metamorphism by heat, as some grauwackes and shales
 into hornstone and porcellanite,—of coal into coke,—sandstone
 into quartzite,— and limestone into marble, are metatropic. Poly
 morphism is included in metatropy ; and this variation of crys
 talline form is broughtabout by:— 1. Temperature, as with carbonate
 of lime ; 2. Molecular water, as with native hydrates of alumina
 and in some silicates of copper ; 3. An accessory mineral, as » ith
 carbonate of lime tainted with some carbonates of the alkaline
 earths ; and here the author suggests that these may have the
 rhombic system of arragonite rather than the hexagonal for their

                   Notices respecting New Books.                   515
normal crystalline system ; he refers also to the concretions in the
Magnesian Limestone of Durham.
   The vitrification and devitrification of rock (e.<j. obsidian and
tachylite) belong to metatropy. Sulphur and phosphorus, each
being allotropic, are taken in illustration, as also arsenious oxide,
metaphosphoric acid, silica, borax, and calcium fluoride. The
author states that with regard to devitrification the following in
ductions seem to be warranted :—1. The vitreous state of a body
represents a more primitive and simple molecular structure, with a
corresponding low degree of stability. 2. There is a latent heat of
vitrification, the loss of this being accompanied by the building up
of more highly complex and more stable molecules, with a tendency
to assume a crystalline form. 3. In some cases hydration or de
hydration, as the case may be, appears to be a factor in the process
of devitrification.
   The behaviour of artificial glasses under various conditions is
next considered with respect to devitrification, also the behaviour
of flint under certain conditions.
   Viewing the relative densities of the different allotropic forms
of the same mineral, the author states that, as the maximum
density and stability of molecular structure is identified with the
crystalline form, pressure, by way of compression, is favourable to
crystallization. Pressure crushing a rock may allow freer access
and circulation of water with minerals in solution, and so prepare
the way for paramorphic changes, but cannot induce direct meta
tropic change—therefore, continues the author, mere deformation
of rocks by pressure may have had too much attributed to it as a
factor in metamorphism.
    The passage of minerals through this solid-liquid " critical state "
(t. «. the state in which they were neither solid nor liquid), us
 exemplified by certain flattened masses of quartz, is illustrated
 with facts observed by the author and others. The access of water
 to rocks along their junction-planes is noted, and the consequent
decomposition of such rocks, which, if subsequently compressed in
 deep earth-movements, might present appearances considered to be
 characteristic of " regional metamorphism." Hence the author
 remarks that sometimes the further inference is drawn—" that the
 Archaean schists, &c., may be only instances on a grander scale of
 such transitional development."
    III. Metataxis. 1. Cleavage is first considered, with critical
 observations on the theories of Mr. Harker and Mr. 0. Fisher ;
 with the latter our author does not agree. Lateral pressure, con
 tinued after folding and faulting have been effected, is the ac
 knowledged cause of cleavage, but the author does not regard the
 accessory crystalline minerals on the cleavage-planes of many slates
 as the result of paramorphic changes induced by the pressure.
    2. Crumpling and gnarling of the folia of some gneisses
 and schists ; and 3. The Foliation of schists are briefly noted.
 4. Metataxic work by solar and lunar tides in a primeval condition of
 the globe is suggested, thus "the feeble foliation of the fundamental

516                Notices respecting New Books.
 Gneiss " may have been associated with " the earliest solar tidal
waves, and the more pronounced foliation of the Archaean schists
with the subsequent lunar tidal waves of the magma." ....
" Then as now the tidal action would vary (within much wider
limits, however) with the relative positions of the Sun, the Earth,
and the Moon, the maximum effect being produced when the
Moon was in 'meridian.' Ffaff (Alyem. Oeol. als. ex. Wiss. p. 188 et
seq.) has discussed the action of tidal movements in the magma
upon the earliest rind of the Earth, initiating the first permanent
inequalities upon its surface. If the Archaean schists (taken as a
whole) represent this first-formed rind, their materials as they
accumulated by precipitation from the lieavy atmosphere being bathed
through and through with HaO in a highly superheated condition,
we seem to have at once an explanation both of the frequent
recurrence of gneiss (in a subordinate degree) among the schists as
a result of tidal movements, and of those lithological characters by
which they have misled the Neptunists into regarding them ' as
sediments.' " The author takes his favourite subject of glacier-
ice as an example of the several results of the physical forces act
ing on such a magma.
   IV. Hyperphoric change is illustrated by dolomitization, some
amygdaloids, some masses of rock-salt, and the production of
selenite from pyrites in fossiliferous clays.
   V. Contact-metamorphism, combining paramorphic, metatropic,
metataxic, and hyperphoric changes, is treated in stages — 1. Direct
effects of heat and pressure. 2. Effects of the circulation of
superheated water between the intrusive mass and the adjacent
rocks. 3. Changes following upon the cooling of the igneous
intrusive mass.
   The General Eemarks treat of the meaning and application of
several words relating to metamorphism and metaphoric rocks,—
such words and applications as the author would or would not
approve of ; also of Archaean, Cambrian, and some other old rock-
stages. In his Conclusions he insists on the complex nature of
metamorphism, and the different processes by which the results
are effected ;—on the incomplete explanation hitherto given of
" regional metamorphism ;"—that " uniformitarianism" really ought
only to apply to the fact of the Earth having always been subject
to the same universal laws as the other cosmical bodies ; —and that
the mass of the Earth and its Atmosphere has remained the same
from the beginning. He accepts the theory that there was a
pre-oceanie stage, and that the Archaean gneisses and schists were
essentially diayenetic, rather than metamorphic ; and warns us that
" such phrases as ' the highly metamorphised Archaean gneisses and
schists ' must be relegated to an obsolete nomenclature of geological
science." The author winds up his Conclusions by stating that
" as the mists and clouds thus diperee, our intellectual vision begins
to descry a boundary to geohyic time, and the physical geologist
begins to feel that over this question he can join, hands with the
astronomer and the natural philosopher."

                    Notices respecting New Books.                  517
    In the Appendices is presented a large mass of chemical notes,
and of collected and original information bearing on the multi
farious subject-matters of the foregoing pages.
    This is a remarkable book, full to overflowing with carefully
collected notes on every kind of metamorphosed rock, and results
of personal research. The author's happy acquaintance with
German literature has been utilized by him in getting every avail
able German idea on metamorphism into his Essay ; and indeed
this is a valuable and praiseworthy feature, certainly bringing us
nearer to our Continental brethren ; for, though in micropetrology
they are quoted often, yet in the broader field of rock-changes and
the theories thereto belonging, their views, though known to those
interested therein, have not been brought together so closely before.
French and British geologists have not, it seems, helped the author
 much. With regard to the latter, some here and there get very
 " bad marks " indeed ; he readily runs them down, and among
 their wreckage he floats high and disdainful. Indeed his egotism
 is very distasteful, and not least so when he quotes small observa
 tions made by himself in the field, as if no one else, not even the
 tyro and the amateur, had seen the common thing and been told of
 its evident lesson again and again ; for instance, the selenite in clay
 near Grantham, &c.
     The American Geologists he treats respectfully ; and indeed he
 expresses regret at not having known more of Mr. T. Macfarlane,
 some of whose views, as well as some published by Dr. S. T. Hunt,
 he now finds that he has inadvertently taken as his own.
     In this Essay, of course, we meet with many facts and ideas
 already well known to both teachers and students ; but certainly
 some are put aside as insecure, and some are authenticated and
 more clearly defined than heretofore. This is work in the right
  dh'ection, and our thanks are due to the industrious, and indeed
 enthusiastic, author, who has brought his chemical and physical
 knowledge to bear on the advancement of Geology, by the elucida
  tion of the Earth's development, according to the views and theories
  that seem best to him after an earnest and conscientious study of
  rocks and rock-changes.
     If the Second Edition be called for, and well it might, the
  author should, if possible, be less dogmatic, and endeavour to
  make himself less prominent in the language and style of the
  book ;—he should incorporate his more important notes as far as
  possible in the text, and above all make a good Index of both
  names and things,—for this would be very valuable for reference
  to the many good facts and notions in the book, and to the
  observers and authors who have treated of them.
      Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 29. No. 181. June 1890.            2 R

                               [   518   ]
         LXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  THE RADIANT ENERGY OF THE STANDARD CANDLE ; MASS OF
                   METEORS. BY C. C. HUTCHINS.
THE following investigation was undertaken with the primary
      object of finding, if possible, more trustworthy data for deter
mining the mass of shooting-stars ; but a reliable determination of
the radiation of the standard candle cannot fail to be of value for
other purposes.
    The apparatus employed in making the measurements was my
thermograph*, the constant of which was found in the two follow
ing ways.
    First method.—A copper Leslie cube, holding about 3 kilog. of
water, was placed behind an opening of 16 square centim. in a
wooden screen, which opening was closed by a movable shutter, by
opening which the thermograph, one metre distant, could be
exposed to the radiation from the cube.
    The following quantities were then determined :—dimensions of
cube; weight of water contained in cube ; water-equivalent of cube ;
mean of the galvanometer-deflexions taken during the interval that
the cube and its contents were falling 5° from a temperature about
 65° above that of the air ; time in seconds occupied by the cube in
 falling the 5° as above.
    Knowing these quantities, we can evidently compute in ergs per
 second the radiant energy passing through the square centimetre
 of surface containing the thermal junction, and such that it will
 produce a deflexion of one division of the galvanometer-scale. A
 number of trials showed that 16-9 ergs per second was the quantity
 required.
     Second method.—The constant was found by passing the rays of
 the sun through openings of 0-394 and 0-23 centim. diameter, and
 observing the galvanometer-deflexions when the thermograph was
 exposed in the divergent beam at a point where the diameter of the
 beam was 4*2 centim., and then computing the deflexion for the
 undiminished sunlight. Simultaneously with the above measures
 the radiation of the sun was observed with Pouillet's pyrheliometer.
     The mean of several sets of measures by this method gave the
 constant 17'02 ; agreeing better than could have been expected
  with the results of the first method. The candle employed was
 the ordinary sperm candle, six to the pound. It burned in still
 air, without snuffing, 7*37 grm. per hour. The radiation of the
  candle was measured by placing it behind the screen in place of the
 cube employed in finding the instrumental constant, the exposures
 being made in the same manner as for the cube. The deflexion
 given varied very much with the length of the wick of the candle,
 constantly increasing for a half hour or more after lighting. It
 therefore was necessary to observe the deflexion at what was con-
                    • Proc. American Academy, 1889.

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            519
sidered to be an average condition of the candle-flame, that is about
fifteen minutes after lighting, when a deflexion of 75 scale-divisions
was obtained.
   This number, multiplied by the constant previously found, gives
the radiant energy which from the candle passes through each
square centimetre of a surface everywhere one metre from the
candle, provided we assume that the candle radiates equally in
every direction. To find the total radiant energy, we must, as a
first step, know the area of cross section of the candle-flame in a
plane perpendicular to the direction of the flame to the opening of
the thermograph. To learn this, an image of the flame was pro
jected upon 400 square centim. of paper, taking care to have the
projecting lens midway between the candle and paper. It was
then easy to trace about the image of the flame with a pen ; and
this having been done ten times upon the same sheet, the whole
sheet was weighed, and then the tracings cut from it and also
weighed. In this manner the section of the candle-flame was found
equal to 1-308 square centim.
   We now have the whole radiant energy of the candle,
       e= 4t x lOO*——              , „o x„ 10s
                      x 75 x 17 = 1-23      , A8 ergs per second.,
                   1'oUo
   To find what portion of this total energy lies in the visible spec
trum could be satisfactorily accomplished only by measures made
in every part of the spectrum of the candle. Such measures have
been made by Langley* in the spectrum of an argand gas-lamp
 with a glass chimney. He finds 2-4 per cent, of the total radiant
energy to be visible. It is easy to compare the candle with such a
 lamp. At a certain distance from the thermograph an argand
 lamp, whose light was that of ten candles, gave a deflexion of 238
 scale-divisions. When the lamp was replaced by the candle the
 deflexion was 29. Hence we see that very nearly 2 per cent, of
 the radiant energy of the candle is visible ; or the visible part is
 2-46 x 10" ergs per second ; about 10-9 ft.-lbs. per minute.
    We may now proceed to find the mass of a meteor, first upon
 the supposition that its rays have the same ratio of visible to total
 energy as have those of the candle, and later correct, if possible,
 the value thus found.
    Let the meteor at a distance of 50 miles have a light equal to
 that of Vega; let it continue for 2 seconds with a velocity of
 25 miles per second. From the best data we find that if the
 meteor were at 1 metre distance, the log of its candle-power would
 be 3-9851. Hence to find the energy e, we have :—
                 log candle-power                    3-9851
                 log energy of candle                8-0899
                 log 2                               0-3010
                           loge                     12-3760
                         * Science, vol. i. p. 482.

520           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
"We have for the mass, m =        ; and employing the data assumed
above we find m= 0-2936 grm.
   If the meteor in burning produce, for a given expenditure of
energy, more light than does the candle, then a less mass than the
one found would serve to produce the light given by the meteor.
From what has been observed of the spectra of meteors, it is safe
to conclude that their light is mainly due to incandescent vapours
of the materials composing the meteors. It is also known that the
spectra of these substances remain unchanged throughout very
considerable changes of temperature, and we may therefore be
permitted to draw conclusions from laboratory experiments upon
these substances in the state of vapour.
   A lump of the Emmett Co., Iowa, iron meteorite was placed
upon the lower carbon of an arc-lamp and vaporized by the passage
of the current. The light given by the meteor-vapour was found,
on the average, equal to that of 40 candles. The galvanometer-
deflexion by the meteor at a certain distance from the thermo
graph was 223*2 scale-divisions. At the same distance the candle
gave a deflexion of 55-4 divisions. From this we see that, for a
given expenditure of energy, the arc of meteor- vapour gives ten
times the light of the candle. Dividing the value of m obtained
above by 10, we have m= 0*029 grm. for the mass of a meteor
giving the light of a star of the first magnitude, moving with nearly
the parabolic velocity and lasting for two seconds.—American
Journal of Science, May 1890.
OBSERVATIONS ON ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY IN THE TROPICS.
                            BY F. EXNER.
   In order to investigate the relations of atmospheric electricity to
the moisture of the air within certain limits, the author has made
observations of the fall of atmospheric potential in countries with
high relative moisture, particularly in the Indian Ocean between
Aden and Bombay, in Bombay itself, and in Ceylon both on the
coast and in the interior. The measurements were made with the
well-known transportable apparatus invented by the author. The
present paper contains only the total material of observation in
tables, which comprise the date and hour of the observation, the
temperature, absolute and relative moisture, the fall of potential,
and meteorological observations. The discussion of the conclusions
to be drawn from these numbers is reserved for a second paper.
It need only be mentioned that all the values of the fall of potential
were positive. Near the coast the finely-divided spray arising
from the breaking of the waves exerted an increased action on the
fall of potential. On the other hand, measurements made in the
course of this journey in Cairo and the vicinity showed that there
the dust of the air exerted a lessening influence on the fall of
potential, which with a strong wind was so marked that the sign
of the fall of potential became negative.— Wiener Berichte, xcviii.
p. 1004 (1889) ; Beibldtter der Physik, xiv. p. 144.

                                   [   521 ]
                   INDEX to VOL. XXIX.
              on the non-existence of     Cams-Wilson (C. A.) on the be
  density in the elemental, 467.             haviour of steel under mechanical
Air, on a method of determining              stress, 200 ; on the distribution of
  moisture and carbonic acid in, 300 ;       flow in a strained elastic solid,
  on electrical vibrations in rarefied,      503.
  without electrodes, 875; on the         Chemical action and electrolytic con
  oscillations of periodically heated,       duction, on the problems of, 383,
  452.                                       480.
Atmosphere, on the vibrations of an,             reactions, on the inert space in,
  173.                                       216.
Atmospheric electricity in the Tro               research, on a new method and
   pics, on, 520.                            department of, 401.
Barns (C.) on the pressure-variations     Chronograph, on a new form of elec
  of certain high-temperature boil           tric, 377.
  ing-points, 141 ; on the change of      Clouds, on diffraction-colours with
   the order of absolute viscosity en        special reference to iridescent, 167.
  countered on passing from fluid to      Coldridge (W.) on the electrical and
  solid, 337.                                chemical properties of stannic
Bells, on, 1.                                chloride, 383, 480.
Bidwell (S.) on the electrification of    Cole (G. A. J.) on the variolitic
  a steam-jet, 158 ; on the magneti         rocks of Mont-Genevre, 286.
  zation of iron in strong fields, 440.   Contact-forces, on the measurement
Bishop's ring, on the nature of, 171.       of electromotive, of metals in dif
Boiling-points, on the pressure-            ferent gases by means of the ultra
  variations of certain high-tempe          violet rays, 291.
  rature, 141.                            Coronas, on diffraction-colours with
Bonney (Prof.T. G.)on the crystalline        reference to, 167.
  schists of the Lepontine Alps, 284.     Corpi (F. M.) on the catastrophe of
Books, new:—Fisher's Physics of              Kantzorik, Armenia, 133.
  the Earth's Crust, 211 ; Transac        Current, on the time-integral of a
  tions of the Edinburgh Geological          transient electro-magnetically in
  Society, Vol. VI. Part 1, 372;             duced, 276.
   Chrystal's Algebra, Part II, 449 ;     Currents, experiment to prove the
   Irving's Chemical and Physical           existence of the direct and inverse
   Studies in the Metamorphism of           extra, 216.
   Rocks, 514.                            Curves, on plotting, by the aid of
Brown (J.) on dropping-mercury               photography, 180.
   electrodes, 376.                       Daguenet (C.) : experiment to prove
Calorimeter, on a new form of               the existence of the direct and
   mixing, 247.                              inverse extra-currents, 216.
Candle, on the radiant energy of the      Diffraction-colours with reference to
  standard, 618.                             corona) and iridescent clouds. 167.
Carbonic acid in air, on a method of      Diffusion, on evaporation and solu
   determining, 306.                         tion as processes of, 139.
Carnelley (Dr. T.) on an algebraic        Dissociation in gases, on the kinetic
  expression of the periodic law of          theory of, 18.
   the chemical elements, 97.             Dubois (H. E. J. G.) on Kerr's mag-

522                                 INDEX.
   neto-optic phenomenon, 263; on         Flux (A. W.) on the form of New
   magnetization in strong fields at         ton's rings, 217.
   different temperatures, 293.           Fog-bows, on the theory of, 453.
Dunstan (Prof. W. R.) on an appa          Galvanometers, on sensitive, 208, 508.
   ratus for the distillation of mercury  Gases, on the kinetic theory of dis
   in a vacuum, 367.                         sociation in, 18 ; on electrifications
Dymond (T. S.) on an apparatus for           due to the contact of, with liquids,
   the distillation of mercury in a          56, 292; on the disruptive dis
   vacuum, 367.                              charge of electricity through, 162 ;
Electric chronograph, on a new form          on the resistance of? to the current
   of, 377.                                  and to electrical discharges, 214 ;
       current, on transient, produced       on the passage ofelectricity through
   by twisting magnetized iron and           hot, 358, 441.
   nickel wires, 123 ; on the direction   Geitel (Prof.) on the formation of
   of the induced, by twist when             ozone by the contact of air with
   under longitudinal magnetizing            ignited platinum, and on the elec
   force, 132; on the resistance of          trical conductivity of air ozonized
   hydrogen and other gases to the,          by phosphorus, 376.
   214.                                   Geological Society, proceedings of
       radiation meter, on a new, 54.        the, 133, 280.
Electrical measuring-instruments, on      Gerard (Prof. E.) on plotting curves
   the shape of movable coils used           by the aid of photography, 180.
   in, 434.                               Glaciation of the valleys of the
       oscillations in straight conduc       Jhelam and Sind rivers, on the, 135.
   tors, on, 450.                         Glass, on the alteration in, produced
       resistance of iron, on the effect     by small variations of temperature,
   of repeated heating and cooling           289.
   on the, 77.                            Gore (Dr. G.) on a new method and
 Electricity, on the disruptive dis          department of chemical research,
    charge of, through gases, 182 ; on       401.
   the passage of, through hot gases,     Gray (Prof. A.) on sensitive galva
    358, 441 ; on atmospheric, in the        nometers, 208.
   Tropics, 520.                          Gray (Prof. T.) on the effect of per
 Electrification of r steam-jet, on the,      manent elongation on the cross
    158.                                      section of hard-drawn wires, 355.
 Electrifications due to the contact of   Gregory (J. W.) on the variolitic
    gases with liquids, on, 56, 292.         rocks of Mont-Genevre, 286.
 Electrodes, on the theory of drop-       Gregory (W. G.) on a new electric
    ing-mercury, 376, 479.                   radiation-meter, 54.
 Electrolytic conduction and chemical     Haldane (Dr. J. S.) on a method of
    action, on the problems of, 383, 480.     determining moisture and carbonic
 Electromagnetic waves, on the acce           acid in air, 306.
    leration of secondary, 268.            Hydrogen, on the resistance of, to
 Elements, on an algebraic expression         the current and to electrical dis
    of the periodic law of the chemical,      charges, 214.
    97 ; on the structure of the line-     Hutchins (C. C.) on the radiant
    spectra of the chemical, 331.             energy of the standard candle, and
 Elster (Prof.) on the formation of           on the mass of meteors, 518.
    ozone by the contact of air with       Iron, on the effect of repeated heat
    ignited platinum, and on the elec         ing and cooling on the electrical
    trical conductivity of air ozonized       resistance of, 77 ; on the magneti
    by phosphorus, 376.                       zation of, in strong fields, 440;
 Enngnt (J.) on electrifications due          on the Villari critical point of, 394.
    to the contact ofgases with liquids,         wires, on transient electric cur
    50.                                       rent produced by twisting mag
  Exner (F.) on atmospheric electricity       netized, 123 ; on the direction of
    in the Tropics, 520.                      the induced current in, 132.

                                   INDEX.                                    523
Judd (Prof. J. W.) on the propylites    Newton's rings, on the form of, 217.
  of the Western Isles of Scotland,     Nickel, on the Villari critical point
  287.                                    of, 394.
Karsten (Prof. H.) on the geological          wires, on transient electric cur
  age of the mountains of Santa           rent produced by twisting mag
  Marta, 168.                             netized, 123; on the direction of
Kerr's magneto-optic phenomenon,          the induced current in, 132.
  on, 253.                                     and tungsten alloys, on the
Langley (S. P.) on the temperature        magnetism of, 136.
  of the moon, 31.                      Osmond (M. F.) on permanent mag
Liebreich (O.) on the inert space in      netism, 611.
  chemical reactions, 21C.              Osmotic pressure, on the theory of,
Liquid, on two pulsating spheres in       490.
  a, 113.                               Ostwald (Prof. W.) on the theory of
Liquids, on electrifications due to the   dropping electrodes, 479.
  contact of gases with, 66, 292.       Ozone, on the formation of, by the
Lodge (Prof. O. J.) on electrifica        contact of air with ignited pla
  tions due to the contact of gases       tinum, and on the electrical con
  with liquids, 292.                      ductivity of air ozonized by phos
McConnel (J. C.) on diffraction-          phorus, 376.
  colours with special reference to     Pembrey (M. S.) on a method of de
  coronas and iridescent clouds, 167 ;    termining moisture and carbonic
  on the theory of fog-bows, 453.         acid in air, 306.
Magnetism, on permanent, 511.           Periodic law of the chemical ele
Magnetization in strong fields at dif      ments, on an approximate expres
  ferent temperatures, on, 293, 440.      sion of the, 97.
Magneto - optic phenomenon, on          Perry (Prof. J. ) on twisted strips, 244.
   Kerr's, 253.                         Photography, on plotting curves by
Manganese steel, magneto-optic ex         the aid of, 180.
   amination of, 304.                   Pickering (S. U.) on a new form of
Margules (Dr.) on the oscillations of      mixing-calorimeter, 247; on the
   periodically heated air, 462.           alteration in glass produced by
Mather (T.) on the shape of movable        small variations of temperature,
   coils used in electrical measuring-     289; on the theory of osmotic
   instruments, 434.                       pressure and its bearing on the
Media, on texture in, 467.                 nature of solutions, 427, 490.
Mees (Prof. C. L.) on the effect of     Prestwich (Prof. J.) on the Westle-
   permanent elongation on the cross       ton beds of Norfolk and Suffolk,
   section of hard-drawn wires, 355.       280.
Mercury, on an apparatus for the dis    Propylites of the Western Isles of
   tillation of, 367, 501.                 Scotland, on the, 287.
       electrodes, note on dropping-,   Puluj (Dr. J.) on a telethermometer,
   376, 479.                               291.
Metallic vapours, on the conductivity   Pumps, on the application of hy
   of, 441.                                draulic power to mercurial, 138.
Meteors, on the mass of, 618.           Quate-nions, on the importance of,
Moon, on the temperature of the, 31.       in physics, 84.
Morgan (Prof. C. LI.) on the Pebi-      Radiation meter, on a new electric, 64.
   dian of St. Davids, 282.             Rayleigh (Lord) on bells, 1 ; on the
Moser (J.) on electrical vibrations in     vibrations of an atmosphere, 173.
   rarefied air without electrodes,     Righi (Prof. A.) on the measurement
   375.                                    of electromotive contact-forces of
Nagaoka (H.) on transient electric        metals in different gases by the
   current produced by twisting mag       ultra-violet rays, 291.
   netized iron and nickel wires, 123.  Range (Prof. C.) on coincidences
Natanson (L.) on the kinetic theory       between the lines of different
   of dissociation in gases, 18.          spectra, 462.

524                                 INDEX.
Rydberg (Dr. J. R.) on the structure        Thomson (Sir W.) on the direction
   of the line-spectra of the chemical         of the induced longitudinal current
   elements, 331.                              in iron and nickel wires by twist
Santa Marta, on the geological age             when under longitudinal magne
    of the mountains of, 103.                  tizing force, 132 j on the time-in
Schuster (A.) on the disruptive dis            tegral of a transient electromag-
    charge of electricity through gases,       netically induced current, 276.
    182.                                    Threlfall (Prof. R.) on sensitive gal
Selby (A. L.) on two pulsating                 vanometers, 508.
    spheres in a liquid, 113.               Tomlinson (H.) on the effect of re
Sheldon (S.) on the magnetism of               peated heating and cooling on the
    nickel and tungsten alloys, 130.           electrical resistance of iron, 77 ; on
 Smith (Rev. F. J.) on the applica             the Villari critical points of nickel
    tion of hydraulic power to mer             and iron, 304.
    curial pumps, 138 ; on a new form       Torsion and detorsion of metal wires,
    of electric chronograph, 377 ; on a        on the changes of temperature re
    mercury-still for the rapid distilla       sulting from the, 140.
    tion of mercury in a vacuum, 501.       Trouton (F. T.) on the acceleration of
 Solid, on the distribution of flow in          secondary electromagnetic waves,
    a strained elastic, 603.                    268. _
 Solutions, on the nature of, 427, 400.     Trowbridge (J.) on the magnetism of
 Spark, on the heat developed in the,           nickel and tungsten alloys, 136.
    214.                                    Tungsten and mckel alloys, on the
 Spectra, on the structure of the line-,        magnetism of, 136.
    of the chemical elements, 331 ; on      Vibrations of an atmosphere, on the,
    lval and accidental coincidences            173.
    between the lines of different, 402.            on electrical, in straight con
 Spheres in a liquid, on two pulsating,         ductors, 373 ; in rarefied air with
     113.                                       out electrodes, 375.
 Stannic chloride, on the electrical and     Villari (E.) on the resistance of hy
     chemical properties of, 383, 480.          drogen and other gases to the
 Steam-jet, on the electrification of a,        current and to electrical discharges,
     108.                                       and on the heat developed in the
 Steel under mechanical stress, on the          spark, 214.
     behaviour of, 200.                      Villari critical points of nickel and
 Stefan (Prof. J.) on evaporation and           iron, on the, 394.
     so'ution as processes of diffusion,     Viscosity, on the change of the order
     130 ; on electrical vibrations in          of absolute, encountered on passing
     straight conductors, 373, 450.             from fluid to solid, 337.
  Stifle (Oapt. A. W.) on the glacia-        Wassmuth (Dr. A.) on the changes
     tion of the valleys of the Jhelam          of temperature resulting from the
     and Sind rivers, 135.                      torsion and detorsion of metal
  Stoney (G. J.) on texture in media,            wires, 140.
     and on the non-existence of density      Wires, on the changes of temperature
     in the elemental sther, 467.               resulting from the torsion and de
  Strips, behaviour of twisted, 244.            torsion of metal, 140; on the effect
  Tait (Prof.) on the importance of             of permanent elongation on the
     quaternions in physics, 84.                 cross section of hard-drawn, 355.
  Telethennometer, on a, 201 .                Worth (R. N.) on the igneous con
  Thomson (Prof. J. J.) on the passage          stituents of the Triassic breccias
      of electricity through hot gases,         andconglomeratesofS. Devon, 134.
     358, 441.
                  END OF THE TWENTY-NINTH VOLUME.
              Printed by Tayi.uk and Frakcis, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street.

         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                                     AND
             JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
A JOURNAL DEYOTED TO PHYSICS. ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. Qd.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
       on hand— price on application.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.    Trice £2 4s.
  The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.        „ .£6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.       „ £25.
        Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
THE ANNALS AND MAGAZINE
                                       OF
        NATURAL HISTORY,
                                 ' INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. M.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices:—
    The  First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.     Price £10.
    Tho  Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.      „   £10.
    The  Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.       „   £12,
    The  Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.      „   £12.
        Taylor and Francis, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street.

                    CONTENTS of N° 181. -Fifth Series.
           LI. The Theory of Fog-Bows. By James C. McConxel, M.A.
        Fellow oh' Clare College, Cambridge. (Plate X.)                       ¦paije 453
           L1I. On a Method of Discriminating Real from Accidental
        Coincidences between the Lines of Different Spectra. By C.
        Runge, Professor of Mathematics at the technische Hoehschule,
        Hanover                                                                       AW2
           LUI. On Texture in Media, and on the Non-existence of Density
        in the Elemental iEther. By G. JonxsxoxE Stojtet, a Vice-
        President of the Royal Dublin Society, B.A., D.Sc, F.K.S                     4i>7
           LTV. On the Theory of Dropping Electrodes. —Reply to Mr.
        Brown. By Prof. W. Ostwald                                                   -l~U
          LV. On the Electrical and Chemical Properties of Stannic
        Chloride; together with the Bearing of the Results therein obtained
        oo the Problems of Electrolytic Conduction and Chemical Action.—
        Part II. Theoretical Considerations. By Ward Coldmdue, B.A.,
        Scholar of Emmanuel College, Cambridge                                       480
          LVI. The Theory of Osmotic Pressure and its bearing on the
       Nature of Solutions. By Spencer Umeeeville Pickeeixg, M.A. . 4UU
          LV1I. A Mercury-still for the Rapid Distillation of Mercury in
        a Vacuum. By Feeueiuck J. Smith, M.A., Millard Lecturer in
        Mechanics and Physics, Trinity College, Oxford                               501
          LVIII. On the Distribution of Flow in a Strained Elastic Solid.
        By Charles A. Cares-Wilson, B.A., A.M.I.C.E., Demonstrator
        in the Mechanical Laboratory at the Royal Indian Engineering
        College, Coopers Hill                                                        50;i
           LIX. On Sensitive Galvanometers. By R. Tuhelfale, M.A.,
        Professor of Physics, University of Sydney, N.S.W                             608
           LX. Considerations on Permanent Magnetism.                  By M. F.
        Osmond                                                                       511
           LXI. Notices respecting New Books : —Dr. A. Ib vino's Chemical
        and Physical Studies in the Metamorphism of Rocks                             514
           LXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
             The Radiant Energy of the Standard Caudle ; Mass of Meteors,
                by C. 0. Hutchins                                                    518
             Observations on Atmospheric Electricity in the Tropics, by
                F. Exner                                                             630
             Index                                                                    52 1
                With Titlepage, Contents, &c.
        %• It ia requested that all Communications for this Work niuy he addressed,
               port-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Otlice, Bed
               Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.
para
Liouoia

L
r
:
:
¦
.
I



"N
'IAN 131892
            MAR27*63H
\V 5 1899

Ps
