This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


   ALDERMAN LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
 CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA





                                      THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                      MAGAZINE
                                       AND
       JOURNAL                        OF         SCIENCE.
                                  CONDUCTED BY
                 LORD KELVIN, LL.D. P.R.S. &c.
GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
    WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
    " Nec aranearuin sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunl, nec noster
vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Pottt. lib. i. cap. 1. Not
                  VOL. XXXV.—FIFTH SERIES.
                        JANUARY—JUNE 1893.
                                 LONDON:
    TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
SOLD BY BI1IPKIX, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT, AND CO., LD.J WI1ITTAKER AND CO. ;
      AND BY ADAH AND CHARLES BLACK ;—T. AND T. CLARK, EDINBURGH ;
         SMITH AND SON, GLASGOW;—HODGES, FIGGIS, AND CO., DUBLIN;
                 PUTNAM, NEW YORE;-- VEUVE J. BOYVEAU, PARIS;—
                            AND A8HEB AND CO., BERLIN.

   " Meditationis est perscrutari occulta ; contemplationis est admirari
perspicua .... Admiratio generat qusestioneni, qusestio investigationem,
investigatio inventionem."—Hugo de S. Victore.
                 " Cur spirent venti, cur terra dehiscat,
             Cur mare turgescat, pelago cur tantus auiaror,
             Cur caput obscura Phoebus ferrugine condat,
             Quid toties diros cogat flagrare cometas,
             Quid pariat nubes, veniant cur fulmina ccelo,
             Quo micet igne Iris, superos quis conciat orbes
             Tarn vario motu."
                                                 J. B. Pinetti ad Mazonium.
                             ALEKE 9  1 FLAMMAM.

           CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.
                       (FIFTH SERIES).
              NUMBER CCXIL—JANUARY 1893.
                                                             Page
Prof. R. Threlfall on the Electrical Properties of Pure Sub
   stances.—Part I. The Preparation of Pure Nitrogen and
   attempts to Condense it. (Plate I.)                          1
Messrs. Heinrich Rubens and Benj. W. Snow on the Refrac
   tion of Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-salt, Sylvite,
   and Fluorite. (Plate II.)                                   35
Mr. Walter -Baily on the Construction of a Colour Map ....    46
Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Mountain-Sickness ; and Power
   and Endurance                                               47
Dr. William Pole: Further Data on Colour-blindness.—
   No. Ill                                                    52
Prof. F. Y. Edgeworth on a New Method of treating Corre
   lated Averages                                             63
Mr. Fernando Sanford on a necessarv Modification of Ohm's
   Law. (Plate III.)                 '                        65
Messrs. Rimington and Wythe Smith on Experiments in
   Electric and Magnetic Fields, Constant and Varying.
  (Plate IV.)                                                 68
Notices respecting New Books :—
     Mr. J. C. Sawer's Odorographia                           73
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      Prof. M. E. Wadsworth on the Geology of the Iron,
        Gold, and Copper Districts of Michigan                74
     Mr. H. M. Becher on the Gold-quartz Deposits of
        Pahang (Malay Peninsula)                              75
     Mr. F. D. Power on the Pambula Gold-deposits             76
An Electrolytic Theory of Dielectrics, by A. P. Chattock . .  76
On a Chemical Actinometer, by II. Rigollot                    77
On the Attraction of two Plates separated by a Dielectric,
  by M. Julien Lefevre                                        78
Investigation of the Properties of Amorphous Boron, by
  II. Moissan                                                 80

IV           CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.     HFTH 8ER1E8.
                NUMBER CCXIIL—FEBRUARY.
                                                                Page
Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light                       81
 Dr. G. Gore on the Relation of Volta Electromotive Force to
   Pressure Ac                                                    97
 B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy                                 113
 Mr. S. U. Pickering on the Diffusion of Substances in
   Solution                                                      127
 Prof. J. G. MacGregor on Contact-Action and the Conserva
   tion of Energy                         ••.                   134
 Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton's Experiments with High
   Frequency Electric Discharges                                142
 Notices respecting New Books :—
      Mr. J. F. Blake's Annals of British Geology, 1891         145
 Proceedings of the Geological Seciety :—
      Prof. E. Hull's Outline of the Geological Features of
         Arabia Petraea and Palestine                           146
      Rev. A. Irving on the Base of the Keuper Formation in
         Devon                                                   147
      Mr. J. H. Cooke on the Marls and Clays of the Maltese
         Islands                                                 148
      Prof. T. G. Bonney on the Nufenen-Stock (Lepontine
         Alps)                                                  148
      Prof. T. G. Bonney on some Schistose " Greenstones "
         and allied Hornblendic Schists from the Pennine Alps,
         as illustrative of the Effects of Pressure-Metamor-
         phism                                                  149
      Prof. T. G. Bonney on a Secondary Development of
         Biotite and of Hornblende in Crystalline Schists from
         the Binnenthal                                         150
      Mr. J. H. Collins's Geological Notes on the Bridgewater
       • District in Eastern Ontario          ;                 150
 Visible Representation of the Equipotential Lines in Plates
   traversed by Currents ; explanation of Hall's Phenomenon,
   by E. Lommel                                                 151
 On the Action of Light upon Electrical Discharges in various
    Gases, by F. Breissig                                       151
 Notice of a Meteoric Stone seen to fall at Bath, South Dakota,
    by A. E. Foote                                               152
                    NUMBER CCXIV.—MARCH.
 Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the Equilibrium of Vis Viva.—
    Part III                                                     153
 Mr. Carl Barus on the Fusion Constants of Igneous Rock.—
    Part II. The Contraction of Molten Igneous Rock on Passing
   from Liquid to Solid. (Plate V.)                              173
 Dr. J. R. Rydberg on a certain Asymmetry in Prof. Rowland's
    Concave Gratings                                             190

            CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.      FIFTH SERIES.                V
                                                                  Page
Mr. E. C. C. Baly on the Separation and Striation of Karefied
   Gases under the Influence of the Electric Discharge            200
Dr. J. H. Gladstone on some Eecent Determinations of
   Molecular Eefraction and Dispersion                            204
Mr. Frederick J. Smith on High Besistances used in con
   nexion with the D'Arsonval Galvanometer                        210
Mr. William Sutherland on the Laws of Molecular Force . .          211
Mr. Carl Barus on the Fusion Constants of Igneous Bock.—
   Part III. The Thermal Capacity of Igneous Bock, con
   sidered in its Bearing on the Belation of Melting-point to
   Pressure. (Plate VI.)                                           296
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Mr. P. Alexander's Treatise on Thermodynamics               307
      Dr. Carl Barus's Die physikalische Behandlung und die
         Messung hoher Temperaturen                                310
      Dr. Ad. Heydweiller's Hiilfsbuch fur die Ausfiihrung
         elektrischer Messungen                                    311
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
      H.err Victor Madsen on Scandinavian Boulders at Cromer       312
      Miss C. A. Baisin on the Variolite of the Lleyn, and
         associated Volcanic Bocks                                 312
      Mr. H. Emmons on the Petrography of the Island of
         Capraja                                                   313
 On a New Electrical Furnace, by M. Henri Moissan                  313
On the Daily Variations of Gravity, by M. Mascart                  314
Preliminary Note on the Colours of Cloudy Condensation, by
   C. Barus                                                        315
                     NUMBEE CCXV.—APBIL.
Dr. Charles V. Burton on Plane and Spherical Sound-Waves
   of Finite Amplitude                                             317
 Prof. J. D. Everett on a new and handy Focometer                  333
 Mr. G. H. Bryan on a Hydrodynamical Proof of the Equations
    of Motion of a Perforated Solid, with Applications to the
    Motion of a Fine Eigid Framework in Circulating Liquid .       338
 Prof. G. M. Minchin on the Magnetic Field of a Circular
    Current                                                        354
 Dr. John Shields on Hydrolysis in Aqueous Salt-Solutions. .       365
 Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney : Suggestion as to a possible Source
    of the Energy required for the Life of Bacilli, and as to the
    Cause of their small Size                                      389
 On the Magnetization of Iron Eings slit in a Eadial Direction,
    by H. Lehmann                                                  392
 The Specific Heat of Liauid Ammonia, by C. Ludeking and
    J. E. Starr                                                    393
 On the Official Testing of Thermometers, by H. F. Wiebe . .       395

vi            CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.      FIFTH 8ERIES.
                    NUMBER CCXVI.—MAT.
                                                                Pago
Prof. H. A. Rowland on Gratings in Theory and Practice . . 397
Mr. T. H. Blakesley on the Differential Equation of Electrical
   Plow                                                          419
K. Tsuruta on the Heat of Vaporization of Liquid Hydro
   chloric Acid . . :                                           435
M. P. Rudski on the Flow of Water in a Straight Pipe            439
Prof. J. Perry (assisted by Messrs. J. Graham and C. W. Heath)
   on Liquid Friction. (Plate VII.)                             441
Miss A. G. Earp on the Effect of the Replacement of Oxy
   gen by Sulphur on the Boiling- and Melting-points of
   Compounds                                                    458
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Mr. R. Lachlan's Elementary Treatise on Modern Pure
         Geometry                                               462
     Revue Semestrielle des Publications Mathematiques re-
        digee sous les auspices de la Societe Mathematique
        d'Amsterdam                                             463
Proceedings of the Geological Society :—
     Prof. J. W. Judd on Inclusions of Tertiary Granite in
        the Gabbro of the Cuilin Hills, Skye ; and on the Pro
        ducts resulting from the Partial Fusion of the Acid
        by the Basic Rock                                       464
     Mr. W. S. Gresley on Anthracite and Bituminous Coal-
         beds           .'                                      465
     Messrs. Fox and Teall on some Coast-Sections at the
        Lizard ; and on a Radiolarian Chert from Mullion
        Island                                                  466
     Mr. T. Roberts on the Geology of the District west of
        Caermarthen                                             467
     Lieut. G. C. Frederick's Geological Remarks ou certain
        Islands in the New Hebrides                             467
     Mr. H. "W. Monckton on the Occurrence of Boulders
         and Pebbles from the Glacial Drift in Gravels south
        of the Thames                                           4G8
     Mr. 0. A. Shrubsole on the Plateau-Gravel south of
        Reading                                                 468
     Mr. Clement Reid on a Fossiliferous Pleistocene Deposit
        at Stone, on the Hampshire Coast                        469
On Villari's Critical Point in Nickel, by Prof. Heydweiller . . 469
On the Interference-Bands of Grating- Spectra on Gelatine, by
   M. Crova                                                     471

            CONTENTS OF VOL. XXXV.     FIFTH SERIES.             VII
                  NUMBER CCXVIL—JUNE.
                                                               Page
Lieut. G. Owen Squier on the Electrochemical Effects due
  to Magnetization                       ,                     473
Dr. C. V. Burton on the Applicability of Lagrange's Equa
  tions of Motion in a General Class of Problems ; with
   especial reference to the Motion of a Perforated Solid in a
   Liquid                                                      490
Mr. A. B. Basset on the Finite Bending of Thin Shells          496
Prof. Angstrom on Bolometric Investigations on the Inten
   sity of Radiation by Rarefied Gases under the Influence
   of Electric Discharge                                       502
Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous Discharges in Electrodeless
  Vacuum-Tubes                                                 506
Mr. M. S. Pembrey's Comparative Experiments with the Dry-
  and Wet-Bulb Psychrometer and an improved Chemical
   Hygrometer                                                  525
Mr. R. E. Hughes on Water as a Catalyst                        531
Notices respecting New Books :—
      Drs. Bedell and Crehore's Alternating Currents           534
      Prof. S. W. Holman's Discussion of the Precision of
         Measurements, with Examples taken mainly from
         Physics and Electrical Engineering                     535
On the Disengagement of Heat occurring when Electrical
   Vibrations, are transmitted through Wires, by Dr. I.
   Klemen6ic                                              • ..  537
On the Potential of Electrical Discharge, by Prof. Heyd-
   weiller                                                      538
On a Property of the Anodes of Geissler's Tubes, by E.
   Goldstein                                                    538
Index                                                           540

                               PLATES.
I. Illustrative of Prof. Threl fall's Paper on the Electrical Properties
     of Pure Nitrogen.
II. Illustrative of Messrs. Rubens and Snow's Paper on the Refraction
     of Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-Salt, Sylvite, and Fluorite.
III. Illustrative of Mr. F._Sanford's Paper on a necessary Modification
     of Ohm's Law.
IV. Illustrative of Messrs. Rimington and Wylhe Smith's Paper on
     Experiments in Electric and Magnetic Fields, Constant and
     Varying.
V. & VI. Illustrative of Dr. Carl Barus's Papers on the Fusion Con
     stants of Igneous Rock.
VII. Illustrative of Prof. J. Perry's Paper on Liquid Friction.

Vol. 35.                    JANUARY 1893.                               No. 212.
          Published the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. 6d.              Q
                                                                        .ps-
                                         THE                          rtK
              LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN V-3,5"
                                                                       1893
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                  xMAGAZINE,
                                         AND
               JOURNAL                  OF       SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloelis 'Philo ophical Magazine,'
       Nicholsons 'Journal,' and Thomsons 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                    CONDUCTED BY
         LORD KELVIN, LL.D. P.R.S. &c.
         GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH           SERIES.
                       N° 212.—JANUARY 1893.
                            WITH POUR PLATES.
   Illustrative of Professor Threlfall's Paper on the Electrical Properties
        of Pure Nitrogen ; Messrs. Rubens and Snow's on the Refraction
        of Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-salt, Sylvite, and Fluorite ;
        Mr. F. Santoed's on a necessary Modification of Ohm's Law ; and
        MsMrs. Rimington and Wythe Smith's on Experiments in Electric
        aud Magnetic Fields, Constant and Varying.
                                  LONDON:
        PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
  Sold by Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co., Ld.; Whittaker and Co>• ;
    and by A. aud C. Black ,—T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh; Smith and So
    Glasgow: —Hodges, Figais, and Co., Dublin;—Putnam, New York: —Veuve J.      ^
     Boyveau, Paris :—and Aeher and Co., Berlin.

              Demy 8vo, 400 pages with 14 illustrations, 12#. 6d.
                ODOROGRAPHIA,
 A NATURAL HISTORY OF RAW MATERIALS AND DRUGS USED IX
     THE PERFUME INDUSTRY, INTENDED TO SERVE GROWERS.
                 MANUFACTURERS, AND CON8UMERS.
                                       BY
                       J. Ch. saweb, f.l.s.
        GURNEY and JACKSON, 1 Paternoster Row, Londow.
                       (Successors to Mr. Van Voorst.)
                                  Price 12*.
                         CATALOGUE
               OF THE SPECIMENS ILLUSTRATING TnE
      OSTEOLOGY OF VERTEBRATE ANIMALS
                                    IN THE
MUSEUM OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND.
                            Part 3.-AVES.
                   By R. B. SHARPE, LL.D., Ac.
                                Price 2s. each.
            Appendices 5 and G to the Second Edition of the
                    DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE
                                   OP THE
                 PATHOLOGICAL SPECIMENS
                             CONTAINED IN THE
MUSEUM OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND.
                         By J. H. TARGETT.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
      Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4*. ; Part II., 7s. 6d. ; Part III., 6*.
              PHYSICAL MEMOIRS,
   SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                      UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
              PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
        Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                     JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                OF THE LATE
                J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
         Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
   Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                 and Portrait.
  Vol. L THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                               D.C.L., F.R.S.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                              THE
         LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                          MAGAZINE
                              AND
      JOURNAL                 OF       SCIENCE.
                      [FIFTH SERIES.]
                      JANUARY 1893.
I. The Electrical Properties of Pure Substances.—Part I. The
   Preparation of Pure Nitrogen and attempts to Condense it.
   By Professor R. Theelfall*.
                            [Plate I.]
IN 1886 a paper was published in the Proceedings of the
      Royal Society by Professor J. J. Thomson and myself,
" On an Effect produced by the passage of an Electric Dis
charge through Pure Nitrogen." The effect in question was
briefly as follows :—When a nitrogen tube provided with a
small mercury or sulphuric-acid gauge is exhausted to a pres
sure of about 8 millim. of mercury and then sparked with a
discharge too small to heat the tube in a sensible manner, a
diminution of the elastic force of the enclosed gas is observed.
This diminution was found to be independent of the size or
material of the electrodes, of the volume of the tube or the
extent of its surface, but to depend on the kind of discharge
employed, and its duration ; on the temperature and pressure
of the gas in the tube during the process of sparking and
afterwards. Arguing by exclusion, we attributed the diminu
tion of pressure to a condensation of nitrogen molecules,
similar to the condensation which oxygen undergoes when
converted into ozone.
   This property of nitrogen, if established, would be of un
doubted interest, and consequently in 1889 I undertook a
                 * Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 212. Jan. 1893.          B

2                Prof. E, Threlfall on the Electrical
repetition of the experiments with a view to testing our con
clusions by an extended examination of the phenomena in
question. This investigation has proved a most laborious
task; and it was not until December 1891 that I finally
satisfied myself that the effect was due to the combination of
nitrogen with the mercury of the pressure-gauge under the
influence of the electric discharge, and in the presence, as I
 think, of a minute trace of some other substance whose nature
 I have not been able to determine.
    The experiments to be described leave little doubt that pure
 nitrogen at ordinary temperatures does not condense in the
 same way that oxygen condenses, whether the discharge be
 by means of external electrodes or by means of wires fused
 into the tube. Since these experiments form the starting-
 point of other researches, I will begin by an account of a
 method by which pure nitrogen may be most advantageously
 prepared. Singularly enough this apparently simple chemical
 problem has not, so far as I know, been solved hitherto. Stas,
 in his researches, makes the remark that nitrogen is easily
 obtained pure {Bulletin de VAcademie Royale des Sciences de
 Belgique, 1860, ser. 2, t. x. p. 254); and this remark may
 very possibly have produced misunderstanding—everything
 depends on what is meant by the word pure. The fundamental
 principles in all processes of purification are :— 1st, that
 reagents used to remove any impurity must really keep the
 impurity when they have got it, and not liberate it or its
 equivalent through any instability of the compounds formed ;
 and 2nd, that the reagents themselves must not give rise to
 impurities. As an example of a common violation of the first
  principle, I will mention the absorption of sulphuretted hydro
  gen, sulphur dioxide, or the oxides of nitrogen, by potash or
  soda ; and of the second, the use of imperfectly prepared phos
  phorus pentoxide. Trouble arising from layers of air or
  other gases condensed on the surfaces of glass vessels can
  only be relieved by arranging the method of production of
  the gas required in such a way that the glass surfaces may
  remain for weeks or months in contact with the gas under
 experiment, otherwise completely purified. If mercury be in
 contact with glass in any part of the apparatus, then, as I
 believe, it is impossible by ordinary means to be sure that the
 glass is ever completely denuded of its primitive layers of gas.
 I append a list of some of the various ways in which nitrogen
 has been prepared for careful work, and shall, I think, be able
 to show that all these processes are open to objection, at all
 events where a continuous supply of gas is necessary. The
 list is short, because nearly all experimenters simply state that

              Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.                     3
  they nsed pure nitrogen without giving details of its method
 of preparation.
      Name.              Reference.                    Method.
                              I'Acad, de By passing purified air over hot
 J. S. Stas .... Bull de VAcad,
                      Belgique, vol. x.     copper turnings and gauze,
                      p. 254.                which are previously reduced
                                             by hydrogen. Copper oxide at
                                            end of tube (?) ; ordinary ab
                                            sorbent reagents to help purify
                                             the gas after leaving the hot
                                            copper.
Neuinan .... J. fiir       prk. Chemie, From chloride-of-lime cubes (made
                      fur prk.
                      [2] xxxvii.p. 342.    by Winkler's method) and
                                            aqueous ammonia (see C. S. J.
                                            1887, p. 442).
 Olzewski . . .     Wien. Anzeiger,      Hot copper and air.
                       March 1884.
 Wroblewski .      C. R. xcviii. p. 982. Hot copper and air.
 Lupton            C. 8. J. 1876;        Air and ammonia over hot copper ;
                      Ghem. News,           claims to get pure N with a
                      xxxiii. p. 90.        short tube.
H. Deslandres. C.R. ci. p. 1256.         Hot copper and air ; no precaution
                                            mentioned.
W. Gibbs.. .. Bet: x. p. 1387.           Sodium nitrite, ammonium sul
                                           phate, and potassium dichro-
                                           mate in excess. If there is a
                                            trace of chloride present, im
                                           purities are introduced.
N. W. Fisher. Pogg. Ann. xvii.           Uses cuprous chloride as an ab
                    p. 137.                 sorber of oxygen from air.
Regnault .... C. R. t. xx. p. 975. Hot copper and air.
Wiillner .... Pogg. Ann. cxlvii.         Burning phosphorus in air over
                    p. 325.                mercury and removing traces of
                                           oxygen by incandescent iron
                                           wire.
Huggins           Phil. Trans. 1860.     Purified air over hot reduced
                                           copper.
Warburg          Ann. der Chem. und Hittorf's method. Dust-free air
                     der Phys. 1887,       over hot white phosphorus, then
                     p. 548.               over potassium permanganate,
                                           solid potash, and phosphorus
                                           pentoxide. Special drying in
                                           some cases followed by exposure
                                           (Wied. Ann. xl. p. 1) to nascent
                                           sodium obtained by the electro
                                           lysis of glass.
   It is clear that the most popular way of making nitrogen is
to absorb the oxygen from air by means of red-hot copper.
There are a great many objections to this method, however,
even when precautions are taken against the possibility of the
formation of oxides of nitrogen. In the first place, a satis
factory method of making connexion to the porcelain tube is
unknown to me ; indiarubber stoppers are undesirable in any
                                      B2

4               Prof. E. Threlfall on the Electrical
case, and particularly in places where they can become hot.
One never feels certain, moreover, that a red-hot tube, even
of glazed porcelain, is absolutely impermeable to furnace-
gases. If one uses a bath of magnesia this difficulty may
perhaps be overcome, but there remains the difficulty of
making proper connexions.
   If hard glass be employed instead of porcelain, then there
is insecurity in the joints between it and the glass used for
the remainder of the apparatus. Metal tubes present similar
difficulties with regard to the junctions, and are besides more
or less porous at high temperatures. Another grave dis
advantage is that, whether porcelain or glass tubes be used,
there is always a chance of a crack occurring, and perhaps
escaping notice.
   The reduction of the copper also presents great difficulty:
it is more difficult to get a strong stream of really pure
hydrogen or carbon monoxide than to get the nitrogen ;
and any sulphur absorbed by the copper is a permanent
disadvantage ; for, as metallurgists know, copper contain
ing sulphur may be oxidized and reduced many times and
yet at each oxidation some sulphur will burn out. The
reason is, of course, that sulphide of copper heated in air
forms some sulphate of copper as well as sulphur dioxide.
On the next reduction sulphide of copper is re-formed, and
then, on passing air over the mixture, the process of incom
plete oxidation is repeated. Judging by a discussion which
took place in Section A of the British Association not long
ago, these simple facts are not as widely known as might
have been expected. I know of no reagent which will absorb
sulphur dioxide so as to form an absolutely stable compound,
and which is itself easy to prepare in a state of sufficient
purity to be above suspicion of giving off foreign matters to
the nitrogen. Of course it may be argued that a large
number of vessels containing, say, a solution of caustic potash
might be used, the second retaining the sulphur dioxide given
off from the first, and so on ; but this device is obviously
unsuited for a continuous process, where the reagents must
be untouched for weeks or months.
   Finally, I gave the process a careful trial, and found it
unsatisfactory from the causes mentioned ; and, as a matter
of fact, the trouble of preparing hydrogen or carbon monoxide
in a sufficient state of purity to reduce the copper without
contaminating it with sulphur or chlorine is at least as great
as the trouble of preparing nitrogen itself.
   With regard to the method of passing air over melted
white phosphorus, the manipulation of phosphorus is always

           Properties of Pare Substances : Nitrogen.               5
troublesome, and I have not been able to find any information
as to whether phosphorus absorbs gases which might be given
off during the process of the removal of oxygen from air.
Warburg used a solution of potassium permanganate to absorb
the vapour of phosphorus ; but I have not been able to obtain
information as to whether such a solution is to be relied on,
in the first place to remove all the phosphorus, and in the
second to give off nothing else during the process. I
understand, from the paper in Wied. Ann. vol. xl. 1890, p. 1,
that Warburg, in his later experiments, did not succeed to his
satisfaction in removing the last trace of oxygen by this
method, but had to electrolyse the glass of his vacuum-tubes
so as to liberate the sodium in presence of the nitrogen, in
order to get rid of the last traces of oxygen and hydrogen.
This method appears satisfactory if one has at one's disposal
a sufficient electromotive force, suitable glass, and an infinite
time : the hydrogen appears to be absorbed as by palladium.
   Another method over which I spent six months of fruitless
labour is based on the decomposition of ammonium bichromate
by heat. This method is convenient, because if the bichro
mate could be got to deliver nitrogen of suitable quality,
small quantities of the salt could be decomposed in bulbs
fused on to the vacuum-tubes along with suitable purifying
reagents. Ordinary ammonium bichromate (i. e. that sold as
pure) gives off a good deal of ammonia and oxides of nitrogen
as well as nitrogen itself and water-vapour. This means the
use of a good many purifying reagents, so that the method
loses its advantages of simplicity ; and in addition the oxides
of nitrogen cannot be fixed satisfactorily by any suitable
reagent known to me. I thought, however, that possibly
very pure ammonium bichromate might decompose in a
simpler manner, and consequently went to great trouble to
procure a pure sample. For this purpose I purified a large
quantity of ammonium chloride and sulphate by the method
described by Stas (Bull, de I'Academie Royale de Belgique,
2nd ser. t. x. p. 283), repeating the boiling with nitric acid
more often than Stas found requisite. The purified samples
were used to generate gaseous ammonia (under the influence
 of specially prepared marble-lime), which after copious wash
 ing was absorbed by chromic acid. Some samples of this
 ammonia were passed over red-hot platinized asbestos with
 sufficient pure oxygen* to destroy three quarters of the
 ammonia, 4NH3 + 302 = 6H20 + 2N2, with a view to destroy
ing any traces of organic ammonium compounds; but the
   * The method of procuring pure oxygen will he described in another
connexion.

6               Prof. E. Threlfall on the Electrical
resulting bichromate of ammonium coming from the small
quantity of ammonia which was not destroyed by the oxygen
did not differ in behaviour from the other samples. It may
be noted here that Stas found (loc. cit.) that purified ammonia
has a much less unpleasant smell than ordinary ammonia :
careful trial, however, failed to enable me to detect any differ
ence between the smell of my purest ammonia and that
obtained by boiling so-called pure solution of ammonia obtained
from the dealers. I conclude that the " pure ammonia " of
 commerce is much purer now-a-days than it was thirty years
 ago.
    The chromic acid was made from repeatedly crystallized
 bichromate of potash, bought as pure, and the sulphuric acid
 which is sold for analytical purposes. The resulting chromic
 acid was washed free from sulphuric acid by strong nitric acid,
 distilled for the purpose. I found incidentally that the addition
 of a little chromic acid to the mixture of nitric and sulphuric
 acid in the retort appeared to have a good effect in diminish
 ing the quantity of nitrous acid which generally accompanies
 "fuming" nitric acid. The washed chromic acid was dried on
 tiles in the usual way, and heated with great care and continual
 stirring until it partly melted ; but even so it was slightly
 decomposed. Of course the greater portion of the nitric acid
 had been previously got rid of by heating the chromic acid on
 a water-bath in a partly exhausted retort with ground-on
 condenser, the latter containing some sticks of potash. The
 chromic acid being partially decomposed gave a solution,
 which had to be filtered through glass-wool before it was
 used to absorb the ammonia. This solution was tested by
 distilling, the distillate being tested for nitrites both before
 and after reduction with sodium amalgam. The result of
 these tests was to show that either the solution contained no
 nitro-compounds, or, if so, not more than are contained in the
 same quantity of platinum distilled water. The bichromate
 of ammonia made from this was recrystallized three times
 from platinum distilled water. Some small samples were
 crystallized up to six times, but did not differ from the results
 of the third crystallization. All these samples, when heated
  either in air or in vacuo, gave off nitrous compounds, and
 did not behave in any way differently to the sample which
 had been bought as pure. I therefore conclude that the
 normal decomposition of ammonium bichromate is complex,
 and that it is not a good substance to use as a source of
 nitrogen.
    I will now describe a method of procuring nitrogen which
 has not been mentioned hitherto, which lends itself remark
ably well to a continuous process, and which is almost, but not

            Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.           7
quite, free from objection. I refer to the copper-ammonia
and chromous-chloride method of Berthelot and Recoura
(' Watts' Dictionary/ new edition, and Ann. de Phys. et de
 Chitn. s. 6, vol. x. p. 5). When air is exposed to a large sur
face of copper wet with strong ammonia, the oxygen is for the
most part absorbed. In my experience with the arrange
ments about to be described, there is only about three per
cent, of oxygen left after the reagents have acted lor half an
hour, and only one per cent, after three hours. Since in
practice with my apparatus the air often stands over the
copper for a day or even a week, the absorption is probably
nearly complete. The last traces of oxygen are absorbed by
a strong solution of chromous chloride, which perhaps exer
cises a stronger absorptive power on oxygen than any other
liquid, and is for this purpose quite easily prepared. As the
method is not so well known as it deserves to be, I give the
following description from Recoura's paper :—
   A large flask is taken, and in it are placed 250 to 300
grammes of granulated redistilled zinc with 50 grammes
powdered crystals of potassium bichromate. The bichromate
must be finely powdered ; it should be pounded till it looks
bright yellow. Three hundred cubic centimetres of pure
hydrochloric acid are mixed in a beaker with two hundred
cubic centim. of water, and I have found it advantageous to
heat the mixture almost to boiling. The contents of the
beaker are then poured as quickly as possible into the flask,
and a violent evolution of hydrogen and steam at once com
mences. If the flask is too small, some of the liquid will of
course be projected from it. Under the powerfully reducing
influence of the zinc and hydrochloric acid, the chromium is
rapidly reduced to the state of green oxide, which then
redissolves to a beautiful blue solution. The whole reaction
only takes about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. If
the bichromate is not sufficiently finely powdered, a further
quantity of hydrochloric acid may have to be added to com
plete the reaction, or the mixture may be left (excluding air)
for a few hours. The blue solution contains chromous chlo*
ride, chlorides of zinc and potassium, and possibly various
impurities. The slightest trace of oxygen destroys the perfect
colour of the chromous chloride by converting it into the
green or grey substances investigated by Recoura.            On
standing over zinc for some time, however, if not too much
oxidized and slightly acid, the chromium compounds become
again reduced and the fine blue colour reappears. The colour
is as clear and bright and almost exactly of the same shade
as the colour of an ammoniacal solution of cupric hydrate,
Recoura states that a stream pf gas containing free oxygen

8                Prof. R. Threlfall on the Electrical
can be completely deprived of the latter by allowing it to
bubble once through a flask containing the blue liquid. To
test this I placed two flasks in series, both containing a few
hundred centimetres of the solution, and fitted with tubes
allowing air to be sucked through both, one after the other.
 Though I allowed the air to pass much more briskly than if
 I had been actually using the process (say three times faster
 than one ordinarily allows the oxygen to pass in an organic
 analysis), I did not observe any change in the second flask
 till the first had long been quite opaque and had become more
 than warm, and then suddenly the contents of the second
 flask became attacked.        In manipulating the chromous-
 chloride solution, it is useful to have a flask of the blue liquid
 permanently at hand to purify the carbonic acid or nitrogen
 which must be used in the subsequent operations. In many
 cases it does not matter whether the gas has a trace of hy
 drogen in it or not ; but for my purpose I was not willing to
 run any risk of having hydrogen about, and consequently I
 never allowed the purifying flask to contain zinc.
     Having satisfied myself as to the reliability of the chromous
 chloride as an absorber of oxygen, I undertook a number of
 experiments with the object of discovering, 1st, the most
 suitable form in which to use it; 2nd, whether in the process
 of absorption any other gas was given off, or any vapour
 which could not be safely absorbed. In these experiments
 large vessels containing copper and ammonia (arranged in a
 manner to be presently explained), and capable of furnishing
 a continuous steam of nitrogen mixed with oxygen in pro
 portions which could be varied at will, were used throughout.
 The ammonia was removed from the nitrogen by strong sul
 phuric acid that had been heated to boiling and cooled in a
 vacuous desiccator. With regard to the best way of using the
 chromous chloride, I began with the impression that tubes
 filled with the dry salt would be the most convenient, espe
 cially as Eecoura shows that small crystals of dry chromous
 chloride have an affinity for oxygen which surpasses that of
 the solution. I therefore prepared large quantities of the
 blue solution, and obtained the crystals from it by the method
 recommended by Recoura, which is briefly as follows :—The
 blue liquid is mixed with a saturated solution of sodium
 acetate, which precipitates chromous acetate in the form of a
 dark red powder. This powder is then dissolved in dilute
 hydrochloric acid, and the chromous chloride precipitated
 from the solution by passing in gaseous hydrochloric acid so
 as to gradually increase the strength of the hydrochloric-acid
solution

          Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.             9
   The crystals are repeatedly washed with strong hydro
chloric acid and dried by pressing them into tubes with
Kieselguhr. All these operations require to be performed
in an atmosphere free from oxygen, and consequently are
troublesome. The crystals are of a fine sky-blue colour, and
have a really extraordinary affinity for oxygen. For my
purpose, however, I disliked the use of the sodium acetate,
because I never felt quite sure that I had washed all the
resulting acetic acid out of the crystals. I have no reason to
believe that, even if acetic acid were present during the
absorption of oxygen, any organic compound would be libe
rated, but in the absence of any information I thought it
better not to run the risk. I therefore turned my attention to
the original blue solution. This of course contains chlorides
of zinc and potassium, free hydrochloric acid, hydrogen in
solution, and possibly traces of sulphur compounds coming
from impurity in the potassium dichromate. It is a question,
then, whether during the absorption of oxygen we maj- not
have chlorine or sulphur compounds liberated. Both the acid
and zinc were free from arsenic and antimony, so that I had
no uneasiness about these substances. I first satisfied myself
that chlorine was not given off, by allowing nitrogen with
3 per cent, of oxygen to pass through two flasks of chromous
chloride, and then through copper sulphate to retain traces of
hydrochloric acid, and finally over paper dipped in a solution
of iodide of potassium and starch. Though ten litres of gas
were passed through, I could detect no change in the starch-
paper. Sulphuric acid, when added to the blue liquid, is
partly reduced and hydrogen sulphide is given off ; conse
quently, since potassium bichromate is generally contaminated
with potassium sulphate, which is hard to remove, I had to
test whether any sulphur compounds were evolved. For this
purpose, and with the arrangement of the last experiment, I
passed nitrogen through the liquid and then over filter-paper,
saturated with a slightly acid solution of nitrate of silver, but
no change of colour could be detected. It remained for me
to make sure that in the liquid I intended to use there could
be no volatile impurity (the traces of hydrochloric acid itself
need not be considered, because hydrochloric acid can be
stopped readily by potassium hydrate).
   Before discussing this I must explain my method of pre
paring the blue liquid, which was as follows :—About ten litres
of the raw product were prepared in several operations and
drawn into one large vessel through a filtering-tube. This
tube contained a length of four inches of compressed glass-
wool, ana was closed at its lower end by a perforated platinum

10             Prof. B. Threlfall on the Electrical
plate whose edges were fused into the tube. The blue liquid
was forced through the plug by a pressure of carbonic acid
made from marble, which had been boiled for a good many
hours at reduced pressure in water before being placed in the
Kipp's apparatus. This carbonic acid always passed through
a wash-bottle of blue litmus purified in the way to be described
by a preliminary experiment. The filter acted so perfectly
that the liquid passing through it was brilliantly clear and
free from zinc-dust, which I greatly feared. In these preli
minary operations I was practically forced to make use of some
rubber-stoppers, and this is the worst fault of the method. How
ever, all the stoppers uss^d were well coated with pure paraffin;
and though they might have given off some hydrocarbons,
still I was unable to detect any trace of them in the nitrogen
finally obtained. Some rubber-tubing was also employed to
make joints, but the same precautions were taken with it, and
in all cases the sulphur was well cleaned off. The filtered
liquid was finally got into a retort with a ground-on con
denser, and was concentrated to one third of its original
volume in a brisk current of carbonic acid.
   Towards the end of the operation the stream of carbonic
acid was stopped, and a partial vacuum was created in the
rttort and condenser by a water-pump, so that the final con
centration took place under reduced pressure. These pre
cautions were considered sufficient to remove the hydrogen
dissolved in the liquid as well as any traces of volatile sulphur
compounds resulting from supposed impurities in the potas
sium bichromate. The resulting liquid was a clear blue
syrup, and was transferred at once to the absorption-apparatus.
Before going into any details as to other precautions, I will
describe the arrangements adopted for the continuous pre
paration of the nitrogen by this process. These arrange
ments will be most easily understood by a reference to the
diagram (PI. I.) , though taps and clips are exaggerated for
clearness, g is a pipe projecting through the window of
the laboratory, and terminating close to the wall at a height
of about three metres from the ground. The University
paddock separates the laboratory by nearly a quarter of
a mile from the nearest road on this side, but the road on
the other side lies within 150 yards. The elevation of
the laboratory is 120 feet above sea-level.          Consequently
the composition of the air is probably more nearly fhat of
typical " country air " than of town air. H is a U-tube
with paraffin (M.P. 51° C.) covered cork stoppers, and is
tightly packed with cotton-wool, from which the dust was
blown before the tube was mounted. F is a two-way tap,

           Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.         11
enabling the large glass vessel to be placed in communication
either with the external air through H, or with the system of
purifying tubes. The large vessel with tap B is filled with
copper gauze and strip, and communicates by a tube having
a rubber-joint and clip D and tap 0 with another large
vessel placed 2'4 metres above it (measured from bottom to
bottom). The upper vessel can be put in communication
with a water-pump by a pipe passing through B and having
a tap at A. This upper vessel contains strong liquid am
monia. It will be readily understood that by working the
taps &c. the ammonia may be drawn into the upper vessel
while air is being admitted to the lower, and may then bo
allowed to descend by gravity, and furnish the requisite head
to force the gas through the remainder of the apparatus when
the two-way tap F is suitably turned. Gr is an auxiliary tap
for allowing samples of the gas to be drawn off and tested for
oxygen in an ordinary Hempel's gas-analysis apparatus, not
shown in the diagram. The air, from which the greater part
of the oxygen has been absorbed by the copper and ammonia,
now passes into a horizontal tube I about half filled with
strong sulphuric acid, where the greater portion of the
ammonia is absorbed. The management of this tube requires
care or the entrance soon gets stopped up by the formation
 of ammonium sulphate. After two years' work this tube was
 replaced by a large glass wash-bottle with ground-in stopper.
J is a tube containing strong sulphuric acid through which
the gas bubbles ; h is merely a drawn-out end for facilitating
 the blowing-out of the joints of the glass tubes. At K are
 two " double " wash-bottles containing the chromous chloride
 syrup; and L represents a U-tube with ground-in tap-stoppers
 filled with glass beads, and likewise containing chromous
 chloride. The stoppers of L and K are weighted with lead
 weights to enable them to stand the pressure, and mercury
 cups are arranged round the stoppers. M is a tube contain
 ing a solution of caustic potash. N contains nitrate of silver
 together with a little silver hydroxide and potassium nitrate,
 0 contains more potash, and P contains strong sulphuric
 acid. Q is half filled with potash in lumps, and half with
 soda-lime. It is a tube into which phosphorus pentoxide
 has been distilled so as to present a large surface. S, a Win
 chester bottle with ground-in stopper, and the wide tube U
 both contain phosphorus pentoxide. Originally there was a
 mercury-gauge at V, and though this was dispensed with,
 the apparatus for eliminating mercury vapour was allowed
 to remain because one or two drops of mercury had got into
 the tube near V. W is a specially fine tap protected with

12             Prof. R. Threlfall on the Electrical
mercury ; and X is a little phosphorus-pentoxide tube re
quired to protect the tap, which is lubricated with phosphorus
pentoxide, and which of course requires to be kept at the
proper degree of concentration. Y is a sulphur tube, and at
Z are silver and copper tubes. Beyond Z is seen a tube and
gauge of the type used in experimenting on the nitrogen at
 low temperatures. S is a small phosphoric-acid guard-tube,
¥ is a sulphur tube, and XI and <& are silver and copper
tubes separated from each other by long tubes of capillary
bore. This system divides at b, so that it may be put in
communication with a water-pump via d, a, and e, or a
Geissler pump through /', where there is another tap not
shown. The taps at F, W, d, and / are fine samples of the
diagonal taps made by the successors of Geissler, of Bonn ;
they have all been reground with " optical " precision, and
are all lubricated (except F) with phosphorus pentoxide and
protected with mercury. The weak point in the system is at
the stoppers of L and K, which had to be lubricated with
tallow. In order to satisty myself of the nature of the
tallow I began by purifying it with animal charcoal, and
finally by keeping it melted for eight hours in a vacuum.
After this the smell was almost gone and the tallow was
applied to the stoppers mentioned. The tap F was lubricated
with vaseline and beeswax also long melted in vacuo. I
feared that I should introduce hydrocarbons at these points,
but the convenience of using the tallow caused me to try it,
and undertake an examination of the gas in a vacuum-tube
in order to find whether any hydrocarbons were present or
not. The result was that no trace of the " three " bands
could be found, so that the enormous complications which
would have been required in the other event were happily
unnecessary. The stoppers of the large ammonia vessels
were of paraffin-coated rubber. It will be noticed that all
the points where tallow or rubber were used are to the right
of the main purifying system, which includes strong sul
phuric acid, and the grinding of all the stoppers was so ac
curate that an almost inappreciable film of tallow was all that
was necessary. It remains to describe the precautions taken
with the various reagents, beginning on the right.
   Ammonia.'—The examination of the ammonia sold as " pure
liquid ammonia'" which I made in connexion with the am
monium bichromate experiments showed that nothing was to
be gained for the purpose of the main experiment by attempt
ing any further purification.
   Copper.—At different times sheet gauze, wire, and turn
ings were employed. The purity of the copper does not

           Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.       13
seem to be of importance, but it is necessary to get rid of
grease. This must be done in such a way as not to waste too
much copper. In order to clean the turnings and gauze they
were soldered into a copper tube, and a considerable quantity
of shale benzine was distilled and allowed to condense among
them. This secures that every part shall be wetted. The
process was then continued by gasoline. The gasoline was
distilled over the copper to avoid residues, and was finally
dried out at about ] 20° for twelve hours, a good stream of
filtered air being drawn over the copper by means of an air-
pump. The same process was gone through with alcohol,
and finally water. The copper was then washed with dilute
chromic acid and digested with strong ammonia for half an
hour. All this trouble was gone to, to avoid wasting the
turnings, which one has to cut oneself in order to get them
in nice long curls, so that they will stand in the bottle and
not break up at once and go to the bottom. After about a
year's work it was found necessary to renew the copper and
ammonia—the former having almost disappeared in a yellow
red mud (cuprous oxide ?) which was not further examined—
and the ammonia solution had also partially lost its blue
colour. Copper strip about 1 millim. thick was now used
to replace the gauze and turnings and wire, and was of course
strong enough to stand dipping in nitric and sulphuric acid.
It is, on the whole, more convenient to use copper in strip
than any other form. '
   Sulphuric Acid.—This was bought as pure for analysis,
and was heated with pure ammonium sulphate for some time
before being used. Its purity was, however, of no great
moment, except in the case of the final drying-tube P.
    Chromous Chloride.—Already discussed.
   Potassium Hydrate.—During the experiments on the de
composition of ammonium bichromate, I incidentally noticed
that all the samples of potash and soda in my possession
yielded traces of nitrites, either on simple solution or when
distilled with strong sulphuric acid (which was itself free
from this impurity) and the distillate reduced by sodium
amalgam. The samples of potash which were said to have
 been purified by solution in alcohol were the worst in this
 respect, while some rough lumps of commercial caustic potash
were nearly free from the impurity in question. I found
considerable quantities of nitrites also in samples of potash
procured by exposing clean potassium to moist air. I did
not try with dry air. After a good deal of trouble I was re
duced to using a solution of a sample of potash in sticks not
 specially puritied, but which only gave the reaction very

14             Prof. E. Threlfall on the Electrical
slightly, and was boiled under diminished pressure for two or
three hours before use. The solution still gave a distillate
with sulphuric acid which reacted with starch and iodine,
but after a time so long that it was possible that the exposure
to air during the experiment had been sufficient to supply the
nitrite discovered. In fact a control experiment made with
some ammonia, known to be free from nitrites or nitrates,
yielded a distillate which coloured to nearly the same extent
on standing. The solution was made up to the strength re
commended for use in organic analysis.
   Silver Nitrate. —Crystals of silver nitrate bought as pure
were dissolved in platinum distilled water to make a ten-per
cent, solution ; to this, when in the tube, a little of the potash
solution was added—so as to form a little silver hydroxide.
This hydroxide darkened gradually in the bright light to
which it was exposed. It was not considered necessary to
investigate the solution for traces of free nitrous compounds,
as the gas on leaving it passed through another potash-tube.
   Solid Potash and Potash-Lime.—The above-mentioned
stick potash was used, and the potash-lime was made by
adding a little of the solution to some marble-lime prepared
in the laboratory ; the drying process was carried out in a
clean iron dish.
   Phosphorus Pentoxide.—This, being the last reagent tra
versed by the nitrogen, requires to be exceptionally carefully
treated. I began by acting on a hint obtained in 1889 from
Prof. Josiah P. Cook, of Harvard, and endeavoured to pre
pare a pure sample of the pentoxide by burning phosphorus
in a very strong draught of air, rather than by attempting to
purify the ordinary commercial reagent. For this purpose
an elaborate sheet-iron cylindrical chamber, measuring 3 feet
by 2 feet, was prepared and fitted with suitable contrivances
for carrying out the combustion of several pounds of phos
phorus. The air-blast was obtained from a Boot's blower
worked by a gas-engine, and the filtered air travelled through
a tin tube about 4 feet long and 7 inches in diameter, filled
with calcium chloride in the state usually described as " rough
dried." After many attempts a large quantity of excellent
pentoxide was obtained, which, however, though indefinitely
better than the commercial product, still retained traces of
phosphorus. The tests I employed for the purpose of dis
covering whether the pentoxide contained free phosphorus or
not were the following :— (1) Dissolving 10 or 15 grammes
 weight of the pentoxide in clear distilled water and observing
 (a) whether anything remains undissolved, (/3) whether, at
 the moment of throwing the phosphorus pentoxide on the

            I'roperties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.         15
water any smell of phosphorus can be detected. (/S) is a
good deal more delicate than (a), for I clearly discerned the
smell of phosphorus after the pentoxide had become pure
enough to yield no perceptible particles when thrown into
water. (2) A small porcelain crucible was filled with the
pentoxide to be tested, the lid was replaced, and the crucible
rapidly raised to a dull red heat, or till the pentoxide just
began to distil off. The room in which the operation was
conducted was quite dark except for the fickle light emitted
by the Bunsen flame used in heating the crucible. As soon
as the proper moment arrived the observer adjusted the cru
cible tongs with one hand and turned out the Bunsen with
the other. The cover of the crucible was then removed, and
by turning on a tap ready to hand a jet of oxygen was caused
to impinge on the phosphorus pentoxide in the crucible : if
any phosphorus is present " sparkles " are seen on the sur
face of the pentoxide ; and if the room is dark and the eyes
 of the observer sensitive this is a very good test, but not
 quite so good as that by the smell caused by throwing a large
quantity of the pentoxide on water. (3) A few drops of a
 solution of chloride of gold in ether were mixed with about
 500 cub. centim. of water, so as to make a very dilute solution.
 This solution was divided into two parts and occupied two
 similar cylinders. To one portion the solution obtained by
 throwing about 1 gramme of the pentoxide into 100 cub.
 centim. of water was added, and to the other an equal quan
 tity of pure water. The observation, lasting for several days,
 consisted in watching the cylinders and noting the reduction
 of gold that took place, as evidenced by the rosy purple
 colour which the solution assumed. This test is not so deli
  cate as the others, and is valueless unless a control experiment
  is made in the manner here described.
     As tested by these tests, the phosphorus pentoxide prepared
  by myself was never quite free from phosphorus, and I was
  therefore obliged to undertake the distillation of the raw
  product in a stream of oxygen. This of course involved the
  making of the oxygen in a sufficient state of purity. For
  tunately the presence of nitrogen in oxygen used for this
  purpose is of no consequence so long as the amount is not
  large, the impurities to be dreaded are hydrocarbons and
   chlorine. The oxygen was consequently prepared from po
   tassium chlorate with the usual precautions as for an organic
   analysis, being passed through several potash-tubes and wash-
   bottles on its way to the gas-holder—a large copper one free
   from grease on the taps. From the gas-holder the oxygen
   passed through the following system :—

16              Prof. E. Threlfall on the Electrical
   (1) Solution of potassium hydrate in tube 4 feet long.
  *(2) Tube 18 in. long, first half filled with metallic anti
mony, second half filled with clean silver foil.
   (3) U-tube 12 x 1 in., solution of silver nitrate.
    (4) U-tube 12x1 in., solid potash.
    (5) 2 ditto, sulphuric-acid beads.
    (6) 1 bottle, phosphorus pentoxide.
    (7) 2 U-tubes, ditto.
    All the connexions were of glass throughout, but it was
found convenient to use several rubber stoppers coated with
hard paraffin. The distillation of the pentoxide was carried
on in a porcelain tube 2 centimetres in diameter and nearly
a metre long, the connexions being made with glass tubes
pushed into the ends of the porcelain tube, and packed with
glass-wool and some pentoxide. This packing is very firm
and good. The first three quarters of the porcelain tube
were nearly filled with pentoxide, the last quarter contained
 platinized porcelain and asbestos, the latter most carefully
 purified by boiling in hydrochloric acid and strong heating.
 The distillation was carried on in some cases so as to cause
 the pentoxide to condense in the tubes and vessels in which
 it was to be used, and a considerable quantity was also
 collected in a bottle.
    The final product passed all the tests I have enumerated,
and was used throughout the nitrogen apparatus, even for
drying the pump, lubricating the taps, &c. Of course a good
 many tubes full of pentoxide were distilled, and nearly three
months were consumed in obtaining the final product. If I
 had not had the assistance of Mr. J. A. Pollock in this work,
I have an impression that I might be at it still. The com
mercial pentoxide was used in this work, for the substance
we prepared ourselves was probably good enough for most
purposes as it was. I have sometimes wondered whether ex
perimenters who have of late used so much pentoxide for
critical work on gases have recognized the necessity of testing
the product obtained by distilling the pentoxide in oxygen.
In my experience, unless the oxygen stream be very strong it
is quite possible to fail to remove the last traces of free
phosphorus.
    Sulphur -f.—I happened to have some very pure sulphur
which had been prepared for another purpose. It will be
   * It was found as the result of several preliminary experiments that
metallic antimony is a rather good absorber of chlorine, and keeps what
it absorbs.
   t An account of the experiments with sulphur will form a chapter of
this monograph.

             Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.         17
  sufficient here to say that the sulphur was originally precipi
  tated from calcium polysulphides by hydrochloric acid ; it
 was laboriously ground and washed, and distilled five times,
 and care was taken not to let it take fire. The degree of
 purity attained was tested by burning off large quantities in
 a burnished platinum dish, and continuing the process till the
 residue had disappeared. This product was rather precious,
 consequently it was made the most of in the present case by
 using it to coat glass beads ; some in powder was also employed
 near the entrance of the purifying tubes.
     Copper and Silver.—Both bought as pure and deprived of
 grease by dipping in appropriate acid solutions.
     General Remarks.—'During the two years the apparatus
 has been in use various accidents, such as the breaking of
 pumps &c, have at different times caused some of the re
 agents to get mixed up, and the apparatus has been taken
 down and set up again some three or four times ; the first
 bottles of chromous chloride have also required to be refilled.
 The phosphorus pentoxide has never required to be touched.
 I wish to draw attention to a remark of Hittorf's as to the
 importance of using tubing free from air-bubbles. On
 several occasions I have been much troubled by the minute
 leaks which such imperfect tubes give rise to at the joints,
 and I have in my possession at least two tubes leaking from
 this cause, but so minutely that even when the leak was
 localized to within six or seven inches it was impossible to
 say exactly where it was. In work of this kind the cleaning
 of the tubes is of course of great importance. If the work is
 to be done rapidly the great secret is to clean the tube with
 alcohol before the jointing or general glass-blowing opera
 tions are carried out on it. The dirty places are almost
always near where the blowpipe-flame has been applied, and
after trying all and every means of cleaning, I have finally
come back to aqua regia caused to boil at the dirty place and
left in the tube for at least ten hours. Certainty of cleaning
and jointing has led me to employ English flint glass ex
clusively in this work, and I always use the clean flame of an
oxygen-gas blowpipe, which saves time so as to far more than
repay the cost of the oxygen. All the blowing required in
jointing the tubes is done through a compact but efficient
establishment of filtering and phosphoric-acid tubes. The
glass springs so extensively used throughout allow of con
siderable latitude in the relative movements of parts of the
apparatus, and I have had no cases of spontaneous breaking.
The whole of the glass work has been done by myself, as I
can get no assistance of a suitable kind in Sydnev.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 212. Jan. 1893.         C

18              Prof. R. Threlfall on the Electrical
   It may possibly be objected that some of the precautions
taken are finnicking, and that (as in the manufacture of the
oxygen) an unnecessary variety of absorptive materials are
used. The reply I should make to such a criticism is that the
complete operation of any one reagent is always to some
small extent hypothetical, and I consider that by varying the
reagents one helps to get rid of the chance of the persistence
of impurities so small in amount as to be beyond the range of
ordinary analysis, t. e. beyond the point up to which we are
certain of the action of the reagents.
        Testing the Gasfor Hydrocarbons and Hydrogen.
   In order to avoid the impurities introduced by the presence
of internal electrodes, a tube was prepared with external
electrodes. It was about 35 centim. long, of which length
20 centim. were made of capillary tube. In order to fill this
yith the pure gas, the apparatus was exhausted three times,
as far as the chromous chloride U-tube, each exhaustion re
quiring seven or eight hours' work with the Greissler pump,
after a good water-pump had got rid of the greater part of
the gas.
   The pressure of the remaining gas was imperceptible by
inspection of the pump-gauge (of which a description will be
given), but the pump continued on each occasion to show a
just appreciable bubble of gas when the mercury flowed into
the barometer-tube. The pumping was done at times separated
from each other by three or four days in order to give the
residual gas from the walls of the vessel time to come off ; of
course this gas was removed as it appeared. The pressure I
should judge was, on each occasion, about of the order of -01
millim. Several bottles of gas were also forced through the
apparatus at the ordinary pressure.
   Finally, on Feb. 19, 1891, the tube together with another
for experimental purposes were fused off—the former at about
¦1 millim. pressure (the latter will be dealt with later). The
tube had previously been heated till the glass began to soften
and the walls to fall in, and the gas admitted had been for
several days in contact with the phosphorus pentoxide. The
only objection to the external electrode tube is that I have
hitherto failed to produce a line-discharge in it—though of
course Prof. J. J. Thomson's method (Phil. Mag. vol. xxxii.
1891) would give it in an endless tube without electrodes,
and if the method had been known at the time I should have
employed it. However, I got a bright bluish-white discharge
in the narrow tube (the larger ends being golden), and this

           Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.           19
yielded a fine band-spectrum which has been described often
enough, showing well both in the more and less refrangible
ends. I took as my authority on the typical hydrocarbon
bands those mentioned in the B.A. Report for 1880, p. 226.
             Observer.                      Wave-length.
       ( Angstrom and Thalen . . 5633 at least refran-
      <                                        gible end.
       (.Watts                           5634-7
       f Angstrom and Thalen      . . 5164
       \ Watts                           5165
       ("Angstrom and Thalen      . . 4736
       1 Watts                           4739
   Professors Liveing and Dewar (Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. xxx.)
say that the characteristic spectrum of hydrocarbons is com
posed (among others) of four bands in the orange, yellow,
green, and olive. These were well seen by me in an olefiant-
gas tube prepared for the purpose without any pretensions to
purity. The cone of a Bunsen flame was also examined, and
I saw the lines (according to my map)
                   a at 5637 instead of 5634
                   /3 „ 5164      „      5165 (strongest)
                   7 „ 4736       „      4738
   1 had a number of commercial tubes and examined these as
a check ; the following is the result :—
   /S turned up in petroleum and alcohol but not in olefiant gas,
where there was a band at 5197 to 5198. This last band was
strong and was seen in C02, H, 0, turpentine, petroleum, and
coal-gas, as well as in the olefiant gas. I do not know what
this band is due to, but it did not appear in the nitrogen.
The nitrogen was examined side by side with an alcohol tube
showing a and /3 well ; but the former did not show these
bands or any trace of them. The nearest band was at 5240,
and quite too far away for there to be any mistake. The
experiment was also tried with a similar tube and nitrogen at
10 millim. pressure, with a like result. Finally the examina
tion was repeated at the lowest pressure at which I could get
a brilliant discharge, which was of course far beyond the
limit of discrimination of my pressure-gauge. The result
was the same as before. The red and blue hydrogen lines
were never seen in any of my tubes showing banded spectra.
This analysis is of course dependent partly on the accuracy of
our map, though when once the typical lines were picked up,
their coincidence or not could be determined by direct expe
                             02

20              Prof. R. Threlfall on (lie Electrical
riment. It was necessary, therefore, to make a map of the
spectrum to suit my spectroscope. The latter was an instrument
with a 5-in. Trouton and Sims circle, and was made by Elliott
Bros. ; one fine heavy glass prism was used throughout, and
the map refers to it ; it was always in the position of minimum
deviation for each line observed. The mapping of the spec
trum was done for me by Mr. J. H. D. Brearley (a student
in the laboratory) , who also assisted at this time in all the
spectroscopic work and to whom my thanks are due. The
map was made by a selection of 33 lines drawn from all sorts
of sources, and verified in all sorts of ways, the tables used
being those in the B.A. Reports for 1884, 1885, 1886 ; Row
land s map (got in 1889) ; and Rowland's table, Phil. Mag.
1889. Schellen was also found of some use. Each line
 was set upon ten times ; and the prism was adjusted ten
times.
    Intermediate lines were now well picked up off Rowland's
map. Our limit of discrimination was about 2 in the fourth
significant figure of the wave-length, i. e. I could not decide
 with certainty that a line I made out to be at, say, 5165 was
not at 5163.
    I append a list of the lines used in mapping the spectrum,
 not because it is in any way to be regarded as a model selec
 tion, but because I, as a beginner at spectroscopy, should have
been very glad of such a list at the time, had I been able to
 find one. I also note the means adopted by us for the iden
 tification of the lines, as it may interest other beginners in
 spectroscopy. The lines are not given in the order in which
 they were examined, but in order of wave-length.
   J.—B. Sun, 6867-796-6867-462. Rowland, Phil. Mag.
       June, 1889. Recognized by being near both to a large
       iron and to a potassium line.
  2.—Lia, 6705"4. From lithium chloride in a Bunsen flame.
       Wave-length from B.A. Report, 1884; given by Mascart,
       Liveing and Dewar, and Thalen.
   3.—C. Sun (hydrogen). Good line recognized by com
       parison with a tube-spectrum of H20. \= 6563-042.
       Rowland, Phil. Mag. 1889.
  4.—Sun, 6400-2. A good line picked up when the map
       was nearly finished from Rowland's map.
  5.—Sun, 6191"7. Same as number 4.
   6.—Lip, 6102. Authority, Mascart.
   7.—Iron line, 5930-4. Rowland's map verified by com
       parison with spark-spectrum of iron. B.A. Report.
       (Jornu gives 5929-3.

           Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.       21
 8.—D. Halfway between the two lines. Mean, X=5893.
     Rowland, Phil. Mag. 1889. Compared with sodium
     flame.
  9.—Picked up from Chart. X= 5709-8.
10. — Barium (7). From flame-spectrum of Ba (N03)z.
     B.A. Report, 1884. Liveing and Dewar. X = 5534-3.
     A bright line.
11.—Magnesium, X=5528. Rowland's map and spark-
     spectrum.
12.—Thallium («), X= 5349. B.A. Report, 1885. Liveing
     and Dewar, and de Boisbaudran. Got from flame-
     spectrum.
13.—Iron, 5328'2. Rowland's map verified by spark-spec
     trum. A good line.
14.—E. X=5270. Rowland's map, a big double. Picked
     up at first because it was found from Schellen's map that
     it was between two cobalt lines and near an iron line.
     These lines were seen in their proper relative places in
     the spark-discharge from iron and cobalt. This was one
     of the first lines identified.
15.—bu 5183-798. Rowland, Phil. Mag. Verified by mag
      nesium-spectrum. One of the first lines got.
1 6.—X= 5041-5042. Picked up from Rowland's map. Veri
      fied by finding from BA. Report that it was an iron
      line and then confirming by spark-spectrum.
17.—X=4957-6. Picked up and verified as in the last case.
18.—X= 4920- 6. Ditto.
19.—F. X=4861-492-4859'929. Rowland's map confirmed
      by vacuum-tube.
20.—Bismuth. X=4752. B.A. Report, Thalen, and Huggins.
      From spark-spectrum. Not very good. Evidence as to
      identification, its general relation and appearance.
 21.—Bismuth. X=4724-5. A very prominent line. Evi
      dence and authority as in last case.
 22.—Bismuth. X = 4705. Ditto. These lines cannot be
      mistaken.
 23.—Strontium blue line. X=4607. From flame-spectrum;
       B.A. Report, 1884. Liveing and Dewar, Thalen,
      Huggins.
 24.—Caesium /3. X=4597. B.A. Report, 1884; de Bois
       baudran and Lockyer (4592). de Boisbaudran's value
       was taken, rather to my regret. One of the first lines
       got. Flame-spectrum.
 25.-—Caesium *. X=4555. Liveing and Dewar; B.A. Re
       port, 1884 ; Lockyer and de Boisbaudran (4560).
       Flame-spectrum.

22              Prof. R. Threlfall on the Electrical
26.—Indium blue line. \ = 4509 6. Liveing and Dewar
      and Thalen, B.A. Report, 1884. Took Liveing and
      Dewar's number. Flame-spectrum.
27.—Solar spectrum. \ = 4405. Rowland's map. Sehel-
      len's map gives it identical with an iron line. Verified
      by spark.
28.—Solar spectrum. \=4383-6. As in case of last line
      (27).
29.—Solar spectrum. Hydrogen violet. \ = 43405. Row
      land's map and vacuum-tube.
 30.—Solar spectrum. \=4325'982. Anne line. Rowland's
      map and Phil. Mag. 1889. Picked up from map.
 31.—Solar spectrum Gr. \=4308-023. Rowland's map and
      Phil. Mag. The subject of a misprint in Rowland's list
       in Phil. Mag. 1889. It is an iron line.
 32.—Solar spectrum. X = 4227. A calcium line given in
       Schellen's map. Well seen on Rowland's map. Could
      not verify from flame.
    It will be found that the lines mentioned in this list are
 well spaced, and a curve drawn to them will enable most of
 the other lines to be set upon by calculation. It is obvious
 that all sorts of appliances must be to hand in order to verify
 the lines in the first instance, as well as a good stock of the
 rarer metals and their salts.
    Preparation of Pump- Gauge.—All gauges of closed U-type.
 Gauge 1 constructed of tube 3 centim. in diameter, and
 3 millim. thick in the walls, tested for evenness, &c. Each
 limb about 20 centim. long, one limb closed at the top and
 the other open to the pump. The bend constructed of thick
 tubing having a bore of rather less than 1 millimetre in dia
 meter. This gauge was boiled out in a good Sprengel vacuum
 some twenty times, but I never could get rid of the last
 minute traces of gas. I have an idea that the last trace of
 gas cannot be got rid of—it can only be reduced asymptoti
 cally. However, the gauge was excellent ; it was painted
  black, except for a slit down each limb, and was read (with
  the precautions mentioned by Regnault) by one of the Cam
  bridge Scientific Instrument Company's (Poynting's) cathe-
  tometers from about three metres' distance. This gauge be
  haved admirably, and I used it during the spectroscopic
  work ; in some of the preliminary tube-experiinents at a low
  pressure, however, a joint broke, and the momentum of the
  mercury was sufficient to break the closed end of the gauge in
 ppite of the constricted bend. Under the circumstances, the
 gauge being much better than was required, I made No. 2

             Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.        23
similar to it, but of only 1 centim. diameter, and having
finer constriction of thermometer-tube in the bent part. This
tube was not so good as the last, as it was not gas-free, and
a small correction amounting to half a millimetre or so had
usually to be applied on this account. This correction was
determined several times, and a table of readings and correc
tions made out. There is no uncertainty as to the readings
beyond about -05 millim., a quantity wholly insignificant for
our purpose. This gauge lasted till 1892, when. I finally
got tired of applying corrections, and made a new and better
gauge on the same lines and of the same dimensions. This
is still in use.
   Tube Pressure-Gauge. — A glance at the Plate will show
that this gauge was similar to the one used by Professor
Thomson and myself in 1885, with the exception that it was
of glass throughout. A tube of about 2 centim. diameter is
bent into a U-shape, the bend being of tube about '5 millim.
in diameter. The limbs are about 5 centim. long. The mer
cury is introduced so as to stand about halfway up the wide
tubes. The upper ends of the limbs are connected to each
other, so that the gauge is really a " ring " space, and the
space above the mercury communicates with the experimental
tube by a filamentary glass tube of from one to two metres in
length. When it is desired to observe the change of pressure
in the spark-tube, the connexion between the space over the
free surface of the mercury in the two limbs is interrupted by
fusing a previously narrowed neck into a solid mass. This of
course allows the pressure in the closed limb to retain its
initial value, whatever that may be; while the pressure in the
 open limb varies with the pressure in the tube.
   The effect of the metre-long filamentary tube is to hinder
the diffusion of mercury vapour into the sparking-tube; and
this in one or two experiments was also attended to by in
cluding a tube filled with clean silver foil between the mercury
and filamentary tube. The filamentary tube, however, never
let enough mercury-vapour in to give a mercury-spectrum at
the lowest pressure at which I worked. Of course the mer
cury in the gauge was carefully boiled several times in order
to cause any considerable quantity of gas that might have
been condensed to be given off before the experiment began.
These gauges, of which large numbers were made at one time
and another, were very satisfactory, and when observed with
proper precautions by means of the cathetometer, would cer
tainly betray a difference of pressure of about '05 millim., all
sources of uncertainty being taken into account.

 24             Prof. R. Threltall on the Electrical
     Experimental Spark-Tvhe.—The first successful tube was
 furnished with external electrodes and sparked between Feb. 24
 and March 2, 1891. Details are (pressure 8*8 millim.) :—
                      h m
 Feb. 24. Sparked 1 30 Sparks being long and thin, large
                                 resistance in circuit.
 Feb. 25.        „    5 0 Ditto.
 Feb. 28.        „    3 0 Ditto. Then 3 hours 15 minutes
                                with less resistance.
 Mar. 2.         „    4 0 The least perceptible discharge.
    No effect was noticed at any time. The tube was left for
 three days in order that the temperature might reach the
 exact value it had when the gauge was senled, and it happened
 that this did not occur for three days. There was still no
 effect. This tube was sealed from the pump in series with
 the spectrum.-tube and is still in my possession.
     Tube 2.—After experimenting with many tubes mostly of
 the form shown in the diagram (fig. 1), with the armed ends
 in mercury cups, a satisfactory tube was got on April 21st.
                               Fig1i
            C                                           )
The difficulty arose from my determination to have the elec
trodes white hot for several hours by a preliminary sparking at
about "1 millim. before the tube was finally filled with gas and
sealed off. The excessive heating of the electrodes generally
broke the glass. During this time I noticed a thing which
was new to me, but which I daresay is well known, viz., the
ease with which the colour of the fluted spectrum-discharge
may be made to change. Thus an the 20th I found that at a
pressure of less than 1 millim., and with a very intense dis
charge from a coil giving 12-in. sparks without condenser, I
could cause the golden-coloured discharge to become pinkish
by heating the tube with a bare flame to about 200° C, a
necessary step in the preparation. The spectrum, of course,
merely showed a shift in relative luminosity from the red
towards the blue end. The action was reversed on cooling
the tube. This could be repeated once or twice. However,
with the next filling of gas the experiment did not succeed at
all, no heating of the tube caused any change in the colour of

             Properties- of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.        25
 the discharge ; and in subsequent experiments only variable
 results were met with. The tube in question was finally sealed
 off at 9"2 millim., and sparked for six hours without effect.
 The next day the sparks were made stronger, and sent through
 the tube for four hours ; still no effect was produced. The
 tube then cracked on the next attempt to spark it.
    Tube 3.—April 25. Pressure 9*4 millim. In preparing
 the tube I noticed what I always noticed afterwards, viz., that
 at about 2-3 millim. the discharge begins by being pink, and
 then in a minute or two becomes golden, and keeps so. On
 turning off the spark and reducing the pressure to about 1
 millim., the same effect is observed. I have noticed this effect
 in all the tubes prepared since my attention was first directed
 to it. The sparking of this tube was as follows :—
      April 25.   4 hours with the effective sparks described
                     in the former paper. No effect.
     April 27.     6 hours ditto. No effect.
     April 28.    4 hours. Sparks of various intensity. No
                     effect.
      April 29.   4 hours. Ditto. Ditto.
    This tube was sound throughout, and the result was con
vincing. It then occurred to me that possibly the mercury
used in our gauges might account for the results obtained by
 Professor Thomson and myself in 1886. At that time we
used a gauge fused directly on to the discharge-tube, with
perhaps 10 centim. of 2-millim. tubing between the mercury
surface and the tube, and with globules of condensed mer
cury hanging to the walls of the connecting-tube almost up
to the discharge-tube itself. I remember that the glow often
extended down to the mercury.
    Tube 4.—Made with a side tube containing some very pure
and dry mercury, so as to imitate our older form of tube.
Pressure 8-5 millim.
   June 11. Sparked 3 hours with effective sparks. No
effect.
   June 12. Sparked 4 hours with effective sparks. Exa
mined on 15th, when it showed a just perceptible diminution
of pressure.
   June 15. Sparked 8 hours. Effect increased to about T2
millim. In order to try whether large sparks would reduce
the effect, as was formerly found to be the case, I increased
the intensity of the discharge, but did not succeed in producing
any increase of pressure during half an hour (except that due
to rise of temperature). The tube was then carefully exa
mined, and it was found by holding a sheet of white paper

 26             Prof. R. Threlfall on tlie Electrical
 behind it that there was a slight appearance of a bronze-
 coloured fog in the tube near the mercury-pocket.
    June 16. A strong discharge sent through the tube so that
it became warm to the hand, say 40° C. ; the discharge was
 kept on for three hours.
    June 18. The temperature again being the same as when
the tube was sealed, it was noted that the effect appeared to
have increased by about "2 millim. in spite of the strong
discharge. Two " gallon " Leyden jars were then included
 in the circuit provided with an air-gap, and parallel to the
spark-tube. During two hours' sparking the effect went on
increasing, and the bronze-coloured stain on the glass grew
deeper near the drops of mercury till it became a black
mirror.
    This was of course partly due to the volatilization of the
mercury near the drops. The effect had increased to about
7 millim. by the next morning, when the temperatures had
become uniform.
    June 19. Sparked, say, 5 hours. Effect on cooling was
now 7-3 millim., indicating that only about 1*2 millim. of gas
was left in the tube.
   June 20. The mirror of mercury compound, which had now
become very black about the narrow tube and in the part of
the spark-tube near it, was heated with the Bunsen flame.
After some heating, say at about 250° C, the film began to
crepitate audibly and emit flashes and sparks of blue flame.
The deposit turned brownish as the temperature rose, the
sides became indistinct, and finally the flash and crackling
noise came on and the film vanished, leaving a clear bright
tube. The process was repeated till the mirror of mercury
had been chased all over the tube ; and even then the gauge
only came back far enough to show a pressure-difference
of 4" 2 millim.' in the same direction as before—i. e. it only
came back by 3"1 millim. The ends of the tube, where the
the electrodes were fused in, were not heated ; and this may
have accounted for the persistency of the diminution of
pressure. In order to test this the tube was removed from
the mercury cups and placed in an extemporized air-bath
made out of a kerosene tin. Several thermometers were
ranged alongside the tube, and the whole apparatus was
covered by an asbestos cloth. The bath was heated by a
Bunsen burner. A good many rather elaborate readings of
temperature and pressure were taken on June 20, the
temperature rising to about 170° C. in the middle of the
tube and to a few degrees less at the ends. These readings
turned out to have no significance, in consequence of a doubt

           Properties of Pure Substances ; Nitrogen.          27
as to whether the ends of the limbs of the tube into which the
wires were fused were or were not at the same temperature
as the rest of the tube. However, there is no doubt that the
temperature of the ends was over 150° C, and yet when all
was cold again it was observed that the effect still amounted
to a difference of pressure of 3"4 millim.
   Now a compound of mercury and nitrogen, described as
trimercuramine, was obtained by Plantamour [Ann. Chem.
Pharm. xl. p. 115) by passing ammonia gas over mercuric
oxide. This substance is said to explode on heating, and
Plantamour gave it the formula Hg3N2 on the strength of its
behaviour with copper oxide in a combustion-tube, though he
did not analyse it. The formula is, however, probably not
very far from being correct. Plantamour does not state the
temperature at which the nitride explodes, but says that if a
little heap of the substance be placed on a card or piece of
paper, and heated over the flame of a spirit-lamp, the explosion
will occur before the temperature is high enough for the paper
to be turned yellow. My compound certainly required a
higher temperature than this to start the explosion ; but it
is possible that its being in a nearly vacuous space, and very
much contaminated with free mercury, may have had some
thing to do with this. Plantamour's compound exploded with
a white flame, which was bluish red at the edges ; the com
pound I obtained emitted a brilliant bluish-white light on
explosion. There is some evidence from Plantamour's paper
that a temperature exceeding 200° C. prevents the formation
 of the nitride from mercuric oxide and ammonia gas, and that
 the best temperature at which to carry out the synthesis is
 150° C. These facts appear to point to the conclusion that
 mercury nitride is a dissociable compound ; and the substance
 I obtained is probably so, as the continuation of the history of
 the tube will show. On June 22 the tube was wrapped in a
 good deal of copper gauze, and the bundle so made and into
 which three thermometers passed was placed in the air-bath.
 The burners were regulated so as to give a stationary tempe
 rature, first of 185c C. and then of 196° C. At the former
 temperature the gauge appeared to show that some substance
 was still undecomposed ; but there is some uncertainty, from
 the ratio of the volume of the spark-tube to the gauge-tube not
 being exactly known. Estimating these volume-ratios, how
 ever, as nearly as possible by means of external measurement,
 and applying the necessary corrections, I found that the
 pressure ought to be (as shown by the gauge) 5 millim.
 greater on the tube side than on the sealed side. The ob
 served pressure-difference was 5' 2 millim.—a better agreement

28              Prof. R. Threlfail on the Electrical
than one had any right to expect. The temperature was kept
constant for a quarter of an hour after the observation, in the
hope of detecting any further change, should it take place; but
the readings remained constant. I am therefore inclined to the
 belief that the substance dissociates on heating, and is all de
composed at a temperature of about 190° C. On June 23rd,
when all parts of the apparatus were again at a uniform
temperature, the original effect had almost returned, there now
being a difference of pressure of 3-2 millim. between the tube
and the sealed space; or, in other words, partial recombination
of the nitrogen appeared to have taken place.
   Other matters required my attention at this time, and I did
not get an opportunity to continue the study of the tube till
August 13. On this day the pressure-difference was 3- 7 millim.,
apparently showing that slow recombination had been going
on. On August 13, 14, 15, and 17 the tube was heated each
day up to about 190°, and curves drawn showing the relation
between the pressure and temperature. These curves did not
show a very good agreement, from the uncertainty as to cor
rections above mentioned ; and I therefore will only state that
the effect of the heating on the 13th was to reduce the pressure
difference to 2 millim., on the 14th to 1*5 millim., on the 15th
to -6. On each day the heating took place during five houi-s
or thereabouts, and the tube was maintained at its highest
temperature for about an hour. On August 1 7th the tube was
exposed to a temperature of 200° C. for six hours, and then
kept at 110° all night; and then, on August 18th, again
heated to 200° C. for five hours. When the tube was cold, on
August 19th, the effect had entirely disappeared, the mercury
standing at the same height in both limbs of the tube. On
August 21st recombination appeared to have taken place to
the extent of "5 millim., and then this disappeared again be
tween August 21st and September 3rd. No further change
having taken place by September 20th, the tube was finally
disconnected, and the following conclusions were provisionally
noted from a consideration of its behaviour.
   1. A compound is formed when the electric discharge is
passed over a mixture of mercury and nitrogen at a pressure
of about 8 millim. The action commencing slowly, and in
creasing in velocity till it reaches a maximum, then decreasing,
but continuing slowly till at least seven-eighths of the nitrogen
is absorbed, the mercury being in excess.
   2. The compound formed is brownish at first, but as time
goes on it becomes black, probably owing to a continual
increase in the quantity of mercury deposited with it.

             Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.                    2'J
    3. The compound decomposes with crepitation at a tem
perature of about 200° C. (very rough).
    4. The compound is probably identical with the trimer-
curamine of Plantamour.
    5. It behaves as a dissociable compound on heating and
cooling, and can finally be entirely decomposed by repeating
the heating and cooling often enough.
    6. An attempt to get the dissociation curve with such
accuracy as would allow the application of analysis failed,
through the want of a preliminary determination of the
relative capacity of tube and gauge.
    It now became necessary to repeat the experiment under
                                   Fig. 2.
                              To gauge, 120 cm. of filamentary tube.
To pump.'                                     tl
                                                                     Inlet for gas.
                  MERCURY LEVEL
      Inside diameter of main tube 1*6 cm. ; thickness of walls -15 cm.
 slightly changed conditions, so that new facts might present
 themselves and the previous results be controlled. I decided
 to make a tube of such a kind that I could begin by sparking
 it so that the sparks only passed through nitrogen, and then,
 after a sufficient interval of time and at any convenient
 opportunity, introduce mercury with a view to observing the
 modified action. In order to vary the conditions, the whole
 drying apparatus up to the sulphuric-acid tube was pumped
 out afresh and filled with gas, which passed through the
 reagents very slowly. This process occupied two days, one
 day and a half it took to exhaust the vessels, and half a day

  30               Prof. H. Threlfall on the Electrical
  (5 hours) for the gas to flow in. It will be convenient here
  to describe the tube employed, though the dimensions given
 are taken from a later experiment, which was supposed to be
 a repetition of the one in question ; the dimensions of this tube
 may therefore be in error by a few per cent., but the actual
  dimensions are not of much importance. The ends of the tube
  dip down into mercury cups (not shown) so as to protect the
 part where the wires enter from leakage. The mercury pocket
 in the tube which forms the subject of the diagram (fig. 2) is
 attached to the spark-tube by means of a capillary tube 14
 centim. long.
    This capillary tube was the finest piece of thermometer
 tubing 1 actually happened to have by me, and was, as I should
 imagine, about -1 millim. in diameter *. In preparing the tube
 after the final filling, the inlet at A is fused off, and when
 the proper pressure is reached the pump connexion at B
 is sealed, and afterwards, in two or three hours' time, the con
 necting tube of the mercury gauge.
    September 10-19. These days were spent in abortive
 attempts to get tubes of the pattern described to submit
 to having their electrodes white-hot for two or three hours
 without fracturing the glass.
    September 19. Tube 5, as described, sealed off at 8 7
 millim. The mercury was put in hot through a side-tube,
 but was not boiled in situ in order to avoid getting vapour
 into the spark-tube. In order to avoid the presence of air-
 bubbles between the mercury and the glass, the tube at C was at
first about 8 centim. long, and was drawn down to a fine point,
where it was fused off'. The apparatus was then filled with
nitrogen and well heated when containing a nitrogen vacuum,
especial care being devoted to the mercury pocket. Nitrogen
was then admitted at more than atmospheric pressure, and
finally the end of the tube was broken off near C and the
mercury run in as quickly as possible from a fino funnel
reaching to the bottom of the pocket. The tube at C was then
sealed, and the mercury warmed again to perhaps 100° C. and
the visible bubbles displaced, the tube being of course vacuous.
    Sept. 21. The mercury in the gauge was accurately at the
same height in both limbs. Sparked for five hours with the
best kind of sparks ; no effect.
    Sept. 22. Sparked four hours with an air-break in circuit
just sufficient to stop the spark but not the brush-discharge
across the air-break. It was noticed that luminosity went
   * This) capillary tube was part of the later arrangements. In the tube
under discussion its place was taken by a tube 2 millim. in diameter and
only about 6 centim. long.

            Properties of lJure Substances : Nitrogen.          31
down the tube to the mercury, and was much increased by
touching the outside of the tube near the mercury. This dis
charge, of course, was small compared with the discharge in
the main tube. There was no effect on the gauge.
    Sept. 23. Sparked with rather large sparks 6£ hours. No
effect.
    Sept. 24. Sparked strongly, so as to make the tube warm,
for 6^ hours. No effect.
    Sept. 25. The mercury boiled up into tube. This led to
the gauge showing a real increase of pressure of a little less
than vl millim.; I attribute this to gas from the sides of the
tube between it and the mercury. Sparked strongly for
5f hours ; when all was cold the pressure excess had grown
to about "2 millim., i. e. in a direction contrary to the one
expected.
    Sept. 2(5. Discharge on for        hours fairly strong, so as
to warm tube perceptibly. The gauge then showed the same
pressure on each side.
    Sept. 27. A wet paper band round that part of the tube
 where the mercury was most thickly condensed. Sparked
 four hours (?). No effect.
     Sept. 28. Ditto 3 hours. No effect.
     Sept. 29. Faint sparks for 5 hours ; wet paper band, as
 before. No effect.
     Oct. 1. Temperature being more rigorously equal, and
 gauge carefully tapped, there is a shrinkage of about "1 millim.
 Sparked six hours with faint sparks and wet paper round
 tube. No effect
     Oct. 2. Strong current on 6 hours. Looking the next
 day ^October 3rd), a faint yellow tinge was observed round
 the mercury drops, and the gauge showed "8 millim. difference
 of pressure. Sparked hard 6 hours ; the mercury was now
  obviously attacked, and when examined on October 3rd it was
  found that the pressure difference amounted to 3-2 millim.
  Sparked 3 hours with full discharge ; this increased the effect
  to 6 millim., and in another 4^ hours the discharge had become
  splendidly golden, the resistance in the tube small, and the tube
  was fluorescing strongly (a sign of mercury vapour). Effect
  increased to about 7 millim. The experiment was then inter
  rupted by the cracking of the tube.
      No opportunity for examining the deposit occurred till
  November 16th, ue. for more than a month. The tube was
  then cut into bits, and it was observed that the deposit had
  become partly incrusted with some whitish incrustation. On
  trying to produce an explosion the experiment failed, and it
  was obvious that the film had quite decomposed. It is to be
  noted that the mercury was only attacked with difficulty.

 32             Prof. R. Threlfall on the Electrical
     Tube 6.—Dec. 5, 1891. This is the tube shown in fig. 2.
 All drying apparatus exhausted twice ; tube prepared by
 a steady discharge during December 11th; left till 14th to
 test for leaks, when it was found that the whole apparatus
 was air-tight. Tube again sparked hard all December 14th
 with best pump-vacuum attainable. Electrodes at a bright
 red heat for 1^ hours ; mercury separated by long tube and
 boiled in pocket. Sealed off at about 6 millim. pressure on
 December 15th.
    Dec. 16. Sparked 2 hours through capillary water resist
ance ; tube slightly warm. No effect.
    Dec. 17. Sparked so as to produce a yellow glow for
3 hours and by small blue sparks for 1 hour. No effect.
    Dec. 18. Sparked with fairly strong discharge for 8 hours.
Tube too warm to read : so left till December 31 st, when it
 was found that the tube pressure had diminished by "2 millim.
 This led to an examination of the tube by holding a sheet of
 white paper behind it ; and it was found that a bronze-coloured
 film had formed where mercury had condensed near the top
 of the capillary tube. The mercury within the sphere of action
 was only the most minute trace. Sparked 3 hours and on.
    Dec. 22. Effect about -3 millim. Sparked for about an
 hour, and then on careful examination it was found that the
 glow was actually passing down the tube to the mercury. It
was clearly of no use to go on with the experiment in this
way, and consequently the mercury was boiled into the tube
and the spark turned on. The effect diminished during the
boiling from "35 millim. to '3 millim. Sparked then for
5 hours ; effect increased to 1*2 millim.
    Dec. 26. Sparked 4 hours. Effect 2-4 millim.
    Dec. 27. Ditto 3 hours. Effect 4-3 millim.
    Dec. 28. Sparked for one hour, when it was noticed that
the tube-resistance had increased and the gauge showed 5'38
millim. of effect ; hence the tube is nearly empty. On first
turning on the spark, the illumination began by being strong
for about one minute. The striae were well marked, and the
mercury spectrum prominent. After about one minute Ihe
luminosity diminished to that corresponding to faint blue
sparks. In twenty minutes the tube was again hot and fairly
luminous, and continued with luminous sparks and rising tem
perature for 35 minutes : the gauge showed that the rise of
temperature (?) was producing an increase of pressure. Tube
cooled for one hour, when it was found that the excessive
sparking had at last cracked the tube near the platinum wire,
and that some mercury had been drawn in. The tube was
then cut into bits, and one was heated in a test-tube in a

           Properties of Pure Substances : Nitrogen.            33
glycerine bath with the same precautions exactly as one uses
in taking a melting-point. I extract the following account
from my notebook verbatim:—" I could not detect any change
till about 230° C, at which temperature quiet decomposition
set in, and was complete and the tube clean at 235°. A con
siderable portion of the thermometer stem was outside the
bath, though it did not begin to register till above 110°.
Making all allowances, the temperatures might on this account
have been anything less than 5 above those given. The tem
perature rose very slowly, and the glycerine was kept well
stirred by a crescent-shaped stirrer of zinc. Experiments on
other bits of the tube were made by heating them in the bare
flame. In two of these (out of about four) there was a distinct
crepitation, but I did not note any flash, though that the
decomposition when once started ran very rapidly over the
whole mirror was well seen in all the experiments. The deposit
suddenly brightened with a puff of vapour. I could detect no
nitrous smell. The temperature must have been 20CP 0. in all
cases. The platinum deposits were enormous, and the elec
trodes torn up in all directions as described by Edison."
    These experiments may be considered to settle the question
of the cause of the effect observed by Professor Thomson and
myself in 1885 and 1886. No trace of the effect was ever
found unless the mercury was attacked ; and, contrariwise, the
mercury was never seen to be attacked without the " effect "
making its appearance. It is curious to note the difference in
the readiness with which the action can be brought about, even
when all the circumstances of the experiments appear to be
identical. It is for this reason that I imagine that the reaction
requires the intervention of minute traces of some third sub
stance, and the actual amount of these traces differs in different
experiments. When the reaction once commences it goes on
with increasing rapidity till near the end, and apparently
faster the more powerful the discharge. ,One experiment
appears to indicate that even after the trimercuramine (?) is
decomposed its constituents are in a state of " labile " equi
librium with respect to one another, and combine slightly or
separate according to some set of circumstances which I cannot
assign. It is curious, too, that the dissociation should be so
irreversible. Unless the mercury vapour continually liberated
is removed from the sphere of action—by combination with
the platinum deposit, for instance—I cannot understand the
effect of repeated heating ; and, indeed, I consider that the
suggestion just made is very possibly the true explanation.
   The condensation of nitrogen, therefore, at ordinary tem
peratures has not been observed ; but it is possible that it may
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 212. Jan. 1893.           D

34       On the Electrical Properties of Pure Substances.
occur at low temperatures. For this purpose 1 prepared
    Tube 7, which is figured in the Plate in the position
it occupied before it was sealed off. This tube was prepared
with even more than the usual care. Thus, the cleaning
of the tube occupied two days and the final rinsing was
accomplished by means of some thrice-distilled water from
the platinum and gold still. This water ran into the tube direct
from the still. The electrodes were prepared by sparking
during five hours with a discharge sufficient to make them red-
hot, during which time the tube was thrice filled and exhausted.
The next day the tube was heated twice, and on each occasion
about 500 cub. centim. of gas were passed through it ; after
which it was exhausted as far as possible (in an hour), and
 then the final charge was allowed to enter. The tube was
 sealed off at 8*7 millim. pressure, and then put in salt and
 pounded ice and kept at — 14° C. by means of frequent stirring
 and the addition of fresh ice and salt. Sparked 2 hours with
 effective sparks : no effect. (The effect was looked for the
 next day, when the temperatures were equalized, but was not
 observed.)
    Jan. 2. Sparked for 2 hours at about —10° C, all kinds of
 sparks. No effect.
    The filamentary tube was then replaced by a wider one, as
it was observed that the gauge only acted very slowly owing
to the extreme fineness of the filamentary tube. The spark-
 tube then required to be pumped out and prepared afresh,
 except for the heating of the electrodes, which, however, inci
 dentally took place.
    Jan. 4. Sparked 1± hours at — 10° C. No effect.
    Jan. 6. Sparked 7 hours at a mean temperature of — 8° C. ;
 various sparks. No effect.
    Jan. 7. Observed again, at very uniform temperatures.
 Still no effect.
    Jan. 12. Ditto.
    The conclusion is that no effect is produced on nitrogen, so
 far as condensation goes, by sparking it at a temperature of
 about — 10° C. and at a pressure of 8"2 millim.
                       Summary of Results.
    1. Nitrogen can be prepared by a continuous process in a
 state of great purity.
    2. Nitrogen so prepared cannot be caused to condense by
 any available kind of spark down to a temperature of —10° C.
 and a pressure of about 8 millim.
    3. When mercury is present, a compound of mercury and

            Refraction of Rays of Great Wave-length:           35
nitrogen is formed. This compound is probably identical
with the nitride obtained by Plantamour.
   4. The rate of formation of this nitride, other things being
the same, is so irregular as to suggest that its formation is due
to the interaction of an otherwise inappreciable trace of some
other substance.
    5. This compound is dissociable ; but under the circum
stances of the experiment the dissociation process is not
entirely reversible, since sufficient heating will permanently
destroy the compound.
    6* There are changes in the appearance of the discharge in
nitrogen which can be brought about by very slight variations
of temperature, and possibly of electromotive force, for which,
so far as I know, no explanation is at present forthcoming.
   Sydney, August 5, 1892.
II. On the Refraction of Rays of Great Wave-length in
    Rock-salt, Sylvite, and Fluorite. By Heinkich Rubens
    and Benj. W. Snow*.
                              [Plate II.]
IN volume xl. of Wiedemann's Annalen one of the present
       authors recently described a method whereby a know
ledge of the dispersion of rays in the infra-red may be easily
 obtained. With the aid of this device the dependence of the
index of refraction upon the wave-length was determined for
sixteen materials ; viz. for nine different samples of glass, for
water, carbon disulphide, xylol, benzol, quartz, rock-salt, and
 fluorite. Inasmuch as in this paper is given a minute de
 scription of the methods employed, it will suffice here briefly
 to refer to the main features of the method of procedure
followed in the present determination.
    The rays from the zirconia burner of Linnemann, after
 being reflected from the front and the rear surfaces of a thin
 plate of air, enclosed between two parallel glass planes, were
 then concentrated upon the slit of a spectrometer, by which
 means two beams of light were produced, capable of mutual
 interference, so that the otherwise continuous spectrum of the
 incandescent zirconia plate was crossed by a series of vertical
 interference-Lands. The wave-length \ of each such dark
 band, multiplied by a certain whole number to, always equals
 the product of twice the thickness d of the layer of air and
 the cosine of the angle of incidence i of the rays. With the aid
                  * Communicated by the Authors.
                                D2

36     H. Rubens and B. W. Snow on the Refraction of
of the Fraunhofer lines the wave-lengths of the interference-
bands were determined for the visible portion of the spectrum,
and from these data were calculated the order m of each dark
band and the product K = 2d cos i. The knowledge of these
two constants proved, then, sufficient to determine also the
wave-lengths of the interference-bands in the infra-red.
   The positions of these latter were obtained by allowing the
sensitive filament of a linear bolometer to wander through the
spectrum, and plotting the observed galvanometer-deflexions
as a function of the angular deviation. The interference-
bands are then recognized as minima or maxima in the curve.
In this way, for a series of angular deviations may be deter
mined the corresponding indices of refraction ; that is, a
number of points in the n—X plane determined, which, when
joined by a smooth curve, give the curve of dispersion for the
material examined.
   In the majority of the bodies thus investigated, the limit of
the region in the infra-red capable of being explored was
prescribed by the absorption, which increases rapidly with
increasing wave-lengths. In two cases alone, viz. when
working with rock-salt and with fluorite, were the investiga
tions discontinued at wave-lengths \=5'7/u and \=3'3/j
respectively, before the region of strong absorption was
reached. This was rendered necessary by the fact that the
apparatus employed proved to be insufficiently sensitive to
measure the exceedingly feeble energy found in the spectrum
of the zirconia burner at these long wave-lengths.
   As a means of continuing the investigation beyond this
point two ways of improvement suggested themselves. At
first we thought it possible to increase the energy of the source
of light, but all endeavours to attain this end proved of no
avail. The use of the electric arc for this purpose was, after
a short but thorough trial, discontinued. Even arc lamps of
unusually good regulation, when supplied by the almost per
fectly constant current of the Berlin Central Station, gave a
 radiation too fluctuating to be used in place of the zirconia
light. The regulation of the arc by hand was also tried, but
also without success. The use, moreover, of a zirconia burner
of nearly double the dimensions of the former resulted in only
a feeble increase in the energy, while a series of new diffi
culties was thereby introduced, such as the melting of the
platinum cell, a greater consumption of gas, &c. We con
cluded, therefore, for the further investigation, to retain the
source of light in its original form, and to make better use of
the energy here at hand by increasing as far as possible the
sensitiveness of the measuring apparatus.

      Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-salt, Sylvite, Sfc.    37
     The first change toward the accomplishment of this end
 was effected in the substitution of two plane surfaces of larger
 dimensions in place of the reflecting plates formerly used.
 For this purpose the optical firm of Carl Zeis, of Jena, most
 generously provided us with two plates with plane surfaces,
 4 centim. square and 1 centim. thick, one of crown glass and
the other of fluorite. The plates were set in metal frames,
 and the distance between them regulated by a system of
 screws, as in the former case. With the exception of the
 extreme edges both plates were ground to a truly plane sur
 face. A rectangular opening in a diaphragm, placed in the
 path of the rays, allowed only light to enter the slit of the
 spectroscope which had been reflected from the central portion
 of the plates. The interference-bands thus produced were
unusually sharp, as can be seen from the pronounced minima
of the curves in figs. 1, 2, and 3 (Plate II.), which represent
the three different energy-spectra. Hardly need it be men
tioned that in the following experiments the entire optical
system consisted wholly of rock-salt and fluorite.
    The delicacy of the bolometer was increased chiefly by using
 a galvanometer of the highest degree of sensitiveness which one
 of us had constructed, and which will be described in detail in
a forthcoming paper. The coils of the galvanometer in series
 measured 140 ohms resistance. When the period of the
needle was reduced for the single swing to 10 seconds, one
millimetre deflexion on the scale indicated a current of
1*3 x 10-11 ampere. With this degree of astaticism the zero-
point of the needle was perfectly constant.
    The bolometer with which the following determinations
were made is described as No. 2 in the previous paper. It
consisted of two strips of platinum, 12 millim. long and
0'05 millim. wide, each having about 80 ohms resistance,
only one of them being exposed to radiation. With the aid
of the new galvanometer we were able to trace a sensitiveness
of 0*000003° C. per millimetre deflexion. A standard candle
one metre distant produced a deflexion of 400 millim.
   With the exception of the changes here mentioned all
pieces of apparatus were identical with those formerly de
scribed. The relative positions, moreover, of the instrument,
as well as the manner and the order in which the operations
were performed, w ere retained unchanged. We can therefore
pass at once to the results of our observations.
   Measurements were made upon the three materials so well
known for their diathermanous properties—rock-salt, sylvite,
and fluorite.

38      H. Rubens and B. W. Snow on tJw Refraction oj
                          I. Hock-salt.
¦ We had at our disposal a prism of this mineral having
a triangular base 3£ centim. on each side and 4£ centim. in
height. Before being used the prism was freshly polished
and its refracting angle redetermined. The observations
with the bolometer gave the energy spectrum represented in
fig. 1, PI. II. The positions of the maxima and minima
were corrected, as in the paper cited above, with the aid of
the enveloping curve, whereby the points of contact of the
two curves were used without further modification as the
characteristic points in question. As the theory shows, this
method gives a closer approximation to the quantities required
than the method by construction given in the former paper.
 But little weight, however, is to be attached to the superiority
of this modification, as both methods lead to results which are
identical to the fourth decimal place.
    Inasmuch as the present investigation was undertaken ex
 pressly for the purpose of extending measurements as far as
 possible into the infra-red, we were compelled to use a com
paratively thick layer of air for reflecting the interfering
 beams of light, which brought the interference-bands in the
 spectrum very near together. It was quickly found, how
 ever, that even the narrow width of the bolometer and the
 impurity of the spectrum, caused by the aberration of the
 lenses, placed a limit beyond which the further reduction of
 the breadth of the interference-bands could not be carried.
 With the feeble dispersion of the materials used, this limit
 was practically reached when the visible spectrum was crossed
 by seven or eight interference-bands, which gave a value to
 the constant K = 2d cos i of about S'5/i. According to this,
 the minimum of the first order, which is the farthest possible
 attainable point in the infra-red, has a wave-length \=8'5fi.
 Then follow the maximum of the second order and the corre
 sponding minimum, which have wave-lengths \ = 5'7/i and
 X=4 3/i respectively. Although the curvature of the curve
 of dispersion in this region is slight, it seems to us, neverthe
 less, desirable to add, for greater accuracy in our measure
 ments, other possible points to the small number already
 obtained. In order to attain this end, we found it advan
 tageous to use not only the corrected positions of the maxima
 and minima and their corresponding wave-lengths for plotting
 the curve of dispersion, but also the points of intersection of
 the energy curve G=/(«) (see fig. 1) with the curve of
 mean energy R=/(a), since the wave-lengths corresponding
 to the abscissae of these points are easily calculated. This

      Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-salt, Sylvite, Sfc.      39
latter curve might have been observed directly, had the
distance between the plates enclosing the reflecting layer of
air been sufficiently increased. This curve R=/(a), which
represents the distribution of energy when no interference is
present, can be constructed, however, with sufficient accuracy,
when at each point an ordinate is erected equal to the mean
of the ordinates of the corresponding points of the enveloper,
P and Q. If the curve G=/(a) is intersected at any point
by the curve R=/(a), then the amplitude for the abscissa of
this point must have the same magnitude which it would have
attained had a superposition of the energy of the two beams
taken place without interference.
   The vibratory motion of the two beams whose amplitude
and period are A and T respectively, may be represented by
the equations
                  #!=Asin 2tt^— ?V
                                It        T     r2\
                  y2~Asin2-n-                 ^       ).
 They unite to form the ray
                      /T, \\                      , K \
                                        (t      a+2Ti\
        Y=2A cos               sin 2
                                     77 \t            x-J
                                           K      X
          = 2Asm— sin2^f                    %       j.
   It follows from what has been said above that, for the
abscissa of the point of intersection of the two curves R and
 G, the amplitude of the beam Y, viz. 2A sin            , must equal
 +A         X is accordingly determined from the equation
                       sin — = ±t V2,
               ttK _ 7T 3tt 5tt          {2n + l)ir
                 \ ~ 4 " 4 ' 4 "'            4      >
where n is any whole number. The wave-length, therefore,
of each point of intersection is given by the equation
                               2n + T
A knowledge of the order of the adjacent maxima and
minima gives at once an interpretation to the quantity n. If

 40      H. Rubens and B. W. Snow on the Refraction of
 the point of intersection in question lies in such a way that
  the adjacent minimum (with order) lies on the side of the
 longer wave-lengths, and the adjacent maximum on the side
 of the shorter wave-lengths, then n=2m.
    The introduction of these points in the calculation of the
 curve of dispersion made it possible for us to conduct the
 observations with interference-bands as broad aswerenecessary,
 and at the same time to obtain a sufficiently great number of
 points to enable us to ascertain the character of the curve of
 dispersion with nearly the same degree of accuracy as in those
 portions of the spectrum lying but little beyond the reach of
 the eye.
    At this point mention should be made of a peculiarity of
 the energy-curve, which may be observed in the drawing
 (fig. 1). The deflexions of the galvanometer, at the point of
 the last minimum an, not only sink to zero, but even assume
 negative values. The cause of this singularity, which also
 appears to a smaller degree in the energy-curve of fluorite, is
 to be found in the fact that the second unilluminated arm of
 the bolometer, which was placed in the apparatus within a
 casing of hard-rubber, notwithstanding this covering received
 upon its surface a greater amount of energy than the first
arm, which was exposed to the direct radiation. The plausi
 bility of this explanation is increased when we remember that
 the covered resistance is then at a portion of the spectrum
 in which the mean energy is 50 times greater than in the
neighbourhood of the minimum an, and that ebonite is not
opaque to thermal radiation of great wave-length.
    In the following Table are found the results of the observed
indices of refraction and wave-lengths. The first column,
entitled " Name," gives the quality of the characteristic point
in question, as Fraunhofer line, minimum (a), maximum (b),
or point of intersection (c) of the curves G and R ; the second
column contains the angle of deviation a as measured on the
graduated circle ; the third contains the index of refraction n,
calculated from the refracting angle </> and the angle of
deviation a according to the formula
                                  sin I
the fourth column contains finally the wave-length which is
calculated from the order m of the interference -band and the
constant K = 2d cos i. The curve of dispersion plotted from
the data of this Table is found in fig. 4, a.

       Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-salt, Sylvite, fyc.       41
                                Table I.
      Refracting Angle of the Hock-salt Prism, $=60° 2\
                  K = 8-307/* ; ax is 11th Order.
        Name.            a.                n.                  X.
                       O 1                                  /»•
    Hv                42 37              1-5607             0-434
    F                 41 56              1-5531             0-485
    D                        7           1-5441             0-589
    0                 40 47              1-5404             0-656
                            29           1-5370             0-755
    *l                      224          1-5358             0-790
    «2                      16£          1-5347             0-831
                            Hi           1-5337             0-876
    «3                       7           1-5329             0-923
    *3                       2*          1-5321             0-978
                      39 58              1-5313             1035
    h                       b^           1-5305             1-107
                            51           1-5299             1-186
    h                       474          1-5293             1-277
                            44           1-5286             1-384
    h\                      41           1-5260             1-511
                            38           1-5275             1-660
    *T                      35           1-5270             1-845
                            32           1-5264             2 076
    bl                      28           1-5257             2-372
    o9                      22*          1-5247             2-771
    cl                      18           1-5239             3022
    *o                      181          1-5230             3320
    ft,                      7           1-5217             3-690
                             2           1-5208             4- 150
    o3                38 56 .            1-5197             4-745
    K                       49           1-5184             5-540
                            374          1-5163             6-647
    au                      24           1-5138             8-307
   It is well known that Professor Langley*, hy a method
wholly different from the one here described, was able to
follow the dispersion in rock-salt to a wave-length \ — 5'3fi.
He found, in these experiments, that the curve of dispersion
from about \=2yu. on followed very nearly a straight line.
Owing to the fact that even with the elaborate means at
hand he was unable to extend measurements by his method
farther than this in the direction of the long wave-lengtbs, he
concluded to extend this straight line throughout the still
more distant region of the infra-red in which his observations
were taken.
  Many theoretical objections are at once suggested by so
extensive an exterpolation. Among these criticisms may be
            * Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. [6] ix. p. 433 (1886).

 42       H. Rubens and B. W. Snow on the Refraction of
 mentioned one in particular, that, from a definite wave
 length on, the indices of refraction would assume negative
 values, which points to an utter impossibility. There re
 mained, however, the possibility that within the limits of
 Professor Langley's measurements of energy, the straight line
 exterpolation gave results which were at least a first approxi
 mation to the true value. A glance at the curve (fig. 4, a)
 shows, on the other hand, that in reality this is not the case.
 Indeed it is true that our own curve of dispersion tends
 toward a straight line until a point is reached almost as distant
as \=5fi ; but at X = 5/t the curve begins gradually to lessen
its inclination to the horizontal axis of wave-lengths ; and at
 \=8/i the effect of this curvature is so considerable that a
straight line exterpolation carried from \ = 5(i on to this
point would introduce an error in the determination of wave
length not less than lfi.
    In the following Table a comparison is made between our
results and those of Professor Langley. It is to be noticed
that his curve, as far as this is plotted from his observations,
agrees fairly well with our own, but that his values given by
exterpolation differ widely from those observed by us, and
that their difference increases as the wave-lengths become
longer. There are also added here for completeness the data
obtained from the previous paper. That an easier com
parison may be made with Langley's figures, the wave-lengths
selected increase by multiples of \d = (>589/k..
                               Table II.
    Wave-length.       n              n    n (Rubens & n (Langley) -
                   (Langley).    (Eubens).    Snow). «(Eub.&Sn.).
    1. XD =0 589  1-5442 *         1-5441     1-5441       00001
    2. AD = 1-178 1-5301           1-5300     1-5301            0
    3. \D = 1-767 T5272            1-5269     1-5272            0
    4. XD =2-356  1-5254 O         1-5253     1-5256     -0 0002
    5. XD= 2-945  1 5243 OB        1-5241     1-5240     4-0-0003
    6. XD= 3-534  1-5227 CD        1-5227     1-5226            1
    7. XD =4-123  1-5215          1-5214      1-5212            3
    8. XD=4-712   1-5201          1-5202      1-5200            1
    9. XI)=5-301  1-5186          1-5189      1-5188     -0-0002
  10. XD=5-890    1-5172-                     1-5177            5
  11. A„= 6-480   1-5158 sM          ...      1-5166            8
  12. XD=7070     1-5144 - -3o       ...      1-5157           13
  13. XD=7-66     1-5129 sT                   1-5148           19
  14. XD=8-25     1-5115^            ...     1-5138            23

        Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-salt, Sylvite, fyc.          43
    The values, therefore, attributed by Professor Langley* to
the wave-lengths in that region of the spectrum lying be
tween \=0 and \=5/i are undoubtedly correct. Beyond
this limit, however, at least as far as \ = 8'3/i, the values
assumed are too small, but it is not impossible that when still
greater wave-lengths are reached the sign of the error may
change. The results, nevertheless, of his observations remain
of the greatest interest, since it will be easily possible to apply
a correction to the wave-lengths as soon as the dispersion
in rock-salt can be followed to sufficiently small indices of
refraction.
                                  Sylvite.
    The behaviour of rock-salt is in every respect similar to
 that of the mineral sylvite, to which it stands in close chemical
 relation. There was placed at our disposal a prism of this
 material, 14 millim. at the base and 20 millim. in height.
 The surfaces of this prism were so well polished that the
 refracting angle could be determined to within 05 minute.
     In fig. 2 the observed galvanometer-deflexions are plotted
 as functions of the angular deviation of the arm of the bolo
 meter. From this curve is computed the table of dispersion
 in the manner described above. Corresponding to this is
 plotted the curve of dispersion (fig. 4, b).
                                Table III.
       Refracting Angle of the Prism of Sylvite, <£ = 59° 54'.
                      K = 8-022^ ; at is 10th Order.
   Name.       a.        n.       X.     Name.        a.       n.    X.
              O i              A*                    O 1
    Hy ... 37 30       1-5048  0-434      bs        35 5     1-4766 1-458
    P        36 55     1-4981  0-486      «6              2* 1-4761 1-603
    D            13J   1-4900  0-589      b6        34 59J   1-4755 1-781
    C        35 57     1-4868  0-656      «T            56J  1-4749 2-005
    <*i          37    1-4829  0-802      b,            53   1-4742 2-291
    4,           32    1-4819  0-845      «8            48   1-4732 2-673
    «s           27    1-4809  0-893      *.            43   1-4722 3-209
    bl           23*   1-4802  0-944      «1            40£  1-4717 3-561
    a3            20   1-4795   1-003                   38   1-4712 4011
    K             16*  1-4789   1070      <>2           35J  1-4708 4-577
    o4            13   1-4782   1-145      K             32  1-4701 5-345
    b<            10   1-4776   1-234      "a            28  1-4693 6-412
    "s             7*  1-4771   1-337      <e10 ...     22   1-4681 8-022
     * Langley, Sill. Journ. [3] xxxi. pp. 1-22, 1886; further [3] xxxii
  pp. 83-106, 1886, and [3] xxxviii. pp. 421-440 ; Thil. Mag. xxvi. p. 505,
 1888. The same is true of t he paper of Angstrom, Ofversigt of Konql
  Vet.-Akad. Forhmdl. ix. p. 549, 1889, and vii. p. 331, 1890, and W
 H. Julim, Arch. Nterl. I pp. 310-384, 1888.

  44      H. Rubens and B. W. Snow on the Refraction of
     A study of this curve shows that the dispersion in sylvite,
  which in the visible spectrum is only slightly inferior to that
  in rock-salt, decreases in a similar manner but far more rapidly
  than in the latter mineral, so that at wave-length X=8fi the
  dispersion is only about one third of the corresponding
  dispersion in rock-salt.
     Notwithstanding the great durability of this material, and
  its permanence in moist air as well as its almost perfect trans
 parency to thermal radiations, the exceedingly rapid decrease
 in the dispersive power of sylvite renders this substance not
  so well adapted for experiments involving the use of prisms
 as rock-salt, whose surfaces are only with difficulty kept
 perfect. In the construction of condensing lenses this
 difficulty does not occur.
                              Fluorite.
     The prism here examined is the same one which was used
 in the former investigation. The value of the refracting
 angle was redetermined and was found to agree very closely
 with the observations previously made.
     For a long time we tried in vain to measure beyond wave
 length \ = 3'5/*, the energy-spectrum produced by the fluorite
 prism. The results of the previous observations show the
 cause of our failure to be due to the fact that, after a region
 of comparatively feeble dispersion, the dispersive power of
 fluorite increases and the energy in this portion of the spec
 trum becomes proportionally weaker. In order to make
 further advances, we were finally compelled to open wider
 the slit of the spectrometer at those places where the radiant
 energy sank below a measurable quantity. The repetition of
 this device enabled us to reach a wave-length in the infra-red
 greater than X=8/i. In the curve shown in fig. 3, which
 represents the observed distribution of energy produced by
the fluorite prism, the slit was twice opened ; the first time
 from 0*1 millim. to 0-4 millim. when the arm of the bolometer
was at a deviation a = 30° 10', and a second time from 0*4
millim. to I/O millim. at an angle of deviation a = 28° 50'.
By this means the deflexions of the galvanometer were
increased fourfold and tenfold respectively. Owing to the
greatly increased dispersion and the corresponding increase
in the breadth of the interference-bands, this change in the
width of the slit did not materially interfere with the sharp
ness of the bands in this region of the spectrum. Inasmuch
as only one side of the slit was movable, a correction had to be
applied to the reading of the arm of the bolometer when the
slit was opened.
    The distribution of energy, as shown in fig. 3, gives a curve
whose character is wholly different from the representation of

      Rays of Great Wave-length In Rock-salt, Sylvite, fye.      45
the energy-spectra produced by rock-salt or sylvite, given
in figs. 1 and 2. While in these latter the breadth of the
interference-bands increases only slowly as the extreme infra
red is reached, amounting finally to hardly more than double
the smallest value, the breadth of these bands varies in the
energy-spectrum, as given by the fluorite prism, from
5 minutes to more than 2^ degrees. Corresponding to this
peculiar characteristic in the energy-spectrum of fluorite, the
quality of the dispersion in this mineral is quite different from
that of the materials previously considered.
   In the following Table, which contains these data, the indices
of refraction are given only to three decimal places. As a
result of the very considerable breadth of the interference-
bands, it is impossible to locate the position of the cha
racteristic points with the precision attainable in other cases.
                              Table IV.
      Refracting Angle of the Fluorite Prism, <£=59° 59^'.
                   K = 8-070 fi ; ax is 10th Order.
  Name.      a.       ii.     X.      Name.      a.     n.    X.
            O 1
  Hy ... 32 5       1-4398   0-434     h       30 59  1-4267 1-466
  P        31 52    1-4372   0-485                    1-4260 1-613
  D             36  1-4340   0-589     h          51  1-4250 1-792
  0             29  1-4325   0-656     o7         46  1-4240 2019
  <>1           19  1-4307   0-807     b7         38  1-4224 2-303
  *l            17  1-4303   0-850     %          29  1-4205 2-689
  «2                1-4299   0-896     b8          13 1-4174 3-225
  h             12  1-4294   0-950             29 46  1-4117 4-035
  o,            10  1-4290   1009                  29 1-408  4-62
  *3             8  1-4286   1-076     bs           4 1-403  5-38
  «4             6  1-4281   1-152     o2      28 30  1-396  6-46
  K              4  1-4277   1-240     «,o ••• 27 5   1-378  8-07
  «5             2 1-4272    1-345
    The curve of dispersion, shown in fig. 4, c, exhibits more
graphically than this table the peculiar character of the dis
persion. From this it is seen that the dispersive power of
ffrorite decreases as far as \= 2 fi and then gradually increases,
reaching at \ = 8fi a value only slightly inferior to the value
of the dispersion in the red.
    Compared with rock-salt and sylvite, the dispersion of
fluorite in the visible spectrum is exceedingly small and
unusually great in the infra-red ; so that this material is
peculiarly well adapted to the production of prismatic heat-
spectra, an advantage which is still further increased by the
ease with which it can be worked and by the permanence of
its surface in the air.
   Physical Laboratory, University of Berlin,
                      June 1892.

                               [   46 ]
        III. Notes on the Construction of a Colour Map.
                    By Walter Baily, ALA.*
1. TN my paper on this subject, read before the Physical
    JL Society on April 8 lastf, in discussing the method of
plotting out the curve giving the mixtures of two spectrum
colours, I stated that points in the curve lying in the ab
normal or imaginary regions could not be determined by
experiment. This I now find is a mistake.
   Let      and S2 be spectrum colours, of which the mixtures
are to be represented by points on the curve. The part of
the curve lying in the imaginary and abnormal regions is
obtained by subtracting light of one colour from light of the
other colour, and equating the resulting colour to the mixture
(if I may use the expression) obtained by subtracting white
from some other spectrum colour S.
   We have
                       nxS, — w2S2 = S — xW.
   This equation does not represent any possible physical ex
periment, but it may be transformed, without altering the
value of any of the quantities, into
                       S + n^^^n^ + xW.
    This last equation means :—Make a colour-patch of S and
 S2, and a colour-patch of Si and W, and vary the quantities
of Si, S2, and W until the two patches are similar in colour,
 and then measure the quantity of white. A line drawn to
 the left from the position of S, and proportional in length to
 the quantity of white, will define the position of the required
 point in the curve.
    2. In the map the region on the right of the line of spec
trum colours is occupied by all the colours obtained by mixing
spectrum colours and white. I suggest that this should be
 called the Spectral Region. The equation for determining
points on the mixture curves in the Spectral Region is
                       n1S1 + n2S2 = S+tfW.
    The region to the left of the abnormal and imaginary
 regions is occupied by colours complementary to those in the
 Spectral Region. I suggest that this should be called the
 Complementary Region. The equation for determining points
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read October 28, 1892.
   t Phil. Mag. June 1892, p. 496.

         Mountain-Sickness ; and Power and Endurance.        47
on the mixture curves in the Complementary Region is
                        S+n1S1+nsSs=a;'W.
The equation for determining points on the mixture curves
in the Imaginary and Abnormal Regions has just been shown
to be (for one part of the curve)
                        S + 7l2S2 = T^Sj + #W,
and it is obvious that for the other part it will be
                        S + nfii = n2S2 + xW.
     3. In defining a colour as compounded of a spectrum
colour and white, we have to determine both quality and
quantity of the white light.
     A colour may be defined by three spectrum colours by
means of the equation
                       «iSi + n2S2 = n3S3 + #W,
 or of the equation
                            + m2S2 + n3S3 = xW.
     The colour is that obtained when a patch formed in ac
 cordance with one side of the equation is made identical with
 a patch formed in accordance with the other. In this case
 quantity of white need not be defined, but quality must be
 defined.
     If a colour be defined by four spectrum colours the defini
 tion is independent of any convention as to the quality of
 white light. Let S1; S2, S3, S4 be four spectrum colours
 whose wave-lengths are in order of magnitude, then the
 equation
                       WjS, +n3S3 — w2S2 + w4S4
 defines a certain colour, which can be obtained by making a
 patch of Si and S3 identical in colour with one of S2 and S4.
        IV. Mountain-Sickness ; and Power and Endurance.
               By R H. M. Bosanquet, F.R.S.*
  THE account of mountain-sickness at great altitudes,
         given in Mr. Whymper's work, ' Travels amongst the
  Great Andes of the Equator,' is of great interest. On reading
  it, it appeared to me to suggest a simple explanation of the
  occurrence of mountain-sickness under the circumstances
                    *• Communicated by the Author.

48       Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Mountain-Sickness >'
narrated, an explanation consistent with all the facts, inclu-
ding the immunity enjoyed by Mr. Perring (p. 51). I thought
the matter too plain for publication. But the appearance of
Mr. Dent's article in the 1 Nineteenth Century ' (Oct. 1892),
" Can Mount Everest be ascended ? " shows that my point of
view has escaped notice. This appears at once from the
remark at p. 611 : " Men of large vital capacity, with large
bones and full-blooded, are the best suited [for the ascent of
the highest mountains] ." So far as mountain-sickness of the
great-altitude type is concerned, this is certainly not true
without qualification : the case of Mr. Perring above alluded
to is in point.
   The body may be compared to a steam-engine and boiler,
the food-arrangements being paralleled by a mechanical stoker,
such that the supply of fuel can be fed into the reservoir of
the stoker in lump quantities, as food is fed into the stomach
at meals. The digestion and other internal arrangements,
which we may speak of as the " internal feed," pass this on
into the place of combustion just as a mechanical stoker does
fuel. When food is regularly taken, the internal feed will
supply the combustion within the body at a more or less con
stant rate, not depending on any voluntary action at the
moment, but depending on the constitution, on the average
amount of food taken at meals, and probably on the efficiency
or wastefulness of the internal feed.
   The rate of the internal feed must vary enormously in
different persons. In men " of large vital capacity, . . . and
full-blooded," it will generally be very much larger than in
persons of small vital capacity.
   Now we can easily suppose an internal feed so copious as
to approach, in its requirement of oxygen for its proper
combustion, the possible supply afforded by the breathing
mechanism. And my suggestion is simply that in cases of
great-altitude mountain-sickness, such as Mr. Whymper
relates, the diminution of the air-supply reaches a point at
which there is not enough oxygen for the consumption of the
fuel continually brought forward by the internal feed. Of
course, so long as this is the case, disturbance of the system
is to be expected from the accumulation of the reducing
(oxygen-devouring) substances furnished by the internal
feed to the blood. Under these circumstances, food would
probably not be taken for a time ; the internal feed would
after a time be reduced ; and an equilibrium of the system set
up again founded on a reduced food consumption. And this
is precisely what happened, according to Mr. Whymper's
account.

                  and Power and Endurance.                     49
   On the other hand, Mr. Perring, " rather a debilitated man,
and distinctly less robust than ourselves " (p. 51), escaped the
sickness. According to my view, the food-supply his system
was dealing with was not in excess of what could easily be
consumed by the air he breathed, even at the reduced
density.
   According to this view, while the artificial supply of oxygen
advocated by some investigators should be able to give relief,
if the oxygen could be got to its work, yet the obvious course
is to attack the other element ; and by a judicious preliminary
course of moderate starvation, combined with light work, to
endeavour to bring the system into the required condition of
reduced fuel consumption—in fact into the condition at which
it arrived in Mr. Whymper's case, through the painful path
of the attack of mountain-sickness.
   So far I have spoken of what may be called " great-alti
tude " mountain-sickness. As to the more ordinary form, I
am sorry to say I was at one time a sufferer. Experience
enabled me to overcome it by adopting a slow uniform mea
sured pace. But, after the disappearance of the agility of
youth, for some seasons I always suffered in my first expedi
tions, even at quite moderate elevations. And 1 have no
doubt whatever that it was due to the system being over
tasked ; that is to say, when I was endeavouring to do some
thing like, say, ^ of a horse-power for a time far longer
than I was capable of, I collapsed, probably not being capable
 of doing more than, say,       of a horse-power for any con
 siderable time, at all events when out of training.
    So far I have avoided going into numerical details, as they
 are not necessary for the general explanation, and they open
 up an exceedingly wide subject. But I propose now to deal
 shortly with certain relations of the external work which can
 be performed by men ; this is conveniently reckoned in terms
 of " horse-power."
    One "horse-power" is commonly defined as 550 footpounds
 per second, without qualification. When recently horses were
 replaced by electric motors on certain tramways, it was gene
 rally considered a surprise that motors of about 35 H.P., as
 above defined, were required to replace the horses. The
 explanation is that the 550 footpounds per second definition
 was based on the average effort that horses could exert for a
 considerable time. The output of power of a horse on such
occasions as drawing a load up a sharp hill must be quite ten
times a nominal horse-power. And the machine is required
to be able to replace the greatest effort of which, say, 3 horses
are capable.                                            ..
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 212. Jan. 1893.           E

 50       Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on Mountain-Sickness;
     Similarly, consider a man weighing 12 stone. According
 to a well-known mountaineering datum, he may lift his weight
  1000 feet per hour for many hours. Under these circum
 stances he is doing about ^ of a nominal horse-power.
     Certain experiments on the treadmill gave | horse-power
  external work, maintained for 3£ hours.
     But any ordinary person can do a whole horse-power, if the
 time of the effort be short enough. Take a man weighing
  12 stone = 168 lb. If he raise his weight a little over 3 feet
 per second, he is doing a horse-power of work. (For 550/168
  = 3'27, or a little more than 3£.) Now any ordinary person
 who can run upstairs two steps at a time can do this easily
 for a few seconds, and an active person for longer, but the
 duration of the effort will not easily exceed a certain fraction of
 a minute.
     Further, active people can do 2 horse-power, running
 upstairs at the rate of 6£ feet of ascent per second, for a very
 few seconds.
     It appears, therefore, that the power a man is capable of
 exerting depends on the duration of the effort.
     The following (p. 51) are a few data I have selected as the
 basis for a numerical law.
     The law adopted is that the time of duration of effort (or
 the " endurance ") varies inversely as the cube of the power
 exerted, supposed uniform. Or, conversely, that the power
 which can be exerted for a given time varies inversely as the
 cube root of the time (or of the " endurance ").
     Of course the numbers here given can only be rough
 approximations to an average ; and we need not be surprised
 if we find wide divergences in isolated cases.
    While the correspondence of the calculated times with the
 estimates is not in all cases close, the discrepancies are in
opposite directions. Further, any considerable change in the
assumed law would tend to make the calculated numbers
impossible in the one direction or the other. Thus, if we took
the fourth power instead of the cube, it would make the tasks
at the bottom easier, and that at the top impossible or nearly
so, and vice versa if we took the square instead of the cube.
    The treadmill datum has been taken as the starting-point,
the calculated endurances of the other cases being derived by
multiplying 3£ hours by the cubes of the inverse ratios
of H.P.
    It must be noted that we do not know the average weight
of Leslie Stephen's party. I have assumed that this was
12 stone. If not, a correction will be required. It will be
seen that their actual endurance app ears greatly to exceed

                                                                                              by eDatum
                                                                                                 Smith
                                                                                               tr1
                                                                                               quoted
                                                                                                 from
                                                                                                  admil ,            "I
                                                                                                                     feet
                                                                                                                     Randa.
                                                                                                                    Stephen
                                                                                                                    10,000
                                                                                                                     :DLeslieom
                                                                                                                      from                  1
                                                                                                                                            feet
                                                                                                                                            hour.
                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                            rule
                                                                                                                                            Mountaine r's
                                                                                                                                            1000
                                                                                                                                           perEsti-
per
j          asfeet
          by
   econds 6|
  for
  second
 sfew        of
             1
             at
             ecH2
             rate ndritnegd j
                xe.P.       per
                             .mof rinuteaction\
                               fasomesecond
                                 for          by
                                              as3-27
                                                feet
                                                rate
                                                 of
                                                 at
                                                 ceH1xn.P.
                                                       edritnegd
                                                                 J
                                                                 English
                                                                 by
                                                                  units
                                                                   Reduced
                                                                   meto    42).
                                                                           p.
                                                                           (Chera.
                                                                           1868,
                                                                            I
                                                                            Journ.
                                                                             F r a n k l a n d            J in
                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                            h
                                                                                                          (Ball.)
                                                                                                              ours.             say
                                                                                                                                enhours
                                                                                                                                J 10
                                                                                                                                  durance,
                                                                                                                                  mated
                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                    Nature
                                                                                                                                                                    Data.
                                                                                                                                                                    H.P.
                                                                                                                                                                    Exact
                                                                                                                ¦105                   ¦085
                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                                         Ap roximate
      2                                  1                                v, I                                To1                  1-11_                  H.P.
                                                                         3|h
                                                                          (datum).                                                                        endurance. Calculated
                                         248-6                                                                   54s
                                                                                                                 5h
       3"-08
                                                                                                                                                          enadcurtaunacel.
       seconds.
       Few                                      Fof raction                                                                                                                 orEstimated
                              minute.                                                                                                  10»>
                                                                                                                 8*
                                                                          3p

52             Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.
that indicated by the law for the power developed. If the
average weight were much less the discrepancy would be
lessened. But I think I remember seeing Leslie Stephen
described somewhere as " the fleetesHboted of all the Alpine
brotherhood ; " so that probably his party might be expected
to show an endurance in excess of the average, at a high
speed of ascent.
    The bearing of these considerations on the use of such an
expression as " horse-power " is important. However con
venient it may be as a short name for 550 ft.lbs. per sec, it is
clear that no specification of ft.lbs. per sec. can really repre
sent the work of any animal, unless the endurance, or the
time for which that power can be maintained, is also specified,
and the law connecting the two is known.
        V. Further Data on Colour-blindness.—No. III.
                By Dr. William Pole, F.R.S.*
     Professor VON Helmholtz's Handbook of Physiological
                              Optics.
 OF all the names that could be mentioned as authorities
        on the subject of colour-blindness, probably that of
 von Helmholtz stands the highest, not only from the asso
 ciation of his name with that of Young in the most popular
 theory of colour-vision, but more especially on account of his
 monumental Handbuch der Physiologischen Optik, which has
 acquired a classical celebrity. This work appeared at inter
 vals from 1856 to 1866 ; but scientific knowledge advances
 much in a quarter of a century, and the learned author is
 conferring a great boon on the public by giving them a new
 edition, thoroughly revised and brought up to date. To
  make it more accessible it is published in separate " Liefer-
 ungen," of which seven have appeared, comprising 560
  closely printed large octavo pages.
     I have been surprised to find how little this new edition is
 known in England ; and as the part treating of colour
 blindness is already out, it would be culpable, in offering
 data on this subject, to omit reference to it, particularly as
 one of the special objects of this Magazine has always been
 to call the attention of the English-reading scientific world
 to important foreign publications. The subject mentioned
 forms, indeed, but a minute item in the whole treatise ; but
                  * Communicated by the Author.

                 Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.              53
 " ex pede Herculem" and I may claim a more extensive
discipleship under the great master in another branch of his
labours.
     The description of colour-blindness which Helmholtz gave
 in the old edition is so well known that it is only necessary
 to refer to a few passages bearing on our comparisons with
 the new one. The author stated (p. 294) that the patients
 saw in the spectrum only two colours, which they for the
 most part called blue and yellow, and he mentioned experi
 ments on a patient tried by himself, which proved that for
this person's eyesight all colours could be compounded by
mixtures of yellow and blue. He then explained how, on
 Grassmann's principles of colour mixtures, " for an eye which
acknowledges trichromic matches, but which confuses red
 with green, it follows that all the hues which it especially
distinguishes may be compounded of two other colours some
thing like (etwa) yellow and blue."
     The author, however, in further explanation, pointed out
why he believed that yellow and blue might not be the
colour-sensations really experienced. He said, p. 297 :—
    In the Toung hypothesis the colour invisible to the colour
blind eye could naturally be only one of the fundamental colours.
 . . . Eed-blindness would thus be explained on Young's hypo
thesis by a paralysis of the red-pereeiving nerves        and it
follows from this that the red-blind perceive only green, violet,
and their mixture, blue.
     He also (p. 299) mentioned another class, in regard to
whom " it might be conjectured (kann man vermuthen) that
their defect lay in an insensitiveness of the green-perceiving
nerves." These passages, it will be seen, contain the essence
of the original application of Young's theory to dichromic
vision, which became so popular.
     We now turn to the new edition ; and as it is matter of
common knowledge that, in the interval of time since the
previous publication, the applicability of the hypothesis re
ferred to has been seriously questioned, we look with interest
to what is said now on the matter.
     We may take it up at page 362, where we find a mathe
matical investigation by geometry and algebra, to show that
if two colours, R and G, appear alike to the colour-blind,
there may be found another colour which, though visible to
the normal eye, is invisible to them. All this is just as it
stands in the old edition ; but now we come to the first
change of importance. The author, at the end of the investi
gation, adds a new passage as follows :

54               Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.
    But it is not hereby excluded that this ¦wanting colour might
 also be wanting to the normal eye, and its weight = 0. That
 would mean that two of the fundamental sensations of the normal
 eye would, to the colour-blind person, be excited to equal strength
 by all exciting causes. In fact, it has recently become probable
that the solution of the enigma is to be sought in this direction.
    The older attempts to explain colour-blindness proceeded from
 the first-named assumption, that one of the fundamental sensa
 tions was wanting to dichromic eyes. I myself have adopted
this in the first edition of this hand-book*.
    As Helmholtz is not a person to use language incon
 siderately in such a case as this, we may gather much
 information from this short passage. In the first place he
makes it clear that the original hypothesis was not in
 tended as a positive and definite explanation. It was only an
 " attempt to explain," and it is now characterized as " alt "
 (old) , a word which, as I understand it, does not here mean
 simply early in time, but carries with it the idea of " aged,"
 " ancient," " antique," " stale," something superseded by
a new." The expression often recurs with clearly this
 meaning. Then the explanation of colour-blindness is called
 an "enigma" ; it is still obscure, and wanting "solution."
 And thirdly, the passage states that in consequence of some
 recent events a new solution has become probable in a
 certain direction. The recent events alluded to have been
 clearly the more complete evidence acquired as to the facts
 of dichromic vision ; and the new solution, which indeed is
 already indicated, will be better explained by and by.
    It is difficult to construe all this otherwise than as intimating
 that the author does not now attach much weight to the
former explanation, and we shall find, farther on, abundant
confirmation of this interpretation.
    He, however, thinks it right to reprint the part which
contains the " alteren Erklarungsversuche," but he adds now
the following new saving clause (p. 366).
   Nevertheless (immerhin), as it appears doubtful what sensations
of the normal eye correspond to the two colour sensations of the
dichromic patients, Donders has recommended that, according to
   * The important original passages are as follows :—
   " Das wiirde heissen, class zwei der Grundempfindungen des normalen
Auges dem Farbenblinden durch alle Reizniittel gleich stark erregt
wiirden. In der That ist es neuerdings wahrscheinlich geworden, dass
in dieser Richtung die Losung des Rathsels zu suchen ist.
   " Die alteren Erklarungsversuche der Farbenblindheit gingen von der
erstgenannten Annahme aus, dass den dichromatischen Augen eine der
Grundempfindungen fehlte. Ich habe dies in der ersteu Auflage dieses
Handbuchs selbst angenommen,"

                    Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.                   55
the customary expression of painters, the colour corresponding to
the red or less refrangible half of the spectrum should be called
the warm colour, and that of the blue half the cold colour ; and we
will do so in what follows.
    At pages 367-8 he remarks on the distinction of the
classes of " red-blind " and " green-blind," but more positive
opinions are given later.
    At pages 368 and 369 we come upon the " new " explana
tion of colour-blindness already alluded to. The idea of this
appears to have arisen with Helmholtz himself at a very
early period. In 1860 Edmund Rose pointed out the diffi
culty of Young's original explanation, stating that after
careful examination of 59 colour-blind patients, he found it
irreconcilable with the facts observed. In 1867, when the
last portions of Helmholtz's work appeared, he noticed Rose's
 experiments, admitting as an alternative suggestion (p. 848) ,
 that " in the case of the congenital colour-blind it might well
 be imagined that the activity of the nerve-fibres might not
 be removed, but that the intensity curves of the three kinds
 of light-sensitive elements might change, whereby a much
 greater variability in the effect of objective colours on the
 eye might enter" *.
     Leber, in 1873, expanded the idea and put it into a practical
 form. The great difficulty had been the continually increasing
 evidence that the warm sensation of the colour-blind corre
 sponded with the normal yellow, and not with red or green
 as the Young explanation would require ; and Leber pointed
 out that if, instead of abolishing the red or the green
  element, the two were assumed, by changes in their intensity
  curves, to coincide, forming yellow, the whole difficulty
  would vanish. This explanation was afterwards repeated by
  Fick, and at a later time, 1886, reproduced by Konig in his
  communication to the British Association.
      Helmholtz takes this up in his new edition apparently with
  approval, and much matter will be found bearing on it in
  pages 368 and following, and again at page 376. He thinks
  that if the green curve has gone over to the red, it will
  produce the sensations of the "green-blind"; but if the red
  curve has gone over to the green, it will produce those of
   the " red-blind," there being, however, less frequent inter
   mediate degrees between the two extremes.
      In pages 372 to 374 he applies the same explanation (as
   Fick had done) to the colour phenomena of the normal
     * The new explanation is always ascribed to Leber ; this clear antici
   pation of it by Helmholtz seems hitherto to have escaped attention, even
   by Dr. Konig.

56              Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.
retina, and allndes to the analogy between these and colour
blindness.
    Helmholtz thinks it right to devote considerable space
(pages 376 to 382) to the discussion of the theory of Hering.
He considers it a modification of Young's theory, giving a
long description of it, illustrated by mathematical formulae,
and he says it will explain the facts of colour combinations as
well as, but not better than, Young's theory. Then follows
much controversial matter, founded on arguments and state
ments by Hering, but very little of which affects the question
of colour-blindness.
    The most important novelty in Helmholtz's second edition
 is contained in section 21, on The Intensity of the Sensation of
 Light. This section is a long one, extending over nearly 100
pages ; and a large portion of it, i. e. from pages 401 to 473,
is entirely new. It contains a most elaborate essay on
 " Helligkeit," a word for which we have no perfect equi
 valent, but which is generally rendered by "brightness"
 or " luminosity." The matter is principally devoted to the
 relations between " Helligkeit " and colour, which appear to
 be exceedingly complicated and difficult ; so much so, indeed,
 that Helmholtz, with the modesty that so often accompanies
 great knowledge, expresses distrust of his power to deal
 satisfactorily with them.
    Fortunately, however, we have no occasion to speak of these
 relations, further than as they are connected with an entirely
 new determination of the three fundamental colour-sensations,
 by a method in which " Helligkeit " (which for this purpose
 I translate as " luminosity ") takes a part. This investigation
 may be said to begin on page 444, with a dissertation, "On
 the relations between Sensitiveness to Colour and Sensitive
  ness to Luminosity." The author raises the question how far
  observations on the spectral colours, having these elements in
  view, will bear on the nature of the three physiological colour-
  sensations, and having satisfied himself on this point he
  undertakes the investigation.
     I can only give (and it would not be right to do more) the
  barest outline of this interesting but difficult and complicated
  problem. It adopts in the first place the view of the funda
  mental sensations applied shortly before by Konig and Die-
  terici in attempting a similar inquiry. They had analysed
  the spectral hues by a great mass of experiments, using three
  "Elemental colours" R, G, V, taken from the two ends
  and the middle of the spectrum, by combinations of which
  every other spectral hue could be produced. These, on the

                  Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.                   57
old plan, would have been called the primary colours ; but
here they were only considered as preliminary elements ; the
new fundamental colours, say x, y, and z, being dependent on
them and connected with them by linear equations : tniis
                      y = a2 . E + &2 . G + c2 -V, .
                      z=a3.U + b3.G + c3 .V.
 The nine coefficients having to be hereafter determined,
 making, in each line,
                               a + b + c=l.
     To arrive at these constants appears the crux of the problem,
 it being necessary for this purpose to enter into the investi
 gation regarding the colour and luminosity relations before
 referred to. The quantities dE1} dE2, and dEs are taken to
 represent the magnitudes of the differential perceptions for
 the elementary observations, and dE is the magnitude of the
 difference in the colour resulting therefrom. This latter
 quantity had to be expressed in terms of as, y, and z, and for
 this purpose the following formula was arrived at (p. 453) :—
 dE=_8\         //l dx_l dj[\2          /l dy_l*dzV ~/l (lz_l dx-j
   k    V-d\/\x'd\ y'dX)                \y dX 2d\)*\z'd\ x'd\),
 where \ = wave-length, B\ = a certain mean error, and k a
 constant found by multiplied observations. This equation
 has to do with the sensitiveness to colour.
     With the aid of the constants, having given an observation
  of the values of R, Q, and V, at any wave-length, the values
  of x, y, and z may also be found, and the constants must be
  such that cffi, determined by the above equation, shall be
  equal, or nearly so, at all points of the spectrum.
     Having got this constant value of dE, it has then to be
  compared with the equation for rfE arrived at in a different
  way, from dElf dE2, and <£E3> viz.
                              dE = k.e. V33
  where e is a certain very small fraction, also arrived at by
  observation. This second value of dE has to do with the
  sensitiveness to luminosity. And if the two values are
  equal or nearly so, the calculation maybe considered justified.
     * Probably this is a misprint for -. The book unfortunately contains
  several typographical errors.

58            Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindnesa.
   The most suitable constants were found        to be, in round
numbers,
              mm 0-80 . R- 0-35 .G + 0-55       .V,
              y = 0-26. R+ 0-35 . G+0-39        .V,
               s=0-25 . R+ 0-125 . G + 0-625    .V,
 where R, G, and V represent the quantities of each elemental
 colour in a given spectral hue.
    To carry out the calculations, an immense number of obser
 vations were collected on the various spectral colours (some
 50 on each hue), determining the proportions of R, G, and V
in each colour. For example : at w.l. 520, the green hue
 was found to be made up of
              4-62 of R + 8-45 of G+ 1-10 of V;
then, applying the above equations to these figures, the pro
portions of the three fundamental colours contained in this
hue of the spectrum were found to be
               1-37 of x + 4-51 of y + 2-90 of a.
Or in 100 parts of the green,
                  15 of £ + 51 of ?/ + 34 of z.
   This being done for many points along the spectrum, and
the comparisons being satisfactory, the fundamental colours
can be laid down in a triangle, and their relations with the
spectrum shown in a geometrical form. The results will be
found in the tables on pages 454 and 455 and in the diagram
on page 457.
   The three newly-found fundamental colours are, generally
speaking, red, green, and blue ; but all very much more
highly saturated than anything in the spectrum.
   The Red, x, is a highly saturated carmine-red, more tending
to blue than the extreme red of the spectrum.
   The Green, y, is a yellow-green about w.l. 560, somewhat
greener than the complement to violet, and nearly corre
sponding to the green of vegetation.
   The Blue, z, is about w.l. 482, corresponding to ultra
marine.
   The author states that the fundamental red and blue cor
respond with Hering's anticipations ( Vermuthungen) ; and I
may be allowed to say that the former agrees with my deter
mination of my own wanting colour in 1856, before any
one suspected the existence of an extra- spectral fundamental.
   The following short table, which I have made out from the
diagrams, tables, and formulae, will show, in a simple manner,

                Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.              59
the percentages of the " Urfarben," x, y, and z, contained in
some of the chief hues of the spectrum.
                          Wave          X.                 z.
                          lengths.               y-
  Bed                       end.        61       20        19
                            600         47       30        23
  Yellow                    580         36       39        25
                            520         15       51        34
                            480         31       29        40
                            end.        35       25        40
   White                                33       33        33
                                    1
    If we apply to these quantities the principle that a mixture
 of equal proportions of the three fundamental colours will
 make white, we may form an idea of the enormous grade of
 saturation of the ideal fundamental colours, compared with
 that of the spectral hues. For example, spectral red will
 contain 42 parts of x, 1 part of y, and 57 of white ; spectral
 yellow will contain 11 parts of x, 14 of y, and 75 of white;
 spectral blue will contain 2 parts of x, 11 parts of z, and 87
 parts of white. This is a somewhat astounding idea ; but
 a glance at the diagram on page 457 will show it is what the
 author intends.
     The author points out that all simple colours excite the
 three nerve-elements simultaneously, and with only moderate
 distinctions of intensity ; facts for which there are analogous
 phenomena in the known photochemical effects of photo
 graphy.
     This brief account gives a very vague idea of the skill
 and labour that has been embodied in the work referred to ;
 and, considering the entire novelty and difficulty of the
  attempt, the acuteness of the logical reasoning required, and
  the complicated nature of the relations involved, I should
  venture to say it may be pointed to as one of the most striking
  examples of the application of high mathematics to physio
  logical research.
     But it may be asked, What immediate connexion has this
  with Colour-blindness ? The author has himself answered the

 60                Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.
  question by immediately going on, page 458, to a further
  investigation, entitled " Comparison with Dichromic Eyes."
      He begins with the remark that the fundamental colours
  he has found do not coincide with those which König and
  Dieterici had deduced from the comparison of colour-blind
  eyes with normal ones, and which he had himself quoted in
  former parts of this work. They had arrived at pretty nearly
  the same hues of red and blue, but their third fundamental,
  green, differed materially, and the intensities were very
  different in all.
     Helmholtz takes some pains to explain and comment on
  this, showing that the discrepancy is due to the attempt made
  by König and Dieterici to apply the "old" assumption that
  dichromic vision was simply caused by the absence of one
  of the fundamental excitements of the trichromic eye. He
  mentions that this assumption originated with Young, and
  was, at an earlier period, accepted by most of the adapters of
  the theory, including himself and Hering, as well as König
  and Dieterici, and he thereby gives a good defence for their
  zealous endeavours, but at the same time he leaves no doubt
 that this assumption has vitiated their results.
     As a further proof of this he cites (p. 461) the determina
 tion by König and Dieterici of the colours wanting to the
 red and green blind respectively, according to the funda
 mental colours chosen by them ; and he shows that when the
newly found fundamentals are substituted, such a determina
tion leads to irrational results, giving negative values ; whereas
 (p. 460) Young's hypothesis only allows positive values of
 the physiologically possible colours.
     Considering therefore, apparently, the old assumption as
 now proved intractable, he goes on to explain that a more
 general hypothesis respecting the existence of dichromatism
 may be found, in which the necessity ceases that the missing
 colour should be one of the fundamentals*.
    * The following are the original words : —" Die hier gefundenen Grund
farben stimmen nicht mit denen überein, welche die Hrn. A. König und
C. Dieterici aus der Vergleichung farbenblinder Augen mit normal
sichtigen hergeleitet haben. Nur die besondere, von TJi. Young ausge
gangene und von den meisten Bearbeitern der Theorie, auch von mir
selbst, von E. Hering, A. König, und C. Dieterici früher angenommene
 Erklärungsweise, dass bei den Dichromaten einfach eine der Grund
erregungen des trichromatischen Au^es nicht zu Stande komme, tritt in
Widerspruch mit dem bezeichneten Ergebniss.
    " Aber es ist eine allgemeinere Hypothese über das Wesen der üichro-
masie möglich, bei welcher die Nothwendigkeit aufhört, dass die fehlende
Farbe eine der Grundfarben sei, und doch die Regel festgehalten wird
dass alle Farbenpaare, welche für das normale trichromatische Auge
gleich aussehen, auch für das dichromatische gleich aussehend bleiben."

                 Dr. W. Pole on Colour-Blindness.               61
   He first shows the possibility of this by a simple example.
Suppose, he says, that the rays which ordinarily excite the
  reen sensation do not excite the green sensitive nerves, but
  o continue to excite the red and blue ones. The eye would
become dichromic, and according to the old explanation would
see only red and blue. But these two sensations will not be
the same as the trichromic red and blue, in which the green
element forms part ; and further, it is possible that the
green nerves, though not excited by the green rays, might
retain their former excitability by the red and blue ones,—in
which case the dichromic colours would be a certain kind of
yellow and blue.
    The author then explains (pages 458 to 461) his "Allge-
meinere Formder Dichromasie." First, by algebraical reasoning.
 If x, y, and z represent the three fundamental colour-sensations
in the normal eye, and X, Y, Z the three in the dichromic
eye, then, as all matches for the former are also good for the
 latter, X, Y, Z must be linear functions of a, y, z, and the
 following equations are arrived at, namely :—
                        0=aX + /3Y + yZ.
                        X=p1X+p2y+p3Z.
                        Y=q1x + q2y + qsz.
                        Z = aX + JY.
 The result being that the whole colour value of the dichromic
 eye appears as a mixture, in variable proportion, of two
 definite compound colours, X and Y.
    Another explanation is given by geometry, in which the
 author uses a more comprehensive mode than the ordinary
 plane diagrams. He adopts Lambert's plan of geometry of
 three dimensions. The values of the three trichromic funda
 mentals x, y, z, are used as rectangular coordinates, by which
 may be formed an imaginary parallelopipedon (like a brick
 whose three dimensions 9 x 4| x 3 will represent x, y, and z
  respectively) : then the extreme corner most distant from the
  origin of the coordinates will represent the place of the com
  pounded colour ; the length of the diagonal line drawn be
  tween these two points will represent the quantity of the colour,
  and its direction will represent the hue. Planes may be also
  drawn intersecting the figure, which will represent the ordi
  nary plane colour-diagrams, and will serve as the bases of
  " Lambert pyramids," containing all the colours physiologi
  cally possible. It is shown that, under the conditions of
  dicnromatism, the resulting planes will each be uniformly

62                Dr. W. Pole on Colour-BUndness.
coloured, and the trichromic variety of hues will no longer
exist.
    This more general theory of dichromatism appears, so far as
I can understand it, to amount to the view that while the two
dichromic hues must be in some way derived from the three
fundamental colours of normal vision, there is no necessary
condition as to the manner of their derivation, or as to what
they shall be*.
    The author, further, in regard to his new theory, calls
attention to a point of considerable importance. One of the
greatest stones of stumbling for years past has been the
division, consequent on the " old " explanation, of dichromic
patients into the two theoretically distinct classes of " red-
blind " and " green-blind." It is obvious that this division
naturally disappears when the old explanation is abandoned ;
but Helmholtz takes pains to show geometrically that his new
theory gives no place for such a division. And he, moreover,
expresses the opinion that such a division does not seem to
have been fully justified by observation.
     He adds, " By this it is also shown that the want of corre
spondence between the absent colour of the dichromic system
and one of the fundamental colours found by us, does not in
volve any insoluble contradiction t-
     It is not my business to offer any comments on the views
I have endeavoured (imperfectly I fear) to call attention to ;
I have only to repeat the reference to the original for fuller
information regarding them. But even though there should
be differences of opinion on minor points, there can be
none as to the character of the work or the position of its
 author among the great men of the age.
    Athen86u.ni Club, S.W., December, 1892.
    * Only it would seem that as the dichromic eye now loses nothing,
 but uses the whole of the three fundamentals and no more, and as
 their sum makes normal white, then the total sum of the dichromic
 vision must make normal white also, and the two hues, X and Y, will
 be complementary.—W. P.
    t On account of the great importance of these two expressions of
 opinion, I subjoin Helmholtz's own words (page 431) :—" In unseren
 Betrachtungen ist keinerlei Beschrankung fur die Lage der Schnitt-
 punktes gegeben, Daher fallt bei dieser Verallgemeinerung der Theorie
 der Dichromasie auch die Trennung in zwei scharf getrennte Klassen,
 Griinblinde und Rothblinde, weg, welche ja auch den Beobachtungen
 gegenuber nicht ganz gesichert erscheint.
     " Damit ist auch nachgewiesen, dass der Mangel an Ueberstimmung
 zwischen derfehlenden Farbe der dichromatischen Systeme undje einer
  der von aus gefundenen Grundfarben keinen unloshchen Widerspruch
  einschliesst."

                              [    63   ]
       VI. A New Method of treating Correlated Averages.
        By Professor F. Y. Edgewo'rth, M.A., D.C.L.*
 THE following is a simpler method of solving one of the
       problems treated in a former paper relating to correlated
 averages-^. Taking the case of three variables for conve
nience of enunciation, let us put for the exponent (of the
expression for the probability that any particular values of
the variables will be associated)
             R = aw2 + by2 + cz2 + 2fyz + 2gxz + 2hxy.
And let it be required to determine the coefficients a, b, c, &c.
   The most probable values of y and z corresponding to any
assigned value of x, say x'', are deduced from the equations
                       Jby+fz + hx' = 0,
                        \.cz+fy+gx'=0.
The values of y and z determined from these equations may
indeed diverge widely from the particular values corresponding
in any one specimen to x'. But if we take a number of
specimens, it becomes more true % that
                     rbSy+fSz + hZx'=:0,
                    \cSz+fSy+g$x'=0.
Dividing each equation by the sum of the assigned values
%af, we have
                     fhpi2+fpu + h = 0,
                      Lc/313+/p12+^ = 0 ;
where p12, pn mean (as in the former paper) the coefficients
of correlation pertaining to each couple of organs (Mr.
Galton's r).
   By similarly assigning values of y and of z, and observing
the associated values of the other variables, we obtain six
(in general n(n — 1)) equations for the sought coefficients
a,b,...g,h; which, being rearranged, are as follows : —
                    P3i«+ 9+P23^=0; }
                    P230+ f+p3ih=0,\
                    pisb+P3if+           h=0;J
                    p3\C + Puf+ 9 = Q,\
                                 f+Pu9=0.S
                * Communicated by the Author,
                t Phil. Mag. August 1892.
                X Of, he. cvt. p. 191 et seq.

G4       A New Method of Treating Correlated Averages.
    A solution of this system is afforded by putting a, b, c each
proportional to one of tho principal minors, and /, g, h each
to a certain one of the other three minors, of the following
determinant :—
                           1>      Pn>        Pzi-
                           P12,     1         P23,
For call the three minors formed by omitting successively
each constituent in the first row a, h, g. By a well-known
theorem *, if each of these minors is multiplied by the corre
sponding constituent in the rows other than the first, the sum
of these products = 0.
    That is               p12a + h + p23g = 0 ")
                          P3ia + /323h + g = 0->
Thus the first two of the above-written six equations are
satisfied. By parity of reasoning, if we put, for b, the princi
pal minor b, for c, c, and, for /, the minor f, obtained by
omitting the row and column containing (either) pn, the
remaining four equations are satisfied. The proposed system
of proportional values is therefore a solution. And since the
equations are simple, it is the solution.
    We have thus obtained by a simpler method than before
the solution of the problem f: given the values of some of
the variables, what are the most probable values of the other
variables ? For the proportionate values of the coefficients
«, b, .. . g, h having been ascertained, we have only to sub
stitute in R the given values of one or more variables, e. g.
z' ; and for the most probable values of the remaining vari
ables we have the equations
                                ~^ ' ( dy)z=s
    But we have not obtained a solution of the second problem J:
 given the values of some of the variables, what is the law of
 dispersion for the remaining ones ? For in order to solve
 this problem we require the absolute values of the coefficients.
 I do not see how to obtain these, except by the method before
 adopted, viz., obtaining the integrals of the expression
 with respect to all but two, and all but one, of the variables.
    Balliol College, Oxford.
    * Salmon, 'Higher Algebra,' lesson iv. article 27.
   f Generalizing the statement given in the former papsr, p. 190 .
   X Generalizing the statement given in the former paper, p. 190 .

                             [   65    ]
         VII. A necessary Modification of Ohm's Law,
                   By Fernando Sanford*.
                            [Plate III.]
DURING the past year I have been engaged in some
      investigations which seem to call in question the validity
of Ohm's law, by showing that the resistance of a metallic
conductor varies with the nature of the dielectric in its field
of force. For the purpose of determining if this be the
case, I have made a large number of measurements of the
resistance of a copper wire in various dielectrics, and have
found that in several cases the change of resistance, both in
liquid and gaseous dielectrics, is very marked.
   The apparatus used consists of a copper tube about four
feet long and one inch in internal diameter, closed with
copper plates at the end, and having a copper wire 1 miilim.
in diameter stretched through its centre and fastened by
means of a binding-screw to the centre of one end plate,
while it passes through an insulating-plug in the centre of the
other end plate. The tube is provided with stopcocks at the
ends for filling and emptying, and with an opening in the
side for inserting a thermometer. The current, which was
always between the extremes of five and eight milliamperes,
was passed one way through the tube and back through the
wire, so that the whole dielectric in its field could be changed
at will. The measurements were made by means of a Wheat-
 stone's bridge with arms of 1 : 1000, and a sensitive galvano
meter. A change of resistance of 0-l ohm in the box, which
 corresponded to -0001 ohm in the tube and wire, produced
a very noticeable deflexion of the galvanometer-needle. The
 measurements were accordingly estimated with a fair degree
 of accuracy to "00001 ohm.
    The resistance of the tube and wire was measured in air at
 different temperatures through a range of about ten degrees
 Centigrade, and a curve was plotted, using the temperatures
 as abscissse and the resistances as ordinates. This curve did
 not depart appreciably from a straight line. The dielectric
 to be tested was then poured into the tube, a set of measure
 ments was made in it through the same range of temperatures,
 the dielectric drawn out, the tube cleaned and dried, and a
 new set of measurements made in air. This was repeated
 several times, until it was certain that after each change of
 dielectrics the resistance returned to the same value which it
 had previously shown in the same dielectric. In the case of
 air and petroleum this comparison was carried on for a month,
 the dielectrics in the meantime being changed five times, and
                  * Communicated by the Author.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 212. Jan. 1893.          F

 66                Mr. F. Sanford on a necessary
 the apparatus being allowed to stand untouched for two weeks
 to make sure that none of the constants were changing, and
in the whole series not a single measurement in either dielec
tric fell upon or beyond the curve made for the other dielectric
 (see PI. III. fig. 1). The resistance of the wire in petroleum
 was shown to be about '00006 ohm less than in air ; and as the
 whole resistance of the tube and wire averaged about '0335
 ohm, this difference corresponded to about "18 of one per cent,
 of the whole resistance.
    Eegarding the conductivity of the wire in air as unity, its
 conductivity in the liquid dielectrics tested was as follows :—
    Petroleum                                        .  1-0018
    Mixture of carbon bisulphide and turpentine      .  1/0009
    Carbon bisulphide, uncertain, apparently      .  .  1+
    Wood alcohol                                         -9998
    Benzine                                              '9994
    Wood alcohol and benzine                             "9985
    Absolute alcohol                                     *9981
    Wood alcohol and petroleum                           "9973
    Distilled water, uncertain, apparently     . .   .  1—
    It will be seen that when two dielectrics which do not seem
 to mix with each other were used together the resistance of
the wire was greatly increased, as in the case of wood alcohol
and benzine, and wood alcohol and petroleum. That these
liquids do diffuse into each other was shown by measuring the
index of refraction of the two components before and after
they had stood in contact with each other, and in every case
a change was observed.
    A similar change of resistance was noticed when the tube
contained different gaseous dielectrics. This was first observed
when the burning gas used in the laboratory was allowed to
enter the tube. This gas was made from gasoline by a
machine on the ground, and consisted of the vapour of gaso
line mixed with air. A series of measurements was made in
this gas and in air, the measurements in air being made both
before and after those made in the gas. Of the seventeen
measurements with the wire in the gas, only one was as
much as '00001 ohm from the curve drawn, while the nearest
distance of any gas measurement to the air-curve was "00004
ohm, and the average distance of the gas points from the
air-curve was "000058 ohm. From these measurements the
resistance of the wire in gasoline burning gas was T0017
times its resistance in air (see fig. 2).
   The other vapours used were those of volatile liquids, a
small quantity of the liquid being poured into the tube and
allowed to evaporate. Taking, as before, the conductivity of

                      Modification of Ohm's Law.                67
the wire iu air as unity, the conductivities in the vapours
tested were approximately as follows :—
   Alcohol vapour                                        -99949
   Chloroform vapour                                     "99830
   Gasoline burning gas                                  "99820
   Sulphuric ether vapour                                "99700
   Carbon bisulphide vapour, approximately . . 1
   Rarefied air, less than                             1
   Some of the phenomena observed made it seem probable
that only that part of the dielectric in direct contact with the
wire was concerned in this change of resistance. For example,
when the petroleum was poured out of the tube and a measure
ment made before it had drained off and evaporated, the
resistance observed was the same as when the tube was filled
with petroleum, and it was only after the tube bad been care
fully drained out and dried that the resistance returned to its
former value in air. In the case of sulphuric ether vapour
this phenomenon was very marked. It was only after the
tube had been washed out with alcohol one or more times, and
had been dried out by drawing a current of air through it for
several hours, that the resistance returned to its former value.
   I am now engaged in investigating the same phenomenon,
using a silver wire of the same size as the copper wire used
in last year's experiments. In general, the difference in
resistance with the dielectrics above mentioned is less marked
than in the case of the copper wire formerly used, but it
is still noticeable. As in the case of the copper wire, the
greatest variation yet noticed was when the tube was filled
with sulphuric ether vapour, but with the silver wire the re
sistance is decreased in the ether vapour, while with the copper
wire it was increased. The same difficulty in removing the
effect of the ether vapour also appears with the silver wire,
in which case it was only after repeated washings with alcohol
that the resistance of the wire returned to its former value.
   I have thus far been unable to find with what other properties
of the dielectrics these phenomena are correlated, but it seems
clear that hereafter Ohm's Law will have to be so modified as
to take account of the dielectric surrounding a conductor, as
well as the nature and temperature of the conductor itself.
   The measurements upon which the above conclusions are
based are given in full in a paper entitled " Some Observa
tions upon the Conductivity of a Copper Wire in various
Dielectrics," which is now being published by the Leland
Stanford Jr. University.
  Palo Alto, California,
     October 26, 1892.
                                 F2

                              [  68    ]
 VIII. Experiments in Electric and Magnetic Fields, Constant
   and Varying. By Messrs. Rimington and Wtthm Smith.®
                             [Plate IV.]
THE object the authors have in bringing these phenomena
       before the Society is not to establish any new theory,
nor to show imperfections in present theories, but to exhibit
experiments which help the aotions taking place in a dielec
tric under stress to be more easily grasped.
   The experiments are divided into two sets :—
           (1) Performed in electric fields.
           (2) Performed in varying magnetic fields.
   Although these two fields cannot exist separately, their
effects are isolated.
                 Set 1. Constant Electric Field.
   A constant electric field was produced by two charged
metal disks + and — , each of which was stuck on the out
side of a glass plate (Plate IV. fig. 1). The object of the glass
plates was to prevent brush discharges between objects placed
in the field and the plates.
   Fig. 1, a, b represents a partially exhausted electrodeless
tube, placed in the uniform electric field. In the position
shown, the tube is at a uniform potential. Now let it rotate
in the direction of the arrow ; the potential of a will fall and
that of b rise until the P.D. between the ends is sufficient to
break down the tube. There will then be a convection-
current equalizing the potential, during the continuance of
which the tube will glow. On rotating still further a similar
action will take place.
   The effect of these actions is to produce a double fan-shaped
set of images, as shown in fig. 2. The number of images in
the fan depends on the intensity of the field.
   This phenomenon is intensified by constricting the middle
part of the tube.
   In designing the tubes for these experiments, care was
taken to have the point where they were connected to the
pump in such a position that there was no tendency for dis
charge to take place at these points when in use. The tubes
used in this experiment are shown in fig. 3 (a, b, c, and d).
The stem was used to connect them to the whirling motor.
   The surfaces of these tubes should be fairly clean and dry,
and it is advisable with a new tube, or one left unused for some
time, to excite it between the knobs of an influence-machine.
   In the double fan-shaped set of images (see fig. 4, a) one
  * Communicated by the Physical Society : read November 25, 1892.

         Experiments in Electric and Magnetic Fields.          69
end will be seen to be brighter than the other, the current
passing from the dull end to the bright end.
   Not only is this effect visible with a straight tube, but an
rotating an exhausted bulb in the field a stationary luminous
region will be seen (see fig. 4, b).
                     Varying Electric Field.
   Instead of rotating the tube a similar effect is produced by
varying the field in which the tube is placed.
   The tube should be placed with its longer axis in the direc
tion of the lines of force. The plates in this case may either
be charged and discharged by an influence-machine and dis
chargers, the latter sparking, or by an induction-coil, with or
without sparking.
   When an induction-coil is used, very long tubes will glow
when brought near.
                     Set 2. Magnetic Field.
   The authors were of the opinion that, by taking advantage
of the action of the Geissler tube, one might show Hertzian
phenomena to fairly large audiences. They therefore substi
tuted a Geissler tube for the spark-gap in the resonator.
   This was very successful with a Leyden-jar oscillator (fig. 5).
The oscillator and resonator consisted of two similar small
Leyden jars for capacity, and a single convolution of thick
copper wire for the conductor-circuit. The Geissler tube was
placed as a shunt to part of the conductor-circuit of the
resonator (see fig. 5).
   But although they designed special tubes, they were unable
to get good results with the ordinary forms of Hertz oscil
lator and resonator.
   They next made a resonator of the following form :—
   Two metal plates, a and b (fig. 6), give capacity, and the
wire self-induction. An electrodeless exhausted tube was
placed as dielectric between the plates. When a fairly large
Hertz oscillator was used, this tube glowed brightly, even
when taken to considerable distances.
           Glow produced in varying Magnetic Fields.
   Instead of, as in the last set of experiments, having a
secondary composed partly of a metallic conductor and partly of
a vacuum-tube, the whole circuit may be composed of rarefied
gas. It is evident that, in order to generate a current in such
a circuit, a large induced E.M.F. would be required ; this
 would necessitate either a very strong magnetic field, or one
 which changed very rapidly. The former was out of the
 question, the latter was obtained by taking advantage of

 70       Messrs. Rimington and (Smith on Electric and
 the phenomenon of oscillatory discharge in the following
 manner :—
    P (fig. 7), a primary consisting of a very few turns of
 gutta-percha covered wire, was placed in a Leyden-jar circuit,
 as shown. As a secondary an exhausted bulb, or annular
     On sparks passing at D, a bright ring of light appeared in
 the secondary.
     In the actual experiments a metallic secondary, S, was also
 wound with P and exactly similar to it. On short-circuiting
 S, the induced current in this circuit will weaken the mag
 netic field so as to completely extinguish the Geissler
 secondary.
    If 8 is connected to a third coil this coil will behave in a
 similar manner to P, with weaker effects ; P and S in this
 case form a one to one transformer.-
    The wire of the coil P is itself luminous when S is open ;
 short-circuiting S will stop this effect.
     (Since the authors started their researches some of these
 latter experiments have been shown by Prof. Thomson.)
                               Appendix.
       Theory of a Vacuum-tube in a varying Electric Field.
     When an electrodeless vacuum-tube is placed axially
 between two plates, and a potential difference established
 between Ihem, the tube forms part of the dielectric between
 the plates, and some of the lines of induction pass through
 the tube. Now a rarefied gas is a very weak dielectric, and
 readily gives way under the electric stress ; a convection-
 current flowing through the tube (during which time the
 gas in the tube behaves as if it were a conductor)*.
    This results in the endsf of the tube becoming charged,
 or lines of induction from the plates terminate on the ends
 of the tube, there being no lines in the tube itself (see fig. 8).
 The whole of the tube will also be at the same potential.
    When the plates are discharged, the lines of induction
passing from the plates to the ends of the tube will now pass
through the tube; the rarefied gas will again break down
under the electric stress, and a convection-current will pass
   * Of course the tube will not conduct after the manner of a copper
¦wire, hut rather like a quantity of pith balls between two conducting
plates.
   t By the term " ends " is meant the inside surface of the glass at the
ends of the tube.

            Magnetic Fields, Constant and Varying.             71
through the tube until the charges at the ends neutralize
each other.
                             Fig. 8.
   If the change in the electric field take place rapidly
enough, the conveclion-current -will produce sufficient dis
turbance of the molecules to cause luminosity.
     Theory of a Vacuum-tube rotating in a constant Electric
                             Field.
   Consider the tube in a constant field in position a b (fig. 9).
There will be a — charge at " a " and a + one at " b ", and
the tube will behave as a nonconductor. We shall in fact
have conditions similar to those in fig. 10, where "c" and
             Fig. 9.                            Fig. 10.
                                                            a
                                         o                 o
                                                            +
                                                         a,
"d" are two insulated conductors, which have been previously
 connected together by a conductor, and which correspond to
the ends of the tube.
    Imagine now " c" and " d" to be moved to positions Ci
•and d1 ; they will now be no longer at the same potential,
 and, if connected together, a current will flow from dt to Cj,
 again equalizing their potentials.

72        Experiments h Electric and Magnetic Fields.
   The same will happen to the tube if it move during rotation
from position ab to a1b1; and, when the potential difference
between its ends attains a sufficient magnitude, the dielectric
of rarefied gas will break down, a convection-current flow
from l>! to au and the tube for the instant will behave like a
conductor. During this instant of breaking down the tube
will glow. After this the tube will behave like a noncon
ductor, the ends being at the same potential until the tube
rotating moves into position a2 b2, and, if the potential differ
ence between «2 and ax is equal to that between a and a1; and
the same for the 6's, the tube will glow for an instant at
position a2 b2.
   In the same way it will glow in the positions a3 b3, <z4 bi}
&c, if continuously rotated in the direction of the arrow. The
points a3 ai &c, b3 Z>4 &c. are such that the potential difference
between each consecutive two is approximately the same. As
the glow takes place at the end of each alteration of the
potential difference, it is obvious that the double fan-like set
of images obtained will not be symmetrical with respect to
the plates, but will be displaced in the direction of rotation
by about one image.
   The number of images in a single revolution will be pro
portional to the potential difference between the plates, but
will not depend on the speed of rotation, provided that speed
 exceed a certain limit. The effect of increasing the speed is,
 however, to apparently increase the number of images ; since
 those of one revolution do not fall in exactly the same
 positions as those of the preceding one, and the images of
several revolutions are seen simultaneously on account of
persistence of vision.
      Discharge through Coil surrounding exhausted Bulb.
   When a Leyden jar is discharged through a coil of wire,
the varying magnetic induction due to the discharge-current
will cause an E.M.F. to«ict in the dielectric inside and outside
the ring in a series of concentric circles. Let r be the radius
of the coil: consider a circular path in the dielectric of radius
x less than r. If the magnetic induction passing through the
coil were uniformly distributed, the number of lines passing
through the path x would be proportional to its area or to x ,
and the E.M.F. per unit of length along it to x2 divided by its
                        a?
circumference or to —, i. e. to x. Hence the electric stress
                        x
along a circular path x in the dielectric is greater the larger x.
Of course the actual distribution of the magnetic induction is
not uniform, but increases as we pass from the centre to the

                    Notices respecting New Books.                  73
  circumference : this will of course make the electric stress
 increase more rapidly than x. When the dielectric is a
 rarefied gas it is not broken down until the electric stress
 exceeds a certain value: hence the discharge takes the form
 of a luminous ring in the outside of the bulb. By increasing
 the sparking-distance in discharging the Leyden jar the
 magnetic induction is increased, making the electric stress
 greater and broadening the ring.
     The breadth of the ring also depends on the degree of
 exhaustion of the bulb, as the value of the electric stress
 requisite to break down the rarefied gas depends on the
 degree of rarefaction. In the case of an annular exhausted
 tube placed outside the coil the luminous ring will be nearest
 to ihe inner side of the tube : since when x is greater than r,
 the E.M.F. per unit of length is less the greater x, on account
 of the lines of magnetic induction outside the coil being in
 the opposite direction through the path x to those inside
the coil.
                 IX. Notices respecting New Books.
 OdorograpMa : a Natural History of Haw Materials and Drugs used
    in the Perfume Industry. By J. C. Saweh, F.L.S. London :
    Gurney and Jackson. 1892.
 TN this work by Mr. Savrer we have another illustration of the
      intimate relation existing between science and industry which is
 such a striking feature in the educational movement of the time.
 No book has yet appeared in which the ground covered by the
 present author has been traversed by any writer who has brought
 such qualifications to bear upon the subject, and we have as a
 result a volume which may fairly be commended as unique in its
 way, and which will prove a boon to all interested in the chemistry,
natural history, and technology of the numerous materials used in
perfumery.
   A very brief description of the contents will suffice to show how
thoroughly the subject has been handled. In the first chapter,
devoted to musk, we have an account of civet and ambergris, and
a list of all the animals and plants which give this odour, together
with a description of the artificial musk recently introduced by
Baur, and obtained by the nitration of certain coal-tar hydrocarbon
derivatives. The second chapter, on the odour of roses, is a very
long one, and deals first with the true " otto of rose " manufactured
in Bulgaria and elsewhere, the chemistry and technology of which
are given in considerable detail, and illustrated by figures of the
apparatus used and a map of the Bulgarian rose-farm district. An
account of rose culture in France is also given, and a description
of other odoriferous substances resembling rose, such as pelar
gonium, and artificial rose perfumes, such as ammonium salicylate,

74                      Geological Society :—
methylbenzylenic ether, phenyl paratoluate, citronellic aldehyde,
&c. The actual methods of extracting the oil of rose by macera
tion, enfleurage, and by the use of various solvents, are fully
discussed and illustrated by figures. The "citrine odours" are
described in the third chapter. These comprise the oils of orange,
lemon, lime, shaddock, and bergamot ; incidentally sylvostrine is
referred to, and the oils of neroli, citronella, and lemon-grass
(Andropogon citratus, DeCand.) receive adequate consideration,
jasmine, jonquil, and hyacinth are treated of in the fourth chapter,
the odour of violet in the fifth, ylangylang &e. in the sixth, and
the "odour of the hayfields" in the seventh. In this last chapter
we find an account of coumarin, both natural and synthetical.
The eighth chapter, on vanilla, claims over 30 pages, and is
remarkably complete from every point of view. In the ninth
chapter the bitter almond, cherry laurel, and heliotrope are treated
of; in the tenth chapter, cinnamon, cassia, and clove; in the
eleventh, benzoin, storax, and the balsams; and in the twelfth,
opoponax, bdellum, myrrh, &c. Lign-aloes, patchouli, and related
perfumes are described in the thirteenth chapter ; santal and
cedar in the fourteenth ; camphor in the fifteenth ; cajeput,
lavender, and rosemary in the sixteenth and concluding chapter.
    There can be no doubt, from this epitome, that Mr. Sawer has
 succeeded in carrying out the idea set forth in the preface, wherein
 he states : —" An endeavour has here been made to collect together
 into one Manual the information which has hitherto been only
 obtainable by reference to an immense number of works and
 journals, English and foreign, in many cases inaccessible to readers
 interested in the subject."
    It is not only as a technical work, however, that the present
 volume demands notice in this Magazine. Although professedly
 addressed to technologists, its subject-matter appeals both to
 botanists and chemists ; and the latter will be surprised to find
 what a large and interesting field of work is before them for inves
 tigating the constitution of the numerous oJorous compounds
 furnished by the vegetable kingdom or synthesized in the labora
 tory and factory. New outlets for tar-products may be looked for
 in the direction of the perfume industry ; and in bringing together
 all that is known in connexion with the subject, Mr. Sawer has done
 good service to a somewhat neglected branch of applied science.
                X. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                   [Continued from vol. xxxiv. p. 385.]
      November 9th, 1892—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
  THE following communications were read :—
        1. 'A Sketch of the Gcoloprv of the Iron, Gold, and Copper
 DistrictsofMichigan." By Prof. M. K. Wiidsworth, Ph.D., A.M., F.U.S.
     After an enumeration of the divisions of the Azoic and Palaeozoic

                Gold-quartz Deposits of Pahang.                       75
systems of the Upper and Lower Peninsulas of Michigan, the author
describes the mechanically and chemically formed Azoic rocks, and
those produced by igneous agency, adding a table which shows his
scheme of classification of rocks, and explaining it.
    The divisions of the Azoic system are then described in order,
beginning with the oldest—the Cascade Formation, which consists
of gneissose granites or gneisses, basic eruptives and schists,
jaspilites and associated iron ores, and granites.
    The rocks of the succeeding Eepublic formation are given as
nearly as possible in the order of their ages, commencing with the
oldest :—Conglomerate, breccia and conglomeratic schist, quartzite,
 dolomite, jaspilite and associated iron ores, argillite and schist,
granite and felsite, diabase, diorite and porodite, and porphyrite.
 The author gives a full account of the character, composition, and
mode of occurrence of jaspilite, and discusses the origin of this rock
 and its associated ores, which he at one time considered eruptive ;
 but new evidence discovered by the State Survey and the United
 States Survey leads him to believe that he will have to abandon
that view entirely.
    In the newest Azoic formation, the Holyoke formation, the
 following rocks are met with :—Conglomerate, breccia and con
 glomeratic schist, quartzite, dolomite, argillite, greywacke and
 schist, granite and felsite (?), diabase, diorite, porodite, peridotite,
 serpentine, and melaphyre or picrite The conglomerates of the
 Holyoke formation contain numerous pebbles of the jaspilites of the
 underlying Eepublic formation ; a description of the Holyoke rocks
 is given, and special points in connexion with them are discussed.
    The author next treats of the chemical deposits of the Azoic
 system, gives a provisional scheme of classification of ores, and
 discusses the origin of ore deposits.
    The rocks of the Palaeozoic system are next described, and it is
 maintained that the eastern sandstone of Lower Silurian age
 underlies the copper-bearing or Keweenawan rocks. The veins and
 copper deposits are described in detail, and the paper concludes
 with some miscellaneous analyses and descriptions, as well as a list
 of minerals found in Michigan.
    2. " The Gold-quartz Deposits of Pahang (Malay Peninsula)."
 By H. M. Becher, Esq., P.G.S.
     The gold-quartz deposits of Pahang traverse an extensive series
 of slates, sandstones, and dark-coloured limestones, sometimes more
  or less metamorphosed, and probably of Palaeozoic age, occupying
 the low-lying hill-country on the eastern side of the central granitic
 mountain-range. The prevailing dip of the strata is eastward.
     In some places the auriferous rock penetrates adjacent intrusive
 syenites, but has not been traced in connexion with the main granitic
 'massif which is generally considered to be the matrix of the
 cassiterite found in the ' Straits ' alluvial Tin-fields.
     The gold occurs in lodes and irregular formations, which, how
 ever, are not distinguished from one another by any hard-and-fast

76             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
line ; the difference depends on the size, shape, and continuity of
the quartz veins, though even the lodes seldom maintain their regu
larity for more than a few score feet. The quartz often occurs in
very narrow veins intersecting one another to form what may be
called ' stockworks.' It is probably from these minute veins that
the alluvial gold is derived. In the Jtaub mine numirous rich
veinlets occur in a certain zone where the whole plate-rock is charged
with iron pyrites, probably auriferous. Many ' stockworks ' are
intimately associated with dykes or intrusions of a rock which may
be called trachyte-porphyry, and these igneous rocks are decomposed
where prominently associated with auriferous quartz.
   3. " The Pambula Gold-deposits." By F. D. Power, Esq., F.G.S.
   The Pambula Gold-field is situated in the parish of Yowaka,
County of Auckland, in the South-eastern corner of New South Wales.
   The lodes are different from ordinary auriferous deposits, inas
much as the material filling the ore-channels does not differ greatly
iu appearance from the ' country ' rock, and is but slightly miner
alized. The ' country ' rock is ' pyrophyllite schist,' associated
with ' felspar-porphyry,' sometimes turning into ' quartz-porphyry,'
the whole being tilted at a high angle. The bedding and cleavage-
planes appear to be coincident. The rock forms lenticles both micro
scopic and macroscopic. Some of tho lodes are accompanied by a
 quartz ' indicator ' which contains little or no gold in itself, the
precious metal being found in the shattered 'couutry ' rock of its foot-
wall. On the footwall-side this shattered zone gradually merges
 into the ordinary ' country ' rock. The cause of the parallelism of
 the auriferous lodes, the mountain-ranges, and the seacoast is dis
 cussed, and it is pointed out that the gold does not occur in large
 grains.
             XI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
             AN ELECTROLYTIC THEORY OF DIELECTRICS.
       To the Editors of the Philosophical Magazine and Journal.
         Gentlemen,
 SINCE writing the paper on dielectrics which you published in
       your last issue, it has occurred to me that the calculation of q
 from tenacity and dielectric strength might be made directly,
 instead of in terms of specific inductive capacity and Young's
 modulus. Perhaps it may be well to point this out.
    Disruptive discharge occurs when the mechanical force on a
 molecule is equal to T- =Trf2 ; and as the force applied electrically is
                        n
 equal to q X dV°»- , it follows that
                  ds
                               d Vmax. qy^2
                             q ~~ds~
 From this q for glass = | x 10 11—a number which is probably

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            77
rather too small, for two reasons : firstly, because flaws reduce T
more than ^max- (as I explained in the paper) ; and, secondly,
                ds
because the measured value of T depends on the cohesion between
the least-paired particles, whereas dY       depends on that between
those which are most paired.
    With liquids the second of these causes of error will be more
marked than with solids, because the pairing in them is so much
more pronounced ; so that although the measured values of T for
liquids are probably much lower than for solids, the true values for
electrical stress are likely to be the same for both, or even higher
for liquids. It is therefore significant that dVJ""*' is so nearly the
same in the three substances, glass, water, and oil, for which I
measured it ; for constancy in the values of q and T involves, of
 course, constancy in the values of d-Vm»i. ^0 wjthin the limits
of variation of d).                        ds
                          I am, Gentlemen,
    University College, Bristol,     Your obedient servant,
        December 15, 1892.                         A. P. Chattouk.
          ON A CHEMICAL ACTINOMETER. BY H. KIGOLLOT.
    This apparatus consists of two plates of oxidized copper im
 mersed in water containing ^(iu °^ chloride, iodide, or bromide of
 sodium. One of the plates is exposed to the rays of light, the
 other is protected from the action either by surrounding it with
 parchment or paper, or by placing it directly behind the first plate
 at a distance of about a millimetre.
    The action of the light is instantaneous and disappears when the
 illumination is destroyed.
     The sensitiveness of an element decreases rapidly at first and
 then becomes virtually constant.
     The electromotive force of a given actinometer varies with the
 colour of the light which acts upon it.
     M. Eigollot has investigated the electromotive force in the
 different parts of the spectrum, and gives the curves obtained by
 taking as abscissae the lengths of waves, and as ordinates the
 divisions read off on the galvanometer-scale. These curves show
 that the actinometer with copper plates is most sensitive in the
 red portion of the spectrum, that is in the region most luminous
  for the eye. In this respect it differs from actinometers with
  silver compounds, which are more especially sensitive to the most
  refrangible rays.
     If, after having traversed the spectrum from red to violet, the
 system of plates is again exposed in all parts of the spectrum but
 proceeding from violet to red, the curves retain the same form,
  and the increase of sensitiveness for red rays observed by
  M. Becquerel (Lumikre, vol. ii. page 138) for iodized plates which.

  78           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 have been previously exposed to the most refrangible ray?, does
 not seem here to take place.
    M. Rigollot used his actinometer to investigate the light diffused
 by the northern region of the sky at different times of the day. He
 gives the curve obtained on September 17, 1889, on the terrace of
 the Physical Laboratory of the Faculty of Science at Lyons with a
 clear sky. This shows a maximum illumination towards half-past
 twelve ; the curve is virtually symmetrical with respect to this
 maximum for different times of day.
    The author has investigated if, as M. Egoroff has found for
 iodized plates, the intensity of the current is inversely proportional
 to the square of the distance from the source to the apparatus.
 This law holds approximately with Drummoud's light as source,
 that is to say with a feeble light, but with sunlight the intensity
 increases more rapidly than the intensity of the current.
    As the indications of the instrument are proportional to the
 illumination for faint light, it may be used with advantage in
 certain cases, such as examining the luminosity of the sky in
 diffused light.—Journal de Physique, November 1892 ; from
 Annates de CJiimie et Physique, vol. xxii. p. 567, 1891.
       ON THE ATTRACTION OF TWO PLATES SEPARATED BY A
                DIELECTRIC. BY M. JUL1EN LEFEVRE.
    I have measured the attraction of two electrified plates sepa
rated by a dielectric not in close contact with them, and have
 verified that it is represented by the following formula :-
                             FP _/«+«' V
                             F
                                    Jc
where F' is the attraction of the two plates at the distance e+e' in
 air ; F the attraction at the same distance when a plane insulating
 plate of thickness e has been placed between the plates ; e' is then
 the sum of the thicknesses of air on either side of this plate ; k is
the dielectric constant of the plate.
    I used two horizontal plates, and a sensitive balance to the
 beam of which was hung at one end a scale-pan ; the movable
 plate of the electrical apparatus, which is 12 centim. in diameter,
 is suspended at the other end by an insulating stem. This plate
 is surrounded by a guard-ring provided with a kind of cover, which
 is only perforated by a hole to allow the rod to pass.
    The fixed plate, which is 19 centim. in diameter, is placed below
 the former and rests on an insulating support with level] ing-
 screws, so that the distance e+e can be varied. Three insulating
rods pass through this plate and support the dielectric. On either
side of this are layers of air as thin as possible ; it must, however,
be possible for the movable plate to make small oscillations.
    The source of electricity is a Euhmkorff 's coil worked by six
Bunsen's elements. One of the poles communicates with the
fixed plate, aud with the inner coating of a jar the capacity of

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               79
which is, according to circumstances, 70 to 150 times greater than
that of the condenser formed by the two plates. The other pole,
the external armature of the jar, the movable plate, and the beam
of the balance are put to earth.
   The whole apparatus except the scale-pan is placed in a cage the
air of which is dried.
   The plates of sulphur and of paraffin are obtained by melting
in a mould, the bottom of which is carefully levelled. The thick
ness of the plate is measured by a two-ended screw and a catbeto-
meter. The distance between the two plates is also measured by a
cathetometer.
   The dielectric is placed in the cage some days before the experi
ment so as to get rid of all traces of electricity.
   The balance being somewhat too lightly tared, and all parts
being put to earth, I counterpoise by a weighty. I then electrify
the fixed plate, and counterbalance again with a weight P. I put
this plate to earth and counterpoise again by a weight p : then
                               Y-y-P+P'.
                                            2
   The attraction F' is determined in like manner by three operations.
   I work in the same way with liquids, measuring F' first, and then
F so as to avoid evaporation. The thickness of air e' undergoes in
this case a slight correction, which consists in replacing the thick
ness of the layer of air forming the bottom of the vessel containing
the liquid by the equivalent thickness of air.
   In each experiment I calculate the ratio =,      F and then the cor-
rected ratio                  -r, F            V
                              E= w\-7+r) ¦
From (1) we should have               VIt=fc
   The following table, in which e and e' are expressed in centi
metres, F and F' in milligrammes, shows that the values of V K
agree with the values of Jc which I have obtained by means of
Coulomb's balance (Comptes Rendm, Nov. 16, 1891).
   The formula (1) is therefore correct; and particularly in the
case in which e' can be disregarded, we have =¦,    F =k?.
      Dielectric.         e.      e'.    F.    I".        E.  VE.   k
                                                     £"
 Paraffin, No. ]         2-20    0-70   39-5  17-25 2-29 3-53 1-88 2
                                 066    405   14    289  4-38 209
            No. 2        337     0-61   30-5   9    3-39 4-51 2-12
                                 0-68   235    7-25 3-24 4-42 2-10  t
                         3-56    0-54   48-5   9-75 4-97 7-27 2-70 2:6
                         204     0-32   72-75 18-75 3-88 b-39 2-32 2-3
 Carbon bisulphide... 2-60       109    22    11-5  1-91 2-78 1-67 1-7
 Oil of turpentine . . . 2-77    0-79   26-25 13    202  2-49 1-58 15
                         2-28    0-71   19-50  8    2-43 3-38 1-84 1-9

80            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
   I may, in conclusion, observe that the attraction of two plates
lends itself perfectly to the measurement of dielectric constants ;
it is simple, rapid, and only requires a "sensitive balance, and is
preferable to all methods now in use.—Journal de Physique, June
1892.
    INVESTIGATION OF THE PROPERTIES OF AMORPHOUS RORON.
                           BY H. MOISSAN.
    Pure amorphous boron, obtained by reducing boric anhydride by
means of magnesium, is a bright chestnut-brown dirty powder, of
specific gravity 2*45. Even in the electric arc it cannot be melted ;
heated for a long time to 1500° it agglomerates, but not to any
great extent. The electrical conductivity is small; the specific
resistance a=801 megohms.
    Heated in the air, amorphous boron takes fire at 700°, and burns
with production of sparks. It burns in oxygen with a brilliant
lustre; with sulphur also it unites at 610°, with incandescence,
boron sulphide being formed.- Boron takes fire in chlorine at 410°;
it burns with bright incandescence, forming chloride ; bromine acts
in an analogous manner.
    Amorphous boron combines with metalloids more readily than
with metals. At a high temperature it combines, however, with
magnesium, iron, and aluminium, and more readily still with
silver and platinum.
    Very concentrated nitric acid readily acts on amorphous boron
and with ignition. Sulphuric acid is reduced to sulphurous ;
phosphorus is separated from phosphoric acid at 800°, arsenic
from arsenic acid, and iodine from iodic acid.
    Boron is a powerful reducing agent, exceeding carbon and
silicon in this respect, for at a red heat it can withdraw oxygen
from carbonic oxide and from silica. It can readily reduce a
number of metallic oxides ; CuO, SnO, PbO, Sb03, and Bi203,
even on moderate heating, part with their oxygen to boron, with
incandescence. Lead peroxide detonates violently when rubbed
with boron in a mortar; and a mixture of sulphur, nitre, and boron
detonates under a red heat like gunpowder.
    Amorphoas boron also has a reducing action on a great number
of salts ; the sulphates of potassium and sodium, as well as those
of calcium and barium, are reduced by boron to sulphides as by
 carbon. Silver is separated in beautiful crystals from solutions
of silver nitrate ; and from solutions of palladium, platinum, and
gold the corresponding metals.
    Boron unites directly with nitrogen only at very high tempe
ratures.
    Amorphous boron shows thus in its chemical relations remark
able analogies with carbon.— Comptes Rendu*, vol. cxiv. p. 607.



PHl.Mag.S.5.Vol.35.Pl.III.

   Fig. 6.
ft


 WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS.
The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine.
     Monthly. 2s. Qd.
The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. 2s. Qd.
The Observatory, Monthly Review c f Astronomy. Is.
Aelfric Society's Publications. 15 parts. 37s. Qd.
Aitchison's (J. E. T.) Catalogue of Plants of Punjab. 10s.
Baird's (Major) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. Qd.
Chimmo's (Capt.) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 5a.
Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
Davis's (J. B.") Crania Britannica. £6 10s.
Davis's (J. B.) Thesaurus Craniorum. 20s.
Denning's Telescopic Work for Starlight Evenings. 10s.
Douse's Introduction to Gothic of Ulfilas. 10s. Qd.
English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School. 3s. Qd.
Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
     Surgeons. Qd.
   Ditto for Diploma in Public Health. Qd.
Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics, 15».
Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T. Blanfobd, F.R.S.
           Mammalia. 20s.
          Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
           Birds. Vol. 1.20s. Vol. II. 15s.
           Reptilia and Batrachia. 20s.
Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 50s.
Glaisher's Barometer Tables. Is.
Glaisher's Diurnal Range Tables. Is. Qd.
Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. Qd.
Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. each.
Hopkins's (E.) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 16s.
   Ditto. Illustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
Lewis's ( G.) Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s. Qd. ; on one side, 3s. Qd.
London Hospital Pathological Catalogue. 7s. Qd. nett.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, Memoirs. Vols. 8 and
     10. 7s. each.
M'Intosh's Marine Invertebrates and Fishes of St. Andrews. 21s.
Merington's French Primer. 2s. Qd.
Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. Qd.
Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3s. Qd.
Merington's Perrin's Fables. 2s. Qd.
Merington's Reading made easy. 2s. Qd.
Mulcaster's (J. W.) Statics. 7s. Qd.
 Olsen's (O. T.) Piscatorial Atlas. Coloured, 52s. Qd. ; uncoloured, 42*.
 Owen's (Sir R.) Aspects of Body in Vertebrates and Invertebrates.
     2s. Qd.
 Pascoe's Classes, Orders, &c. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. Qd.
 Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
 Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. Qd.
Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol. L Part I. 4s.,
     Part II. 7s. Qd., Part III. 6s.
 Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
Royal College of Surgeons Calendar. Is.
 Sharp's (Dr. D.) Staphylinidae of Japan. 3s. Qd.
 Smith's (R. A.) Century of Science in Manchester. 10».
 Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £6 6s. ; Ser. 2, £1 4s.
 Thomson's (Sir W.) Tables for facilitating Sumner's Method at Sea.
     10s. Qd.
   Forms for ditto. Sun, Is. Stars, Is.
 Univ. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. Qd.
 Univ. Coll. Pathological Catalogue. 4 Parts. 2s. each.
 Univ. Coll. Library Catalogue. 3 Vols. 7s. Qd.
 Univ. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. 6d.
 Walker's (Rev. R.) Constitution of Sun. 3s.
 Wheatstone's (Sir C.) Scientific Papers. 15s.
 Wiegmann's Herpetologia Mexicana. Part I. Coloured Plate*. 40a.
Wollaston's Notes on Lepidoptera of St. Helena. 3s. 6d.

            CONTENTS of N° 212.—Fifth Series.
   I. The Electrical Properties of Pure Substances.—Part I. The
Preparation of Pure Nitrogen and attempts to Condense it. By
Professor R. Thbelfall. (Plate I.)                                     page
   II. On the Eefraction of Rays of Great Wave-length in Rock-
salt, Sylvite, and Fluorite. By Heinbich Rubens and Benj. W.
Snow. (Plate II.)                                                            '
   III. Notes on the Construction of a Colour Map.            By Waltee
Bailt, M.A
   IV. Mountain-Sickness ; and Power and Endurance. By R. H.
M. Bosanqtjet, F.R.S
   V. Further Data on Colour-blindness.—No. III. By Dr.William
Pole, F.R.S
    VI. A New Method of treating Correlated Averages.             By Pro
fessor F. Y. Edgewoeth, M.A., D.C.L.
    VII. A necessary Modification of Ohm's Law.             By Febnando
Sanfobd. (Plate III.)
    VIII. Experiments in Electric and Magnetic Fields, Constant and
 Varying. By Messrs. Rimington and Wythe Smith. (Plate IV.)
    IX. Notices respecting New Books :—J.C.Sawee's Odorographia.
    X. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
       Geological Society :—Prof. M. E. Wadswoeth on the
          Geology of the Iron, Gold, and Copper Districts of Michi
          gan ; Mr. H. M. Bechee on the Gold-quartz Deposits
          of Pahang (Malay Peninsula) ; Mr. F. D. Powee on the
          Pambula Gold-deposits                                             7-J-
     XI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
       An Electrolytic Theory of Dielectrics, by A. P. Chattock ....
       On a Chemical Actinometer, by H. Rigollot
       On the Attraction of two Plates separated by a Dielectric, by
          M. Julien Lefevre
        Investigation of the Properties of Amorphous Boron, by H.
          Moissan
  »,* It is requested that all Communications for this Work may he ad
         post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office,
         Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

Vol. 35.                   FEBRUARY 1893.                               No. 213.
          Published the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. %d.
                                        THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
   PHILOSOPHICAL                                  MAGAZINE,
                                        AND
              JOURNAL                   OF       SCIENCE.
      Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine'
       Nicholson's 'Journal,' and Thomson s 'Annals of Philosophy.'
                                   CONDUCTED BY
         LORD KELVIN, LL.D. P.R.S. &c.
        GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                            FIFTH           SERIES.
                      N° 213.—FEBRUARY 1893.
                                  LONDON:
        PBINTED BY TAYLOR AND FBANCIS, BHD LION COUBT, FLEET STBEET.
  Sold by Simpkin, Marshal), Hamilton, Kent, and Co., Ld. ; Whittaker and Co.;
    and by A. and C. Black ;—T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh j Smith and Son,
    Glasgow: —Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin;—Putnam, New York:—Veuve J.
    Boyveau , Paris :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

 Pp. xi, 361 ; Demy 8vo. With 2 Plates and 65 Woodcuts. I
  TELESCOPIC WORK FOR STARLIGHT EVENIHGS.
                                       BY
                  WILLIAM F. DENNING, F.R.A.S.
          (Formerly President of the Liverpool Astronomical Society.)
  This work is intended as a useful companion for amateur observers,
contains many facts and references likely to stimulate their interest in th
sublime science of Astronomy.
   Chapters are given on the Invention of the Telescope, on Large and Small
Telescopes, and copious notes on Telescopic work. Then follow descriptions
of the Sun, Moon, Planets, Comets, Meteors, Stars, and Nebulse. The methods
and requirements of modern observation are alluded to, and the information has
been carefully brought up to date.
           Taylob and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
       Medium 8vo. Vol. L Part L, 4s. ; Part II., 7s. 6d. ; Part EH., 6«.
                PHYSICAL MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                         UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
                 PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
          Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                       JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                  OF THE LATE
                   J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
            Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
    Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates
                                   and Portrait.                           '
   Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE
                                 D.C.L., F.R.S.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                               Demy 8vo, price Is.
                    THE OBSERVATORY,
                A MONTHLY REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY.
                                    Edited by
                  H. H. TURNER, M.A., B.Sc, Sec. R.A.S.,
                                       AND
                A. A. COMMON, LL.D., F.R.S., Treas. R.A.S.
        THE COMPANION TO THE OBSERVATORY FOR 1893.
                                   Price Is. Qd.
             Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                              THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
    PHILOSOPHICAL                       MAGAZINE
                              AND
         JOURNAL               OF       SCIENCE.
                     [FIFTH SERIES.]
                   FEBR UAR Y 1893.
 XII. The Diffusion of Light.     By W. E. Sumpner, T).Sc.*
LITTLE information appears to have been published about
       the diffusing power of unpolished surfaces. The sub
ject has been studied by optical measurements by Zollner and
others, chiefly for astronomical purposes ; and the radiation
from such surfaces has also been investigated with appa
ratus designed for measuring radiant heat. But the in
fluence of such diffusion in increasing the illumination of
rooms and open spaces, although well known, does not appear
to be appreciated to the extent that its importance deserves ;
and a few numerical determinations of the coefficients of
reflexion, absorption, and transmission of diffusing surfaces
may prove of interest.
   Terms in light are used vaguely, and it will not be deemed
out of place to define those which will be here needed. By
the reflecting power of a surface is meant the ratio of the
amount of light reflected by it to the total amount of light
incident upon it. The illumination of a surface is the amount
of incident light per unit area of the surface. The unit
quantity of light is the flux of radiation per second across a
unit area of a sphere of unit radius at whose centre a unit
light (of one candle) is placed. The amount of light radiated
by a source of k candle-power, within a solid angle O, is kSl,
and the total quantity of light emitted by it is Airk. The
brightness of a diffusing surface is its candle-power per unit
     * Communicated by the Physical Society: read Dec. 9, 1802.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 213. Feb. 1893.             G

82        Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.
area in the direction normal to the surface. The illumination
produced at a point by a surface of brightness B, subtending
a (small) solid angle ft at the point, is Bft, and if a surface,
containing this point, have its normal inclined at an angle <f>
to the axis of ft, the illumination of this second surface due
to the first is Bft cos <j>.
    If B is the brightness of a surface rendered luminous by
reflexion, if r) is its (diffused) reflecting-power, and if I is
the illumination of the surface, then
                              7rB = »7l                         (1)
This relation follows from the assumption of the law of
cosines, viz. that the candle-power (per unit area) of a bright
surface is B cos <f> in a direction making an angle <p with the
normal. The right-hand member of (1) is by definition
equal to the whole light reflected from unit area of the sur
face, and must be equal to the integral of B cos <f> dD, for all
directions on one side of the surface. The value of the
integral is easily seen to be 7rB.
    The brightness of a body, as just defined, is directly pro
portional to the illumination of the image of the body on the
 retina of the eye, and the word may thus be quite justly used
 in the ordinary physiological sense of the term. Similarly
 the law of cosines, just alluded to, is merely another way of
 expressing the fact that the sensation of the brightness of a
diffusing surface is the same from whatever direction this
 surface may be viewed. For the amount of light received
 by the eye, and concentrated on the image on the retina, is
 simply the product of the area of the pupil of the eye and
 the illumination at the surface of the eye due to the bright
 object. Tbe former factor is constant for different directions
 of view, and the latter must vary as the solid angle subtended
 by the object at the eye, since the area of the image on the
 retina is a measure of this solid angle. The illumination at
 a point at which a surface of brightness B subtends a solid
 angle ft is not necessarily Bft for all inclinations of ft to the
 surface, unless the law of cosines is fulfilled ; and, if this law
 is fulfilled, it follows that the illumination of the image of
 this surface on the retina of the eye is constant at all dis
 tances and inclinations. The eye is a good judge, and is
 indeed the only judge, of quick variations in brightness, and
 the cosine law is always applicable to diffusing surfaces, the
 appearance of which does not alter as the eye moves past
 them. Any divergence from this law is negligible so far as
 its influence on illumination is concerned.
     If Q is the quantity of light radiated per second by the

         Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light,              83
light-sources within a room, and if Q' is the total amount of
light falling on the walls,
                            Q'=Q+*?Q'                             (2)
For of the quantity Q', a portion t/Q' must be reflected, and
the rest absorbed, and the rate at which light is absorbed by
the walls must be equal to the rate at which it is produced:
The average illumination 1' of the walls of the room must
hence be related to I, the illumination due to the direct action
of the lights, by the equation
Thus if i; = -90, F = 10I, and if t/ = -50, I'=2I, so that the
illumination due to the walls of the room may become far
more important than that caused by the direct rays of the
lights.
   The truth of this relation may be also seen as follows :—
The light Q falling on the walls is partially reflected, and a
quantity 77Q is sent back into the room. This light falls on
the walls again and a portion r\ x 17Q is reflected a second
time. The total quantity of light Q' falling on the walls
owing to successive reflexions is given by the equation* ,
                 Q'=Q + ,Q + ^Q+ ... =T^-Q.
Or, again, as the illumination I,' of the walls at any point P
is made up of a portion Ip due to the direct rays of the lights,
together with a part caused by radiation from the walls, we
 have
                       V = Ii>+J"Bcos<W             .... (4)
 where B is the brightness of the walls, and 4> is the inclina
tion of the solid angle dil to the normal to the surface at the
point P. Assuming that the brightness is the same all over
the bounding surface of the room, the value of the integral is
readily seen to be ttB, and this, as already shown, is equal
to t)V, where I' is the average illumination of the walls.
    When the bounding surface of a room or enclosure consists
of portions whose reflective powers are different, the average
reflective power may be taken as
                          qiA1+%A2+ &c. . . .
                     Vm-            £            j • • • • Kp)
   * Since writing this paper I have discovered that this relation has
been already pointed out by Mascart [see Palaz, TraiU de Phatomitrii
Industrielie, p. 268].
                                 G 2

84      Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.
where A is the total area of the bounding surface, of which a
portion A: has a reflective power equal to njlf and a second
portion A2 a reflective power rj2, &c. This relation is very
approximately true for ordinary rooms, and may be shown to
be quite accurate for a spherical enclosure.
   For let P and Q be any two points of a sphere of centre C
and radius r (fig. 1). Then PQ= 2r cos <f>, where <f> is the angle
which the chord makes with the radius through either P or
Q. Also, with the same notation as before, we have
                 t/    t , Cd        ,   cos <f>
                 V = If + JBcos^        PQ» >
where dA is an element of area at Q of brightness B,
and subtending a solid angle dA cos #/PQ2 at P. Now
PQ2 = 4r2 cos2<£ and 7rB = ijI , where I' is the illm
                                                 illumination of
the area dA : hence
          V = IP + 4^I1'^A = IP+5lI'^A'                        (6)
A being the total area of the spherical surface. The integral
is constant whatever the position of the point P, and what
ever the character of the reflecting surface of the sphere.
Thus if any complete [or if any portion of a] spherical sur
face be illuminated in any manner Jp by the direct rays of a
combination of light sources, the actual illumination 1/ will
exceed Ip by a constant amount all over the sphere, owing to
the reflective action of the surface. Also, if the original dis
tribution be uniform all over the sphere, Ip= I, a constant,
1/ will also be constant, =P, and
                           I'
                  r = i+ jjVA-i + ifcj',
where
                                                               (?)

           Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.        85
Taking as an average case for rooms a reflecting power of
70 per cent, for the ceiling, 40 per cent, for the walls, and
20 per cent, for the floor, the average value of rj is a little
over 40 per cent., and the increase of illumination by re
flexion becomes as much as 70 per cent. If the walls and
ceiling of a room be well whitewashed, the average reflecting
power will not fall far short of 80 per cent.; and in such
cases the illumination due to diffused reflexion is four times
as important as that caused by the direct action of the lights
in the room. A further great advantage, resulting from the
use of good diffusing surfaces, arises from the fact that the
illumination they cause is, in most cases, very approximately
 constant all over the room, and does not cast shadows.
    It is to be noted that when a reflecting surface is coloured,
 its average reflecting power does not properly represent the
 character of the increase of illumination caused by it. A
 room whose walls are covered with red paper whose average
 reflecting power is 40 per cent., may quite possibly have the
 red light in the room increased five times owing to the action
 of the walls. Suppose, for instance, that the reflective power
 of the paper for red light is 80 per cent., and for other kinds
 of light only 10 per cent., the average reflecting power will
 not exceed 40 per cent., yet the red light will be increased
 five times, while other kinds of light will not be increased to
 any perceptible extent.
                 Measurements of Reflective Power.
    The surface, whose reflective power was required, was
  attached to a large screen of black velvet, placed at one end
  O of a 3-metre photometer-bench OL (see fig. 2), so as to
                              Fig. 2.
       B
                                      02
       0                                  P2                Ii
  be perpendicular to its length. Two lights were used, one
  being a Methven two-candle gas standard, placed at L, and

86       Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.
the other a glow-lamp run generally at about 20 candle-
power, placed at Pj. A Lumrner-Brodhun photometer was
slid along the bench to a point P2 at which the illumination
due to reflexion from the surface OR was equal to that due
to the Methven standard at L. At first the lamp Px was
permanently situated a little to one side of the bench, and
the rays from it in the direction of the photometer P2 were
screened off. Subsequently the points Px and P2 were made
to coincide, the lamp being fixed to the same slider as the
photometer and suitably screened from it and from the eyes
of the observer. In some experiments the distance OL was
kept fixed and the position of balance OP was determined
for each surface tested. In other cases both OP and OL
were varied.
   Let:—
     A = area of diffusing surface on screen OR (centre at 0).
Ox, 02 = solid angles subtended by A at P1( P2 respectively.
  xu x2 = distances OP1} 0P2 respectively.
     y = distance P2L.
     K = candle-power of the glow-lamp at P1#
      k = candle-power of Methven standard at L.
   Then:—
      The quantity of light falling on the area A is KOx,
     the average illumination of A is Kfij/A,
      the average brightness is ^KOj/VA, by (1),
      the illumination at P2 is rfKHxil^/TrA,
      and also the illumination at P2 is k/y" ;
whence
                   _ k 7rA         k irx^x*                .
                 V~Kn^!~K Ay1 ' * * • ' * (^
provided the dimensions of A are small compared with xx or
x2. When this is not the case, the equation (8) is not suffi
ciently correct, and a more accurate formula may be obtained
as follows, by taking note of the inclination of the rays to
the surfaces.
   The illumination of the surface at the point R due to the
lamp at Px can bo easily shown to be K cos3 </>i/«i2, where fa
is the angle between RPj and OL, the line of centres of the
bench. The brightness B of the surface at R is therefore
ijKcos^j/tt^!2 by equation (1). An element of area dA at
R subtends at P2 a solid angle cZ02 equal to cos3$2dA/#22,
and the illumination at P2 due to this element is BJIl2 =
ijKcos3^ cotffadAlirx^Xz on any area placed perpendicular
to RP2. As tho photometer screen is perpendicular to the

         Dr. W. E. Sumpner on tlie Diffusion of Light.         87
bench and not to RP2, we must multiply this expression by
cos<£2 to get the effective illumination due to the element
dA. Finally we have for the total illumination the integral :—
                1 = —^p-j fcos3^ cos*<b2dA,       .  .        (9)
in which the angles <f>u <f>2 are related by the equation
                         tan ^1 = ^2tan^>2.
When the area A is circular, with 0 as its centre, this
integral reduces to
                     1=V-A co^fad.sitffa. • • • (10)
                          ®i J
The value of this integral can be readily evaluated, but it does
not lead to a convenient formula, and as it was found prac
tically preferable to fix the lamp to the same slider as the
photometer, and at the same distance from the screen OR,
we may put
                           <£i = </>2 = $J
                           *t?j — ^Pg   /Vj
and (10) then reduces to
                     i=2?51^-cos8^'                         <ll)
in which <\> is the semiangle of the cone with base A and
height x.
   This expression is rendered more convenient for purposes
of calculation by taking advantage of the fact that A/irx1, or
tan2<£, is a small quantity. By neglecting tan9^> compared
with unity we obtain
                       |[l-COS5</>] = ^,
where
                X=^ +1-75 + -43 A                           (12)
and in most cases it will be found that the third term in this
expression is negligibly small compared with the sum of the
other two.
   The value of I found in (11) may be equated to kjy1 when
the photometer is in the position of balance, and on doing so,
we find for i\ the value
                           v=KfX'                            (13)
which reduces to (8) when x is large.

88        Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.
    This equation was used for the great majority of the re
flexion tests. With feebly diffusing surfaces such as black
cloth, the distance x had to be so much reduced that the area
A subtended a greater angle at the photometer screen than
the aperture of the photometer itself. In such cases the
angle tj> in (11) was calculated from the solid angle sub
tended by the aperture of the photometer at the centre of
the photometer screen.                With diffusing surfaces which
appeared to shine slightly under the action of light the
effect of regular reflexion had to be separated from that of
diffused reflexion, by experiments made with the same
surface for different values of x.                In such cases, which
will be alluded to subsequently, the true reflecting-power
is not given by formula (13). The areas A of the reflecting
surfaces used in the experiments were never circular, as
assumed in the above proof, but as they were always ap
proximately square, with the central portion at 0 (fig. 2),
any error in (12) and (13) arising in this way must be quite
negligible. The ratio k/K. of the two lights was frequently
tested in the course of the experiments and was found very
constant during every set of test*.
    The results obtained are given in the accompanying table.
 In the majority of cases the numbers given are approximate
 only, as there seemed no object in aiming at great accuracy.
 The first four surfaces referred to in the table, viz., thick
 white blotting-paper, white (rough) cartridge-paper, tracing-
 paper, and tracing-cloth, were, however, carefully tested,
and the numbers obtained represent the mean of many
observations.
                   Table I.— Reflecting-Powers.
                                per cent.                              per cent.
   White blotting-paper              82   Plane deal (clean)         40 to 50
   White cartridge-paper             80              (dirty)                 20
   Tracing-cloth                     35   Yellow cardboard                  30
   Tracing-paper                     22   Parchment (one thickness) ... 22
   Ordinary foolscap                 70       „       (two thicknesses) ... 35
   Newspapers                 f)0 to 70   Yellow painted wall (dirty) ... 20
   Tissue-paper (one thickness) ... 40                      „ (clean) ... 40
                (two thicknesses) . 55    Black cloth                       1*2
   Yellow wall-paper                 40   Black velvet                      04
   Blue paper                        25
   Dark brown paper                  13
   Deep chocolate paper               4
    Zollner found white surfaces to reflect from 70 to 78 per
cent, of the light incident upon them. The numbers given
at the head of the above table are slightly higher. They,
however, agree very well with results which have been pub

          Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.       89
lished with regard to the diffuse reflexion of radiant heat,
since 82 per cent, is generally given as the reflective power
of white substances*.
   The degree of consistency of the results may he judged
as follows : —In a series of 10 determinations of the reflec
tive power of white blotting-paper, made with values of x
 (see fig. 2), varying from 40 cm. to 82 cm., the mean
reflecting power was found to be 82"4 per cent., and the
average error of a single determination from the mean was
 1*4. With surfaces of lower reflecting- power (such as
tracing-cloth) the numbers obtained in successive experi
ments were more consistent. The value of rj for white
blotting-paper was checked by comparing it directly with
that of a piece of common mirror. The Methven standard
at L (see fig. 2) was replaced by the mirror, arranged so
as to reflect the light from the glow-lamp along the line of
 the bench. The reflective power of the white blotting-paper
placed on the screen OR was found to be 98"5 per cent, of
that of the mirror. The value of rj for the mirror, for normal
 rays, was separately determined and found to be 82 per cent.,
and hence 17 for the blotting-paper comes out as 80'8 per
cent.
    Several of the numbers in the above table were confirmed
 by comparative measurements, using white paper as a standard
 reflector, the Methven standard at L (fig. 2) being replaced
 by a surface of white paper exposed to the rays of the glow-
 lamp at P. The reflective power of one of the walls tested
 was measured in diffuse daylight by exposing the aperture of
 a photometer to the radiation of the wall, and balancing the
illumination against that of a standard candle. The part of
the wall affecting the photometer was then covered with a
sheet of white blotting-paper, and the ratio of the two illumi
nations at once gave the ratio of the reflecting-powers.
                   Measurement of Absorption.
    The absorbing-powers of some of the preceding substances
 were determined by measuring the candle-power of the light
 from a glow-lamp, first when this was uncovered, and after
 wards when it was surrounded with a cylinder of the paper
under test. The cylinders were short, being just longer than
the height of the lamp, and were closed at top and bottom
 with caps of the same paper, so that the lamp was completely
   " See Jamin et Bouty, Tome Troisieme, p. 149. Results by MM.
Goddard, De la Provostaye et Uesains.

90        Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.
enveloped by the paper tested. The ratio of the diminution
of candle-power to the original candle-power gave the appa
 rent absorption of the paper. If the candle-power in some
particular case was found to diminish 30 per cent., it would
have been erroneous to conclude that the envelope absorbed
as much as 30 per cent, of the light incident upon it, or that
 70 per cent, was transmitted. If the reflecting, absorbing,
and transmitting powers of a material be respectively denoted
by r), a, and t, there must exist between these quantities the
relation                  v + a + r=l.
   Also if Q be the quantity of light given out per second by
the light-source within the envelope, the quantity of light
incident per second upon the surface of the envelope will,
owing to internal reflexion, be increased to Q', where
                          Q/(l-i7)=Q;
the quantities of light absorbed and transmitted will respect
ively be
                          «Q' and tQ',
and the ratios these quantities bear to Q will similarly be
                                and Tj-^— ;
                         1— 77       1—9?
the sum of course being unity.
   If the light-source can be assumed to radiate equally in all
directions, the ratio of its candle-power, after putting on the
envelope, to the original candle-power will not be t but
t/(1 — tj). The influence of internal reflexion is to increase
both the absorption and the transmission, and unless it is taken
into account large errors may be made in estimating the
¦coefficients. A very simple way of showing the effect of
internal reflexion consists in surrounding a glow-lamp with
a white paper cylinder, open at the top, and adjusting a pho
tometer screen till the illumination caused by it is balanced
against that of some standard source of light. If now a piece
of white paper be placed on the top of the cylinder, so as to
shut in the vertical rays of the lamp, the candle-power in the
horizontal direction will be found to increase considerably.
In some of the tests, in order to avoid error caused by non
uniform radiation of the lamp, this was first surrounded with
an envelope of tracing-cloth, or blotting-paper, and the com
bination used as the light-source. If k0 be its candle-power
in this condition, and if kt be the observed candle-power
after completely surrounding it with an envelope of the sub

          Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.            91
stance to be tested, the apparent absorption of this material
is                           k —h
                             V^'                                m
                               "0
and the true absorption coefficient a. is given by
                        H={1-V)k=hf                             (i5)
where t) is the previously found reflexion coefficient.
   When an inner envelope is used to produce a light which
radiates equally well in all directions, it is necessary for tho
outer envelope to be large compared with it, since otherwise
 the formula for the increase of illumination due to internal
 reflexion cannot be applied.
   The following table gives the values of the absorbing
coefficients, expressed as percentages, for the four substances
at the head of Table I., from which the corresponding values
 of rj used in applying (15) have been taken.
                            Table II.
                           Apparent Absorption. Keal Absorption.
                               77 per cent.       13'8 per cent.
                               61     „           122      „
                               23     „           150
                                9     „            70      „
    Three large glass globes, made for arc-lamps, were also
 tested. As the reflective powers of the globes could not
 easily be found, only the apparent absorption was measured.
 One globe was of opal glass (almost transparent), and the
 ratio of apparent absorption was 15 per cent. A second
 globe was of ground glass and absorbed 42 per cent. The
 remaining one was of opal glass, too opaque to allow any
 bright object placed within it to be distinguished. This
absorbed 39 per cent.
              Measurements of Transmitting-Power.
    The amount of light transmitted through the surfaces
above mentioned was measured in a very similar manner to
 that in which their reflective powers were determined ; the

92       Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.
only difference being that the glow-lamp at P, (see fig. 2)
was moved to the opposite side of the surface as in fig. 3.
   OR represents the screen of paper, pinned on a wooden
frame, and placed perpendicular to the optical bench PjL. The
                             Fig. .3.
                       OP1=OP2=.r P2L=#.
glow-lamp was at P1; the photometer at P2, and the Methven
standard at L. The distances OP1; OP2 were arranged to be
equal, and balance obtained by moving L along the bench.
On referring to equations (8) to (13) and the arguments
used in establishing them, it will be seen that they are all
applicable to the case now considered if only we substitute t,
the transmitting-power, for rj.
    When, however, tests were made with the paper surfaces
already referred to, it was soon found that the numbers
calculated from expression (13),
                           K$X=Y>                          (16)
were not constant for the same substance. They differed
from each other far more than could be accounted for by
errors of experiment ; thus, the values found for r by this
formula were too high, and frequently exceeded 100 per cent.
For any given surface the values were found to increase pro
gressively with the value of x used in the tests. The reason
for this is easily seen when it is remembered that equations
 (8) to (13) are only true on the assumption that the surfaces
considered are purely diffusive, and do not alter in appearance
as the eye changes its point of view. When light is trans
mitted through a semitransparent substance such as tracing-
paper, or tracing-cloth, the brightest part of the surface is
always on the line joining the eye to the light, and visibly
moves over the surface as the point of view is changed. The

         Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.           93
easiest way to represent these facts is to assume that, of the
light transmitted, a portion tx passes through without change
of direction, and that the rest t2 is diffused in accordance
with the cosine law. The case is analogous with a reflecting
surface such as white enamelled iron, which reflects a portion
ijl of the incident light in accordance with the regular law
of reflexion, and diffuses another portion % according to the
law of cosines. On referring to equations (8) to (11) it will
be noticed that they are still true for the illumination due to
diffusion if we substitute for r) either t2 or rj2 (according as
we are considering transmission (fig. 3) or reflexion (fig. 2)
respectively). The additional illumination at the photometer
due to regular, i. e. direct, transmission (transparency) is
                               Ti(£p                          (17)
and a similar expression holds for regular reflexion if we
substitute i/i for tx.
    The whole illumination must, as before, be equal to kft/2, and
 by (11), (12), and (17) we have
                             K j. K        k
                        TW*-TlI?=f>                           (18)
 whence the value of Y in (16) is equal to
                        Y=r3 + JX;                            (19)
and a similar expression holds for reflexion if we replace t,
and t2 by t/x and ij2 respectively. The true values for the
transmitting and reflecting coefficients are
                        T = Tl + T2,
                                                              (20)
                        V = V1 + V2,
 and the reason the values found for Y were too high, and
 became greater and greater as x increased, was simply that
the values used for X (see 12) were always greater than 4,
and increased rapidly with x.
    By plotting the numbers found for Y with the corresponding
values of X, a straight line is obtained from which the values
represented by the symbols in (20) can all be determined.
The straightness of these lines, and the verification of the
fundamental formula
                           77 + a + T = 1,

   94          Dr. W. E. Snmpner on the Diffusion of Light.
   affords a good criterion of the extent to which the principles
   and the formulae, referred to in this paper, can be relied
   upon.
       The following Tables III., IV., and V. contain the results
   of three sets of tests on the transmitting-) lower of blotting-
   paper and tracing-cloth, and on the reflecting-power of
   tracing-cloth. The values of Yob8 are calculated with the
   aid of (12) and (lfi) from the observed values of x and 3/. All
   the dimensions are given in centimetre-units. In the accom
   panying sheet of curves the values of Yobs are plotted as
   ordinates, with the corresponding values of X as abscissae.
   From the straight line most nearly representing the connexion
   between the points the values of Y , have been obtained,
  and are given in the tables. From this straight line also the
   true value of the transmitting (or reflective) power can be
   found by finding the value of the ordinate when X = 4. The
  intercept on the axis of Y shows the portion of the light which
  is diffused.
           Table III.—Transmitting-Power of Blotting-paper.
              A=980. K=26. *=2. r=9-2. TMic_=6-60+27X/4.
                         60        50       40       4r)      55     60
     y                  154      120        88-4    104-S    137    154
     x                   136        9-8      70        8-25   11-40  136
     Yob».               15-5      13-2     112      120      14-4   15-5
     Ycalc.              15 7      131      11-2     121      14-2   15-7
           Table IV.— Transmitting-Power of Tracing-cloth.
            A=980. K=231. k=% t-=54-4. Ycalc. = 41'0+13-4X/4.
              40     50       60       70      80      75     65    55    45
y             3'.)-2 535      701      89-4   105-6    958    77-7  61    46-1
X               0-98  9-80    136      174     2230     19-4  15-4  11-2   8-25
Yobs. •¦¦     63-5   74-3     861      970    116     107     91-8  81-7  69-3
  caic." '    644    737      8o-6     99-2   115-8  106      940   78-5  68-7

            Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.                 95
 Table V.—Reflecting-Power of Tracing-cloth (shiny side) .
           A = 1300. K = 12. Jc=% », = 35-7. Ycalo_= 30-9+ 4-8 X/4.
                      60      56       623          59-8    475    44-5
   y                  90     1044     1277         1202     82-5   755
    x                  7-82     910     1113        10-45    7-22   0-55
    YobB.             40-4    41-8     441          43-2    39-6   38-6
    Ycalc.            40-3    41-8     44-2         43-4    39-6   38-7
                                    Fig. 4.
 •200
                                              V
 150
 100                     y
   50                                         ...-. ring ^otj (n)
                                                              ' fr
                                              BlottinyPaj tr(T)
    0                        / aZue ofJ
      0             5          10            15              -20
     Several sets of tests were taken. Some of these are repre
sented by the sheet of curves shown in fig. 4. Y is the
percentage of the incident light which the surface apparently
reflects or transmits, assuming that it is all diffused, and is
calculated from equation (16). The true values of the co
efficients are obtained from the curves by applying equations
(19) and (20). The numerical details of the observations are
of no special interest, and the essential results may be sum
marized as follows :—

  96        Dr. W. E. Sumpner on the Diffusion of Light.
                      Table VI.—Reflective Powers.
                                      Eegular.        Diffused.           Total.
                                                         It                  n.
   Blotting-paper                    0 per cent.     82 per cent.     82 per cent.
                                     0               80       „       80
   Tracing-cloth (shiny side) .. .   4-8      „      30-9     „       35-7      „
      »     »    (rough side).. ¦    2-7      „      316      „       343 „
                                 ¦   22       „      198 „ .          220       „
                  Table VII.—Transmissive Powers.
                                     Direct.          Diffused.           Total.
                                        rt.              r.                 T.
                                   27 per cent.     6 5 per cent.     9 2 per cent.
                                   25       „       87      „        112        „
                                 13-4       „      410               544
                                298         „      462      „        76-0       „
     We may now collect the coefficients rj, a, t, determined by
  the foregoing independent methods, and compare their sum
  withunit^-                        Table VIII.
                           1-                 a.             T.           t) + a + T.
Blutting-paper        82 per cent.    138 per cent.     9'2 per cent. 105 0 per cent.
Oartridge-paper . . . 80    „         12-2       „     11-2     „      1034       „
                      35    „         15 0       „     544      „      104-4      „
                      22    „          70        „     760      „      105 0      „
     The numbers in the Inst column differ from the true value
  of 100 per cent, to a greater extent than can fairly be accounted
  for by the limits of experimental error. They are all over 100 ;
  and this was the case, not only for the tests here given, but
  also for every one of many sets of tests taken. The small dis
  crepancy would be accounted for by assuming that the law of
  cosines is not exactly fulfilled. A very slight departure from
  this law would be amply sufficient to explain the results.
     Suppose the candle-power of a unit area of a diffusing
  surface in the direction of the normal is B, and in any

      Relation of Volta Electromotive Force to Pressure Sfc.      97
 direction <j> is            B (cos <j!>)1+e.
 It is then easy to show that the total amount of light given
 out per unit area is equal to
                                        1
                                7rB
     In all the above experiments the actual measurements have
 referred to the light receding from the diffusing substance at
 inclinations all practically normal to its surface. The quantity
 B has been measured, the total light has been calculated as
 7rB, and has been overestimated in the ratio 1+^:1.
    To account for an error of 5 per cent., the quantity e need
 only be Ol. The brightness of the surface (in the physio
 logical sense) would, when viewed at an inclination <f>, be
 proportional to
                B (cos <f>) l+'/cos </>, or B (cos
 This quantity is practically constant (if 6 = 0'1) until $
 becomes very large. Its value is '994 for </> = 20° and *974
 for 0 = 40°, and the change in the brightness of the surface
 would hardly be perceptible to the eye.
    This correction applies to the coefficients rj2 and t2 ; it does
 not affect the values of i)lt «, or t,. In some of the first tests
 of reflecting-power the inclination of the light-rays to the
 surface was considerably less than 90 degrees, and the values
 of t] obtained were less than those given above. These tests
 confirm the idea that the cosine law is not strictly fulfilled,
 but they were not accurate enough to be conclusive.
    The above measurements were all made in the Optical
 Laboratory of the Central Institution, and the writer has had
 the benefit of the assistance of some of the students of that
 College in re-testing and confirming the results given in the
foregoing tables.
  XIII. Relation of Volta Electromotive Force to Pressure Sfc.
                     By Dr. G. Gore, F.R.S.*
 FORTY-TWO years ago I made several experimental
         attempts to discover a difference of molecular state of
the upper and lower ends of a vertical column of solution of
cupric sulphate:—1st. By suddenly reversing the ends of a
gutta-percha tube, about 6 feet high and 6 inches diameter,
filled with the liquid, by swinging the tube in a vertical
   * Communicated by the Author.
   Note. Compare Wild's experiment (Wiedemann's Oalvanismus, 1872,
vol. i.p. 776; Pogg. Ann. 1805, vol. cxxv. p. 119).
    Phil. Mag. y. 5. Vol. 35. No. 213. Feb. 1893.           H

98           Dr. G. Gore on the Relation of Volta
plane upon a transverse horizontal axis at its centre, the ends
of the tube being formed of two similar plates of electrolytic
copper connected with a galvanometer ; and 2nd, by simul
taneously raising and lowering two similar disks of copper in
a tall column of such solution, the disks being attached to the
galvanometer and suspended from the two ends of a cord
passed over a pulley. These attempts, however, were not
successful owing to disturbing influences at the surfaces of
the plates, and to the employment of an insufficiently sensitive
galvanometer. Recently I have renewed the experiments in a
somewhat different form, and have succeeded in obtaining de
finite though small effects ; only minute ones were anticipated.
   The arrangement usually employed was as           Fig. 1.
follows:—A single glass tube (or several), about
3 metres long and 1 centim. bore, securely
fixed upon a board, was fitted with corks and
two wire electrodes of the same kind of metal
at its two ends, and filled within -5 centim. with
an electrolyte (see fig. 1) . It was then placed
horizontal, so that the bubble of air receded
into the branch of the tube ; the two elec
trodes were then connected with a Thomson's
reflecting-galvanometer of 3040 ohms resist
ance, and the tube allowed to remain undis
turbed until all sign of current or of variation
of current ceased. It was then placed vertical,
and as soon as a steady permanent deflexion
occurred its direction and amount was noted ;
the tube was then placed either horizontal until
all current ceased, or at once placed vertical
with its ends reversed, and the amount of
maximum steady deflexion again recorded.
   In many cases five such tubes were fixed
upon the board and connected in series, the
upper electrode of one to the lower of the
next one, in order to multiply the effect, and as
many of them charged with an electrolyte and
connected with the galvanometer as was desired.
   The electrodes were fixed in the corks by
means of melted shellac, and the corks were
saturated with melted paraffin. By employing
suitable metals and electrolytes, making each
pair of electrodes of metal cut from imme
diately contiguous parts of the same piece, and
including in each instance a wire coil of 50,000
ohms resistance in the circuit, the fluctuations

                 Electromotive Force to Pressure tyc.              99
of the current were reduced to a minimum, and the needles
usually settled at or near zero in about 5 or 10 minutes
after closing the circuit with the tubes in a horizontal position.
No perceptible amount of interference was caused by the
small difference of temperature, usually equal to about 1 *5 C.
of the upper and lower parts of the experiment room. All
the experiments were repeated two or three times in order to
ensure reliable results.
    The solutions employed were all of them made with dis
tilled water, and were in nearly all cases dilute ; the exact
strength used, however, was not a matter of much importance.
Those of the halogens usually contained about 3" 29 grains of
chlorine, 7'41 grains of bromine, or 11*25 grains of iodine in
18 ounces of water. Those of the acids contained about
55 grains of absolute acid in 40 ounces of water ; and those
of neutral salts or of alkalies contained about 300 grains of
the substance to that amount of water. The electrodes of
cadmium, zinc, aluminium, tin, lead, and copper were formed
of thick wire ; and those of nickel, iron, silver, gold, and
platinum were thin wires. The following Tables give the
particulars and the results.
                                Table I.
              Effect of Varying the Electrolyte only.
                        With Electrodes of Zn.
 No. of     Substances.     Grains per oz. No. of     Amount of
  Expt.                                    Tubes.     Deflexion.
         CI                        164                    8° I
         Br                       •37                     0
         C1+KC1                 ¦18+8-3                  50° f
         Br+KBr                 •37+ „                   28°,,
         I+KI                   •62+                     12=,,
         C1+KC1            £aat. soln.+9'4              150°,,
         Br+KBr               6 drops + „           Very variable.
         I+KI                3grains+ ,,                 20° f
    9.   HC1                        •68                    0°
   10.   HBr                       ¦92
   11.   HJSO,                    1-6
   12.   HNO.                     1-2
   ia    HCIO3                     •75
   14.   HBrO,                      f
   15.   HI03                    2-5
   16.   Acetic Acid             2-1
   17.   Tartaric,,              37
   18.   Oxalic ,
   19.  HC103 + KC103         10+7-5                      20°
   20.   HCl+AraCl....          •65+7-5                    0°
                                     H 2

100              Dr. Gr. Gore on the Relation of Volta
                           Table I. (continued).
| No. of 1                                     No. of  Amount of
  Expt.       Substances.     Grains per oz.  Tubes.    Deflexion.
    21.    KC1                      7-5                     15° I
    22.    KBr                                           Small \
    23.    KI                                                 0°
    24.    K01O3 ..                                         40° f
    25.    KBr03 ..                 2-5                       0°
    26.    KI03                     7-5
    27.    KNO3 .'.
    28.    KjSO, ..
    29.    KHS04 ..                                         20° f
    30.    KaCr04 ..                                          0°
    31.
    32.    KMu04 ..
    33.    KHCO3..
    34.    K2C03 ..
    35.    KHO                                              15° I
     36.   NaOl....                 75                        0°
     37.   NaBr                                             10° I
     38.   Nsl ....                                           0°
     39.   NaCIO, .                                         25°'f
     40.   NaN03 .                                            0°
     41.   Na..S04 .                                         15° t
     42.   NaHC03                                             0°
     43.   Na<C03 .                                           0°
     44.   NaHO .                                            10° t
     45.    AmOl                    7-6                       0°
     46.    AmBr                                             12° \
     47.    AmN03                                            40° i
     48.    Ama804                                           25° |
     49.    AmSesquicarb.                                      0°
     50.    AmHO                                               0°
     51.    BaCla ...               7-5                      10° 1
     52.    BaBra ...                                        10° „
     53.    Bal.                                               0°
     54.    Ba2Br03
     55.    Ba2N03                                           20° t
      56.   Sr012 ...               7-6                      15° f
      57.   Sr2NO,                                           40°,,
      58.   CaCla..                 7-5                      20° f
            MgCla                    7-5                     16° h
      60.   MgSQ4                                              0°
      61.   ZnCla                    7-5                       0°
      62.   ZnBra
      63.   ZnS04
      64.   Ala3S04                  75
      65.   Distilled water .      32 oz.                      0°

                   Electromotive Force to Pressure fyc.              101
                                 Table II.
           Effect of Varying the Electrodes and Liquids.
                  With Electrodes of various Metals.
  No. of      Substances.      Grains per oz.   No. of   Amount of
   Expt.                                        Tubes.    Deflexion.
     66.   Al with Cl+KOl. 1 sat. soln. +9-1        4       20° f
     67.    „ „ Br+KBr 6 drops + „                          30° ,',
     68.  Cd with 01+ KOI. J sat soln. +9 4         4       20° f
     69.    „ „ Br+KBr. 6 drops + „                 M       20° „
     70.    „ „ I+KI ... 3 grains + „               »>      30° „
    71.   Snwith Ol+KOL i sat. soln. +9-4           1       10° 1
    72.     „ „ Br+KBr. 6 drops + „                          0°
    73.   PbwithCl+KCl. J sat. Boln. +9 4           1        0°
    74.     „ „ K01O3... 7'5 grains.               3         0°
    75.   Fe with 01+KCl.    i sat. soln. +9 4      1       20° *
    76.   Co „ „+ „                »i     + i»     M        35° ,|
    77.   Ni „ „+ „                       + „               50° „
    78.   Cu „ „+ „                       + ,.     4        50° „
    79.    „ „ Br+KBr.       6 drops + „                     0°
    80.  Ag „ Cl+KOl.        i sat. soln. + ,,     'i        0°
    81.    „ „ KCy                    7-5          5         0°
    82.   Au „ Cl+KOl.       I sat Boln. +9 4      1        30" f
    83.   -ft ,, „ + „                    +                  » !
    84.    „ „ Br+KBr.       6 drops + „           1*        0°
    85.    ., „ HC1                   16           4         <U+25BA>1
    86.    „ „ KCIO, ...              75           2         »
    87.    » » KHSO4...                II          5         tt
    88.   „ „ KHO ...                  it          it        H
                                Table III.
                          Equivalent Solutions.
 No. of      Substances.      Grains per oz.   No. of   Amount of
  Expt.                                        Tubes.   Deflexion.
   89.   CdwithCl+KCl. •18 gr. + 8-3 gr.          2         12°
   90.   „ „ Br+KBr. '37 jt + „ ii                it        28°
   91.   „ „ I+KI ... •62 „ + „ „                 tt        10°
   In experiments Nos. 17, 18, 20, 66, 67, and 70, evolution
of gas and disturbances of the current occurred ; and in
Nos. 71, 72, and 73 the quantity of water employed was only
18 ounces.

 102             Dr. G. Gore on the Relation of Volta
    In every case of production of current, provided the two
 electrodes were neutral whilst in the horizontal position, and
 were allowed to remain sufficiently long in each of the vertical
 ones, the two opposite currents produced were equal in
 amount. In all the cases in which a sudden change from
 the horizontal position (and a neutral state) to the vertical
 one was attended by production of a current, the maximum
 amount of deflexion of the needles usually occurred in about
 three minutes ; but if in any case, whilst the tube was vertical,
 its ends were suddenly reversed, the reversal of the deflexion
 required a longer period of time to attain its maximum.
                Degree of Permanence of the Currents.
    With the object of ascertaining whether the currents were
 temporary or permanent, two of the tubes were' fitted with
 zinc electrodes and a solution of NaC103 of the usual strength
 (see exp. 39) made with distilled water, which had been
 deprived of air by boiling. After having become neutral in
the horizontal position, they were placed vertical and gave
the following results : —
                                Table IV.
                            Influence of Time.
  Number of
 experiment. Minutes. Deflexions. Minutes. Deflexions. Minutes. Deflexions.
                                                 o
            (  1st.      10 j       10th.     30 \       75th.     30 f
               2nd.      20 „       15th.      M tt      90th.
     92.
          ¦    3rd.      25 „      30th.       )} tt    105th.
               4th.      30 „      45th.      25 „      120th.      1. »
               5th.       11 M     60th.               16 hours.   20 „
    By subsequently placing the tubes horizontal to become
neutral, and then erecting them again, the deflexion was 25° f .
The results show that the action was of a comparatively per
manent character, and that the currents were not due to
dissolved air.
                  Influence of Strength of Solution.
   In this case zinc electrodes and two solutions of the same
substance of different degrees of concentration were employed.

                 Electromotive Force to Pressure fyc.              103
The upper and lower ends of the tubes were wrapped in
cotton-wool. The following are the particulars of the ex
periments : —
    Number of      Substance. Grains per oz. Number  of Amount of
    experiment.                               Tubes.    Deflexion.
        93.           KC1          40            2          8 f
        94.                       400                      12 „
   These results show that the amount of deflexion was in
creased fifty per cent, by employing a solution of ten times
the degree of concentration (compare also experiments Nos. 3
and 5 with 6 and 8). The cotton- wool had no apparent effect
upon the amount of deflexion, thus showing that the unequal
temperature of the upper and lower parts of the room had no
perceptible effect.
                Period of Time required for Reversal.
   With zinc electrodes in the solution of KC103 (exp. 24)
and three tubes, the period required to attain the maximum
effect after a complete reversal was 4'5 minutes, and was the
same after standing vertical 15 hours.
   With zinc electrodes in the solution of Na2S04 (exp. 41)
and three tubes the time required to completely reverse was
10 minutes, and in the solution of KOI (exp. 21) it was
15 minutes.
   With cadmium in the same solution of KC1 it was 13
minutes, and after standing vertical 18 hours it was again
13 minutes.
   The degree of fixity of the state produced varied, therefore,
both with different liquids and with different metals, but not
with lapse of time.
          Degree of Electromotive Force of the Current.
   This was measured by the method of balance with two
thermoelectric couples of iron and German-silver wires, the
junctions of which were immersed in melted paraffin at
120° C, the outer ends of the wires being at 20° C. With
zinc electrodes in two tubes and the solution of four grains of.
KC1 per ounce of water, giving a deflexion of 8 degrees, as
in exp. 93, the electromotive force was equal to "00572 volt.
Wild (see note, ante) attempted to find the variation of

 104           Dr. G. Gore on the Relation of Volta
 electromotive force of amalgamated zinc in a solution of zinc
  sulphate by increase of pressure of about two thirds of an atmo
  sphere, and observed that it was in any case less than one
 400,000th of that of one DanielFs cell, =* about -0000028 volt
  (compare exp. 63). He apparently failed to discover the
  phenomenon of the current by not happening to select a
 suitable electrolyte.
                          General Results.
     On examining Tables I., II., III., and IV. various facts
 may be observed :—1st. Currents were produced by using a
 large variety of metals as electrodes, and by employing various
 kinds of electrolytes. 2nd. The results varied both with the
 kind of liquid and with that of metal. 3rd. In every one of the
 cases in which the liquid employed was a diluted acid alone no
 current was observed, and the addition of a salt to the acid
 appeared to have no effect unless the salt alone gave a current
 (compare exps. 19, 20, 24, 45). 4th. Out of 91 experi
 ments 41 gave perceptible currents ; probably in many other
 cases currents were produced, but were too feeble to be
 detected. 5th. Out of the 41 cases in which a current
 occurred, in 39 it was in an upward direction and in 2
 downward. 6th. The current continued many hours without
 sensible diminution. 7th. In every case the current was
 extremely small, and required a few minutes to attain its
maximum amount. 8th. It was much smaller with a dilute
solution than with a concentrated one. 9th. The largest
 current occurred with zinc in a solution of CI and KC1, prob
ably in consequence of the great chemical energy of the
combination and the small amount of resistance. 10th. By
adding to a solution of CI some KOI, or to one of Br some
KBr, a larger current was obtained than with either liquid
singly, probably in consequence of diminution of resistance.
11th. Solutions of iodides frequently gave smaller currents
than those of bromides, and bromides less than chlorides ;
there are, however, numerous exceptions to this statement.
And 12th. Vibration of the lower electrode by means of a
tuning-fork had no apparent effect upon the maximum
current.
       Influence of Equal Pressure at the two Electrodes.
    In order to ascertain whether the current was produced
during the absence of any difference of pressure at the two
electrodes, I employed one of the usual tubes, 3 metres high,
having a porous biscuit-ware diaphragm           inch thick near

               Electromotive Force to Pressure Sfc.           105
its lower end, offering such a degree of            Fig. 2.
hindrance as to almost entirely prevent
the flow of the liquid, whilst allowing
the electric current to pass, and provided
with a bent glass tube at its lower end
to receive the lower electrode (see fig. 2) .
 In order to prevent any diminution of
pressure at the upper electrode an open
branch-tube was provided, as shown ;
 and to obviate any increase of pressure
 at the lower one, a minute nick in the
 side of the lower cork allowed any of the
 liquid which had passed through to over
 flow : only one drop of the liquid, how
 ever, was forced through by the pressure
 in about one hour. Sufficient hindrance
 to the passage of the liquid was obtained
 by coating the whole of each end of the
 diaphragm with varnish, except a minute
 portion of the surface about 1 millim.
 diameter. A perfectly clean diaphragm
 was employed in each case, and it was
 soaked in the liquid previous to use.
 Only a single tube with zinc electrodes
 was employed in each experiment.
    Two experiments were made, one with
 a solution of 18*7 grains of chlorate of
 potassium and the other with 18*7 grains
 of nitrate of strontium per ounce of pre-
 boiled water, and although the circuit
 was complete no current was produced
 by placing the tube vertical in either case (compare exps. 24
 and 57). These results prove that the current was not
 produced during the absence of difference of pressure.
     Influence of Difference of Pressure without Difference of
                             Altitude.
    In order to test whether difference of pressure alone was
 sufficient to produce a current, the following arrangement was
 employed (see fig. 3). A, pressure-tube containing mercury;
 B, very thick tube of indiarubber ; C, glass tube with a branch
 containing a zinc-wire electrode securely fixed in it by means
 of a cork and shellac; D, porous-ware diaphragm | inch long
 and \ inch diameter fixed in a cork ; E, a second branch-tube
 containing the other similar electrode. The diaphragm was
 sufficiently impervious to allow not more than one drop of the

106            Dr. G. Gore on the Relation of Volta
electrolyte to pass per hour whilst under the pressure of a
vertical column of 30 inches of mercury. The electrolyte
                              Fig. 3.
was a solution of 18' 7 grains of chlorate of sodium per ounce
of water, and was allowed to completely saturate a perfectly
clean diaphragm previous to the experiment being made.
 The entire arrangement was fixed upon a board.
    After placing the tube A horizontal until the two electrodes
became neutral it was quickly raised to the vertical position:
a current and deflexion of 10 degrees was gradually produced
 in about three minutes. This current was permanent, but
 gradually diminished to 6 degrees on removing the pressure.
 Several trials were made, and in each case the electrode which
 was under pressure was positive to the other. By repeating
 the experiments with a pressure of 52 inches height of mer
 cury, a deflexion of 12 degrees was obtained. The experi
 ments were repeated with the apparatus modified by having a
 glass tube about 3 metres long fixed to the end E and filled
 with the electrolyte, with the second electrode transferred to
 its distant end : whether this glass tube was horizontal or
 vertical, the effects of varying the mercurial pressure were
 substantially the same as in the previous experiments. These
 results show that difference of pressure alone was sufficient to

               Electromotive Force to Pressure Sfc.           107
produce the currents. In all these experiments, and in the
previous ones in which a diaphragm was employed (see fig. 2),
the latter manifestly diminished the amount of the current.
                Influence of Thermoelectric Action.
   It might be supposed that the stronger pressure at the
lower electrode, by giving rise to greater chemical heat, is
attended by a thermoelectric current from that electrode to
the electrolyte ; and this view is apparently supported by the
circumstances :—1st, where the chemical energy is greatest
the current is usually the strongest ; 2nd, the full strength
of the current is developed gradually ; and, 3rd, the current
is a continuous one. But it does not agree with the fact,
established by numerous and varied experiments, that whilst
heat usually makes metals more electropositive in solutions of
alkaline salts and alkalies, it makes them more negative in those
of acid salts and acids (see " The Thermoelectric Properties
of Liquids," Proc. Roy. Soc. 1878, vol. xxvii. p. 513). If heat
therefore was the cause, downward currents would have
occurred in the latter group of liquids, instead of which no
currents occurred in dilute acids, and upward ones were pro
duced in solutions of acid salts.
   In order to finally settle this point, I made the following
experiments :—Two vertical metal wires, 2 inches long, coated
with shellac over about an inch of their length at about half
an inch from their ends, were immersed three-fourths of an
inch in two portions of the electrolyte contained in two small
glass beakers placed about 3 inches asunder, the two portions
of liquid being connected together by a piece of clean linen
tape previously soaked in the solution and laid upon a strip
of sheet-glass connecting the edges of the two vessels ; each
beaker contained a thermometer, and the wires were connected
with the usual galvanometer. After the needles of the gal
vanometer had settled at zero, heat was applied to one of the
beakers until the temperature of the liquid had risen about 3
or 4 Centigrade degrees, and the effect was then noted.
   With zinc and the solution of KHS04 of exp. 29, no per
ceptible current occurred, but in that of NaC103 of exp. 39
a deflexion of 20° was produced, the warm metal being nega
tive. With platinum in the KHS04 solution, and in that of
KHO, no current was perceptible (compare exps. 87, 88).
These results together with those previously mentioned clearly
prove that the currents obtained were not due to thermo
electric action.

  108          Dr. G. Gore on the Relation of Volta
                 General Remarks and Conclusions.
    The currents were manifestly occasioned by difference of
 pressure at the upper and lower electrodes, and apparently
 by that circumstance alone. They were not due to the unequal
  temperatures of the room or to heat evolved by the pressure
 at the lower electrode, nor to air or impurities dissolved in the
 water, nor to bubbles of gas &c. adhering to the electrodes,
 nor to greater conduction resistance of the electrolyte in a
 downward than in an upward direction, nor to difference of
 altitude of the electrodes except so far as it affected the
 difference of pressure ; nor were the deflexions caused by
 mechanical disturbances of the galvanometer or by any
 magnetic substance near it. They were also not produced by
 thermoelectric action due to greater chemical heat at the
 lower electrode. In all the cases in which a diaphragm was
 employed, the electric current due to pressure was not per
 ceptibly affected by any current produced by flow of the
 electrolyte through the partition ; the considerable conduction
 resistance of the septum, however, largely reduced the quantity
 of the current due to pressure.
    The results of the experiments in general indicate that the
 upper and lower ends of a column of an electrolyte are not in ex
 actly the same physical or chemical state ; that a fixed difference
 of condition of the liquid and metal was gradually produced
 when the tube was placed vertical, and that this condition re
quired several minutes in order to attain its maximum. That
both the metal and the liquid are altered by the pressure is
shown, not only by the fact that a change of either affects the
amount (and in some cases also the direction) of the current,
but also by the circumstance that the period of time required to
reverse the condition, and the current, by reversing the tube
varies with a change of metal as well as of liquid. These cir
cumstances are interesting, and indicate the gradual produc
tion by pressure of a state of mechanical stress of the lower
electrode and of the liquid near it ; and as action and reaction
are always equal and opposite, the state of stress of the metal
must be attended by one of counter stress of the liquid. The
same states of stress might of course be produced by means
of a hydraulic press, a lever, &c, or by centrifugal action
during rapid whirling of the tube. As the increase of pressure
and stress at the lower electrode was followed by the production
of a permanent electric current, it must also have been followed
by increased energy of chemical union of the metal and liquid

              Electromotive Force to Pressure Sfc.          109
and an increase of electromotive force at that electrode ; the
three kinds of pressure—mechanical, chemical, and electrical—
varying directly together. The greater mechanical pressure
at the lower electrode enabled the liquid and metal to
chemically unite with greater energy, and thus permitted that
electrode to become electropositive to the other. The fact
that the strongest currents were usually obtained by the use
of the most energetic chemical substances further support the
view that the phenomenon is partly chemical, and it is well
known that certain substances will only chemically combine
whilst kept under pressure together.
   In all the cases in which the more positive metals, such as
zinc, were employed, both the electrodes were visibly corroded ;
as, however, the electric current was excessively minute, only
an extremely small proportion of this chemical action was
inseparably associated with it ; and as the currents were not
due to ordinary chemical heat, any examination of the com
parative losses of weight of the two electrodes by corrosion
would probably have been of but little value.
   The phenomena suggest some abstruse questions,—What is
the most hidden cause of the current? Only a very funda
mental cause could have produced so large a proportion as
95 per cent, of currents in one uniform direction. The
original cause must lie in some change of the potential motion
of the molecules ; some kind of molecular energy must have
been lost in order to produce the currents. The immediate
cause was probably a small proportion of the potential energy
of the motion of the superficial molecules which must have
been transformed into current during chemical union of the
metal and liquid, the other and far greater portion being
directly changed into chemical heat. The questions why one
portion is directly converted into electric current and another
into heat, and why so largely into heat, I have not examined
(compare Proc. Boy. Soc. 1884, vol. xxxvi. p. 331 ; also
M. B. Baoult, Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. 1867, pp. 137-193).
   We know that work is done during the act of putting on
the pressure, and that this work may increase the energy of
molecular motion; in addition to the energy communicated
to the arrangement in this way, constant pressure may pro
duce constant current if there is a continual yielding of the
molecules to it ; but as only motion can produce motion, and
as unchanging pressure is a purely statical phenomenon, if
there is no such yielding unvarying pressure cannot be a real
cause of continuous current.
of substances and the molecular motions to which those

 110          Dr. G. Gore on the Relation of Volta
 properties are due vary with every change of mechanical
 pressure. If, therefore, pressure alters the direction or the
 velocity of molecular motion, it may act as a permitting con
 dition so as to enable some of the unceasing motion of the
 molecules to expend itself in producing a permanent current,
 like such motion does in a voltaic cell ; and this appears to
 be a reasonable explanation. Contraction of total volume by
 chemical union, being a yielding to pressure, may contribute
 to the result in the present case.
    As the production of current was conditional upon difference
 of pressure at the two electrodes, it must have been as much
 dependent upon the pressure and the state of molecular motion
 at one electrode as upon that at the other. And as we know
 that volta electromotive force is very intimately connected
 with velocity of the molecules, and that the two appear to
 vary directly together (see " A General Relation of Electro
 motive Force to Equivalent Volume and Molecular Velocity,"
 Proc. Birin. Phil. Soc. 1892, vol. viii. pp. 63-138; The
Electrical Review, vol. xxx. pp. 693, 722, 755, 786 ; and
 Phil. Mag. Sept. 1892, p. 307), it is probable that the greater
 degree of pressure at the lower electrode permits some of the
molecules of liquid and metal to strike each other with greater
velocity than at the upper one. It is worthy of notice that pres
sure has the same effect as dilution of the electrolyte, &c. upon
volta electromotive force (ibid.) ; as dilution and pressure each
separately increases volta electromotive force, and as dilution
is apparently attended by an increase of velocity of the mole
cules, it is reasonable to conclude that pressure is probably
attended by a similar effect. It would be interesting to in
vestigate the relations of the current to the compressibility and
elasticity of metals and electrolytes. The present results
indicate that electromotive force may be due to unequal mole
cular pressure.
   Whatever may be the manner in which the molecular
motions are affected by pressure, whether by altering their
direction or their velocity, the experiments of this research
show that they are influenced in essentially the same way in
39 out of 41 instances, and it is evident that only some very
fundamental cause could produce such a uniform effect. The
fact that nearly all the currents are in one direction suggests
that the real cause of electromotive force itself can only be
about one stage more fundamental than the cause of the
currents. In all cases the currents obtained were results, not
only of a difference of electromotive force between the lower
metal and liquid and the upper ones, but primarily of the

              Electromotive Force to Pressure #c.             Ill
influence of pressure upon the electric potential of the metal
alone and upon that of the liquid alone at each electrode.
   It is probable that an investigation of the effect of pressure
upon the electric potential of the metal alone and upon that
of the electrolyte alone would yield more uniform results
than that of its effect upon the electromotive force of the two
substances in mutual contact, because the conditions would then
be more simple ; but as the effect upon the potential produced
by a single compression would be extremely small, a series of
compressions, with the effects of them accumulated by means
of an electric condenser as in an influence machine, would be
necessary in order to render the effect manifest. Such a
research would probably show that pressure increases the
positive potential of positive substances and the negative
potential of negative ones. As pressure increases electro
motive force it must increase the two kinds of electric potential
 which constitute that force ; thus in a case where a current
 occurs with a closed circuit, the two potentials are always pro
duced if the circuit is open. The facts also that the largest
currents in the present research usually occurred with the
 most positive metals and the most negative electrolytes (see
 exps. 3 and 6), and the smallest frequently, though not in
variably, happened with the most positive electrolytes (see
exps. 33, 34, 42, 43, 49, 50), support this hypothesis. Some
of the cases in which no appreciable current was produced,
or in which reverse ones occurred, might have been due to
the pressure increasing the electropositive potential of the
liquid as fast as, or faster than, that of the metal.
   Although some effect of the atomic or molecular weights
of the substances employed upon the direction or magnitude
of the currents must have occurred, none was observed (see
Table III.) ; many additional experiments would probably be
necessary to properly examine this question. I have not
been able to suggest any explanation of the circumstance that
diluted acids did not in any case produce a current ; nor have
I been able to investigate in what manner the pressure may
have affected the direction of motion of the molecules of the
combining substances, but possibly some information might
be obtained by examining the influence of pressure upon the
thermal spectra of the substances and comparing the results
with those obtained in this research. As the properties and
molecular motions of substances vary with every change of
temperature, it is probable that the electromotive force pro
duced by unequal mechanical pressure would vary with the
temperature of the metal and electrolyte.

 112    Relation of Volta Electromotive Force to Pressure fyc.
             Effect of Pressure upon Voltaic Couples.
   In all the foregoing experiments the investigation was
limited to the influence of pressure upon the electromotive
force generated by a single kind of metal and a single kind of
liquid, and did not include its influence upon that of ordinary
voltaic couples composed of pairs of metals or pairs of liquids ;
it is evident, however, that the latter are only compound cases
of the former. Gibault has already experimentally examined
the effect of a pressure of 100 atmospheres on several kinds of
voltaic cells, and obtained the following amounts of electro
motive force in volts :—Daniell's cell (20 per cent. ZnS04)
 + •0005 ; (27-56 per cent. ZnSOJ + -0002 ; Warren De la
Rue cells (1-0 per cent. ZnCla) + '0007 ; (40'0 per cent.
ZnCl2) - -0005 ; Volta's cells --06 ; Bunsen's --04; Gas
battery + 0"8 (Comptes Rendus, 1891, vol. cxiii. p. 465 ; The
Electrician, 1891, vol. xxvii. p. 711). Owing to the greater
complexity of the conditions in these experiments, the pro
portion of cases giving reverse effects was 30 per cent., or six
times larger than in those with single metals in the present
research.
   In all such experiments with voltaic cells, we have to con
sider not only the effect of pressure at the positive metal, but
also that at the negative one. The results obtained in the
present research show that the direction of the current which
occurs with zinc and other positive metals is the same as that
with gold and platinum ; so that the effect of pressure upon
the negative metal of a voltaic couple would probably be in
nearly all cases to produce a greater or loss amount of counter
electromotive force, which would either diminish or reverse
the effect due to the positive one. The amount or balance of
effect, therefore, obtained with a voltaic couple would usually
be very much less than that with a single kind of metal ; this
conclusion is confirmed by the results of Gibault's experiments,
in which the amounts of electromotive force obtained by a
pressure of 100 atmospheres were very much less than those
usually obtained in my experiments by a difference of pressure
of only about 2 or 3 atmospheres. As the pressure alone
attending the height of the liquid of a voltaic cell affects the
electromotive force, it necessarily follows that the energy of
such a cell is affected by gravity and varies with the altitude
and geographical position of the cell.

                               [   113       ]
         XIV. On Radiant Energy.            By B. G-alitzine*.
                           § 1. Introduction.
STARTING with the far-reaching ideas of Faraday, Max
        well t has developed his theory of dielectrics, in which,
by the identification of light with electrical vibrations, he
comes to the conclusion that a ray of light must exert a
certain pressure in the direction of its propagation, this pres
sure being numerically equal to the energy contained in each
unit of its volume. One half of this energy is present in the
electric, and the other half in electromagnetic, form.
     By an entirely different line of argument, derived from an
application of the second law of thermodynamics, Bartoli J
has arrived at the same result. His paper is extremely inter
esting, and the method by which he proves the existence of
the pressure of light is free from objections, at any rate in
the form given to it by Baltzmann § in a more recent paper.
But the process by which he calculates the numerical value
of this pressure P appears to me to be wrong. Bartoli
imagines a perfectly reflecting empty sphere of radius Pi, with
a perfectly non-refleciing (black) sphere of very small radius
r at its centre. Let Q be the quantity of energy which falls
on each unit of surface of the outer sphere in unit time.
Then if the radius of this sphere be decreased by 8R, accord
ing to Bartoli the inner sphere receives an amount of heat
<7=2Q/V. 47rR2. SR, where V is the velocity of propagation
of light. In this expression 2Q/V is the energy contained in
unit of volume. Whether the energy can be expressed so
simply or not, is not evident without further explanation.
                                     2
For the case of a cylinder, ^ times the energy which is
received by any normal section of the cylinder does not repre
sent the energy contained in unit volume, as we shall see later.
Boltzmann || has already pointed out that Bartoli does not
appear to have considered the effect of rays with oblique
incidence.
     Bartoli goes on to say that, since the inner sphere
has increased its energy by an amount q, the work done
  * Translated from Wiedemann's Annalen, vol. xlvii. pp. 479-495
(November 1892), by James L. Howard, D.Sc.
  t ' Electricity and Magnetism,' vol. i. p. 144 ; vol. ii. p. 393 (2nd edit.).
   \ Sopra i movimenti prodotti dalla luce e dal colore e sopra il radio-
metro di Orookes (Florence. LeMonnier, 1876). Also Nuov. dm. [3] xv.
pp. 193-202 (1884) ; Exner's Repertorium, xxi. pp. 198-207 (1885).
   § Wied. Ann. xxii. p. 33 (1884).
   || Tom. cit. p. 35.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 213. Feb. 1893.                          I

114              B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.
against the pressure of light, viz. P . 47rR2. 8K, must be equal
to this, and hence
                                    V"
   This conclusion appears to me to be wrong, although the
result obtained by a different method of reasoning differs
from Bartoli's formula only by a constant factor. Our
system consists of the inner black sphere and the space
between the two spheres, which also possesses a portion of
the energy*. On reducing the outer sphere work is done ;
not because the energy of the absolutely black body is thereby
increased— for all the energy gained by the inner sphere is
taken from the space between the spheres—but because the
whole energy of the system passes from a lower to a higher
temperature.
   Boltzmann f has also attacked the same question. Let E
be the heat radiated from unit surface in unit time (Boltzmann
denotes it by $(0) ; then he finds for the pressure P of light
against a perfectly reflecting wall the expression
                                      dE
or
                                      <m
                       *-v[tJtt*]'
T being the absolute temperature. He writes the constant of
integration equal to zero. This formula enables us to calcu
late the pressure P numerically for any assumed law of
radiation. The method by which Boltzmann obtains his
formula is quite a legitimate one, but I differ from him as to
the value of the numerical factor. The subject may be treated
in a more simple manner, as I shall proceed to show.
   In conclusion 1 may draw attention to a paper by Lebedew %,
who has made a very interesting application of the Maxwell-
Bartoli theory, by comparing the force of repulsion due to
radiation with universal gravitation §.
       § 2. Deduction of the -Formula for the Pressure of
                               Light P.
   Imagine an empty cylinder A B, of length h, whose walls
         * Cf. Thomson, Phil. Mag. [4] ix. p. 36 (1855).
         \ VVied. Ann. xlv. p. 292 (1892).           % Tom. cit.
         f C/V also Kolacek, Wied. Ann xxxix. p. 254 (1890;.

                  B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.                     115
 and base B, are perfect reflectors, and in which B can be
displaced after the manner of a piston. A is an absolutely
black body which may be re-                                 A_
placed, when necessary, by a
perfectly reflecting wall.
    For simplicity, let the area of
 the cross section of the cylinder be unity.
    Let us denote by e the emissivity of our black body, f. e.
the quantity of heat which unit surface of it radiates out in a
normal direction every second. In a direction making an
angle <f> with the normal to the surface the emissivity will
be smaller, namely e cos <£. To obtain the total quantity of
heat E radiated from a unit of surface each second we require
to evaluate the following integral*:—
                  E = 2ire J    cos <j> sin <f>dcj> = ire,   ...      (1)
in which both e and E are functions of the absolute tempe
rature T onlyf-
   Now let us calculate the quantity of energy e in unit
volume of our cylinder when the black surface A is at tempe
rature T. First of all imagine the cylinder to extend to
infinity on the right, and let e1 denote the energy contained
in unit volume in this case.
    We have obviously
                              e = 2e'                                 (2)
   If the surface sent out all its energy E in a normal direc
tion, we should have
                                 , E
                                ^= y'
or
                                      2E
                                       y"
   But in reality a quantity of heat 27re sin <j> cos <j> d<j> is
radiated at an angle lying between                    and ^> + d<f). The
velocity V? with which this energy is propagated in a direc
tion parallel to the axis of the cylinder is, according to the
laws of reflexion, equal to V cos <f>. The amount of energy
in unit volume will thus be greater, and we shall have, as
soon as equilibrium is established,
                ,       f''4 sin cf> cos <f>              1    2E
                       J          Vg         # = 27re^ = y >
  * Cf. Wullner, Lehrbuch der Experimental-Physik, iii. p. 238 (4th
edition, 1885).
  t Cf. Kirchhoff, Pogg. Ann. cix. p. 275 (1860).
                                   12

lib'            B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.
or, from (2),
                                4E                          tv\
e is likewise a function of T only (Kirchhoff). E denotes the
 amount of energy which crosses any section of the cylinder
in a given direction during unit of time. In order, therefore,
 to obtain the amount of energy contained in unit of volume,
 we must multiply the quantity E, not by 2/V, but by 4/V.
 {Cf. Introduction.)
    If P is the pressure exerted on the base B, we have
                                  de „
    First Proof.
    Let the piston B be in contact with A, and keep A at
 temperature T. Now let the piston B be moved as slowly as
 possible through a distance h. The amount of heat Q im
 parted to the system, assuming the masses of A &c. to be
 infinitely small, is given by
                           Q=*A + PA.
 AH quantities of heat are expressed in mechanical units.
    If, now, we gradually reduce the temperature of A to zero,
 all the energy will be transferred from the cylinder to other
 bodies. When this has been done, let B be pushed back again
 to A without expenditure of work. The process is reversible,
 and as A's mass is infinitely small the second law of thermo
 dynamics gives us the following equation:—
                                  iQ
                          T "J. T
                                  , de
                    ~t~        J ir^' ••••••                 w
  or
                                 T de
                          P=Tf ^dT-e, .....               .   (5)
  w,hich was to be proved.
     This formula differs, however, from that of Boltzmann by a
  constant factor. For, substituting for e its value from (3),
                      P=?[Tr^SdT-E];                •  •  .  (6)

                B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.                 117
whereas, according to Boltzmann,
                                    UrdT-E]. .         .   .   (6a)
    Second Proof.
    Start with B at a distance h from A, and let A have tem
perature T. Let us take T and h as independent variables.
    Consider, now, how much heat dQ must be given to the
system when T increases by an amount dT, and h by dh. The
work done in this case is Pd/i, and
                       . dQ=d(he) + Fdh;
0r                       dQ=(e+F)dh + h^dT.
The increase of entropy dS is therefore
                 ,Q dQ e + P „ . h de ,T
                do = -rjr = —rjr- dh + ^ a 1 .
    It follows from this, since according to the second law dS
must be a perfect differential, and since e is a function of T
 only, that
                          dP_P e                                 m
    This equation is an immediate consequence of equation (4),
 from which it may be obtained by differentiation*
     On integrating equation (7) we obtain
                      P=T[0 + J^dT],
 or
                   .=t[c+j;         ^dTj-e.          .   .   .   (8)
     To make this formula agree with (5) we must put the con
 stant Gi equal to zero, which appears perfectly legitimate.
 We shall indeed see later that P is proportional to e. If, then,
 for infinitely small values of T, e is proportional to any power
 of T, say e=ATn, the assumption C^O is clearly equivalent
 to the condition n>\.
     Third Proof.—This proof rests upon the consideration of a
 complicated cyclical process, which is the same in principle
 as that of Boltzmann. I have merely introduced a slight
 alteration, and drawn further conclusions from the equation
 which expresses the first law of thermodynamics.
     Suppose the piston B to be at A. Move B through a
 distance hi, the temperature of A being always kept at Tx.

118              B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy,
Let the heat required be Qt.       Then, as in the first case,
e-i and Pi denote respectively the energy contained in unit
volume, and the light or heat pressure, at temperature T^
    Now let A be replaced by a perfectly reflecting wall, and
let the piston B be moved further away to a distance h2. In
this process an amount of work t will be done, but as the
operation is an adiabatic one the temperature must gradually
 decrease from Tl to T2.
                                ('•2
                             t= \ Pdh                             (9)
                                J A,
    The principle of conservation of energy gives us
                       ej^-eji^ f'P<//i;                        (10)
 or, for an infinitely small displacement,
                           -d(eh) = Pdh                        (10«)
    This having been done, we can again replace the reflecting
wall A by a perfectly black surface, and either (1) gradually
reduce this surface to zero temperature, and then, without
doing any work, push the piston B back to A; or (2) keep
the black surface at constant temperature T2 and then bring
back the piston B to A against the constant pressure P2 (this
latter being Boltzmann's operation). The last process neces
sary to complete the cycle is the heating of A to temperature
Tx ; this requires no energy, as its mass is infinitely small.
In both cases the cycle of operations is reversible. Applying
formula (4), the second law of thermodynamics gives us the
following set of equations:—
    ei + Pi,       CT>lde rrj, e2 + P2j           ; fr* 1 de
       Ti "x=«ij x dT                   T2 ''^"tj TdT           ^ '
From these we obtain
                   f2 + F2 ;.   gi + Pi i _0
                      Tii   'h       Fm   >h — u,
                      -L2            J-l
or
                          d(^~ /t) = 0,
             d(eh) + Pdh + hdP - A (e + p) dT = 0 ;
or, having regard to (10a),

                 B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.                        119
                            dP _P _e
                             d'T T ~ T'
thus leading us back to equation (7) again.
   Equation (10a) enables us to find a relation between T and
h for adiabatic processes. As e, and therefore P, are functions
of T alone, it follows from (10a) that
                             dT       e+Y
                           "s=-^                                      <12>
                                       rfT
or from (7),
                                        dP
                                        dT
   We can also obtain these formulae by a comparison of the
two integrals in equation (11). These give
                         4tt^"t+/^^t=0'
or                           A— =       e+F
                               dh        de
    In order to evaluate the expressions in equations (5) and
(13), we should require to know the relation between radiating
power and absolute temperature. But if a direct relation
between P and e could be found by any means, it would enable
us to obtain directly the unknown law of radiation by inte
grating equation (7). As I have said before, 1 do not consider
Bartoli's argument to be tenable. I have not succeeded in dis
covering a relation between P and e from purely mechanical
considerations. Maxwell also, according to his own confession,
was equally unsuccessful*. But the relation sought for may
be deduced from the principles of the electromagnetic theory
of light, and indeed by a simple application of Maxwell's
fundamental conceptions to our case, as Boltzmannf was the
first to show. I should like to give a slightly different proof
of Boltzmann's relation, however.
   * Maxwell, ' Electricity and Magnetism,' vol. i. p. 164 (2nd edit.),
   t Wied. Ann. xxii. p. 291 (1884).

 120             B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.
     We know that a ray of light exerts a certain pressure
along its line of propagation, which is numerically equal to the
quantity of energy contained in unit of volume of the ray. If
the beam is completely reflected the pressure is twice as great.
                                   —-r-_
                                                   <£''
 Suppose for greater generality s is the area of the radiating
surface A, and consider those rays which are emitted with
inclination <p to its normal. According to the laws of re
flexion these will meet the other base B of our straight
cylinder at the same angle, as is diagrammatically represented
in the figure. The quantity of energy radiated at the angle
<f> is
                       dE = 27T6 sin ^> cos </> d<f> s.
    We can assume all these rays to have the same direction.
They exert on a b or a' V, which are perpendicular to their
direction of propagation, a certain pressure dp' , this being
equal to dE/abV.
    As ab = s cos <f>, we have
                          dp' = ^^sin <b d(f>.
    To every element of a'V there is a corresponding element
of B, which is greater in the ratio of cos</> to 1, and there
fore the force acting on each unit of surface of B is cos
times smaller than dp'. Besides this, the force acts in a
direction making an angle <j> with the normal to B. It
follows that the pressure exerted on B is
                             dp = dp1 cos2 <j>.
     If B is a perfect reflector we must double the above ex
pression in order to obtain the total pressure, and integrate
for all values of <£> between 0 and         .     Hence
                               2-jre C*12
                       P = 2 . ~y~J cos2$ sin <j> d<f>,
or, from (3),
                                  P=^. .......              (14)
Formula (14) expresses the required relation.

                B. Gralitzine on Radiant Energy.            121
   We see, then, that P is proportional to e. If we substitute
for P in formula (7), and then for e in equations (1) and (3),
we find
                            de 4e
or                          dT~ T'
                             e=AT4                         (15)
   This is exactly Stefan's* law of radiation, which is thus
deduced directly from the principles of thermodynamics and
the electromagnetic theory of light, as Boltzmann has already
indicated.
    We have also
                             P = CT*,                      (16)
a formula of which further use will be made in the following
sections.
   Equation (14) makes it possible for us to establish a more
simple relation between h and T. From (13)
                           .<rr_       t
or                           dh         3'
 Cj is determined by the initial conditions of the experiment.
    It will be observed, then, that in adiabatic and reversible
 processes, such as we have just considered, the temperature
varies inversely as the cube root of the volume.
           § 3. The Meaning of Absolute Temperature.
    The energy contained in unit volume of our radiation-
 cylinder depends directly on the sum of all the electrical
 vibrations emitted at temperature T from the perfectly black
 surface, these being specified not by their wave-length, which
is variable according to the nature of the external medium,
 but by their period or the number of vibrations per second, n.
 If T = 0 we must have also n = 0. But if T begins to increase
 new swings are constantly being added, and to every tem
 perature there corresponds a certain maximum rate of vibration
 "max, which the black body is capable of emitting at that
 temperature. Plainly nm„ is a function of T.
                           n»=»(T)                          (18)
    Let us suppose we are dealing with only one ray (the
 whole energy in unit volume will be obtained by integration
                  * Wien. Ber. lxxix. p. 423 (1879).

  122             B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.
  with respect to        If we start with the general equations of
  the electromagnetic field the electric force F„ at a point,
  which corresponds to any given time of swing, must be a
  periodic function of the time. Let the corresponding ampli
  tude be a„. If the force were constant we should have for
  the energy contained in unit volume
                            ™=^kF2>                           (")
  k being the dielectric constant of the external medium.
     But in our case F is variable. To every F„ there corre
  sponds a particular dielectric constant kn, but the energy in
  unit volume for these particular swings is clearly proportional
 to a*. Since k may be put equal to unity for all swings in
  vacuo, the total energy per unit volume (e) is obtained as a
  sum of the following form,
                           e = const. %a?,
 the summation being extended to all vibrations which the
 body is capable of emitting at the temperature T.
    a\ is a function of T and n.
                         <=A%n)                              (20)
     The function / depends directly on the distribution of
 energy in the normal spectrum, the term " spectrum " in
 cluding all possible rates of vibration.
    If the energy is distributed in a continuous manner
 throughout the spectrum, the above summation becomes an
 integral.
    Let <f>(n)dn denote the probability of occurrence of waves
 whose rate of vibration lies between n and n + dn, then
                            n„=w(T)
                   e = const. j/(n, T)<f>{n)dn               (21)
    For a perfectly black body which exercises no selective
 absorption, $(n) is constant, but we may leave equation (21)
 in its more general form. From (15), (1), and (8) it follows
 that
               T4=const,J"<1)/(n, T)<f>(n)dn                 (22)
    The expression under the integral sign is a quantity which
is proportional to the square of the corresponding electrical
displacement.
    We thus obtain the following result. The absolute tem

                   B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.                          123
perature depends directly on the sum total of all electrical
displacements, and the fourth power of the absolute tempera
ture is directly proportional to the sum of the squares of all
the electrical displacements, these latter being calculated for
vacuum.
    The equation (22) enables us to solve another problem. If
we differentiate it with respect to T1; we have
        T3 = const. [ f              $(n)dn +/K,T) *(«-)
    If the function / is known, that is if we know completely
the distribution of energy in the spectrum, we are led to an
equation of the form
                                    =F(», 1),
 from which the unknown function to can be determined.
    The converse problem unfortunately cannot be solved ; that
 is to say, a knowledge of the function to tells us nothing con
 cerning the distribution of energy in the spectrum, because
 ~bf(n, T)/dT cannot be equated to zero*.
 § 4. Relation between the Radiating Power and the Surrounding
                                   Medium.
     Let us now imagine our radiation-cylinder to contain some
    * Cf. on this subject the following references :—Dbaper, Phil. Mag.
 [3] xxx. p. 345 (1847) : Knoblauch, Pogg. Ann. lxx. pp. 205, 337
 (1847) : Jaques, Inaugural Dissertation Johns Hopkins University
 (Baltimore, J. Wilson & Son, 1879) ; Beibl. iii. p. 865 (1879) : Stefan,
 Wien. Ber. Ixxix. p. 423 (1879) : Ubova, Ann. de CAim. et de Phys. [5]
 xix. pp. 472-550 (1880) : Langley, Compten Rendus, xcii. p. 701 (1881);
 xciii. p. 140 (1881), and later papers : LVesains, Comptes Rendus, xciv.
 p. 1144 (1882) ; xcv. p. 433 (1882) ; xcvii. pp. 689, 732 (1883) : Lecher,
 Wied. Ann. xvii. p. 477 (1882) : Chbistansen, Wied. Ann. xix. p. 267
 (1883) : Schleieemacher,Wied. Ann. xxvi. p. 287 (1885): Bottomlky,
 Beibl. x. p. 569 (1886) : H. Webeb, Wied. Ann. xxxii. p. 260 (1887) ;
 Math.-naturw. Mitth, aus den Sitzungsber. d. Berl. Akad. xxxix. pp. 933,
 565 (1888); Beibl. xiv. p. 897 (1890): Kovesligethy, Wied. Ann.
 xxxii. p. 699 (1887) ; Astr. Nachr. Nr. 2805, p. 329 (1887) ; Abh. der ungar.
 Akad. der Wiss. xii. Nr. 11 ; Math. u. naturxo. Ber. aus TJnyarn, iv. p. 9
 (1887) ; v. p. 20 (1887) ; vii. p. 24 (1889) ; Beibl. xii. p. 346 (1888) ; xiv.
 p. 116 (1890) : W. Michelson, Journ. d. russ. phys.-chem. Ges. [4] xix.
 p. 79 (1887) ; [6] xxi. p. 87 (1889) ; Journ. de Phys. [2] vi. p. 467 (1887) ;
 Beibl xiv. p. 277 (1890) : Emden, Wied. Ann. xxxvi. p. 214 (1889) :
 Gbaetz, Wied. Ann. xxxvi. p. 857 (1889) : Lord Rayleiuh, Phil. Mag.
 xxvii. p. 460 (1889) : Febbel, Sill. J<mrn. [3] xxxix. p. 137 (1890) ;
 Beibl. xiv. p. 981 (1890) : Edleb, Wied. Ann. xl. p. 531 (1890) : Violle,
 Comptes Rendus, cxiv. p. 734 (1892) ; Journ. de Phys. [3] i. p. 298 (1892).

124                B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.
diathermanous body whose dielectric constant for swings of
frequency n is kn. As the temperature remains the same,
the range of frequencies is the same as before, namely, from
n = 0 to nm = w(T).
    Equation (19) shows that the energy transferred across
any section of the cylinder will be k„ times greater than before,
for swings of frequency n, because the external medium takes
part in the vibratory movement. Also, since the velocity of
propagation VB of these particular waves is smaller than in
vacuum, the energy present in each unit of volume will be
increased ^„V/V»-fold ; and if en is the total energy per unit
volume we have, as in § 3,
                             n,„=<o(T)
                              P v
                  £* = const. I knyr /(«,T)<£(n)dw, . . . (23)
                             Jo      "»
the constant having the same value as in equation (21), which
may be looked upon as a special case of the more general
equation (23).
   If we neglect the effect of dispersion of the different waves
we can write down the mean values k and V* instead of kn
and Vn, and we thus obtain
                            ek = kYke;
or, having regard to equations (1) and (3),
                     47T6t _,Y          , Aire
                     ~v*       ^          vT'
from which
                                   ek=ke.
This is exactly Clausius's law of radiation*, since, according
to the electromagnetic theory of light, provided we neglect
dispersion, we are perfectly justified in taking the square of
the mean index of refraction as equal to the dielectric constant.
    Clausius's law of radiation appears, then, to be a necessary
 consequence of Maxwell's fundamental conceptions.
      § 5. Meaning of the Second Law of Thermodynamics.
    The above investigation of the radiant energy in a cylinder
 enables us to understand more clearly the meaning of the
 second law. In the course of the third proof of the formula
   * Clauaius, ' Mechanical Theory of Heat,' p. 314, § 10 (Macmillan,
1879) ; Bartoli, N. dm. [3] vi. pp. 265-276 (1880) ; Beibl. iv. p. 889
 (1880).

                  B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.                125
for the pressure of light we arrived at equation (10a). In
that case the operation considered was an adiabatic one, and
consisted in giving to a new portion of space, or let us say a
new volume of sether dh, a quantity of energy
                              dq = e dh.
This transfer of energy to a new mass of aether is accom
panied, as we have seen, by a certain expenditure of work
 PaVi. We have, then, two correlative phenomena, and in the
limit, for infinitely small displacement, only J of the energy
transferred can be converted into external work. We have,
 indeed, from (14),
     The previous investigations enable us to calculate the same
 ratio for adiabatic displacements of finite magnitude ; and
 this ratio is only a function of the initial and final temperatures.
     From the same equation (10a) it follows that, if we wish
  to concentrate a certain quantity of energy into a smaller
  mass of aether, this can only be done by the expenditure of
  external work, the first law being obeyed throughout the
  process. In this lies the closer explanation of the second law.
     From equations (10) and (9) we find, for finite displace
  ments,
                     eA-<,A=T=U1-U1                              (24)
  U]_ and U2 denote the quantities of energy in the cylinder at
  the beginning and end of the operation.
     From equations (14), (16), arid (17) it follows that
                         fAa30(VT                                 (25)
  Insert this in equation (24) and note that 3CC!3 nuiy be
   determined from the initial conditions ; we have
                             T=f(T1-T2).
   The available work is directly proportional to the fall in
   temperature (Second Law) . It is only in the case of T2 = 0, i. e.
   when the given quantity of energy Uj is distributed over an
   infinitely great mass of sether (since according to (17) T = 0
   only when h = cc ), that the whole energy can be transformed
   into external work.
      In conclusion, let us compare the quantities of energy

] 26            B. Galitzine on Radiant Energy.
present at the beginning and end of a reversible adiabatic
operation. These give
                           Uj _ efa
                           U2 — ejt2 '
Substituting from (25) and (17),
                                   1
                           U2~ T"
   As h represents the volume (») of the aether over which
the given quantity of energy is distributed, the above equa
tion may be written
                        U y'u = constant.
   This is a statement which is probably capable of further
extension. It expresses the fact that in adiabatic and re
versible processes the quantity of disposible energy is inversely
proportional to the cube root of the volume throughout which
the energy is distributed. The statement does not involve
the absolute temperature, but it really expresses the same
principle as the second law of thermodynamics.
                    § 6. Summary of Results.
   1. Bartoli's proof is not admissible in all its details.
   2. The application of the second law of thermodynamics
enables us to calculate the pressure of light, as well as the
changes of temperature in adiabatic and reversible operations
(Boltzmann).
   3. The fourth power of the absolute temperature is directly
proportional to the sum of squares of all the electric dis
placements.
   4. Clausius' law of radiation is an immediate consequence
of Maxwell's fundamental conceptions.
   5. The transfer of energy to new masses of aether is accom
panied by the expenditure of work in the case of reversible
operations.
   6. In the case of adiabatic and reversible processes the
amount of disposible energy is inversely proportional to the
cube root of the volume throughout which this energy is
distributed.

                            [   127   ]
XV. Some Experiments on the Diffusion of Substances in
   Solution. By Spencer Umfreville Pickering, M.A.,
   F.R.S.*
fT^HE following determinations of the comparative rates of
 _L diffusion of various non-electrolytes were intended to be
preliminary to a more extended investigation, but, as I do not
see my way at present to continue the work, I think it well
to put on record those results which have so far been obtained.
   Osmotic pressure is held to be due simply to the gaseous
impact of the dissolved substance, and is therefore proportional
to the number of molcules per unit volume, the temperature
being constant. Now, by Graham's law, the rate of diffusion
of a gas should be, cceteris paribus, inversely as the square root
of its density, or of its molecular weight. Hence, at a given
temperature and pressure the product of the molecular
weight, m, by the square of the rate of diffusion, v, should be
a constant. The relative values for v in the case of different
bodies might be determined by simple diffusion-experiments
if these could be conducted under perfect conditions: namely,
the diffusing liquid remaining of a constant strength through
out, and the water into which diffusion is taking place
remaining uncontaminated with the substance. The present
results seem to show, either that the above supposition as to
osmotic pressure is incorrect, or that the conditions obtainable
in diffusion-experiments are very far from obtaining to ideal
perfection ; for the values deduced for mv2 are by no means
constant, even in those cases where the substances behave
normally as to their osmotic pressure, i.e. where the solutions of
equal molecular strength give the same osmotic pressure, this
latter being measured by the depression exercised by them on
the freezing-point of the water in which they are dissolved.
   The method adopted was that termed by Graham jar-
diffusion. The solutions under examination were placed in
an open jar inside a large vessel of water, and the amount of
substance which had diffused out of the former in a given
time was ascertained by determining the strength of the
remaining solution. The inner jars were beakers of a cylin
drical form with ground flanges : they were ground also on
the bottom, and rested on inverted ground-glass saucers
placed in the centre of the large outer glass jars. Before
 being filled, each jar was placed in position and adjusted so
                   * Communicated by the Author.

128          Mr. S. U. Pickering on the Diffusion
that the mouth of the inner jar should be exactly level. The
jars were marked so that they could be replaced in the proper
position after being filled. When filled they were closed by-
glass plates with rods attached to them, and then lowered
inside the larger jars which had previously been filled with
water. The glass plates were then removed very slowly and
carefully. At the end of the time allowed for diffusion the
plates were replaced on the jars, the latter were removed from
the water and the strength of their contents determined. Both
the large and small jars were filled two days before the latter
were placed inside the former, in order that the temperature
of the cellar in which the determinations were made might be
 attained; and after the inner jars had been placed in position
 a further period of five hours was allowed before the glass
 plates were removed, so that any disturbance of temperature
 which bad occurred in placing them in position might subside.
    The capacity of the inner jars was 480 cubic centim., their
internal diameter was 70 milliin., and their internal height
 125 millim. About three dozen of them were made, and of
 these the twelve which were found to be most uniform in size
 were used in the determinations. The extreme difference in
 the capacity of the largest and smallest of these twelve was
 3'3 per cent., and the extreme difference of their superficies
 at the mouth was 3-8 per cent. The outer jars contained
 12,000 cubic centim. of water, or twenty-five times the
 volume of the inner jars. The mouths of the jars were about
 midway between the surface and bottom of the water in the
 inner jars.
    The strength of the solutions remaining in the jars at the
 end of the experiments was determined by means of their
 freezing-points. The solutions taken to start with were made
 up by weighing. The freezing-points of these, and also of
 weaker solutions obtained from them by dilution, were deter
 mined, and from these results the strength of any solution
 having a given freezing-point could be calculated. In order
 to minimize any errors due to possible irregularities of the
 freezing-points when plotted against composition, the solutions
 of known strengths, of which the freezing-points were deter
 mined, were selected so as to approach as nearly as possible
 to the strength of the solution left in the diffusion-jar.
    The strength of the solutions taken was, as a rule, about
 0*3 molecule to every 100 molecules of water, showing a
 depression of the freezing-point of water amounting to about
 0o,3 ; about one third of the dissolved substance had diffused
 out by the end of the determination, the decrease in the

                     of Substances in Solution.                 129
 freezing-point measured being thus about 0o,l. The water
 into which the diffusion had taken place would at the end of
 the experiment contain only about 4 molecules of the sub
 stance to every 100,000 H20. These proportions had neces
 sarily to be modified in several instances, and in such cases it
 was assumed that, in accordance with Graham's results (in
 support of which some of the present results may also be
 adduced), the rate of diffusion varied directly as the number
 of molecules present in a given volume of solution, or, more
 roughly, in a given weight of water.
    The determinations were made in two separate series,
 marked (1) and (2) respectively in Table I., which contains
 the results. In the first series the temperature varied from
 12°"1 to 15°"3, the time allowed being probably 18 days,
 the record of the exact time having been unfortunately lost :
 in the second series the temperature was lGD-0 to 180-2, and
the time was 25 days. Various steps were taken to estimate
 the magnitude of the probable errors. In the first place, the
error due to any disturbance occurring in removing and
replacing the glass plate from the inner jar was found to be
inappreciable. A blank experiment in which these opera
tions were performed showed that the solution of cane-sugar
which the inner jar contained gave exactly the same freezing-
point before and after the operations, i. e. within the
estimation-figure of the thermometric reading, which was
0"05 millim. or 0o-0005. Secondly, in the first series dupli
cate determinations were made with each of the substances
cane-sugar, acetic acid, and urea: the differences in the freezing-
points of the solutions obtained in each pair were '0011°,
¦0062°, and "0026° respectively, mean 0-0033°, or about 3 per
cent, of the actual decrease measured, a quantity fully
accounted for by the difference in size of the jars. Three per
cent, in the actual decrease, however, represents only l-24
per cent, in the proportional decrease (or actual decrease
-i- mean freezing-point), which is the quantity which is
taken to represent the rate of diffusion v ; and an error of
1*24 per cent, here will represent an error of 2-4 per cent, on
the values of the supposed constant mv2. Thirdly, glycerine
solutions of the same strength were used in both series, and
so also were cane-sugar solutions of nearly the same strength :
the relative values for mv2 in the two series were 1 : 2-58o" in
the case of glycerine, and 1 : 2 '567 in the case of cane-sugar,
the difference between the two ratios amounting to only 0'3
per cent.
   The results of the diffusion-experiments are given in
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 213. Feb. 1893.               K

 130          Mr. S. U. Pickering on the Difusion
 Table I., the supplementary freezing-points necessary for the
 calculation of the strengths of the final solutions being given
 in Table II. (In the case of cane-sugar and acetic acid the
 determinations used for this purpose have already been
 published, Berichte d. deutsch. chem. Gesell. xxiv. p. 3329.)
    The values in the table refer to the weight of anhydrous
 substance, the water of crystallization, whenever present,
 having been allowed for. This water, in the case of alloxan,
 was found to be 3H20 ; whereas in the cases of gallic acid,
 tannin, and raffinose, 1, 2, and 5H20 were taken as being
 respectively present. The proportional decrease of freezing-
 point or strength of the solution is the fraction which the
 actual decrease is of the mean freezing-point or strength.
 The molecular weight m' is deduced from the freezing-points
 in accordance with van't Hoff's formula
                     , _ mean strength x 18-9
                               mean f.-p.
 The values, it will be seen, agree fairly well in most cases
 with the theoretical molecular weights.
    The sugars as well as the tannin and dextrin were ob
 tained from Messrs. Trommsdorf. The dextrin, however, was
 doubtless very far from being pure (indeed pure dextrin
 has never yet been obtained), and very little weight can
be attached to the results obtained with it. The sample
 of amylodextrin I owe to the courtesy of Mr. Horace
 Brown : unfortunately, however, the solution used deposited
 some of the substance during the experiments in the insoluble
 form, and hence the results with it are very doubtful; for not
 only is the mean strength of the solution uncertain, but the
amount which had diffused out is also uncertain ; for this had
 to be estimated in the diffusate, a large quantity of it being
evaporated to a small bulk so as to obtain a depression of
freezing-point sufficient for measurement ; while, to correct
for solids dissolved from the dish by the liquid during its
evaporation, a similar volume of water was evaporated in the
same manner. The calculated molecular weight of the amylo
dextrin was obtained from the freezing-point of the initial
solution, and of that entered in Table II. The values which
these gave were 2519*4 and 2452-8 respectively. The results
with gallic acid are equally uncertain for a similar reason, the
solution taken having been too strong, and having deposited
crystals during the course of the experiment.
   In the case of pyrogallol the liquid used to make the solu

                    of Substances in Solution.                131
tion, and also that into which it diffused, was a very weak
solution of sulphuric acid of which the freezing-point was
0O-0441. This prevented all but a trace of oxidation of the
pyrogallol. The tannin used was probably not pure; but the
difference in the calculated molecular weights deduced from
the determinations in the two series is due to the solutions
used being of different strengths, and to the fact that the
molecular depression of the freezing-point diminishes rapidly
as the strength of the solution increases. The depressions, I
may mention, appear to show some marked irregularity ; for
when the four determinations (the two in Table I. at the
initial strength, and the first two in Table II.) are plotted out,
they do not all lie on any simple curve, either the determi
nation at 12 parts to 100 giving much too small a value, or
that at 16 parts too large a value. Another specimen of
tannin was examined as to the freezing-points, and the results,
which are the last four given in Table II., show the same
peculiarity. This sample, however, gave throughout smaller
values than that used in the diffusion-experiments, and the
three stronger solutions of it deposited some tannin as well as
ice in the freezing-point determination. The first sample did
not do so.
   In order to make the results of the first, series more easily
comparable with those of the second, the values for mv*
obtained in the former have been multiplied by 2'577( = «),
in accordance with the results obtained with glycerine and
cane-sugar, as mentioned above. The values for im? are, as
will be seen, very far from being constant. They vary from
16"09 with pyrogallol (omitting the doubtful result with gallic
acid) to 46'81 with the weakest solution of cane-sugar; a
variation of some 200 per cent., which cannot be in any way
explained by the purely experimental error, since this, as has
been mentioned, does not exceed 2 to 3 per cent. When we
take the molecular weight deduced from the osmotic pressure
(freezing-point) itself, m', instead of the theoretical molecular
weight, the constancy is in most cases scarcely improved;
and, indeed, in those three cases where these calculated mo
lecular weights do not agree with the simple theoretical
weight, the values for m'v are made much less nearly con
stant, and attain the enormous proportions of from 72 to 260.
This tends to show that there is a want of agreement between
the values calculated for m\? from the depression of the
freezing-point and the rate of diffusion-
                               K2

                                                -ion
                                                a»a
                                                                                           980-1 990-1                         680-1 6T0-I 62 -1 8 0-1                                880-1 TSf-0 981-0 982-0 Sll-0 890-1                                                                20 -1 mz-i
                                                                                                                    090-T                                                62M                                                                             2H-I 02I-T 60I-T 20I-I
                                                                                           9T-I =9 -9 9=06-18-02 8 -1 =16-9 86-11 89-18=68- 98-1 8U2=esoi 9MS=»8-8 U-n I9-1Z 1 .092 10-18                                     I6=-9K 28-691 8w^-2e1= 29-18 60-08 26-18 lift 86-8? 8 -08
                                                                                                         088-89-12= 66-9I0-8T= 90-81 56-02=^81-8 60-91 6I.8Z=* 6-0I 90-85=^56-8 09-21 80-08 J-8-28                                         98-82 05=*-81         80-28 89-8 18-9* 09-13 SKSB
                                                                                            08-lX=^el-9                                                                                                                                                  88-W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              06- 8=^8»-SI
                                                                             •,ui=-d.- j
                                                                  UIOJ                       10.8 81-69 91-16 8216 W-96 29-981 i -.gei Sf.681 6 -161 28-01 l-98»2                                                                           1-8 61 8-928 2S-H8 6f-028 18-828 26528 85865
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9-6I2T
                                                        -ajoaqx •wi=                         98-69 56-68 61-16                         81-86 01-521 T-i-lfl f9-6H 65-691 .T-2-828 .F2-828 .2 -18 .2 -168                                                                                         .8-205
                                                                                                                                    "                                                                                                                  " 2-lfS        " " u
joq-^jbjJ°JB^001°%uaSoi1u;—Bna|AojgV^g                  -jodo-i<j                            8 8 - *9 8- 6512- 98]*- f»62- S1S - 81 2-                                                  9212-                     5828- 2912- 9262- 2961- HT8- TO08-                                              5 92-
                                                                                                                                                                          9W2-                          8W8-                                                              68TS- W16- nw-
                                                                  •aguajoaQ                                                                                                                                                                                                                              j-»pi#^|TqoBiHausj»adT.ucnmi.sg
                                                                                            188- 088- 619- 111. 88?- 181. 005- T19- HS- 81 -21 0 2-8 0I0-I f80-f SIM *l6-9 9 9-8 I08-I 810-1 8 9-1 690-2
                                       'iqSiaft
                                                                                            116- 806- I8S-I 281-1 UW 0902 O S-I Wl-2 2SI-I                                                                        268-6 219-* 95681 101-9 189-81 9 6-1 1S1-9 981-2 8 5-9 261-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                       911-It
                                                                                            118- 681- I29-I 898-1 T-S2-I T69-T 099-1 80?-2 0 6-0                                                                                                                  281-01        62 -2 681-* 181-9
                                                                                                                                                                                                       60T- 98 80-8 191¦* ne-n 6H-9 H9-8I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18 -f
                                                                                                         890-1 0*1-2 0*1-8 189-1                               080-2 610-8                                                    111-9 06 -91 9 2-9 8 9-12 861-81 8 9-9 2f2-S 118-9 928-8
                                                                                            2H.I                                                  82f-2                                               2H-8F Wi-I
                                                                                                                                                                                      80?-l
                                                                            ¦asrcajoap
                                                       -jodoij                                           8*98- 6812. 128*. 9012- 0898- 18 2- 2082- 868*- 1258- 6 28- I98T- 2602- 9961-' 8 8 - 6*18- 1818- 0198- 60 8- I16S-
      aq^jo•Bs^niopdn-Sjuoigza j                                                            56T8-
                                                                  ¦asBajoaQ
                                                                                            HOT- 2901- 8901- 89 1- UiO- SWT- o*90- 98 0- mo- 0898. 5920- 8I 0- 1 20- 0590- 6818- 2 2 - 1901- 2860- 98 0- 96 0-
                                                                  ¦UBapf                                                       6298- H82- 8182- *1*2-                                                  OTO0-I- 1*10- *210-                               8021-1- 9 01- 8*8 -            SW2-— 298 -
                                                                                         0 8 I8-
                                                                                                          *8 2-
                                                                                                                    0 6S-                                                 6U8- hoi-                                                        *2SI-— 90S8-—                        989I-—
                                                                                            619-2- 8S82-                       9»82- 8 ^2- T982- ni2- I628- 98 0- S128- 0290- 89 0- S81T- T862- 8 86- 5*65-— H82- S62I-—                                                                         2982-
                                                                                         o                          098S-                                                                                                                                                              20S2-
                                                                                          2698-                                                               tlSo- um--                              sia-t- f!80- T810-                           I898- 2108-1-         T8 8-          8 8 - 198 -
                                                                                                        0H8-                          09e - W8 -                                                                                           89H-                  19I8-          1 8I-
                                                                                                                                                                                       i'n;trO-•D9"¦
                                                                                                                                                                                    op(2)
                                                •a u ^eqng                                                                                                                                                        fxapojXuiy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u(z)
                                                                                                         (1) at(I)njao-f[£) (2) TO(T)«aq,l                              (OpioBauBWL                                           rairex (2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n(l)                        (S) (2) (2) (2)                          tougpg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o(f.)
                                                                                                                                                   utiSoJ-fa:
                                                                                                                                                 lO(2)
                                                                                                                                                              U(\)Biony                              nu(2)!)ia(i                                                                         so^Bjt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a(2)

              On the Diffusion of Substances in Solution.       133
   Table II.—Supplementary Freezing-point Determinations.
                    Parts to                       Parts to
     Substance.     100 of    R-p.     Substance.   100 of   F. P-
                    Water.                          Water.
                     2-152   —2966  Dextrin         27-484  - -6208
                     1-425   -•2000                 47 943  -1-1082
                     1-453   -•3023 Tannin           2-557  - -0440
                     4670    -•2463                 12-310  - -1221
                      1-603  -•2228                 15-804  - -1110
                     0-667   -•0697                 10184   - -08-44
                     0133    -0180                   4-983  - -0542
                     0640    -•2669                  2-473  - -0342
  Amylodextrin ...   7940    -0609
    The "molecular" depression, which, on the theory of
osmotic pressure, will be proportional to mv2, must, when we
take the molecular weights calculated from it (ml), be an
absolute constant, whereas the values for this same quantity
 (mV), when deduced from the diffusion-experiments, and
when these same molecular weights are used, are far from
being constant ; moreover, while the " theoretical " mole
cular weights give the values of mv'1 in the diffusion expe
riments with dextrin, amylodextrin, and tannin as being
similar to those with the other substances investigated, they
will, when used for- calculating the molecular depression, give
values from \ to \th only of those obtained with the other
substances investigated. These values are given in the last
column of the table : molec. dep. = (mean dep. xm)           (mean
strength x 17*96).
    The fact that the results with dextrin, amylodextrin, and
tannin are of doubtful accuracy must, it is true, weaken the
strength of any conclusions based on them. But, on the
other hand, the fact that they do not give exceptional values
for mv1 renders it probable that they are not very inaccurate ;
and, moreover, the exceptional values which they give for
m'v2 are not out of harmony with the results with the other
substances ; for the sugars, where the molecular weights are
large, give values which are considerably larger than those
given by the other substances examined. There seems indeed
to be a general tendency for m'v2 to increase with the mole
cular weight of the substance diffusing : thus, with the first
seven substances entered in the table we have molecular

134           Prof. J. G. MacGregor on Contact-Action
weights from 60 to 150, and the value of m'v* is generally
about 20 : with the last three substances in the table,
where the molecular weights are high, 314 to 430 (taking
the calculated values m'), mV is much larger, namely over
30 ; while dextrin, tannin, and ainylodextrin show still larger,
and, taken in their order, increasing molecular weights, and
also larger and increasing values for rn'v2. Thus it would
appear that with higher molecular weights the rate of diffusion
is abnormally large.
   The exceptionally large values for mds in the case of the
weakest solution of cane-sugar is remarkable, but in the
absence of a duplicate determination it is well not to lay
much stress upon it.
     XVI. Contact-Action and the Conservation of Energy.
            By Prof. J. G. MacGregoh, M.A., Sc'.D*
SEVERAL years ago Prof. 0. J. Lodge, in a series of
       papers published in this Magazine f> proposed new
definitions of work done and energy, and claimed (1) that
by their aid he had deduced from the third law of motion
and the hypothesis of universal contact-action alone, a law
 (which he called the law) of the conservation of energy ;
(2) that the law thus deduced was an extension of, and fully
as axiomatic as, the law ordinarily enunciated under the same
name ; (3) that action at a distance might be shown to be
incompatible with Newton's third law, or the law of the con
servation of energy, or both ; and (4) that energy cannot be
transferred without being transformed, or transformed without
being transferred. These claims, though prima facie so
extraordinary as necessarily to have drawn attention, have
never, so far as I am aware, been seriously challenged, and it
is, perhaps, somewhat late in the day to challenge them now;
but the remarkable progress which has recently been made
in the application of contact-action theories, seems to make
it desirable that they should be subjected to examination.
       (1) The Deduction of the Conservation of Energy.
   In the first version of the argument by which this deduction
is made } , Prof. Lodge seems to me (a) to assume the ordinary
law of the conservation of energy in addition to the third law
  * Communicated by the Author.
  f Phil. Mag. [5] vols. viii. (1879) p. 277, xi. (1881) pp. 3b' & 529, xix.
(1885) p. 482.
   1 Ibid. vol. viii. (1879) p. 278.

                  and the Conservation of Energy.            135
of motion and contact-action, and (b) to deduce, not a law of
the conservation of energy, but of its conservation during
transference merely.
    (a) The unacknow ledged assumption is made in the " de
finition " of energy : —" Whenever work is done upon a body,
an effect is produced in it which is found to increase the
working-power of that body (by an amount not greater than
the work done) ; hence this effect is called energy, and it is
measured by the quantity of work done in producing it.
Whenever work is done by a body, i. e. anti-work done on it,
its working-power is found to be diminished (to at. least the
extent of the work done), and it is said to have lost energy —
the energy lost being measured, as before, by the anti-work
done in destroying it." The words " is found " indicate an
appeal to experience. We may readily recognize what it is,
if we note that the increment or decrement of working-power
which is produced in a body on or by which work has been
done, may be kinetic or potential, and that, as Prof. Lodge
says*, " for a body to possess kinetic energy you must have
not merely motion, you must have a guarantee of persistence
of motion, the body must possess inertia," and " for a body to
possess potential energy we must have two things—the exer
tion of a force, together with a guarantee that that force shall
be exerted over a certain distance ; i. e. a continuance of the
force even after motion is permitted." If, then, these two
guarantees be expressed quantitatively, so as to ensure the
equality of the change of working-power to the work done,
they will form a statement of the experience to which
appeal is made. When so expressed, the former is seen to be
Newton's second law of motion, and the latter the axiom that
the work done by the mutual forces between the parts of a
material system during any change of its configuration de
pends only on the initial and final configurations. If these
guarantees cannot be deduced from the third law and universal
contact-action, they are thus unacknowledged assumptions
in the argument under consideration.
   We may assume that Prof. Lodge will not hold it to be
possible to make this deduction in the case of the latter of
the two assumptions mentioned. He does hold, however,
that Newton's second and third laws of motion are different
aspects of one law t, and he may therefore regard the first of
the two guarantees mentioned above as not forming an addi
tional assumption in his argument. I have not access to ' The
Engineer' of 1885, in which he says his argument in support
                * Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xix. (1885) p. 485.
                t Ibid. vol. xix. (1885) p. 483.

136          Prof. J. G. MacGregor on Contact-Action
of this view is published. But in the edition of his book on
 Elementary Mechanics which bears the date 185)2, he reaches
this conclusion in the following way (p. 56) :—" It [Newton's
 third law] is deducible from the first law of motion (see Max
 well, ' Matter and Motion ') , for if the forces exerted by two
 parts of the same body on each other were not equal and
 opposite, they would not be in equilibrium ; and consequently
 two parts of the same body might, by their mutual action,
 cause it to move with increasing velocity for ever, the possi
 bility of which the first law denies. We have already shown
 that the first law is a special case of the second, and now we
 have deduced the third from the first ; hence all are really
 included in the- second, which is therefore excessively im
 portant." That the first law is a special case of the second
 is obvious ; but that the third is deducible from the first in
 the above way I have elsewhere * endeavoured to disprove.
 It is not necessary to repeat the discussion here ; for it will
probably be sufficient to point out that the equality and oppo
sition of the action and reaction of two parts of the same body
do not constitute the third law of motion, that law asserting
the equality and opposition of the action and reaction between
two bodies, to each of which the first law applies. That this
criticism is sound becomes especially obvious if we reflect
that the laws of motion, as fundamental hypotheses of dy
namics, must be held to apply to particles, not to extended
bodies ; and the above argument is clearly inapplicable to a
particle.
    The unacknowledged assumptions are thus not deducible, at
least have not been deduced, from those admittedly used.
Now the law of the conservation of energy, as ordinarily
enunciated, may be deduced from these-two assumptions alone.
Hence, in the argument under consideration, Prof. Lodge
assumes the ordinary law of the conservation of energy in
addition to the third law of motion and universal contact-
action.
    (b) The following is the conclusion which he draws :—
 " Hence the energy gained by the first body is equal to the
energy lost by the second ; or, on the whole, energy is
neither produced nor destroyed, but is simply transferred from
the second body to the first." This states only that energy
is conserved during transference, and says nothing as to its
fate after transference to the first body, and during residence
   * In an Address on the fundamental hypotheses of Dynamics, read at
the last Meeting of the Royal Society of Canada, and to be published in
vol. x. of its Transactions. See abstract in ' Science/ vol. xx. (1802)
p. 71.

                     and the Conservation of Energy.                       137
 in it. The law deduced is thus not a law of the conservation,
 but of the transference of energy. Obviously, with the
 assumptions which seem to me to have been employed, the
 complete law of conservation might have been deduced. But
 the conservation of energy during residence in the body could
 not have been proved without the explicit employment of the
 two assumptions involved in the definition of energy.
    In a second version * of the above argument, Newton's
 third law and contact-action are the only assumptions made ;
 but the conclusion drawn is not a law of the conservation of
 energy in the sense of working-power. Tbe definition of
 energy in this argument is quite different from that of the
 earlier paper :—" Energy is that which a body loses when it
 does work ; and it is to be measured as numerically equal to
 the work done." There is here no reference to working-
 power. Loss of energy is simply a synonym for work done
 by, and gain of energy for work done on. The conservation
 of energy which Prof. Lodge claims to have deduced is there
 fore the conservation of the work done on two bodies during
 mutual action, which is of the same nature as the conservation
 of their momentum, and is quite consistent with the non-
 conservation of their working-power.
             (2) Generality and Axiomatic Character of
                           Prof. Lodge's Law.
    It will be obvious that, as Prof. Lodge's definition of energy
is different from the ordinary definition, his law of conserva
tion cannot be the sime as that ordinarily enunciated under
the same name. He says himself it is " probably a slight
(very slight) extension " of the ordinary law f. We have
seen, however, that in deducing it he assumes the ordinary
law, the third law of motion and universal contact-action. It
is therefore merely the form which the ordinary law takes
in the particular case of contact-action with equal reaction.
    This conclusion is borne out by a consideration of the
definition of energy quoted above. Work done and the
working-power of a body having been so defined J as to make
   * Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xix. (1885) p. 483.
   t Ibid. vol. xi. (1881) p. 533.
   % " Whenever a body exerting a force moves in the sense of the force it
exerts, it is said to do work ; and whenever a body exerting a force
moves in the sense opposite to that of the force it exerts, it is paid to have
work done upou it, or to do anti-work, the quantity of the work being
measured in each case by the product of the force into the distance moved
through in its own direction." " The working-power of a body is mea
sured by the average force it can exert, multiplied by the range or distance
through which it can exert it." Ibid. vol. viii. (1879) p. 278.

 138        Prof. J. Gr. MacGregor on Contact- Action
 their denotation identical with their ordinary denotation, pro
 vided the third law of motion hold, energy is defined quali
 tatively as being the working-power of a body, and quanti
 tatively as being measured by the work done in producing it.
 The ordinary definition of energy is working-power simply,
 whether that power be possessed by a body or a system, its
 measure being the work the body or system can do. Prof.
 Lodge's energy will therefore be identical with energy in the
ordinary sense only in cases in which his work done and his
working-power are identical with ordinary work done and
ordinary working-power, and in which the working-power of
 a system is the sum of the working-powers of the bodies of
which it consists. Now this latter condition requires that the
actions between the bodies of the system shall occur only at
constant distance. For if the actions might occur at variable
distance, a part of the working power of the system would be
potential working-power which could not be said to be pos
sessed by the bodies singly. The former condition is satisfied
if the third law of motion hold. Hence Prof. Lodge has so
defined energy as to make its denotation identical with the
ordinary denotation only in cases of action with equal reaction
at constant distance.
   Prof. Lodge asserts also that his law is "fully as axiomatic
as" the ordinary law*. Mere assertion, however, cannot
make two propositions equally axiomatic. They must ba
proved to be so. And the test is very simple. If they are
applicable with equal generality in the investigation of dyna
mical phenomena, they are equally axiomatic ; if not, they are
not. Now, if there be actions in nature which are not actions
at constant distance, Prof. Lodge's law is not applicable to
them, while the ordinary law is. Even if it be admitted that
all actions in nature are contact-actions, there are many
groups of phenomena which, in the present state of our
knowledge of them, cannot be investigated on the hypothesis
of contact-action. The early stages of their investigation
must be conducted by the aid of the fiction of action at a
distance ; and in such stages Prof. Lodge's law is not applic
able, while the ordinary law is. Hence Prof. Lodge's law
is not so general in its applicability as the ordinary law.
                (3) Deduction of Contact-Action.
   In Prof. Lodge's argument to prove the incompatibility of
action at a distance with the third law of motion and the law
of the conservation of energy f, he seeems to me neither to
               * Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xi. (1881) p. 533.
               t Ibid. vol. xi. (1881) p. 36.

                 and the Conservation of Energy.                139
assume a law of the conservation of working-power nor to
deduce contact-action.
   The energy of which he assumes the conservation is defined
in the same way as in the second version of his deduction of
the law of conservation :•—-A body " is said " to have lost or
gained an amount of energy numerically equal to the work
done by or on it respectively. There is no reference to
working-power. What he assumes, therefore, is the conser
vation of the work done on two bodies during their mutual
action.
   The conclusion drawn is that " the two bodies must move
over precisely the same distance in the same sense," which is
action at constant distance, not contact-action. Nor does
the assertion that they are " practically '' the same make it
contact-action .
   It is obvious, however, that if the conclusion reached above
is sound, viz., that Prof. Lodge's law of the conservation of
energy is the ordinary law expressed for the particular case
of action with equal reaction at constant distance, action at
variable distance must be incompatible with it and the third
law of motion.
   The argument to show action at a distance to be incom
patible with the law of the conservation of energy alone is as
follows*:—" If it were possible for two bodies exerting stress
on one another to move over unequal distances, then it would
be possible to obtain work without the anti-work, and thus
to get a new source of energy (technically called the per
petual motion) ; but, as a fact of experience, it is not possible."
Clearly, in the case supposed, there would be a new source of
energy as defined by Prof. Lodge. But a new source of
energy as thus defined does not imply the perpetual motion.
 For in such a case there would be working-power which
could not be called energy according to the definition : and
the ordinary law of the conservation of energy tells us that,
provided the stress supposed to act were independent of the
velocities of the bodies acted upon, the change produced
during the motion in this portion of the working-power of
the system would be such as to render the perpetual motion
impossible.
. No attempt is made, in the papers cited above, to show
action at a distance to be incompatible with Newton's third
law of motion alone, although it is asserted t that the incom
patibility may be proved.
               * Phil. Mag. [5] vol. viii. (1879) p. 279.
               t Ibid. vol. xi. (1881) p. 36.

140         Prof. J. G. MacGrregor on Contact-Action
         (4) Transference and Transformation of Energy.
   Prof. Lodge's argument to show that, on the assumption
of contact-action, " energy cannot be transferred without
being transformed," is as follows * :—" When a body possess
ing potential energy does work, its ' range ' t necessarily
diminishes, while the motion of the body on which the work
is done increases. On the other hand, when a moving body
does work its motion diminishes, and the body which resists
the motion, since it yields over a certain distance, gains po
tential energy." It seems to me that these sentences would
be equally accurate if we were to subject them to " double
decomposition," after which process they would read thus :—
When a body possessing potential energy does work its range
necessarily diminishes, while the body on which work is done,
since it yields over a certain distance, gains potential energy.
On the other hand, when a moving body does work its motion
diminishes, while the motion of the body on which the work
is done increases.—A statement which would in general be
more complete than either, would be obtained by combining
the two. For if one body exert on another a certain force
through a certain distance the same work is done on it,
whether the former body lose kinetic or potential energy in
doing the work ; while the effect produced iu the latter body
will in general be a change both in its motion and its state
of strain, i. e. both in its kinetic and its potential energy.
Thus, whether the former lose kinetic or potential energy, or
both, the latter will, in general, gain both, or transference of
energy will, in general, involve partial but not complete
transformation.
   Prof. Lodge cites the air-gun as an instance of the trans
formation of potential into kinetic energy during transference.
If we extract the bullet and plug up the muzzle it will serve
equally well as an instance of the transference of potential
energy without transformation. For if we now pull the
trigger, the compressed air will do work on the air in the
barrel. The " range " of the former will diminish, that of
the latter will increase. As an instance of the transformation
of kinetic into potential energy during transference, he selects
the case of a bullet fired against a spring and caught by it.
But if the spring have inerlia, the energy acquired by it
through the work done by the bullet must be partly kinetic,
and in such a case, therefore, the transformation is only
partial. Such instances, however, must be defective as illus-
       * Phil. Mag. [5] vol. xix. (1885) p. 486.
       f That is " the distance through which it can exert force."

                 and t/ie Conservation of Energy.              141
trations, because the air, the spring, the bullet, which are
treated as simple bodies, must be regarded as complex systems
between the parts of which transferences of energy are oc
curring. When we make a more intimate study of such
instances from the point of view of contact-action, we must,
as Prof. Lodge points out, regard bodies as consisting of
particles connected by a medium possessing some property of
the nature of elasticity. If we assume the particles to be
rigid they can, of course, have kinetic energy only. If the
medium be assumed to have no inertia, its elements can have
potential energy only. Hence if both assumptions be made,
transference of energy between the particles and the medium
must involve complete transformation, while transference
 from element to element of the medium must occur
 without transformation. If, however, both the particles and
 the medium be assumed to have both inertia and elasticity,
 the transference of energy will, in general, it seems to me,
 involve only partial transformation, whether it occur between
 the elements of the medium or between the particles and the
 medium. When, therefore, Prof. Lodge states that " a bullet
 fired upwards gradually transfers its undissipated energy to
 the gravitation medium, transforming it at the same time into
 potential," he seems to me to assume that the bullet is rigid
 and that the medium is without inertia.
    Prof. Lodge states finally that " energy cannot be trans
 formed without being transferred," but he gives no demon
 stration of this proposition. I find it difficult to reconcile
 with this statement one of his illustrations : —" A perfectly
 elastic bounding ball has all its energy transformed into
 potential at the middle of every period of contact with the
 obstacle from which it rebounds." Immediately after con
 tact has ceased all its energy is kinetic, for apparently vibra
 tions are excluded by hypothesis. The energy has thus been
 completely transformed without transference from the ball.
  It may, of course, be held that the ball must be regarded as
  a system of particles connected by an elastic medium. But
  in that case, what has been said of the ball, as a whole, is true
  of the particles in contact with the obstacle, if they are as
  sumed to be elastic, or, if not, of the elements of the medium
  in contact with them, provided the medium be assumed to
  have inertia. After the middle of the period of contact, they
  do work on the elements of the medium beyond them. No
  work is done on them. They, therefore, lose energy and
  gain none. Yet after contact is over they possess kinetic
  energy. Whence has it come, if not through transformation
  of their own potential energy ? That energy cannot be trans

142                  Mr. A. A. 0. Swinton on
formed without being transferred must, of course, be true if
bodies consist of particles with inertia but without elasticity,
and if the medium connecting them possess elasticity but
not inertia. Indeed, on these assumptions we may go farther
and say it cannot be transformed without being transferred
either from particles to medium, or from medium to particles.
If, however, either or both be assumed to have both pro
perties, the proposition seems to me to be erroneous, and
certainly requires proof.
   In concluding the discussion of this subject Prof. Lodge
says:—'• All I have stated is that change of form is necessary
and universal whenever energy is transferred." If this is all
the statements under discussion are to be taken to mean they
may be admitted at once, on the assumption of contact-action.
But this version of the statements quoted above seems to me
to be a new statement altogether. For, expressed in terms of
energy, it says merely that when one body does work on
another through the exertion of contact-force tbe potential
energies of both bodies in general undergo change.
  Dalhousie College, Halifax, N.S.,
         Dec. 30th, 1892.
XVII. Experiments with High Frequency Electric Discharges.
                 By A. A. Campbell Swinton *.
THE writer has succeeded in passing through his body
       from hand to hand sufficient electricity to bring the
filament of an ordinary 5-candle power 100-volt incandescent
lamp very nearly to full incandescence, or to bring the fila
ment of a 32-candle power 100-volt lamp to full redness.
Practically no sensation was experienced.
   The apparatus employed consisted of a large " Apps "
induction-coil capable of giving 10-inch sparks, supplied with
current through the ordinary vibrating contact-breaker, and
a resistance consisting of eight 50-candle-power lamps in
parallel, from a 105-volt continuous- current supply. The
total energy in the primary, excluding what was lost in the
resistance and contact-breaker, was about 350 watts, or not far
off half an electric horse-power. To the positive and negative
terminals of the secondary of the induction-coil were connected
respectively the inside and outside coatings of three half-
gallon Leyden jars, connected in parallel. The disruptive
discharge of these jars across an air-gap of about a quarter of
an inch excited the primary of a simple form of high-fre
quency coil similar to those employed by Mr. Tesla and
                   * Communicated by the Author.

               High Frequency Electric Discharges.             143
Prof. Elihu Thompson. The secondary of this coil consisted
of 500 turns of No. 26 S.W.G. cotton-covered wire wound
on a paper tube. Outside this paper tube was a glass tube,
upon which the primary, consisting of 10 turns of three
No. 16 guttapercha-covered wires, in parallel, was wound.
The whole coil was immersed in resin oil contained in a
wooden trough. The ends of the secondary were connected
through small glass tubes, also filled with oil, to brass balls.
    On approaching the hand to one of the balls forming the
terminals of the oil-coil, sparks shot out from the brush dis
 charge which surrounds it. If the spark is taken on the skin
 a sharp prick is felt, but on approaching the terminal or
 touching it with a piece of metal grasped in the hand, or after
 grasping the terminal itself, practically no appreciable sensa
 tion is felt. If the terminal is grasped in this manner with
 the right hand, sparks will shoot out from the left hand or
 indeed from any portion of the body, if brought into proxi
 mity with another person, a piece of metal, the gas- or water-
 pipes, or any conducting body. In the experiment referred
 to the incandescent lamp was hung by one terminal on a
 wire connected to earth, and connexion was made between
 the other lamp terminal and the coil through the two arms
 and body by the right hand being brought into contact with
 one terminal of the oil-coil, and a piece of metal grasped in
 the left hand being approached to the free terminal of the
 lamp. At the first approach the bulb of the lamp became
 filled with phosphorescent light, but, on reducing the distance
 between the metal in the left hand and the free lamp ter
 minal, sparks shot out between them and the filament at once
  became incandescent—the incandescence increasing very
  nearly to the full normal amount when the piece of metal
 and the lamp terminal were finally brought into contact.
     To produce a similar incandescence of the filament with
 continuous or alternating currents of ordinary frequency
 would require about one fifth of an ampere, and at first sight
  it would seem that this quantity of current must pass through
 the arms and body of the operator.
     It has been generally assumed that with high-frequency
  currents the current is rendered harmless by reason of the
 high frequency—in fact, that high frequency renders harmless
  to the human body currents of a strength that would be
  dangerous and painful, if not fatal, were the frequency lower.
  The writer is inclined to think that another explanation is
  possible, and that the true fact is, not that high frequency
  renders harmless a given strength of current that with ordinary
  frequency would be harmful, but that with high frequency
  it is possible to obtain effects with exceedingly small currents,

  144   Experiments with High Frequency Electric Discharges.
 that with continuous and ordinary alternating currents can
 only be obtained by the use of much larger currents.
    This hypothesis is probably applicable to many other high-
 frequency effects, but as applied to the above-mentioned
 experiment it is simply this :—The lamp-filament having a
 certain definite resistance, with continuous or ordinary alter
 nating currents which pass uniformly or nearly so through
 the section of the filament, a certain amperage of current is
 necessary to produce the number of watts required to raise
 the filament to incandescence.       With the high-frequency
 currents, on the other hand, as is well understood, the current
 travels chiefly on the outer surface of the filament, little or
 none passing through the central portion. The current is in
 fact merely skin-deep. The virtual resistance is therefore
 very high, as only an extremely small portion of the sectional
 area of the filament acts as a conductor. There is an ample
 sufficiency of volts, and though the current is very minute
 there is a sufficient expenditure of watts to raise the filament
 to incandescence. The lamp, in fact, ceases to be a 100-volt
 lamp and becomes, it may well be, a 100,000-volt lamp. As
 confirming this hypothesis, it should be mentioned that while
 the filament was incandescent sparks passed between the lamp
 terminals, which were at some distance apart, this being evi
 dence that there was a difference of potential amounting
 at least to thousands of volts between the two ends of the
filament.
    Returning to the experiments, several other curious results
were obtained. If, instead of connecting the lamp to the coil
through the human frame, a wire was used, the filament
became much brighter than in the previous experiment ; in
fact, it gave considerably more than its normal candle-power.
 From this it was evident that the human body offered con
siderable opposition of some description to the passage of the
electricity. In order to form some idea of the amount of
this opposition, the body was again inserted in the circuit
between the coil and the lamp, as previously, and the thumbs
of the two hands brought near together. Sparks about one
quarter of an inch in length were found to pass between them,
evidencing that the two hands of the operator had a difference
of potential between them apparently equal to some thousands
of volts. When the sparks passed between the hands, or when
the wrists were brought into contact, so as to short-circuit, as
it were, to some extent the resistance of the arms and body,
the filament became very appreciably brighter. It should be
mentioned that when the sparks were allowed to pass be
tween the hands very perceptible shocks were felt in the
wrists.

                    Notices, respecting New Books.            145
     Another experiment was to connect one lamp terminal by a
  wire to the coil, connect the other lamp terminal to earth, and
  short-circuit the lamp through the body by grasping the coil
 terminal with one hand and a piece of metal connected to
 earth with the other. The effect of so doing was to reduce
  the incandescence of the filament to rather less than one half
 its normal amount, half of the available current going appa
 rently through the lamp, the other half through the body.
     With the lamp terminal connected to the coil, it was found
 unnecessary to connect the other lamp terminal to earth to
 produce incandescence, all that was necessary being to touch
 this lamp terminal with a piece of metal held in the hand.
 That the incandescence of the filament produced under these
 conditions was due to the electrostatic capacity of the operator
 and not to his forming a connexion to earth, was evidenced
 by the fact that it made no perceptible difference whether he
 stood on the floor or on an insulated stool.
    In all the above experiments the second terminal of the oil-
 coil was free and not connected to anything. It was, how
 ever, found that the effect of a second operator touching this
 terminal, or of connecting it by wire to earth, was to diminish
 the incandescence of the lamp-filamept. It was also found
 that the filament incandesced to a greater degree of brightness
 when connected as above between one terminal of the coil and
 earth, than when it was directly connected between the two
 terminals of the coil, but that, while the operator experienced
 practically no sensation when his body was inserted between
 one terminal and earth, the sensation was very severe—in fact,
 quite unbearable—when the body was inserted between the
 two terminals. The above seem to show that capacity has
 much to do with the results obtained, and that the phy
 siological effects of electric currents are not necessarily
 proportional to their heating-power.
    It should also be mentioned that in some of the experiments
there was a decided tendency for the filament to vibrate in
 unison with the contact-breaker of the induction-coil. In
fact, in some cases the amplitude of vibration was sufficient to
 cause the end of the filament to beat against the glass of the
lamp bulb.
            XVIII. Notices respecting New Books.
 Annals of British Geology, 1891. By J. F. Blake, M.A., F.O.S.
        8vo. Pages viii & 404. Dulau and Co., London, 1892.
TN a review of the former volume (for 1890) in the Philosophical
»*¦ Magazine for March 1892, the plan of these "Annals " was fully
 described. It has been followed in the present volume, except
. Phih Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 213. Feb. 1893.             L

146                      Geological Society
that :—no notice is taken of papers merely read before Societies,
but not published in the year concerned,—the abstracts and Prof.
Blake's notes thereon have been submitted to the authors, and
those which have been received back are marked with an asterisk.—
 and a new feature is " the introduction of illustrations of all new
 British species, and of other important novelties."
     On this last point we may observe that " the will may be taken
 for the deed"; but that, though inadequate in very many instances
 to define the characters of the intended fossils, the amateur out
 lines may serve as useful indications, to some extent, where the
 descriptive memoirs cannot be got at. The two maps (pis. i. and
 ii.), though roughly executed, seem to be more available for their
 intended purpose.
     As the asterisk placed before the No. of an Article indicates
 that the abstract has been seen and corrected by the Author or
  Editor of its memoir, we may notice that fifteen articles are indi
  cated in the Table of Corrections as being entitled to these asterisks,
  as well as the very many (the majority) of the abstracts standing
  in the text with those marks. Important corrections appear (from
  the List of Corrigenda) to have been fortunately made by the
  authors in some of these abstracts after the printing.
      The " Personal Notes " of the former volume are now limited to
  critical footnotes. These are always suggestive, and not unfre-
  quently decidedly useful.
      Some of the articles are, relatively, of considerable length ; for
  instance no. 6 (Murray and Benard) has 17 pages ; no. 324 (A. 8.
  Woodward) 7 pages; no. 334 (B. B. Newton) 9 pages. The
   " Personal Items " about the Staff and Officers of the Societies
  and Institutions are discontinued. The two Indexes (of Authors and
   Periodicals) are given, and one of new names. If the geographical
  and the geological points were indexed, we think advantages would
   accrue ; and we venture to suggest that the cost of the plates
   might be saved to that end in the next volume.
      The masterly (if not also masterful) manner in which the
   numerous memoirs are treated is well sustained, and tends always
   to indicate their interest, and often to advance their usefulness.
   Evidently no pains have been spared by the enthusiastic author in
   earnestly carrying out his plan of diffusing a correct knowledge of
   current British Geology, and of the work of British Geologists,
   among all who are interested in the Science.
                XIX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                           ["Continued from p. 76.]
      November 23rd, 1892.—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,
                          President, in the Chair.
  HHHE following communications were read :—
   -*- 1. " Outline of the Geological Features of Arabia Petrsea and
  Palestine." By Prof. Edward Hull, LL.D., P.R.S., F.G.S.
      The region may be considered as physically divisible into five

           The Bane of the Keuper Formation in Devon.              147
sections, viz. :—(i) The mountainous part of the Sinaitic Peninsula ;
(ii) the table-land of Badiet-el-Tih and Central Palestine ; (iii) the
Jordan-Arabah valley ; (iv) the table-land of Edom, Moab, and the
voloanic district of Jaulan and Hauran ; and (v) the maritime plain
bordering the Mediterranean.
   The most ancient rocks (of Archaean age) are found in the southern
portion of the region ; they consist of gneissose and schistose masses
penetrated by numerous intrusive igneous rocks. They are succeeded
by the Lower Carboniferous beds of the Sinaitic peninsula and
Moabite table-land, consisting of bluish limestone with fossils, which
have their counterparts chiefly in the Carboniferous Limestone of
Belgium, and of a purple and reddish sandstone (called by the
author ' the Desert Sandstone,' to distinguish it from the Nubian
Sandstone of Cretaceous age), lying below the limestone. The Nubian
Sandstone, separated from the Carboniferous by an enormous hiatus
in the succession of the formations, is probably of Neocomian or
Cenomanian age, and is succeeded by white and grey marls, and
limestones with flint, with fossils of Turonian and Senonian ages.
The Middle Eocene (Nummulitic Limestone) beds appear to follow
on those of Cretaceous age without a discordance ; but there is a real
hiatus notwithstanding the apparent conformity, as shown by the
complete change of fauna. In Philistia a calcareous sandstone in
which no fossils have been observed is referred to the Upper Eocene;
for the Miocene period was a continental one, when faulting and
flexuring was taking place, and the main physical features were
developed—e. g., the formation of the Jordan-Arabah depression is
referable to this period.
   In Pliocene times a general depression of land took place to about
200-300 feet below the present sea-level, and littoral deposits were
formed on the coasts and in the valleys. To this period belong the
higher terraces of the Jordan-Arabah valley. The Pliocene deposits
consist of shelly gravels. Later terraces were formed at the epoch
of the glaciation of the Lebanon Mountains, when the rainfall was
 excessive in Palestine and Arabia.
    The volcanoes of the Jaulan, Hauran, and Arabian Desert are
 considered to havo been in active operation during the Miocene,
Pliocene, and Pluvial periods ; but the date of their final extinction
has not been satisfactorily determined.
    2. " The Base of the Keuper Formation in Devon." By the Eev.
 A. Irving, B.A., D.Sc, F.G.S.
    In a paper published in the February number of the volume of
the Quarterly Journal for the current year, the author definitely
 accepted the breccia which is clearly marked on the left bank of the
 Sid at Sidmouth as the base of the Keuper, but he had not then
 satisfactory data for determining a similar basement-line in the
 country between the valleys of the Sid and Otter, where the
 Keuper is repeated by the great Chit-rock Fault. Since then he
has received information from the Rev. Dr. Dixon of Aylesbeare,
 mentioning the occurrence of breccia at several points on the east
 side of the Otter, and has subsequently visited the district, and with

148                       Geological Society :—
Dr. Dixon traced the breccia (the true base of the Keuper) along
the left bank of the Otter, which for many miles seems to mark the
western limit of the Keuper in Devonshire.
   As results, (i) the palseontological difficulty which the occurrence
of Hyperodapedon east of Ottermouth. presented is now removed ;
(ii) the statement made in the last paragraph on p. 71 of the
author's paper in the February number of the Quarterly Journal
needs some modification ; (iii) the geological maps of the Devon
area require considerable revision ; (iv) data are furnished which
enable us to estimate the thickness of the Upper Buuter at not
more than about 100 feet ; and (v) points of interest in the physio
graphy of the country are indicated.
   3. " The Marls and Clays of the Maltese Islands." By John H.
Cooke, Esq., F.G.S.
   The following deposits (in ascending order) occur in the Maltese
Islands :—I. Limestone, II. Glohigerina-Wmestone, III. Clays,
IV. Greensands, V. Upper Coralline Limestone. The Marls and
Clays forming the subject of this communication are No. III. of
this list. They lie conformably upon the Glohigerina-limestozie, and
so obscure is the line of demarcation between the two, and so striking
the similarity of their fossils, that the Clay may be considered as an
argillaceous division of the formation upon which it rests. The
upper part of the Cr/o&igrmna-limestone iB referred to the Horner-
schichten of the Vienna basin, and the Clay to the Schlier. The
separation between the clay and the greensands is sometimes, though
not always, complete, and occasionally the greensands are absent,
and the coralline limestone rests directly on the clay. The thick
ness assigned to the clay by Dr. Murray (20 feet) is probably not
far wide of the mark. A description of the lithological characters
of the deposits of the clay division, based on microscopic evidence,
is given. They consist largely of tests of foraminifera and minute
fragments of minerals, and contain nodules of ochreous clay. A list
of fossils of the clays is appended, including an addition of 31 species
of foraminifera to the 122 contained in Dr. Murray's list,
        December 7th.—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,
                          President, in the Chair.
   The following communications were read :—
   1. " Note on the Nufenen-stock (Lepontine Alps)." By Prof. T.
G. Bonney, D.Sc, LL.D., F.E.S., V.P.G.S.
   In 1889 the author was obliged to leave some work incomplete in
this rather out-of-the-way portion of the Lepontine Alps. In the
 summer of 1891 he returned thither in company with Mr. J. Eccles,
 F.G.B., and the present note is supplementary to the former paper.
The Nufenen-stock was traversed from north to south, and a return
section made roughly along the eastern bank of the Gries Glacier.
 Gneiss abounds on the north side of the Nufenen Pass, followed by
rauchwacke and some Jurassic rock. On the flank of the mountain
are small outcrops of rauchwacke and of the so-called ' Disthene

          Schistose 'Greenstones' from the Pennine Alps.               149
 schists ' (both badly exposed), followed by much Dark-mica schist,
often containing black garnets. Higher up is a considerable mass of
Jurassic rock with the ' knots ' and ' prisms ' which have been mis
 taken for garnets and staurolites, but Dark-mica schists set in again
 before the summit is reached. They continue down the southern
 flank of the peak ; but rather north of the lowest part of the water
 shed, between Switzerland and Italy, the ' Disthene-schist ' is again
 found, followed by a fair-sized mass of rauchwacke.
     The return section gave a similar association in reverse order ;
 and both confirmed the conclusions expressed by the author in 1890
 as to the absence of garnets and staurolites from Jurassic, rocks (with
 belemnites &c.), and the great break between these or the under
 lying rauchwacke (where it occurs) and the crystalline schists, in
 which garnets often abound, of the Lepontine Alps. The crystal
 line schists and the Mesozoic rocks are thrown into a series of very
 sharp folds, which, locally, presents at first sight the appearance of
 lnterstratification.
     2. "On some Schistose 'Greenstones' and allied Hornblendic
  Schists from the Pennine Alps, as illustrative of the Effects of
  Pressure-Metamorphism." By Prof. T. G. Bonnev, D.Sc, LL.D.,
  F.K.S., V.P.G.S.
     The author describes the results of study in the field and with
  the microscope of (a) some thin dykes in the calc-schist group, much
  modified by pressure ; (b) some larger masses of green schist which
  appear to be closely associated with the dykes ; (c) some other
 "pressure-modified greenstone dykes of greater thickness than the
  first. The specimens were obtained, for the most part, either near
  Saas Fee or in the Binnenthal.
     These results, in his opinion, justified the following conclu
  sions :—
      (1) That basic intrusive rocks, presumably once dolerites or basalts,
  ean be converted into foliated, possibly even slightly banded, schists,
  in which no recognizable trace of the original structure remains.
      (2) That in an early (possibly the first) stage of the process the
- primary constituents of the rock-mass are crushed or sheared, and
  thus their fragments frequently assume a somowhat ' streaky ' order ;
  that is to say, the rock passes more or less into the ' mylonitic '
  condition.
      (3) That next (probably owing to the action of water under
 great pressure) certain of the constituents are decomposed or
  dissolved.
      (4) That, in consequence of this, when the pressure is sufficiently
  diminished, a new group of minerals is formed (though in some cases
  original fragments may serve as nuclei).
      (5) That of the more important constituents hornblende is the
  first to form, closely followed, if not accompanied, by epidote ; next
  comes biotite (the growth of which often suggests that by this time
  the pressure is ceasing to be definite in direction), and lastly a water-
   clear mineral, probably a felspar, perhaps sometimes quartz.

 150                         Geological Society.
    (6) That in all these cases the hornblende occurs either in very
 elongated prisms or in actual needles.
    The author brings forward a number of other instances to show-
that this form of hornblende may be regarded as indicative of
dynamometamorphism; so that rocks where that mineral is more
granular in shape (cases where actinolite or tremolite appears as
a mere fringe being excepted) have not been subjeoted to this
prooess.
    3. " On a Secondary Development of Biotite and of Hornblende
in Crystalline Schists from the Binnenthal." By Prof. T. G. Bonney,
D.Sc, LL.D., F.K.S., V.P.G.S.
   Both the rocks described in this communication come from the
Binnenthal, and were obtained by Mr. J. Eccles, F.G.S., in the
summer of 1891. They belong to the Dark-mica schists described
by the author in former papers, and have been greatly affected by
pressure. In each a mineral above the usual size has been subse
quently developed. In the rock from near Binn this mineral is
a biotite ; the dimensions of one crystal, irregular in outline and
having its basal cleavage roughly perpendicular to the lines indica
tive of pressure, are about -175 x -03 inch. The other mineral, from
the peak of the Hohsandhorn, is a rather irregularly formed horn
blende, the crystals (which lie in various directions) being sometimes
more than half an inch long. The exterior often is closely asso
 ciated with little flakes of biotite. The author discusses the bearing
 of this fact, and the circumstances which may have favoured the
formation of minerals, so far as his experience goes, of an exceptional
size.
   Some remarks also are made on the relation of these structures
developed in the Alpine schists to the various movements by which
those rocks have been affected, and on the general question of pressure
as an agent of metamorphism.
   4. " Geological Notes on the Bridgewater District in Eastern
Ontario." By J. BT. Collins, Esq., F.G.S.
   The plateau of the Bridgewater district consists chiefly of gneiss
and mica-schist, with subordinate beds of white marble, quartz-
conglomerate and quartzite, and some veins of ' giant-granite.' The
general dip of the gneissose series is eastward.
   The author notes the effect of frost in splitting off flakes of the
gneissose rocks and conglomerates, especially on the bare glaciated
surfaces, and suggests that many of the smaller and shallower
lakelets may have originated by this process.
   The conglomerates are described as gneisses and mica-schists, with
subordinate pebble-beds.
   The occurrence of gold in quarfcz-veins near Flinders and at Madoc
is noted ; and amongst other economic products are the micas of the
granites, asbestiform actinolite, and marble. The author discusses
the mode of origin of the granite, marble, and actinolite-rock.

                             t   151    ]
           XX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
VISIBLE REPRESENTATION OF THE EQUIPOTENTIAL LINES IK
   PLATES TRAVERSED BY CURRENTS ; EXPLANATION OF HALL'S
   phenomenon. BY E. lommel. (Preliminary Notice.)
SIMPLE consideration shows that the equipotential lines at right
     angles to the lines of flow in a plate are at the same time the
magnetic lines of force belonging to the flow. If iron filings are
strewed on the plate with a sufficiently strong current, they
arrange themselves to form a beautiful image of the equipotential
lines.
   If the plate is brought into a magnetic field these magnetic
lines of force alter their position, and therefore also the lines of
force which necessarily are at right angles to them. In this lies
the simple explanation of Hall's phenomenon.— Wiedemann's
Annalen, No. 12, 1892.
   ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT UPON ELECTRICAL DISCHARGES IN
                  VARIOUS GASES. BY F. BREISSIG.
    As source of light the author used a gas-flame. As he had the
 intention of determining the influence of the visible rays in
 electrical discharges, he tried to find a gas in which this action is
 as great as possible, but he came to the conclusion that the
 difference between various gases in this respect is too small to
 lead to the preference of any one in particular.
    M. Breissig uses Hallwachs' form of the luminous discharge with
 a somewhat different arrangement. Opposite the source of light
 is placed an amalgamated zinc plate, and in front of it a wire
 gauze, also amalgamated, of galvanized iron, both being insulated.
 The zinc plate was kept at constant potential by a Daniell's battery
 of 80 elements, while the wire gauze was connected with one
  quadrant pair of an electrometer. The potential was measured of
  the quantity of electricity passing from the zinc plate to the wire
  gauze owing to illumination.
    A decrease of sensitiveness of the plate with the duration of
  the illumination was observed, as Hallwachs and Eighi had also
  observed for other sources of light; moreover, an increase was
  observed in all the gases investigated as the pressure diminished.
  In opposition to the observations of others, the author found a
  feebler discharge in carbonic acid than in air ; the deflexions are
  reduced to about one half : this phenomenon is due to the fact
  that in his experiments the rays of a spectral region are used
  differing from that of other observers, and the action of the
  various parts of the spectrum on many gases may be different.
  With cool gas a feebler action is observed if the gas has already
  been illuminated.
     The discharges in some vapours were stronger than in all the
  gases examined, especially in air half saturated with alcohol vapour.
  The following table gives in round numbers the results observed
  by the author.

152             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                                                    Discharge.
                                         Normal             Diminished
                                        pressure.             pressure.
       Atmospheric air      .  .  .         10                 18-22
        Oxygen                      ,       14                   20
                                              8                  16
        Carbonic acid    ....                 6                  14
                                              7                  12
        Sulphuretted Hydrogen .               3
     Air containing
       vapour of
                                          ' 30-40          about 70
        Ether                               20-30             „ 50
                                                6
                                            10-20
        Petroleum spirit . . .                 1Q
        Xylol                                   6
   In this the mean strength of the discharge in dry atmospheric
air is taken at 10—Inaugural Dissertation, Bonn, 1891 ; Beiblatter
der Physik, vol. xvii. p. 60.
      NOTICE OF A METEORIC STONE SEEN TO FALL AT BATH,
                  SOUTH DAKOTA. BY A. E. FOOTE.
   On the 29th day of August, 1892, about 4 o'clock in the afternoon,
while Mr. Lawrence Preeman and his son were stacking upon his
farm two miles south of Bath, they were alarmed by a series of
heavy explosions. On looking up they saw a meteoric stone flying
through the air followed by a cloud of smoke. Its course was
easily traced to the point where it fell within about twenty rods
from where they were standing. The stone penetrated the
hardened prairie to a depth of about sixteen inches, and when
reached it was found to be so warm that gloves had to be used in
handling it. Three small pieces of an ounce or two each had
apparently been blown off by the explosions, but the stone still
weighed 46| lb. One of these small pieces was found by some
men not far distant, and was broken up and distributed among
them. The explosions were plainly heard by a large number of
people at Bath, two miles away, and at Aberdeen, nine miles away,
it sounded like distant cannonading. The exterior of the stone
presents the usual smooth black crust. , The interior is quite close-
grained, resembling in texture the stones from Moes. The iron is
abundantly disseminated through themass ; and although the grains
are small, they are easily distinguished and separated on pulverizing;
   Preliminary tests made by Mr. Amos P. Brown, of the Minera-
logical Department of the University of Pennsylvania, prove the
presence of nickel and cobalt in considerable quantity.—Sittiman's
Journal, January 1893.                      •     '

          THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                 MAGAZINE
             JOUKNAL                  OF     SCIENCE.
A JOUKNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTEY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
        on hand, wanting some plates—price on application.
   The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.    Price £2 4s.
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.       „ .£6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.       „ £25.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
THE ANNALS AND                                   MAGAZINE
                                       OP
        NATURAL                           HISTORY,
                                   INCLUDING
              ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                         MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
    Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at tbe foUowing
 prices:—
      The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.     Price £10.
      The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.      „ .£10.
      The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.       „ £12.
      The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.      „ £12.
          Taylor and Francis, Bed Lion Court, Fleet Street.

            CONTENTS of N° 213.—Fifth Series.
   XII. The Diffusion of Light.      By W. E. Sumpneb, D.Sc. . page
   XIII. Relation of Volta Electromotive Eorce to Pressure &c.
By Dr. G. Gobe, F.R.S
   XIV. On Eadiant Energy.        By B. Galitzine                            11
   XV. Some Experiments on the Diffusion of Substances in Solu
tion. By Spencer Umpeeville Pickebing, M.A., F.R.S                           12
   XVI. Contact-Action and the Conservation of Energy.            By Prof.
J. G. MacGmegoe, M.A., Sc.D                                                  1
   XVII. Experiments with High Frequency Electric Discharges.
By A. A. Campbell Swinton                                                    14
   XVIII. Notices respecting New Books:—Mr. J. E. Blake's
Annals of British Geology, 1891                                              14
   XIX. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
     Geological Society :—Prof. E. Hull's Outline of the Geo
       logical Features of Arabia Petrsea and Palestine ; Hev. A.
        Ibving on the Base of the Keuper Formation in Devon ;
        Mr. J. H. Cooke -on the Marls and Clays of the Maltese
        Islands ; Prof. T. G. Bonnet, on the Nufenen-Stock (Lepou-
        tine Alps), on some Schistose " Greenstones " and allied
        Hornblendic Schists from the Pennine Alps as illustrative
        of the Effects of Pressure-Metainorphism, and on a Secon
        dary Development of Biotite and of Hornblende in Crystal
        line Schists from the Binnenthal; Mr. J. H. Collins's
        Geological Notes on the Bridgewater District in Eastern
        Ontario                                                        146-15
   XX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     Visible Representation of the Equipotential Lines in Plates
        traversed by Currents ; explanation of Hall's Phenomenon,
        by E. Lommel                                                         la
     On the Action of Light upon Electrical Discharges in various
        Gases, by F. Breissig                                                ib.
     Notice of a Meteoric Stone seen to fall at Bath, South Dakota,
       byA.E.Foote                                                           1;
*** It ia requested that all Communications for this Work may be address
      post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, 1!
      Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

ol. 35.                    MARCH 1893.                                    No. 214.
                   Published the First Day of every Month.
                                       THE
            LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                   MAGAZINE,
                                       AND
             JOURNAL                   OF      SCIENCE.
    Being a Continuation of Tilloctis 'Philosophical Magazine '
      Nicholson s 'Journal,'' and Thomson s 'Annals of Philosophy. '
                                   CONDUCTED BY
       LORD KELVIN, LL.D. P.R.S. &c.
       GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                       AND
       WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                           FIFTH          SERIES.
                        N° 214.—MARCH 1893.
                            WITH TWO PLATES.
   Illustrative of Mr. Cael Baeus's Papers on the Fusion Constants o£
                                  Igneous liock.
                                 LONDON:
       HINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
          • ,nkin Marshall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co., Ld. ; Whittaker and Co.;
Sold by Oivay    » Q          ._T> anJ rJ,        Ediabllrgu . riinith and Son,
  and by A-            Figgis, and Co., Dublin —Putnam, iVevf 1'orK:—Veuve J.
  aiasgow :r"^" Z.and Asher and Co., Berlin.
  Boyyeau , Fa™s .
           Double Number.                Price Five Shillings.

Pp. xi, 361 ; Demy 870. With 2 Plates and 65 "Woodcuts.
  TELESCOPIC WORE FOR STARLIGHT EV
                                        BY
                  WILLIAM F. DENNING, F.R.A.S.
          (Formerly President of the Liverpool Astronomical Society.)
  This work is intended as a useful companion for amateur observers,
contains many facts and references likely to stimulate their interest i
sublime science of Astronomy.
   Chapters are given on the Invention of the Telescope, on Large and S
Telescopes, and copious notes on Telescopic work. Then follow descript
of the Sun, Moon, Planets, Comets, Meteors, Stars, and Nebulae. The metli
and requirements of modern observation are alluded to, and the information
been carefully brought up to date.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
       Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. 6d. ; Part III., 6s.
                PHYSICAL MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                        UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
                PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
          Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                       JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                  OP THE LATE
                  J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
           Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
    Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates,
                                   and Portrait.
   Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE,
                                 D.C.L., F.R.S.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              Demy 8vo, price Is.
                   THE OBSERVATORY,
               A MONTHLY REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY.
                                    Edited by
                  H. H. TURNER, M.A., B.Sc, Sec. R.A.S.,
                                       AND
                A. A. COMMON, LL.D., F.R.S., Treas. R.A.S.
        THE COMPANION TO THE OBSERVATORY FOR 1893.
                                   Price Is. 6d.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                   THE
        LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                  MAGAZINE
                                   AND
       JOURNAL                     OF         SCIENCE.
                          [FIFTH SERIES.]
                            MARCH 1893.
      XXI. On the Equilibrium of Vis Viva.—Part III.
                  By Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann*.
                   I think that a problem of such primary importance in
             molecular science ought to be scrutinized and examined on every
             side, so that as many persons as possible may be enabled to follow
             the demonstration.—Maxwell, Scientific Papers, ii. p. 713.
    § 1. On the Variables which reduce the expression for the
                     Vis Viva to a Sum of Squares.
MAXWELL! was the first to establish the formula for
          the distribution of vis viva among monatomic gas
molecules, which he regarded as perfectly hard spheres of
similar or dissimilar form (mass and radius). He also worked
out the case in which the molecules are considered as rigid
bodies with three different moments of inertia, and he found
that for such a gas the ratio of specific heats must be 1£.
Since, however, this ratio has the value 1*4 for the best
known simple gases, he concluded that the mechanical analogy
is at variance with known facts on this subject J. It is
remarkable that Maxwell, who was successful in presenting
the solution of the problem with such almost inconceivable
   * Communicated by the Author, from the Sitzungsberkhte der mathe-
matisch-physikalischen Classe der kdniglic.h-bayerischen Akademie der
 Wissenschaften (Munich), vol. xxii. part 3. Translated by James L.
Howard, D.Sc.
   t "Illustrations of the Dynamical Theory of Gases," Phil. Mag.
January and June 1860, Sci. Pap. i. p. 377.
   % Maxwell, Sci. Pap. i. p. 409.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.                         M

154               Prof. Ludwig Boltzinann on the
ease, both in the case of spheres anil of bodies which possess
no axis of rotation, did not then think of considering the allied
and almost similar case, namely that of the various perfectly
smooth and rigid solids of revolution which differ from the
spherical form. He would then have obtained exactly the
desired value 1*4 for the ratio of specific heats.
    The proof which Maxwell gave at that time for his law of
distribution of kinetic energy was afterwards shown by him
self to be insufficient ; and in a second paper* he gave an
exact proof that the distribution of vis viva found previously
was a possible one, i. e. that when once set up among the
molecules of the gas it would not be altered by their impact.
    This proof as well as Maxwell's law itself is capable of
considerable extension, and he pointed out its very close con
nexion with a far more general theorem which applies to any
system in which any forces operate t- In the attempt to
make this latter theorem still more general, however, Max
 well % committed an error in assuming that by choosing
 suitable coordinates the expression for the vis viva could
 always be made to contain only the squares of the momenta,
 this assumption being, as Lord Kelvin has shown §, in general
 incorrect. But the mistake may be easily corrected by a
 slight modification of Maxwell's conclusions. To demon
 strate this let us turn to Maxwell's paper just quoted above,
 and write with him (Sci. Pap. ii. p. 720) bu b2, b3. . .bn for
 generalized coordinates, and ah a2 . . . o„ as the corresponding
 momenta. We must then stop at Maxwell's equation (42)
 (/. c. p. 724), and so write for the vis viva
                     T=|[ll]a12+[12]a1«2....
     All Maxwell's conclusions as far as equation (29) inclusive
 are perfectly accurate. In order to correct the further con
 clusions we might write the following deduction in place of
 that of Maxwell, from that point onward. Let us suppose a
 to be a linear function of the momentum a, and thus write
                                  k-n
                                  t=l
 Then we can always choose the coefficients c so that (1) their
    * Phil. Mag. [4] vol. xxxv. (1868); Sci. Pap. ii. p. 26.
   t Boltzmann, Wiensr Sitzungsberichte, vols, lviii., lxiii., Ixvi., Ixxii ,
lxxiv., Ixxv.
    \ " On Boltzmann's Theorem on the Average Distribution of Energy,"
Camb. Phil. Trans..xii. part .3 (1878) ; Sci. Pap. ii. p. 713.
   § ' Nature,' 18th August, 1891.

                    Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                    155
determinant © is equal to unity, that is
                      ©=                       = 1,
and (2) the doubled kinetic energy takes the form
                          2T=2V,«i2.
                                  <=i
   In this investigation the coefficients c and /* are functions
of the generalized coordinates frj . . .!>„, but the a's cannot in
general be regarded as momenta which belong to any system
of generalized coordinates whatever. I will therefore call
them " momentoids " in order to prevent confusion.
   The angular velocities about the three principal axes of
inertia of a solid in the most general case of rotation furnish
an example.
   I shall denote by £            that portion of the whole vis viva
which belongs to the momentoid a,-. Since 8=1, we have
dah da2 . . . da„=dotv da2 . . . dan. Let us insert the variable T
in place of crx on the left and of ax on the right, then
           \ t/T da2 da3 . . . dan =        dT dct2 dx3 .
          dT
          dax                          </«!
Dividing by dT and observing that
                      dT        :     dT
                      da~ = h»
                                      dV^*1'
we obtain
              — da2 da3 . . . da„= —        d<x2 da3 . . dan.
    From Maxwell's equation (28) (/. c. p. 721) we find for
the number of systems whose generalized coordinates lie
between the limits bx and b\+dbi...bn and bn-\-dbn, and
whose momentoids lie between a2 and a2 + d«2 • • • «» and
an + dan (a, being determined from the equation of vis viva)
the value
                      ™dbl.. dbn da..2 . . .da
    If we now proceed with the integration exactly as Maxwell
does, we arrive at his equation (45) , which is thus perfectly
 correct.
    By calculating the probability that the vis viva i^„a„2
                                    M2

  156               Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the
 belonging to the momentoid a„ lies between the values kn and
 kn + dkn, we again arrive exactly at Maxwell's expression (51)
 (/. c. p. 725).
     The expressions (52) and (53) (/. c. p. 726) of Maxwell's
 paper thus represent the mean and maximum values of the
 vis viva belonging to any momentoid. Instead of the law of
  Maxwell that the mean vis viva has the same value for every
  coordinate, we now obtain the law that the mean value of the
  vis viva belonging to all momentoids is the same.
     Since the number of momentoids is always the same as that
  of the degrees of freedom, the law given by Maxwell at the
  commencement of his paper (L c. p. 716) still remains true,
  viz. that the mean kinetic energies of two given parts of the
  system are in the ratio of their respective degrees of freedom.
  The kinetic energy Tk of any portion whatever may therefore
  contain the products of different pk's} the terms pk being the
  momenta of the general coordinates of that portion. But Tk
  must not contain the product of a term pk and another mo
  mentum which is not included among the terms pk. As a
  special case, the law will apply without any modification to
  so-called polyatomic molecules of a gas, whose condition is
  expressible by generalized coordinates.
           BT .              '=" ^u,
     As 2 ^ is equal to 2 a?              in all cases, my proof of the
 second law* will still be correct, provided that by qh we un
 derstand, not the momenta belonging to the coordinates ph,
 but the momentoids.
     On the Special Cases suggested by Lord Kelvin as
                                Test-cases.
            § 2. Motion of a Material Point in a Plane.
     I believe that with these modifications Maxwell's proof of
 the laws enunciated in the previous paragraphs is a satisfactory
 one ; but in addition I have already given another proof from
 a quite different point of view f. I believe therefore that its
 truth as a law of analytical mechanics can hardly be called
 into question f. As 1 myself arrived at my theorem only
    * Borcbard-Kronecker's Journal, vol. c. p. 201 (1885).
    t " On the Equilibrium of Heat between Polyatomic Gas-molecules.
Part I. Motion of the Atoms in the Molecules," Wien. Sitz.-Ber. vol. iii.
9th March, 1871. " Some General Theorems on Equilibrium of Heat,"
ibid. 13th April, 1871. In the latter paper I first made use of generalized
coordinates.
   \ It is an entirely different question, whether such systems present a
sufficiently close analogy with hot bodies. This question cannot be
discussed here ; cf., however, Beibi. v. p. 403 (1881).

                       Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                      157
after a laborious consideration of many special cases*, I can
appreciate the value of continually testing general theorems
by means of special examples, and will therefore take up one
of the particular cases suggested as a test-case by Lord Kelvin,
namely the one he mentions last ; because it is the simplest,
and because I respect the sentence of De Morgan, quoted once
by Prof. Tait, to the effect that "formulae, if too long, are
often not read."
    Let a material point of unit mass move in the plane of x,y.
Let x, y be its coordinates, q its velocity, u,v the components
of the velocity in the directions of the axes of coordinates,
and 6 the angle which the direction of motion makes with
the positive direction of the axis of abscissae, the angle being
counted from 0 to 2tt. Suppose the potential V to be any
function of the coordinates. We assume that the motion
neither becomes infinite nor asymptotically approaches a fixed
limit ; and that all possible sets of values of x, y, and 6 which
are consistent with the equation of vis viva are obtained with
any required degree of approximation, provided the motion
continues for a sufficiently long time T.
    Let us take a ^-coordinate perpendicular to the plane of
x, y, and define any condition of the moving point by marking
off as ^-coordinate over the point where it happens to be, the
angle 6 which its velocity makes with the positive direction of
abscissae. We shall call the point of space with the coordi
nates x, y, 6 the point which characterizes the condition of
the moving body, or briefly the instantaneous condition-point.
    We can then define our assumption thus :—In the course
of an interval of time T the condition-point occupies all
positions in a finite cylinder (the condition-cylinder) which
has a height 2tt in the direction of the axis of z. The
condition-point passes suddenly from the base to the summit
of this cylinder, and vice versa ; with this exception its motion
is continuous.
    Suppose the moving point to be at the point x, y at any
time t, and let its velocity make an angle 6 with the axis of
abscissae and have the components u, v. The condition-point
at time t will then be a point A of space with coordinates
x,y,d.
    After the lapse of a very short time St, that is at time t + St,
let the moving point be at x',y'. Let#' be the angle between
the direction of motion and the axis of abscissae, and u', v' the
   * " On the Equilibrium of Vis Viva," Wien. Sitz.-Ber. vol. lviii. 8th
October 1868.—" Solution of a Mechanical Problem," ibid. 17th December,
1868.—" Some General Theorems on Equilibrium of Heat " (end of part 2 )
(I. c).—" Remarks on some Problems in the Mechanical Theory of Heat,"
 Wien. Sitz.-Ber. vol. lxxv. 11th January, 1877 (end of part 3).

158              Prof. Ludwiff Boltzmann on the
components of the velocity resolved along the coordinate
axes.
   Wo may denote the position of the condition-point at time
t + St by A'. A' will be called the point corresponding to A.
If we consider St as constant, every point within the condition-
cylinder will possess its corresponding point. Always, when
at any time the condition-point has occupied any point of
space, it will, after a time St has elapsed, pass to the corre
sponding point ; and vice versa, the moving body can never
reach the corresponding point except by having passed
through the point to which it corresponds at a time St
previously.
   We have then
          x' = x + gcos0 .St, y'=y + gsin0 .St, I
           u' = u + f . St, v' = v + r] . St,      >
in which ?= — - —, t) = — =— are the components of the force
                  dx           _ oy
acting on the moving particle, and are therefore functions of
x and y. Further,
                           a, = arctg »'
                           f/'
which gives, on substituting the above values,
                                              St
                   6'=:e+(v.cose-isme)~.            ...      (2)
   Now let us construct an infinitely small rectangular
parallelopiped dxdydO, of which one edge is situated at the
point A. Let the fraction of the whole time T during which
the condition-point lies within the parallelopiped be dt. This
is the time during which the three variables x, y, 0 will be
included between the values x and x + dx, y and y + dy, and
0 and 0 + d0. We may then write in all cases
                     dt = f(x, y,0)dxdyd0                    (3)
   Now construct at each point of the parallelopiped dxdyd0
the corresponding point, and hence obtain the parallelopiped
dx' dy' d&. That traction of the time T during which the
condition-point lies within dx' dy' d0' is, according to equa
tion (3),
                    dt'=f(x',y',0')dx'dy'd0'.
   Since, however, according to our definition of the condition-
point, every time it enters the parallelopiped dxdyd0 it must
after an interval St enter da/dy'dff, and since the interval

                      Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                 159
between the exits from the two parallelopipeds is also exactly
ht, it follows that the condition-point must enter both paral
lelopipeds the same number of times and must remain for the
same time in each. This gives dt' = dt, or
           f{x', y', 8') dx' dy' d8'=f(x, y, 6) dx dy d0.
But we have
                            B_£' Bj^ B^
                                 By' B*
          dx'dy' d8'= K B/ M . dx dy dd.
                            B* dy' B0
                                 B^ B0'
                            B# By' 30
    As St is constant, and q2 = const. — 2V, equations (1) and
 (2) give
            -=r— = 1 + £ COS 0 .     _ — 1 + v sin 5 . —j
            3?                   q   dy                9
                    H=l-(fcos0 + 7,sin *)^-
    If we neglect the terms of order St2, the functional deter
minant reduces to
                         Btf' V BJP ,
                          Bar ' dy ' Bf    '
and consequently
                       dx'dy' ddr=dxdyd8,
from which also /(#', .y',       =/(#, y,      As we can pass from
the parallelopiped dx dy dd to its corresponding one, and from
this latter to its corresponding one, and so on, it follows that
f(x, y, 8) is always constant, and therefore that dt=Cdx dy dd.
This result agrees perfectly with that found in my paper pre
viously quoted, on the " Solution of a Mechanical Problem."
    Lord Kelvin denotes by N dd dr the number of times during
the interval T that the moving particle traverses an element
of surface, whose length in the direction of motion is ds and
whose breadth perpendicular to this direction is dr, in such a
 manner that 8 lies between the values 8 and 8+d8. As the
moving point always remains for a time ds/q in the element
 of surface, the fraction of T during which the moving point
is situated in drds and has at the same time a direction of
motion between 8 and 8 + d8, is
                           N
                           -drdsdd.
                            1

160               Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the
But we have just seen that this time is
                            Cdrdsdd,
from which it follows that ~N=Cq. N is therefore quite
independent of the angle 0, and not only Lord Kelvin's
coefficient A1? but also A2 and all the coefficients following
vanish.
   I can hardly doubt that Lord Kelvin will be satisfied with
this result of his test-case.
       § 3. On the Distribution of Kinetic Energy among
                           Kelvin's Doublets.
   The other cases suggested by Lord Kelvin relate to a
theorem which is closely connected with the problem just
considered, but not by any means identical with it, nor even
a special case of it ; namely, the question of the equilibrium
of heat in the case of polyatomic gaseous molecules. It can
easily be shown that in this problem there exists one particular
distribution of vis viva which is not altered either by internal
motion of the molecules or by impacts.
   Let jOj, ps, . . . pn be the generalized coordinates by which
the positions of all constituents of a molecule are determined
relatively to its centre of mass, the rotation of the molecule
being included. Let qu q2, • ¦ ¦ qn be the corresponding mo
menta, T the total vis viva of the molecule, V the potential-
function of its internal forces, u, v, w the components of the
velocity of its centre of mass, and finally A and k constants ;
then the distribution of vis viva referred to is that in which
the number of molecules per unit volume, for values of the
variables w, v, u; pu p2, . ...pn, git q3, . . . qn between the limits
m, and Ui + dtii, . . . qn and q„ + dq„, is equal to
                         Ae-«(v+T) du... dqn.
If there are several kinds of molecules present the constant k,
but not A, must have the same value for each.
   The verification of this result in the special case imagined
by Lord Kelvin is so simple that I shall not consider it here.
But the other proof, that the distribution of kinetic energy
given by the above formula is the only possible one, can onlv
be established indirectly by the assumption that a certain
particular function must, if altered, be necessarily increased by
collisions. As this function is very closely connected on the
one hand with the quantity designated by Clausius as entropy*,
and on the other hand with the probability of occurrence of
        * Wien. Sitz.-Ber. Bd. lxxvi. (1877), Bd. lxxviii. (1878).

                     Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                  161
the state referred to, the second law of thermodynamics
appears from it to be purely a law of probability.
    It appears to me to be a matter of interest (vide Motto) to
examine this latter proof for the case of the molecule provided
with elastic springs as imagined by Lord Kelvin, and which,
following his example, we shall call a "doublet." By a
doublet let us understand the combination of two material
points with masses m and m" , which attract each other with
ft force proportional to their distance apart, m" (the nucleus)
is never acted upon by any other force. The masses m (shells)
of any ' two doublets impinge on each other like elastic
spheres whenever they come within a distance D" of each
other. Besides these, suppose simple atoms of mass m! to be
present, which collide with each other if they approach nearer
than distance D', and with the shells if they come within dis
tance D from them. We shall always write, for the sake of
brevity, " shell " instead of centre of the shell, and " nucleus "
instead of centre of the nucleus. Let x, y, z be the coordi
nates of the nucleus of a doublet referred to a system of rect
angular coordinates the origin of which is at the centre of the
shell and the axes of which have fixed directions ; let n", v", w"
be the absolute components of the velocity of the nucleus, and
It, V, W the same components taken relatively to the shell ;
let g, h, k be the components of the velocity of the centre of
 gravity of the doublet, u, v, w those of the shell, and u1} vx, wx
those of a single atom. Finally, suppose %(#, y, z, it, V, W,
y, h, k) dx . . .dk to be the number of doublets per unit of
 volume for values of the variables x . . . k at the time t lying
 between the limits x and x + dx...k and k + dk, and let
/(«!, v1} Wj) dux dvi dwx be the number of single atoms in unit
 of volume whose velocity-components U\f fj, u>i lie between
 the limits
        «! and    + dui,  i\ and i\ + di\,   u\ and    + dwx.
Then the expression the value of which can only be dimi
nished by impacts, and which for brevity we call the entropy,
is
            E = jxloS Xdx • • ¦ dk+^flogfdui dvi dw},
 in which the integration extends over all possible values of
 the variables. The first term of the expression E can be
 obtained in the following manner. We write down the value
 of log x f°r every doublet contained in the unit of volume ;
 t. e. we insert in log % for all the variables those values which
 it takes for the doublet under consideration. Then we add
 together all the values of log^ so obtained. In order to

1(52              Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the
express this symbolically we may denote the sum by % log
In a similar manner the second term gives us 2 log/, the
summation being extended to all the single atoms in a unit of
volume.
   In order to prove that E can only diminish, let us first find
the change produced in the value of % log x simply by the
relative motion of nucleus and shell in the doublets, assuming
no collisions to take place. In this case </, h, and k would
obviously remain constant. On the other hand, we should
have at any time t,
               « = Asin(a< + B), u = Aacos (at + B),
and at time t = 0,
                     #0=AsinB, Mo=AacosB.
If we consider all doublets for which A and B are included
within specified infinitely close limits, then
                     dxdu = dx0dnQ=AadAdB ; .... (4)
and similarly for the y- and c-axes,
                  dydv = dyadv0, dzd)V = dz0dW0 . .            ,  (5)
It can easily be shown that the equation
            da; dy dz dll dv dW = dxa dy0 dz0 dUo dv0 dw0
also holds good if the nucleus and shell have any other central
motion whatever. ( Cf. my investigation of the equilibrium
of heat in the case of polyatomic gaseous molecules, previously
referred to.) If no collisions were to take place the doublets,
whose variables at time t = 0 lay between the limits x0 and
x0 + dx0 . . . k0 and k0 + dk0, would have their variables at time t
between the limits x and x + dx                k and k + dk. Let us
therefore consider for a moment the variable t as explicitly
expressed in the function            in order not to exclude the pos
sibility of a variation of ^ with time. We have then as the
number of the former doublets,
            X(x0 . . W0, ff, h, k, 0)dx0 . . dk=Xo dx0 . . dk
and of the latter
                     X(x . .k,t)dx . . dk=xdx . . dk.
Hence we have
                        Xod^o • • dk=xdx . . dk,
and from (4) and (5)
                                   Xo=X>
from which it follows that
                  Xo log Xo, dx0 . . dk = x log x dx ¦ •

                      Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                     163
The integration of this last equation over all possible values
of the variables involved in it shows us at once that the
quantity 2 log % suffers no alteration by internal motion of
the doublets, and the same will be true, of course, for any
central motion. All that now remains is to determine the
effect of the collisions.
    Let us now introduce instead of tt, tJ, \v, g, h, lc, the absolute
velocities v, v, tr, u", v", w'1. Since
              (m + m")g=mu + m"u", it = ?t" — u ,
it follows that
                             dgdu =dudu".
    If we write for the number of doublets in unit volume,
whose variables x, y, z, u", v", w", u, v, w, lie between the limits
x and x + dm . . . w and w + dw, the value F (x, y, z, u" v", w",
u, v, w) dx . . . dw, where
            „       f         „       mu + m"u"         ~\
            F=X(WX'-"--- m + m                          >
then
              Z logx=jF log F dx . . . dw=% log F,
in which the summation again extends to all the doublets
 contained in the unit of volume. Now denote by                  log F
 the increase in S log F produced during time St by the impact
 of doublets on each other, by S2S log/ the increase in 2 log/
 during the same time, produced by the impact of single atoms
 on each other, and by 812(S log F + 2 log/) the corresponding
 increase of the quantity in brackets, produced by the impact
 of doublets and single molecules.
    To calculate 812(2 log F + Slog/) we must sort out, from
 all the impacts between a shell and a single atom in unit
 volume during time St, those collisions for which the velocity-
 components of the shell at the moment of the collision (and
 likewise before) lie between the limits u and u + du, v and
 v + dv, ro and iv + dw, the velocity-components of the nucleus
 being between u" and u" + du", v" and -d' + dv", id" and w" + dw",
 the coordinates of the nucleus relatively to the shell being
 between x and x + dx, y and y + dy, z and z + dz; further, the
 velocity-components of the common centre of gravity of the
 shell and the single atom are to lie between p and p + dp, q
 and q + dq, r and r + dr, and the direction of the line of centres
 of the impinging atoms at the moment of impact are to lie
 within an infinitely narrow cone placed in a definiie direction
 in space and having an infinitely small angle d\. The velocity-
 components of the single atom at the instant when the impact

164             Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the
begins are then
       m + m'     m             tn + tn'     m
  Mi =     1—P      i"i    vL=       -.— a     ,v,
                                           m + m!     in
                                     wl=        T r      ,w. .  (b)
                                             m        m
    For the number of impacts which take place in unit volume
during time St, under the conditions specified above, we find
without difficulty the value
        dn=D2 . ~F(x, y, z, u", v", w", u, v, w)/(«„ »i, Wi)
            x Yedx . . . die" du dv die dux dv± dwx dX St.
    In this expression V is the relative velocity of the two
atoms at the moment of collision, and e the cosine of the acute
angle between the Hue of motion and the line of centres.
If we introduce instead of uu vu iPj the variables p, q, r, from
equation (6) we find
  dn = D2F/i ^^Ve dx... due" da dv dw dp dq dr d\ 8t,
in which the suffix 1 denotes that the values of the variables
as given in equations (6) are to be substituted in the function.
    In each of the impacts just specified a shell loses velocity-
components u, v, to, and hence in all the dn impacts 2 log F
will be diminished by dn log F.
    After each of the impacts considered let the velocity-
components of the shell be between u' and u' + du', i/and v + dv1,
uf and w' + rfw/. In order that shells may be formed with
these new velocities 2 log F must be increased by dn log F',
where the affix denotes that the variables x . . . to", u', v, id1
 are to be substituted in the function F. We assume that the
collisions are instantaneous, in which case the variables x . .. w"
 are unaltered by the impacts. The total increase of S log F
 by reason of the impacts considered is, therefore,
                         dn(logF'-logF).
 In like manner we find that Slog/ receives an increase
                          dn (log//- log/0
 during time Zt from the same impacts, the affix and suffix
 meaning that the following values of the velocity-components
 of the impinging single atom after impact are to be substi
 tuted in the function /.

                         Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                       165
   , m + m!           m ,         . m + m,1         m
«i = mlr P       r    m!1 M >   vi = m!r~ '/'       m!ivi
                                            . m + m!           m
                                         W\ =        ;— x        -.w. .  (7)
                                                   ml          ml
The total increase of Slog F + 2 log/ by all impacts of the
type specified is, therefore, tfn(log F'+ \ogf\— logF — log/j).
From this we shall obtain the total increase previously
designated by Bi , (2 log F + 2 log/) if we integrate over all
values of the variables whose differentials are contained in dn *.
    This integration may be performed by means of a special
device. In conjunction with the above terms which are
furnished by the " specified " impacts, let us take the terms
furnished by the " opposite " impacts, and thus divide the
whole of the collisions into pairs.
    We shall consider an impact to be " opposite " to any
'' specified " one when the condition of the colliding atoms at
the end of either is exactly the same as their condition at the
commencement of the other one. The centres of the colliding
atoms must, however, be interchanged of course, since they
approach each other before impact. The remaining variables
x . . . ic'1 will be included between the same limits for both
impacts. In the accompanying figures the largest circle repre
sents a shell, the smallest a nucleus, and the intermediate one
a single atom; the arrows drawn through their centres represent
   * If we assume that the second of the impinging atoms is not a single
atom, but a shell, we arrive by exactly analogous reasoning at a similar
equation
               28^ log F=p» (log F +log F,'-log F -log F,),
in which
                   F, =F(#1, yu zlt «/',      to,", h„ vu w,).
                   Fi'«F(*lf y„ a„ «,", »,",        «,', »,', wj.
    »„ w„ and        Vi, wt' are the velocity-components of the second shell
before and after the impact, and must be expressed by equations of
similar form to (6) and (7). .r,, yv zv m,", », , to," are the remaining
quantities by which the position of the second doublet at the moment of
the impact is determined. Finally,
        dn=~D"2FFl\tdz . . . dw" du dv dw dxx. .. dw" dp dq dr d\ St.
   By similar processes of reasoning we should find
                2822 log/=jrfn (log/'+log/Z-log/- log/,)
and                   dn=T)r2ff^!t du dv dw dpdqdrdX it.
The meanings of the quantities in these equations will be clear without
further explanation.

166              Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the
the velocities. Figs. 1 and 2 show the configurations before
and after an impact respectively, while figs. 3 and 4 give the
                   Fig. 1.                      Fig. 2.
configurations before and after the corresponding " opposite "
impact respectively. Arrows numbered alike have always
equal lengths and make the same angle with the line of centres.
   For all collisions which are " opposite " to those previously
considered, the velocity-components of the impinging shell at
the commencement of the impact lie between the limits
          u' and u' + du', v' and v1 + dv1, w' and ?(/ + dw'
and at the end of the impact they lie between
            u and it + du, v and v + dv, w and to 4 die.
   The same holds good for the impinging single atom in
which the motion of the centre of gravity, the magnitude of
the relative velocity and its inclination to the line of centres
have the same values for the opposite impact as for that
originally considered. In each opposite impact a shell loses
velocity-components ti, v', w', and a single atom loses
Uif Vi, Wii on the other hand, a shell gains u, v, w, and a
single atom uu vu W\. If dn' is the number of collisions per-
unit volume in time Bt which are opposite to those previously
considered, the term 2 log F + £ log/ is increased by them to
the extent of
                dn' (log F + log^ -log F'-log//).
The total increase in the value of this expression due to the
specified and opposite impacts together is
            (log F + log/i - log F' - \ogft)(dn - dn') .
   If we integrate this expression for all values of the variables
whose differentials are contained in da and du', we obtain

                     Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                   167
2812(2 log F + 2 log/ ), because we count every impact twice ;
once as a " specified," and the second time as an " opposite,"
impact. As V, e, and dX are not changed by the impact, we
have
 dn' = D?F// (m^(r')3 Veda:... dw" du' dv> dw1 dp dq drdXSt.
    It can easily be shown (most simply by a geometrical
proof) that du dv' dw' = dudvdw, and hence
812(2 log F + 2 log/) = |J (log P + log// - log F -log/,)
x (F/i - F//) (w^')3 YeWdu dv dw dp dq dr dx...dtc" SX. (8)
    Similarly it can be shown that
8,2 log F= 25<j(log F + log F.'-log F-log F^FF, - FT,')
             X Ve jyi2dx . . . dw" dxl . . . dw" dudvdw dp dq dr dX,
 B, 2 log/= 2&f(log/ + log//- logZ-log/,) (//, -ff<)
                  xVeD'2 dudvdw dp dqdrdX, .... ((J)
 in which the variables are the same as in the footnote on
 page 165.
    We shall confine our attention to the consideration of the
 stationary condition, in which F and / are at all times the
 same functions of the variables contained in them. In this
 case no causes except those already considered can effect
 changes in 21ogF and 2 log/; and the total change in E
 during the time St is therefore
        8E = 8, 2(2 log F + 2 log/) + Sx2 log F + 82 2 log/.
    Since everything (and therefore E) remains unaltered, 8E
 must be zero. But in the integrals of equations (8) and (9)
 the two factors in brackets have necessarily opposite signs,
 while the remaining quantities are essentially positive. The
 expression to be integrated is therefore necessarily negative,
 and the sum of the integrals of which SE is composed can
 only vanish if at each impact
             F//=F/„ F'F/=FF„ /'//=#,- • . . (10)
    Let us now consider the most simple case, namely, that in
 which the shells always pass each other without impinging,
 and similarly with the single atoms ; but between a shell and
 a single atom let there be always an impact if they approach
 within distance D of each other. We have then only the
 first of the equations (10), but it holds good for every possible

168                Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the
impact.     If we put the velocity of a single atom
                               Vmi2 + V + to?
equal to cu then/, is clearly a function of cu but F may be
expressed as a function of the following six variables: — (1) the
two velocities o and c" of shell and nucleus, (2) their distance
apart p (measured from centre to centre), (3) the angles at and
a" which the directions of c and c" make with the line p, the
latter being supposed drawn from shell to nucleus, and (4) the
angle yS between the plane containing p and c and that con
taining p and c".
   Now imagine a collision to take place, and denote the
values of these variables at the moment immediately before
the impact by letters without an affix, their values just after
the impact being distinguished by the affix. We can so
choose the direction of the line of centres at the moment of
impact and the direction of cu that c, a, and /3 take any re
quired values c', «', and /3', provided these latter furnish a real
value c{ of the variable cx after impact. This value will be
determined by the equation of vis viva
                         nlci* + me12 = m'cj2 + mc2.
The values of the variables c", p, and a" will not be altered
by the impact. The first of the equations (10) can therefore
be written in the form
 F(c",     P, c, cc, 0) ./i (Cl) = i\o", «", P, j, py.
This equation must be satisfied by all possible values of the
variables c", a", p, c, at, 0, d, a', /3', and cx ; from which it
follows easily that
                    fx (cj) = Ax e-™'"!2, F = Ae-"mc>1.
 in which Aj and h are simple constants, while A may contain
 the variables c", p, and «".
    It is therefore evident that the mean kinetic energies of a
 shell and a single atom are equal, and that Maxwell's law of
 distribution of velocities between shells and single atoms is
 satisfied, without assuming the existence of impacts of shells on
 each other, or of single atoms on each other. These assumptions
 do not alter the distribution of vis viva in the slightest degree,
 however, because the values of f-y and F found above satisfy
 identically the other relations demanded by the equations (10).
 On the other hand, the condition that the nuclei should never
 come into collisions of any kind does not prevent the law from

                      Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                       169
applying even to them ; but the proof of this is much more
difficult. For, if such collisions existed, it would follow that
F would depend upon c" in exactly the same manner as it
depends upon c, and there we should be forced to stop. In
this case we must consider more closely the internal motion
of the doublet.
   We can next prove without difficulty that in the distribu
tion of velocities just found the values of c, a, ft are altered
on the average in exactly the same manner and degree by
each impact as by its opposite one, for every set of values of
c", p", and a". If, then, certain forms of central motion are
suddenly destroyed by a collision, the same forms are pro
duced again elsewhere equally often by other collisions, and
consequently the same law of distribution of central motions
would exist even if all impacts were suddenly to cease.
   It is remarkable that just for the simple case imagined by
Lord Kelvin, in which the central force is taken proportional
to p, the calculation is exceedingly long. In order not entirely
to forget the sentence of De Morgan, previously quoted, I will
assume some other law, e. g. ap +               , or, indeed, any one in
which the angle between two consecutive apsidal lines bears no
rational proportion to 7r.
   The total energy of a doublet is
                      L=^+^+<Mp)j                        ....
where $ is the potential-function. The doubled velocity of
the relative motion of shell and nucleus in the plane of their
central motion is
      K=p Vc2sin2« + c"2sina«" — 2cc"sin « sin a" cos /3, . (12)
and the velocity of the centre of gravity of the doublet mul
tiplied by m + m" is
G= Vm2c2 + m"V 2 + 2mm"cc"(cos«cos «" + sin «sin*"cos/3) (13)
and its component perpendicularly to the plane of central
motion is
       g_                   cd' sin a. sin a." sin ft
             \/c2 sin2 a + c"2 sin2 a" — 2cc" sin a sin a" cos ft
   The number of doublets in unit of volume for which
K, L, G, H lie between the limits
K and K + dK, L and L + dL, G and G + dQ, H and H + dH,
   PUL Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.                  N

170             Prof. Ludwig Boltzmann on the
may be written
                 0>(K, L, G, H) dK dL dG dR.
    The number of these doublets for which p lies between p
and p + dp is
     D.tfKtfLtfGdH.^- {PodP^dKdLdG.dR%
in which <r=~ . and fP               is the time which elapses from
                dt '              a
a peri-centre to an apo-centre ; this latter is, therefore, a given
functionofK,L,G,H; and^ = $ / f — is likewise a function
 of these four variables. Let us limit our attention to those
doublets for which (1) the last apsidal line of the central
orbit makes an angle lying between e and e + de with a straight
line drawn in the plane of the orbit parallel to a fixed plane;
 (2) two planes, one normal to the central orbit and including
the direction of motion of the centre of gravity, and the other
parallel to a fixed straight line T, make angles between m and
co + dm with each other; and (3) the direction of motion of the
centre of gravity lies within a cone of given direction of axis
and of infinitely small angle dX. We have then to multiply
by dedmd\/167r3, and the number of doublets in unit volume
which fulfil .these conditions is
              V .j^p^dKdLdGrdH.dpdeda>d\.                .   .  (15)
    If we denote by g and g + dg, h and h + dh, k and k + dk,
 the limits between which the velocity-components of the
 centre of gravity of the doublets must lie (the coordinate axes
 being rectangular and fixed), then
                          Q2dGd\=dgdhdk.
  Now keep g, h, and k constant, and place at the centre of the
  shell a system of rectangular coordinates whose £-axis is in
  the direction of G ; denote the coordinates and velocity-com
  ponents of the nucleus relatively to this system by xu y1} z1}
  Mt, vu wu respectively, and transform these six variables in
  K, L, H, p, e, co. We then introduce a second system of co
  ordinates, referred to which the coordinates and velocities of
  the shell are x2, y2, z2, u%} v3, w2, respectively. The s-axis of
  this second system is to be taken normal to the plane of the
  central motion, and its «-axis in the section of the plane of

                     Equilibrium of Vis Viva.                  171
central motion and the old /cy-plane. We have then
                              H=Gsin0,
90 — 6 being the angle between the two axes of z ; therefore,
since Q is constant,
                           dH = Gcos0d0.
   Finally, let us denote by co the angle between the two
a;-axes, seeing that it only differs from the angle previously so
designated by a quantity which we are at present regarding
as constant. In this case
            z2=&\ cos 0 sin co + y1 cos 0 cos co + z± sin 0,
            w2 — ux cos 0sin co + vx cos 0 cos co + wx sin 0,
and these two expressions must both vanish, inasmuch as the
xy plane is that of the central motion. By means of these
two equations we can introduce 0 and a> in place of zt and wu
when Wi y± xii and vx are constants, and we thus obtain
                 dztdw1 =                  ^^ddda.
Further
                    x2 = x-i cos co —yx sin co,
                    y2 sin 0 = sin co +yx cos co,
with similar equations for u2, v2) u, v. From these it follows
that
             y\u^r- A'it'i = sin 0 {y2u2 — x2v2) = K sin 0,
and, if 0 and co are contants,
           dx2 dy2 sin 0=dxt dyx ; dt/8 rft'2 sin 0 = dux dvu
 from which
       dx^dy^dz-^ dut dvx dw\ = K cos 0 dx2dy2 duz dv2 d0 da>.
    Now let us denote, as before, by a and t the component
 velocities of the relative motion of shell and nucleus in the
 direction of p and normal to this direction, respectively ;
 then for consiant values of x2 and y2,
                             da dr=du2dv2
            K=^L=L^+2(^)^ + T2)+^
                     dKdL = mm „ crp d<r dr.
                                m+m" r            '
 where hg is the energy of motion of the centre of gravity, and
                                    N2

172                On the Equilibrium of Vis Viva.
is now constant. Finally, let the angle between p and the
last apsidal line be yfr, then
                  x2=pcos (e + yfr), yt = p sin (e + yfr) ,
in which yfr is a function of p, K, and L ; both the latter are
now constant, and therefore
                               pdpde = dx2dy2.
    Collecting all these equations we find that
      dxxdv\dzx du\dvx dwx = 'm + m K ^ ^ ^ , ^w ^e .
          1        1 11              mm" tr
 and it will immediately be seen that, if coordinates and
 velocities without suffix or affix refer to any random set of
 fixed coordinate axes, we must have likewise
          dx dy dz du dv dw = w"*"m — dK dh dH. dp dm de.
                                    mm' <7
 Introducing this in equation (15) and remembering that for
 constant values of u, v, and w,
                                     to"3
                     dq dh dk= —;— du" dv" dw",
 we find              3           (m + m'r
             1      mm"*       f
            ., 3 t—;
         ,low    (m +—                 J dzdu dv dw du" dv" dw"
                          iKi.i7T\ dx dy
                       m")*K(r2
 for the number of doublets in unit of volume for which the
 variables x . . . w" lie between x and x + dx . . . w" and w" + dw."
 But we have previously found for this number the expression
                      F . dx dy dz du dv dw du" dx)' dw",
  and we then saw that F must be of the form Ae_ltmc5, in which
 A is a function of c", p, and a" only; It follows then, if we
 write
                           F = Be_II(mca+m"<,":!+2W,
  that B must be on the one hand a function of c", p, and a"
  only, and on the other hand a function of K, L, G, and H
  only. B must therefore be a function of these latter variables
  which is quite independent of c, a, and /3, and only a function
  of c" p, and a".
     If we put B=/(K, L, G, H), then this function must be
 independent of c, a, and           for all values of c" and «". Sub
  stitute for the variables K, L, G, H their values from 11, 12,
  13, and 14, and make c" = 0 at first. Then
            K=pcsina, Ii = tyn(? + <l>(p), Q = mc, H = 0.
            B=/Ocsin«, —- +<£0), mc, 0).

               The Fusion Constanta of Igneous Rock.                 173
As this expression is independent of c and a the function /
does not contain the quantity K, and it only involves L and
Gr in the form 2mL — G2. We can best express this by
writing the function with variable 2mL — G2, instead of
L, G, when it becomes B=/(2wL — G2,H). If we introduce
again into this expression the general values given in equations
11 to 14, we see that the two variables in the function are
quite independent of each other if c, «, /S are to have all
possible values. And since B is constant for all values of c, a,
and /3, it is so for all values of 2mL — G2 and H, and is
therefore absolutely constant. The distribution of vis viva is
therefore obtained.
XXII. The Fusion Constants of Igneous Rock.—Part II. The
     Contraction of Molten Igneous Rock* on Passing from
    Liquid to Solid. By Cakl Babus f.
                                [Plate V.]
                            Introductory.
 1. ~\/TATERIAL and Method.—The following volume-
            measurements were made for Mr. Clarence King, on
a typical sample of diabase which he furnished.
    The method of testing the volume-behaviour by allowing
the rock to expand in a vertical tube provided with an index
 was suggested to Mr. King by Lord Kelvin. I therefore pre
 ferred it to a method of my own f, in which the behaviour in
 question is to be determined by high-temperature air-volumetry,
 with the rock enclosed in a glazed platinum bulb-and-stem
arrangement. In place of the index or float I employed an
 electric micrometer, believing a probe of this kind to be more
 trustworthy (§ 13) . I may state here, that the fact that the con
 traction of the magma in passing from liquid to solid can
 actually be measured by the simple burette method was to me a
 great surprise. After many trials I found, however, that by
 allowing the furnace to cool so slowly that the platinum vessel
 remained rigid relatively to the charge, the contraction of
 the latter could be followed even into the solid state. As
 a consequence of slow cooling, moreover, the magma was
 probably undercooled, and I thus obtained the whole volume-
 difference liquid-solid at a given temperature. The data are
   * Cf. note in American Journal, xlii. p. 498 (1891).
   f Communicated by the Author.
    % Cf. Phil. Mag. July 1892, where thia method is tentatively employed
 to measure the expansion of white-hot porcelain.

174                 Mr. Carl Barns on the Fusion
sufficient to compute the corresponding contraction at other
temperatures.
    2. Literature.—The question has elicited voluminous dis
cussion ; but literary comments are superfluous here, since
Prof. F. Niess* , of Hohenheim, not long ago made a careful
survey of all that has been done on the subject. The reader
desiring specific information is referred to this interesting
pamphlet. " Es ist ein durch Contraste buntes Bild," says
 Prof. Niess (Zoe. eit. p. 36), " welches in der vorstehenden
 Citatenlese dem Leser zu entrollen war, und aus dem
 Wirrwarr entgegengesetzter Ansichten heben sich nur zwei
 Körper : Wismuth und Eisen, heraus, über welche man wohl
 mit absoluter Sicherheit die Acten als geschlossen bezeichnen
 kann, und zwar in dem Sinne, dass für sie die Ausdehnung
 im Momente der Verfestigung als zweifellos bewiesen gelten
 kann. Die übrigen Metalle stehen noch im Streit, und für sie
 gilt dasselbe was wir für die künstlichen Silicate zu fordern
 hatten           " Now iron, in virtue of the occurrence of
 recalescence (Gore, Barrett)^ is scarcely a fair substance to
 operate upon; and it heightens the confusion to find that
 Prof. Niess, after weighing all the evidence in hand, is
 obliged to conclude that rocks expand on solidifying.
    The present experiments show beyond question, I think,
 that at least for diabase this is not true. I find that this
 rock not only contracts between 3"5 and 4 per cent, on solidi
 fying, but that such solidification is sharply broken and only
 apparently continuous with temperature, and that the fusion-
 behaviour throughout is quite normal in character. Hence,
 with certain precautions which I shall adduce in the course
 of this paper (§ 21), the volume thermodynamic relations
 which I derived by acting on organic bodies may be applied
 to rock magmas.
     3. Effect of Fusion. Density.—The rock after fusion is
 changed to a compact black obsidian, and quite loses its
 characteristic structure. It was therefore important to examine
 the volume-relations of this change, preliminarily. This is
 done in Table I., where the dersities obtained with lumps of
 the rock (mass M) at the temperature t are given, A being
 the density before, A' after fusion.
    * " Ueber das Verhalten der Silicate etc.," Programm zur 70. Jahresfeier
 d. k. Würtemb. landw. Academie, Stuttgart, E. Koch, 1889. Cf. Niess u.
 Winkelmann, Wied. Ann. xiii. p. 43 (1881) ; xviii. p. 364 (1883).
                          i

                       Constants of Igneous Rock,                        175
     Table I.—Density of Diabase before and after Fusion.
            Before Fusion.                        After Fusion.
  Sample                   i          Sample                           A-A'
             M.       t.   1   A.                M.        t.     A'.
    No.                                 No.                             A
              g      °0.                                  °C.
       I.  22-8950   25      30161       »I.  699330      21    2-701£ 104
      II.  45-3654   21      30181      tn.   33-7659      19   2-7447 •090
    III.   547208    21      30136     tin.   29-9777      19   2-7045 103
                          1
     IV.   09-4940   21      30235
    The rock was fused both in clay and in platinum crucibles.
In the latter case the density of the known mass of metal had
been previously determined, and the glass was not removed
from the crucible. In the other case the clay was broken
away from the solid lump within, and its density then measured
directly. A few small bubbles were visible on the fresh
fracture of the glass, due, I presume, to the ejection of dis
solved gases on solidification. At some other time I will
make vacuum-measurements of the density of powders both
of the rock and the glass, but I do not believe the data of
Table I. will be seriously changed by such a test.
    From Table I. it appears that the mean density of the
original rock is 3"0178 ; that of the glass after fusion is only
2"717, indicating a volume increment of 10 per cent, as the
effect of fusion. This remarkable behaviour is not isolated.
Niess (I. c. p. 47), quoting from Zirkel's Lehrbuch, adduces
even more remarkable volume-increments of the same naturej ;
viz., in garnet 22 per cent., in vesuvianite 14 per cent., in
orthoclase 12 per cent., in augite 13 per cent., &c. : but I
doubt whether the great importance of these facts has been
sufficiently emphasized. Suffice it to indicate here that it
makes an enormous difference into what product the magma
is to be conceived as being solidified ; and that throughout
this paper the molten rock solidifies into a homogeneous
obsidian. I am only determining, therefore, those volume-
   * Fused in a clay crucible. Glass detached when cold,
   t Fused in a platinum crucible. Glass not detached.
   % Of. Thoulet, Ztschr, f. Kryst. u. Mineralogie, v. p. 407 (1881) ; Bull.
Soc. Min. de France, iii. p. 34 (1880).

176                  Mr. Carl Barus on the Fusion
changes which lie at the margin, as it were, of the more
profound and chemically significant volume-changes (poly
meric passage from homogeneity to organized rock-structure),
even though the latter may be conceived as producible by
pressure alone, under conditions of nearly constant (high)
temperature. I may add, in passing, that the magnitude of
the chemical changes of volume makes it advisable to carry
the work on the effect of pressure on the chemical equilibrium
of solids and of liquids, and on the solution behaviour solid-
liquid, into greater detail than I have thus far attempted*.
                               Apparatus.
    4. Temperature Measurement.—In work of the present kind
an apparatus for the accurate measurement of high tempera
tures is the fundamental consideration. I may, however,
 dismiss this subject here, since I discussed it in the intro
 ductory paper f.          The temperature-measurements of this
 paper were made with a thermocouple of platinum and pla
 tinum with 20 per cent, of iridium, which had been frequently
 compared with my re-entrant porcelain air-thermometer
 throughout an interval of 1100° C., and tested for freedom
 from anomalies beyond this interval.                   Inasmuch as the
 electric method consists in expressing thermoelectromotive
 force by aid of a zero method, in terms of a given Latimer-
 Clark standard cell, the temperature-apparatus is of the same
 order of constancy as to time as the standard cell.
     To find in how far my earlier data were trustworthy after
 the lapse of upwards four years, I made fresh check measure
 ments of the boiling-points of mercury and of zinc. The
 latter only need be instanced here. My original mean datum
 of the boiling-point of zinc, expressed as electromotive force
 for the couples under consideration, was (1887) %)= 11,074
 microvolts, the cold junction being at 20° 0. The new expe
 riments (1891) gave me data as follows :—
          Thermocouple      No.  35,     e20 =   11,168 (microvolts),
                 „          No.  36,        „    11,127
                 „          No.  39,        „    11,116
                 „          No.  40,        „    11,136
                          Mean       .   .   .   11,137         „
     * American Journal, xxxvii. p. 330 (1889) ; ibid, xxxviii. p. 408
  (1889) ; ibid. xl. p. 219 (1800) ; ibid. xli. p. 110 (1801) ; ibid. xlii. p. 46
 ,et seq. (1801). Also Phil. Mag. [5] xxxi. p. 0 (1801).
    t See this Magazine, July 1802, p. 1.

                     Constants of Igneous Bock.                         177
agreeing very closely with subsequent specially careful
measurements, viz.:—
        Thermocouple No. 36, ew = 11,131 (microvolts),
                          No. 39,        „ 11,134
The difference of values, new and old, is 60 microvolts, only
about i per cent, as regards electromotive force, and corre
sponding to about 4° at 1000°. In view of the excessive use
and abuse to which the couples had been put in the lapse of
time this result is gratifying.
    Endeavouring to ascertain where this discrepancy was to
be sought, I also made new comparisons between the Clark
 cell and a normal Daniell of my own (Bull. 54, U. S. Geolog.
 Survey, p. 100), in which the cells are separate, and only
joined during the time of use. Supposing the electromotive
force of the former to have been e= 1*435 throughout, the
 following succession of values obtained for the standard
 Daniell :—
               March          1886, 20° C, e= 1-138,
               August         1887, 28° C,            1-139,
                September 1891, 27° 0.,               1-147.
 If, therefore, instead of regarding the Clark cell as constant
 I had attributed* this virtue to the standard Daniell, the
 small thermoelectric discrepancy equivalent to 4° at 1000°
 would be altogether wiped out. Now I made the Clark cells
 in question as far back as 1883, when less .was known about
 details of construction than is now available. I conclude,
 therefore, that the discrepancy is very probably in the standard
 cells, and that the thermocouples have remained absolutely
 constant, a result which is borne out by my boiling-points of
 cadmium.
     Apart from this, the new standardization with boiling zinc
  fixes the scale relatively to the accepted value for this datum.
     5. General disposition of Apparatus.—This is given in
  Plate V. on a scale of 1 : 4, where figs. 1 and 3 are sectional
  elevations showing the parts chiefly with reference to their
  vertical height, and fig. 2 is a sectional plan, in which the
  parts are given with reference to the horizontal.
     The molten rock, Z Z, contained in a long cylindrical pla
  tinum tube, largely surrounded by a tube of fire-clay, F F, is
  fixed vertically in a tall cylindrical furnace, D D, L L. The
  heat is furnished by six burners, B, B, . . . , fed by gas and an
    * Our laboratory affords insufficient facilities for the direct measure
  ment of electromotive force.

 178               Mr. Carl Barns on the Fusion
 air-blast, laden, if need be, with oxygen. These burners are
 placed at equal intervals along the vertical, three on one side
 and three on the other (see fig. 2), and set like a force-couple,
 so as to surround the platinum tube with a whirlwind of flame.
 Suitable holes are cut in the walls of the furnace for the sym
metrical insertion of the insulated thermocouples, T, and also
at S for fixing the sight-tubes, A, near the top and the bottom
of the furnace. Parts of the envelope of the platinum tube
 are cut away, so that the upper and lower ends of the (red
 hot) platinum tube can be seen in the telescope of an external
 (screened) cathetometer. Thus the expansion of the platinum
 tube is measured directly. A vertical micrometer, TZ.kd
 (figs. 3 and 4), insulated so as to admit of electrical indica
 tions of contact, furnishes a means of tracing the apparent
 expansion of the rock Z Z, within the fusion-tube.
    In principle, the excessively slow cooling of the furnace is
 to be so conducted that the magma may always remain much
 less viscous than the practically rigid platinum envelope
 (§§ 1, 18).
    The furnace stands on a massive iron base perforated by
 eight holes, into which vertical iron uprights are screwed,
 symmetrically surrounding the furnace and at a distance of
 4 or 5 centim. from its circumference. Only one of these
is indicated at Q Q (fig. 3) , the rest with other subsidiary
 parts being omitted to avoid confusing the figure. Two of
 these uprights hold the vertical micrometer, two hold the
 burners in place, and two subserve as buffers for the clay
 arms, H, H, . . . by which the fusion-tube is adjusted verti
 cally. The sight-tubes are suitably clamped to the seventh
 and the insulators of the thermocouples to the eighth. All
 these uprights are hollow, and a swift current of water con
 tinually circulates through them, issuing still cold to the
 touch. The same current also flows through the bent screen,
 X X, of the vertical micrometer, and through the vertical flat
 screen of the cathetometer.
    6. The Furnace.—The burners, B, are each fed with the
 same amount of gas and air by properly branching the large
supply-tubes. A graduated stopcock is at hand for regulating
 the supply of gas to a nicety. Hence the furnace is fed with
a mixture of gas and air, and temperatures between 400° and
 1500° are obtained by simply making the influx poorer or
 richer in combustible gas. Oxygen has not thus far been
necessary*.
- * Burners suitable for the above purpose are shown in my little book
 on high temperatures (Leipzig, Barth, 1892),

                    Constants of Igneous Rock.                     179
    The products of combustion are carried off by the two
oblique tubes, E, E, in the lid L L (fig. 4). Note that the
water-screen bends around the vertical micrometer in such a
way that flames issuing from E do no injury, and a perforated
free plate, m m, closes the vertical hole in the lid L L.
    Two large size Fletcher-bellows, set like a duplex-pump
and actuated by a gas-engine, furnished the air-blast.
    In order to insure greater constancy of temperature, and
at the same time increase the high temperature efficiency of
the furnace, it is essential to jacket both the latter and the lid
heavily (1-2 centim.) with asbestos.
     7. Fusion-tube.—The platinum tube holding the molten
rock Z Z is 25 centim. long and about 1/5 centim. in dia
meter, drawn as accurately cylindrical as possible and provided
with a flat bottom. To protect this tube from gases, to keep
it from bulging in consequence of the fluid-rock pressure
within, and to insure greater constancy and slower changes
of temperature, the platinum tube is surrounded by the fire
clay tube F F (figs. 1 and 6) fitting loosely. Care must be
 taken to allow for shrinkage of the clay, which in a fresh
tube, after some hours' exposure to 1 500°, exceeds 3 per cent,
or more, and is permanent. After this the tube expands nor
mally. It rarely warps, and may therefore be fixed by fire
 clay arms, H (figs. 1, 2, and 7), suitably clamped on the
 outside of the furnace. Near the bottom a perforated ring,
 CC (figs. 1 and 5), embraces both the tube FF and a pro
jection, G, in the furnace.
    8. Thermocouples. —In addition to figs. 1 and 2, figs. 6 and
 8 give a full account of the adjustment. The tube F F is
 laterally perforated with three pairs of fine holes, t, corre
 sponding to the two canals of the insulator*, T T. The wires
 of the thermocouple are then threaded through t and the
 insulator canals, in such a way that the respective junctions
 lie in small cavities at t, immediately in contact with the out
 side of the platinum tube. Holes are left in FF and the
 furnace for this operation.
    The cold junctions of the thermocouples terminate in three
 pairs of mercury-troughs, insulated by hard rubber, and sub
 merged in a bath of petroleum. With these troughs the
terminals of the zero method are successively connected, and
the temperatures of the top, the middle, and the bottom of. the
fusion-tube measured by § 4.
   * The method of making these is given in Bull. No. 54, U. S. Geolog.
Survey, p. 95.

180               Mr. Carl Barus on the fusion
    9. Sight-tvhes.—Grunow's excellent cathetometer is placed
 on a pier, so that the prism of the instrument is only about
 50 centim. oft from the fusion-tube. A tall, hollow screen,
 30 centim. broad, 70 centim. long, and 1 centim. thick, fed
 with cold water, and movable on a slide, is interposed
 between furnace and cathetometer. Slots, cut through the
 screen and closed by plate glass, correspond to the two posi
 tions of the telescope ; and the lines of sight pass through
 S, S, near the top and the bottom of the furnace (see figs. 1
and 2). Thus the ends of the fusion-tube, one of which pro
jects above the clay tube F F, and the other is seen through
the perforation 0 in 0 C (figs. 1 and 5), appear as sharp
 lines in the telescope, against the red-hot background of
clay.
    It is necessary, however, to prevent the escape of flame and
gas at S, and hence these holes are provided with porcelain
tubes A (only one shown in the figure) about 15 centim. long,
the outer end of which is ground off square and closed with
a piece of plate glass b, by aid of a clamping device aa.
    10. Vertical Micrometer. — Figures 3 and 4 give a full
account of this instrument (also made by W. Grunow), both
of which are sectional elevations at right angles to each other.
The millimetre-screw plays easily through the massive block
of brass, P P, and the fixed lock-nut g g. P P is bolted down
to the rigid bridge of brass, N N, by means of screws, R B,
and the counterplate U U. The ends of N N are provided
with sleeves, p p, and a clamp-screw, M, whereby the whole
micrometer may be moved up or down or fixed in any posi
tion along the uprights, Q Q. To secure insulation of the
screw K k, B, B are surrounded by jackets n, n of hard rubber,
and plates,        q of this material are suitably interposed be
tween P P, N N, U U, and other parts.
   Sufficiently wide slots are cut in the bridge, N N (see
figures), whereby the plate may be shifted in any direction,
and then clamped in position.
   In view of the heat which rises from the furnace, an N-
shaped screen, X X, through which water rapidly circulates
(entering and leaving at diagonally opposite points, V and Y,
at the top), nearly envelopes the micrometer. The micro
meter-screw passes through a narrow tube in the bottom of
XX ; hence the screen must also be adjustable, and a way is
shown in the figure. Thus the micrometer and its water-
screen slide as a single piece, along the upright Q Q. Q and
Y are joined by a sufficient length of rubber hose, a connexion
merely indicated in the figure.

                    Constants of Igneous Rock.                     181
   Finally K k is prolonged by a straight cylindrical tube of
platinum d d, which may be fixed to the steel rod k by the
clamp e in any position along the vertical. The tube fits the
rod k singly, and a special steel rod is provided by which the
tube may be straightened, should it become warped.
    The lower end of d is clearly visible in the telescope of the
cathetometer, through the sight-tube A. On being screwed
down, d enters the fusion-tube axially, supposing both tubes
(d and Z Z) to have been properly fixed in position. In how
far such adjustment has been made, can be seen by tempo
rarily removing one of the efflux tubes, E (fig. 4), when the
parts concerned are visible to the eye.
    11. Telephonic Registration.—Since it is necessary to find
the depth of the meniscus of the molten rock Z Z below the
plane of the top of the fusion-tube, the moment of contact of
Z Z and d is registered electrically. Above, say, 500° C, rock
is a good conductor. Hence, if a current be passed into the
screw K k, through the clamp-screw / (fig. 3), it will issue at
the bottom at the clamp-screw c (fig. 1), provided c be electric
ally connected (platinum wires) with the bottom of the fusion-
tube, Z Z.
   A telephone actuated by Kohlrausch's small inductor is
more convenient for the present purpose than a galvanometer.
Contact is then indicated by a loud roar, and the observer's
attention is not further distracted. If the glass Z Z be sticky,
the drawing out of a thread corresponds to a more or less
gradual cessation of the noise, so that the character of the
fusion can be pretty well indicated in this way. Care shouid
be taken to insure a small sparking-distance.
    If the expansion of the rock be known, and the tube dd
be sunk deeply into the mass, it is clear that the present
method admits of a measurement of the relation of the electric
resistance of the glass and temperature. I mention this,
believing that not only will a suitable method of temperature
measurement be thus available, but that the volume diagrams,
constructed below, may also be derived solely from measure
 ments of electrolytic resistance *.
                   Method of Measurement.
    12. Consecutive Adjustments.—Thus far I have only studied
rock-contraction. For this purpose, the graduated faucet,
   * Cf. Am. Journ. Sci. xlii. pp. 134-35 (1891), where I have already
speculated on the character of electrolytic resistance referred to tem
 perature.

182              Mr. Carl Barus on tfte Fusion
§§5, 6, is turned on in full, and the furnace fired as far as
1400° or 1500°, when the measurements may be commenced.
The length of the fusion-tube is first accurately measured by
cathetometer observations at the bottom and the top. The
telescope is then left adjusted for the top, and the vertical
micrometer (centrally fixed) screwed down until the image of
its lowest point is in contact with the cross hairs. After this
the micrometer is further screwed down, until the telephone
indicates contact between the platinum micrometer-tube and
the meniscus of molten rock. The difference of readings
gives the depth of the latter below the top plane of the fusion-
tube. I usually repeated these measurements three times.
   Hereupon the temperature measurements were made by
connecting the terminals of the zero method with the lower,
the middle, and the upper thermocouple.
   Finally, the cathetometer and micrometer measurements
were again repeated in full. Uniform heating presupposed,
it was permissible to regard the two sets of length measure
ments as coincident with the intermediate temperature mea
surement.
   This done, I frequently waited 15 minutes or more, to
make another complete measurement, under better conditions
of constant temperature.
   The graduated stopcock was then partially closed by a
proper fractional amount, and after waiting a sufficiently long
time, the same series of measuring operations was gone over
again. Thus I continued until the glass became sticky and
solidification imminent, when longer waiting and more finely
graded changes of temperature were essential. Fortunately
the observer can infer the state of fusion very well, by noting
the time necessary for the glass threads drawn out by the
micrometer to break, § 11. Finally, the enamel on the end
of the micrometer-tube becomes solid and ceases to change
its form, simultaneously with which the marked contraction
of the molten mass in the fusion-tube begins.
   Having waited long enough for the lowest position of the
meniscus, temperature may be varied in larger steps again.
   When the furnace is dark, measurement is no longer pos
sible. I then allowed the whole arrangement to cool over
night, and next morning determined both the depth of the
solid meniscus and the leDgth of the cold tube. The former
was computed from bulk measurements (with water) as well
as measured micrometrically. These are the normal or
fiducial data to which all the other volumes were referred.

                    Constants of Igneous 'Rock.                183
    13. Computation.—Let the linear expansion of the platinum
fusion-tube be given by l = l0(l +/(<))> where I and Z0 are the
lengths at t degrees and at zero respectively. Let X and X^
be the depths of the meniscus below the plane of the top of
the fusion-tube, and v and v0 the volumes of the enclosed
molten magma at t and zero respectively. Then, if (1 +f(t) )3
is nearly enough 1+3/(0 ; if the expansion constants of the
fusion-tube and of the micrometer-tube be the same, and if
in consideration of the small motion of the latter and the
high temperature in the furnace, the air temperature outside
of it be nearly enough zero, since
                  ^0=(Z0-\)(l+/(0)3/(Zo-\o),
         {vt-va)lva = if{t) + {\0-\){\ + -df(t))l{k-\0).     .  (1)
 Here 3 f(t) is directly given at each observation, or may be
 computed by some smoothing process from the data as a
 whole.
    The equation, therefore, gives the actual expansion of the
 rock, in terms of unit of volume of solid rock at zero Centi
 grade. If this be multiplied by the initial specific volume,
 the absolute expansion is obtained. An inspection of (1)
 shows that in the factor X0— X, the micrometer value of the
 length X is to be inserted in both cases, supposing the contour
 of the meniscus to remain similar to itself ; whereas in l0 —Xq
 the value of X0 determined from bulk measurements of the space
  at the top of the cold tube is suitable, since the tube is
 flat-bottomed.
     I may add in passing that if 8H be the rise of a flat-bottomed
 cylindrical float of platinum, submerged to a depth /* in a
 column of magma of height A, then nearly
                (%-t>0)/t>o=3/(0+o-H/(A-/0                       (2)
 Since, therefore, the float shortens the efficient length of the
 fusion-tube and there is difficulty in determining A in this
 case, the above micrometric method is preferable quite aside
 from flotation errors due to viscosity and capillarity, to the
 easy welding of white hot platinum surfaces, to the tendency
  of gas bubbles to accumulate on the surface of the float, to
 the cessation of true flotation during the change from liquid
 to solid, &c.
  . 1A. Errors.—The change of temperature from top to
 bottom of the fusion-tube is measured. The change of tem
 perature from circumference to axis of the fusion-tube is nil

 184              Mr. Carl Barns on the Fusion
 in proportion as the furnace cools slowly. The latter con
 dition is met at least so long as glass is liquid, and data for
 the former are fully given below. To avoid strains of dilata
 tion it would be desirable to make the glass solidify from the
 bottom upward. This, however, my furnace as yet fails to do.
 Indeed, 1 have frequently noted lateral holes shaped like an
 inverted funnel and terminating in the otherwise smooth
 surface of the meniscus. This may indicate the occurrence
 of gas bubbles under the free surface or be a strain effect,
 § 3. The tendency of these nearly unavoidable difficulties is
 to make the solidification contraction too small ; and I have
 therefore not been disturbed by them.
    Only at very high temperatures (above 1500°) did I obtain
 apparent evidence of the viscosity of platinum relatively to
 the pressure of the column of 25 centim. of molten rock,
 whereas the combined system of platinum and clay tube with
 stood this pressure. There is also a slight deepening of the
 meniscus from day to day, and a similar decrease of the
 length of the platinum fusion-tube ; but, thus far, I have
 encountered no serious error due to the high temperature
 viscosity of the vessel, § 18.
   The assumption that the meniscus remains similar to itself
in form at all temperatures cannot be quite true. At white
heats, however, the glass wets platinum so thoroughly that
convex forms of meniscus need never be apprehended. It is
futile, however, to endeavour to make allowance for meniscus ;
but data for the difference between the (cold) bulk and micro-
metric measurements are given below. Although too much
reliance must not be placed on the behaviour of the solid
state, yet the values are redeemed from the character of mere
estimates by the close coincidence of the expansion of pla
tinum and its solid glass core. Strains imposed on both the
metal and the glass do not probably exceed the limits of
elasticity of either, §§ 17, 18. When cooling is conducted
slowly enough, the experiments show that the platinum tube
is not dragged along seriously by the solidifying magma ; and
the data thus retain a degree of trustworthiness greater than
was anticipated, even in the solid state. At the same time
dilatational strain is reduced to a minimum, and constancy of
temperature throughout efficient parts of the furnace is
promoted.
   One error much in my way thus far has been the allowance
to be made for the expansion of the platinum probe dd (fig. 3) .
It is not merely the amount by which the probe is lowered
that is subject to expansion, but a considerable length of the

                     Constants of Igneous Hock.              185
 metallic screw TZ/cdd passes from a lower to an indeterminable
 higher temperature. I hope, however, in the future to obtain
 an estimate for this discrepancy, by measuring a given amount
 of thrust through the sight-tube with the cathetometer, and
 comparing this value with the corresponding value to be read
 off on the vertical micrometer. Hollow screws and water
circulation would be exceedingly difficult to attach here.
                               Results.
    15. Arrangement of the Tables.—In the following tables I
and i'0 denote the length and radius of the (cold) fusion-tube,
and \0' the bulk value (water measurement) of the mean
depth of the meniscus, these measurements being made on the
day after the fusion experiments. The temperatures at the
bottom, the middle, and the top of the fusion-tube are given
 under 01} 6%, 0it respectively. For each value of mean tempera
ture 6, two data for the apparent expansion of the rock, for
 the volume-expansion of the fusion-tube, and for the actual
 volume-expansion, (vt — v0) /v0= 8vjv0, of the rock are given,
 and they were obtained before and after the intermediate
temperature measurement, respectively. Reference is thus
made to unit of volume of solid rock at zero Centigrade,
throughout. The data enclosed in parentheses show that for
them, the value applied for the expansion of the fusion-tube is
 obtained as a mean result of all the measurements made,
otherwise the value directly observed was directly applied.
 The chief constants are summarized at the end of each
table.
   16. Contraction of Diabase. Series I. and II.—The results
of these series, being of inferior accuracy and serving chiefly
to substantiate the remarks of § 14, may be omitted here.
They showed a liquid volume-expansion of 50/106per degree,
a solid expansion of 20/10" per degree, and a solidification
contraction of about 3 per cent, only, owing to the occurrence
of dilatational strain.
   17. Contraction ofDiabase. Series HI., Tables.—This work
was done on October 20, 1891, and the data are given in
Table II. Precautions for slow cooling were fully taken, and
the solidification point is therefore sharply apparent. The
results will be discussed in connexion with the next series.
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.            0

186                    Mr. Carl Barus on the Fusion
          Table II.—Contraction of Diabase.           Series III.
     ?0 = 25-466 centim., X0= 1*424 centim., ?-0=-75 centim.
 9,.            Apparent Volume-
 e.     Mean volume- expansion      £v/v0 .   Mean.   Time.      Remarks.
           e. expansion of the
                 of Bock.   tube.
 °c.      CG.      X 10'.   XlO'.   XlO'.            Minutes.                 1
1360 1380           452      358     810      •0811      0     Liquid.
1390                454     (356)    812     (•0809)
1403                                (808)
                                    (810)
1283     1300       437      340     777      •0778     23     Liquid.
1304                438     (334)    778     (0772)
1311                                (771)
                                    (772)
11(53    1166       406      297     703      •0704     53     Sticky.
1167                409     (300)    706     (0707)
1168                                (700)
                                    (709)
10<J7    1093       376      270     046      •0646     86     Very sticky.
1003                333     (281)    603                       To be drawn
1089                                (057)    (•0657)          out in threads.
                                    (014)                      Eventually
                                                                 solidifying.
1102 1095            14      273     288      •0287    111     Solid.
1095                 13     (282)    280     (•029G)
1088                                (296)
                                    (295)
  929     896         0o     211     211       0212    157     Solid.
  897                               (213)
 8G3
  461     408       -4        81      77      •0079    185     Solid.
  433                 0               81
  510
            20         0       0       0      •0000 Next day. Cold.
  f Eock, mean actual expansion, solid, 0°-1000°           . .   "0000250
 \ „           „        „      „     liquid, 1100°-1500° .       -0000470
  [ ,, contraction on solidification (1094°) . . .               -0;-i90
 {Eock, mean apparent expansion, solid, 0° 1000° . .             -0000007
                                         liquid, 1100o-lo00°     -0000205
 J Tube, mean volume-expansion below 1000° . . .                 -0000240
 \ „           „          „       „ above 1100° . . .            -00002G5
     18. Contraction of Diabase. Series TV. Tahles and Chart.—
The data of the last series of experiments (made on October
21, 1891) are given in Table III. Two complete sets of
results correspond to eacli step of temperature.

                          Constants of Igneous Rock.                         187
           Table III.—Contraction of Diabase. Series IV.
       lQ — 25-447 centim., V= 1*220 centim., r0=75 centim.
                   Apparent Volume-
   9V     Mean. volume- expansiou lv/v0.          Mean.
             e. expansion of the                   lv/v„.  Time.      Remarks.
   k               of Bock.     tube.
   °o.      °C.      XlO'.     XlO1.     XlO1.            Minutes.
  1374     1388       403       357       760      •0760      5     Liquid.
  1394                404      (356)      761     (0760)
  1395                                   (759)
                                         (760)
  1415     1421       407       362       768      ¦0770    20      Liquid.
  1431                409      (364)      771     (•0771)
  1417                                   (771)
                                         (773)
  1318     1319       394       341       734     (•0731)   50      Liquid.
  1324                387      (339)      727     (0730)
  1315                                   (733)
                                         (726)
  1304     1305       383       350       733       0736    65      Liquid.
  1303                390      (335)      740     (0721)
I 1304                                   (718)
                                         (725)     ¦0672
  1204     1190       357       316       673               90      Sticky.
  1189                355      (305)      671     (•0661)
  1176                                   (662)
                                         (660)
  1177 1163           355       299       655      •0652   105      Very sticky.
  1158                349      (299)      649     (•0652)           To be drawn
  1153                                   (655)                     out in threads.
                                         (649)
  1138     1112       339       286       625      •0628   128      Top en
  1109                344      (286)      630     (¦0628)              crusted.
  1090                                   (625)
                                         (630)
  1117     1092       200       275       475      •0475   151      Solidifying.
  1088                155      (280)      430     (•0480)
  1072                 91                 366
  1109     1092        33       282       315       0287   175      Solidifying.
  1031                  5      (280)      287     (-0285)
  1086
   946      914        13       213       226      •0223   198      Solid.
   903                  6                 220
   893
   900      855         3        199      202      •0202   210      Solid.
   827                  3                 202
   837                                             •0000 Next day. Cold.
              20        0          0         0
    f Hock, mean actual expansion, solid, 0°-1000° .                  ¦0000250
                                          liquid, 1100°-1500°         •0000468
         „ contraction on solidification, at 1092° .                  •0340
      Rock, mean apparent expansion, 0"-1000° . .                     •0000005
                                              1100°-1500°             •0000218
      Tube, mean volume-expansion below 1000° .                        •0000235
         »       „       „            .,    above 1100° .              •0000260
                                         02

188              Mr. Carl JBarus on the Fusion
   These data are given in the chart (fig. 10), temperatures in
degrees C, as abscissa}, volume-changes as ordinat.es. A
chart of the same character may also be constructed from
Table II., but this is superfluous. In figure 10 the actual
expansion of the rock is shown by the heavy line dcbef, and
the numbers attached to the points of observation indicate
the times at which they were made. The apparent expansion
of the rock is shown by the light line Ihgh, where the ordi-
nates of the solid contour are nearly zero. Finally the ex
pansion of the fusion-tube is represented by the dotted line
dcai. The amount of break at a, which is even smaller in
Series III., indicates the amount of drag or a shortening of
the length of the platinum tube by the solidifying rock
within, and furnishes an estimate for the trustworthiness of
the solid results. It is interesting to note that in both
Series III. and IV. the first length measurements of the tube
are smaller than the second at the same temperature, showing
that the tube has to some extent recuperated from the strain,
or that the amount of end thrust has diminished. It is
similarly possible to note the sag as expressed by the cold
lengths (25'49 centim. in Series II., 25'47 centim. in Series
III.; and 25*45 centim. in Series IV.) of the platinum fusion-
tube. Finally, the depth of the liquid meniscus at the outset
of Series III. and IV., and at about the same temperature,
was X=*50 centim. and \ = "62 centim., showing enlargement
of the bulk of the tube. These changes, which are in part
allowed for, show that viscosity introduces no serious dis
crepancy. Regarding the differences of X0 and X0' the
remarks made in § 14 apply.
   An inspection of the curve dbef as a whole indicates
the occurrence of sharply marked solidification at 1093°.
This is sufficient evidence to prove that rock-fusion (diabase)
is thoroughly normal in type. A method is thus given in
which the solidifying-point is determined free from non-
intrinsic tests.
    Finally, the contraction on solidification, 3"9 per cent, in
 Series III., and 3-4 per cent, in Series IV., is established,
for diabase at least, beyond question. It is to be noted, more
 over, that the smaller value (IV.) corresponds to a larger
 drag during solidification on the platinum tube (ef. Tables II.
 and III.).      Hence the value 3 9 per cent, is the more
 probable. In general, temperatures (#,, 62) 6S) are nearly
 alike so long as the glass is liquid. This ceases to be the case
 after solidification ; and since the top of the fusion-tube is
 apt to be colder than tbe bottom, some of the solid contraction
 expresses itself in dilatational strain, § 14.

                   Constants of Igneous Roch.                189
    19. Flotation.—Naturally I made a few tests on the flota
tion of solid rock on the molten magma. Cf. § 3. To my
surprise such flotation usually occurs, notwithstanding the
fact that the original cold rock may be 8 per cent. + 10 per
cent, more dense than the molten magma. The cause, how
ever, is crudely mechanical, since the rock, in virtue of its
weight and temperature, hollows out a cavity and chills its
surface simultaneously, forming a little boat in which it floats
on the very viscous liquid below. This is indicated in fig. 9,
where a is the body of rock, AA the molten magma, and bb
the solidified skin. I also attempted to make Niess and
Winkelmann's " Fundamentalversuch " (Niess, I.e. p. 16),
by submerging the rock ; but here, both on account of the
intense white glare of the furnace and the tendency to chill
at the surface, 1 did not reach a definite point of view.
                           Inferences.
    20. Hysteresis.—In the above experiments I have only
studied the solidifying magma. It does not appear, there
fore, whether solidification and fusion take place at identical
temperatures, or whether they will comprehend a volume-lag.
    In other work, in which the rock of the fusion-tube was
alternately fused and solidified, the loci are cyclic in marked
 degree, covering considerably more than 50°. It so difficult,
 however, to discriminate between true hysteresis and the
accompanying discrepancy due to insufficiently rapid heat
 conduction as compared with the insufficiently slow change
 of temperature, that experiments made with a tube which is
 not at quite the same temperature throughout its length are
 not unassailable. Having failed to perfect the experiments,
 I omit the dafca altogether.
    21. Melting-point and Pressure.—Since the fusion of rocks
like diabase is thoroughly normal, it follows that melting-
point must increase with pressure. It is well to examine
tentatively into the nature of this relation, and for this pur
pose I have constructed certain unpublished results of mine
 for thymol, in the same scale as used for the rock, in fig. 11.
 The curve m'n'o'p1 shows the contraction of thymol at its
 melting-point (somewhat below 50°), where the substance
 is liquid along o'p' and solid along m'n'. The curve m n op
 similarly applies at 0° C. It is seen, therefore, that here
 solidification contraction and thermal expansion (solid or
 liquid) decrease together. This is also true on passing from
 thymol to the rock. Could liquid thymol be cooled down as
 far as —25°, it would then show the same solidification con
 traction as the silicate.

190          Dr. J. R. Rydberg on a certain Asymmetry
   Analogously the latter must show decidedly smaller com
pressibility than the organic body, and hence it follows that
whereas the lower critical pressure (solid-liquid) of naphtha
lene, for instance, lies in the region of some 10,000 atmospheres
in my experiments, the corresponding (critical) pressure of
the rock magma will be indefinitely higher.
   From this, however, it is by no means to be inferred that
the relation of melting-point to pressure (ddjdp) will bo
different in the silicate and in the carbon compound. In the
latter case data for normal fusion are available for wax,
paraffin, spermaceti, and naphthalene. These lie within a
margin of "020 to "036. Taken into consideration with the
difficulty of obtaining these data, the preliminary character
of the experiments, the lack of crystalline definiteness in many
of the compounds, and the fact that even for the same sub
stance* the coefficient may vary as much as *027 to '035, the
said margin may reasonably be regarded as narrow. It
appears to me probable, therefore, since fusion in the organic
bodies and the silicate is alike in type, that the same factor
ddjdp will correspond to both cases.
    Direct evidence in favour of this view will be adduced in
my next paper.
XXIII. On a certain Asymmetry in Prof. Rowland's Concave
    Gratings. By Dr. J. R. Rydberg, Docent of Physics at
    the University of Lund, Sweden f.
I. TN order more especially to obtain a series of observations
      _L fitted for a continuation of the studies on the spectra
of the elements, of which the commencement has been pub
lished in my " Recherches sur la constitution des spectres
lineaires des elements chimiques " (K. Svenska Vetensk. Akad.
Handl. Bd. xxiii. No. 11), a spectroscope with one of Prof.
 Rowland's concave gratings (10,000 lines to the inch) was
procured for the Physical Institution of the University of
 Lund. It was mounted in a most excellent manner by the
 Mechanician of the Physiological Institution, Hilding Sand-
 strom, according to the instructions of Prof. Rowland {see
 Ames, Johns Hopkins University Circulars, viii. No. 73,
 May 1889 ; Phil. Mag. [5] xxvii. p. 369), but with full
 freedom in the details of construction. The adjustments
 also were executed according to the same instructions, but
   * See my work for Naphthalene in American Journal, xlii. p. 144,
el seq., 1891.
   t Communicated hy the Author.

             in Prof. Rowland's Concave Gratings.            191
with greater precision in the special determinations with the
intention to obtain by the exactness of the adjustment the
same scale through the whole spectrum.
   However, when all adjustments were completed, no distinct
image could be obtained in any part of the spectrum. In
the visible spectrum of the first order the image was not very
much out of focus, but the deviation increased gradually, so
that it became necessary to displace the eyepiece several
centimetres to obtain well-defined images of the spectra of
higher orders. All details being executed with the same
accuracy, there was nothing that could indicate the canso of
the discrepancy, so that nothing remained but to make all
the adjustments over again, determining at the same time
the extreme limits of the errors. For this purpose I have
made use of now methods of adjustment, and I have ascer
tained by these researches :—
    1. That the courses which the apex of the grating and the
cross hairs of the eyepiece follow in their movement on tho
rails do not deviate in any point from straight lines by more
than 02 millim.
    2. That the angle formed by the average directions of
the rails did not differ from a right angle by more than
15" (corresponding to an arc of 0*5 millim. at one of the ends
of one of the rails), the difference probably not amounting to
more than a third of this value.
   3. That the middle of the slit could not be more than 02
millim. from the crossing-point of the lines that are described
by the apex of the grating and the cross hairs of the eye
piece.
   4. That the apex of the grating and the cross hairs of the
eyepiece were not more than Ol millim. distant from the
axes of the carriages.
   5. That the distance between the centre of curvature of
the grating and the axis of the carriage on which the eye
piece was placed, did not amount to 05 millim. during the
whole movement.
   6. That the lines of the grating and the direction of the
slit were parallel and at right angles with the plane of the
rails.
   7. That the grating was entirely free from all constraint
and of spherical form, tho images in the centre of curvature
being of excellent definition.
   8. That the optical state of the slit was perfectly normal.
   With these results it was only in the grating itself that
the cause of the displacement of the spectra could be looked
for, either in some imperfection of the theory or in some

192        Dr. J. R. Rydberg on a certain Asymmetry
fault in the execution of the work, at least with regard to
the special grating in question. Hitherto, I had not deemed
it possible to make any of these assumptions, as it seemed that
Prof. Rowland himself and other spectroscopists who have
used the concave gratings ought to have recognized such an
anomaly, if it existed.
   During all the adjustments the grating was left in the
same position in its holder, so that I had made use only of
the spectra on one side of the grating. Now it was removed
from its holder and, after being reversed, it was adjusted in
the same manner as before, with the intention of learning
whether the focal curve that passes through the centre of
curvature is sj'mmetrical with respect to the principal axis of
the concave mirror. Then it was found that the distance
between the grating and the eyepiece ought to be increased
in order to get distinct images, while before it was necessary
to diminish it. From this it was evident that the inaccuracy
in the position of the images was due to the grating.
   II. First of all the question was to determine the true
form of the focal curve that passes through the centre of
curvature of the grating. According to Prof. Rowland's
theory this ought to be a circle, which should have as a
diameter the straight line that unites the centre of curvature
with the apex of the grating. If the form of the curve differed
perceptibly from a circle, it would not be possible with these
gratings to obtain spectra of a uniform scale.
                              Fig. 1.
                                                      3£
   The form of the focal curve can be determined with the
greatest facility, if the apparatus is altered in such a manner

             in Prof. Rowland's Concave Gratings.             193
that the slit is mado movable along the rail that carries the
grating.
    Let GXG2 (fig- 1) De the grating, C its apex, 0 its centre
of curvature, CLQM the theoretical focal circle, CLiOiOM!
the true focal curve that passes through 0, L the slit in
its original place at the point of the right angle which
is formed by the rails LC and LO. Then, on displacing
the slit along LO or its elongation to a certain point liu
it will always be possible to obtain distinct images of the
spectra, supposing in all cases that such can be given by the
grating. This point Lx belongs to the curve in question,
whose polar coordinates will be determined by measuring the
radius of curvature CO (jo), the displacement LLX (</), and
the angle LCO (/<¦). For then, supposing d to be positive,
when the slit is moved away from the mirror, the radius
vector LxC = r=p cos p + d and the vectorial angle =/t.
    Denoting the wave-length by X, the number of order of
the spectrum by n, the distance between two adjacent lines of
the grating by a, we should have, if the theory were exact,
                         LO n\        , ro T „
                 sin u= — = — , n\— - . LU.
                          P     °>        P
To decide whether the same formula can be applied in the
present case, it will be sufficient to displace the slit along the
rail LC and to observe if any change is produced in the
spectrum, viz., if the same value of fi always corresponds to
the same value of \ independently of the value of r. In
 reality small irregular variations were found, which did not
 seem to exceed one of Angstrom's units, and which were
 doubtless due to imperfections in the rails and the adjust
ment. According to the theory of concave gratings a dif
ference of one Angstrom's unit in the spectrum corresponds to
 a lateral displacement of the slit varying in the spectra of
different orders between 025 and 1 millim. Consequently
 the formula is exact within the limits of error of our
 experiments. It follows that the angle e of the segment CLjO
 is determined by the equation
                       c t e — ^ — (^&)
                               LO p . nX'
In this formula d and rik being the only variables, we see
that it is sufficient that their quotient — be constant, in
                                              n\               '
order that the angle e may be so too.
    III. The measurements were executed in such a wav that
the spectroscope was directed on some known line of the

 194          Dr. J. E. Rydberg on a certain Asymmetry
spectrum and the movable carriage that bears the slit dis
placed along the rail LC, until a distinct image was obtained
in 0. The position of an index, attached to the carriage,
was read on a millimetre-scale fixed to the rail LC Each
of the numbers given in the following table under              and cr2
is the mean of 10 of these readings, the carriage being alter
nately brought near to and removed from the graiing. The
column ai corresponds to the spectra on one side of the
grating, the column a2 to those on the other ; a greater
value denotes a greater distance from the grating. It was
found that the slit could be displaced through the space of
about one millimetre without it being possible to distinguish
any variation in the definition of the image. The probable
errors of the means amount in general to 02 millim., they
never exceed 0'4 millim. Using as a source of light some
times the sun, sometimes the voltaic arc, I directed the
spectroscope in the spectra of the first four orders to the
weak lines between D1 and D2 (\=5893) and to the double
lines b3 and bi of the solar spectrum or the strong doublets
of the neighbouring band of carbon (\ about 5165).
                                                 Observed.     Calcu
              Wave
 Spectral length.                                              lated.
    line.     107»\.               i(<*i + «a)
                                                d,.      A,      d.
    I. A4... 1X516,5  1338  153-8     143-8    -100     + 100    9-4
    T. D...  1x5893  13.3-4 155-6     144-5    -10-4    + 118   10-8
   II. 64... 2 X5165  123-2 161-7     142-5    -20-6    + 17-9  18-9
   II. D...  2 X5893  121-8 165-2     143-5    -22 0    +21-4   21-5
 III. 64...  3x5165   115-8 171-6     1437     -28-0    +27-8   28-3
 III. D...   3x5893  1120   1757      1438     -31 8    +31 9   32 3
  IV. 64...  4x5105  106-0  181-6     143-8    -378     +37-8   37-7
  IV. D...   4x5893   101-4 187-6     144-5    -42-4    +438    43-0
                                Mean 1438
    The first column contains the number of order of the spec
trum and the line to which the spectroscope was directed ;
the second the approximate wave-length. In the fifth
column are the means of the values of ax and a2, which cor
respond to the same line in the spectra on the two opposite
sides of the grating. These means approach, as we see, to
a constant value 143-8, which corresponds evidently to the
normal position of the slit at the vertex of the right angle
formed by the rails. On determining by direct measure
ments this position, I have found 144-8 + 0"1. But the
difference of one millimetre between the two numbers is

              in Prof. Rowland's Concave Gratings.           195
perfectly explained through the uncertainty in the two
adjustments of the centre of curvature of the mirror on the
axis of the carriage of the eyepiece, first in the direction of
the girder that unites the two carriages, and secondly, in
the lateral direction. Of this I have convinced myself by
another series of determinations, by displacing intentionally
the centre of curvature. A fault of 0'5 millim. in the deter
mination of the radius of curvature is sufficient to explain the
before-mentioned difference.
    Thus the point 143"8 is to be considered as tho vertex of the
 right angle of the rails, through which passes in the present
 case the theoretic focal circle of the grating, or rather a
 curve which differs from it very slightly. Using this
 number (a0) I have calculated the differences dl = a1 — a0 and
 d2 = a2— aw which are found in the table under the heading
 " observed." A glance at these numbers shows that they
 are at least very nearly proportional to the corresponding
 values of n\, which implies that the angle e of the segment of
 the true focal curve is constant.       To examine this more
 closely, we will insert in the preceding equation of e
                            p cot e
 and we will calculate by the method of least squares the exact
 value of x from the 16 equations of the form
                             * . rik—d,
 which we obtain from the preceding table on using all the
 values di and d2.
     In this way we find the value
                      a=£^= 18261 + 80.
     The numerically equal values of dx and d2, which are
  obtained on making use of this value of x, are given under
  d in the last column of the table. The differences between
  these numbers and the observed values being confined within
  the limits of errors of observation, it must be considered as
  proved that the angle e in the segment of the focal curve is a
  constant.
     A segment of which the angle is a constant belonging
  necessarily to a circle, we can express the result of our re
  searches as follows : —
      The focal curve which passes through the centre of curvature
  of the mirror is a circle, which, however, has not the radius of
  curvature in the apex of the grating as a diameter.

196           Dr. J. R. Rydberg on a certain Asymmetry
    Always supposing, as in the preceding, that this curve also
passes through C, we see on fig. 1 where COi is a diameter
of the true focal circle, that the angle between CO and G01
is =6 = - — e.
    We have then         ,          ,      -,0^/.i<"
                         tan 6= cot e=lo2ol— .
                                                   P
    The determination of the radius of curvature has given
p = (5434±l millim. According to the statement engraved
on the grating, w=:0-0001 inch =0-00254 millim. From
this we obtain 8 = 24' 47" and the arc OOx=p tan 8 = 18261 a>
 = 46-4 millim. The difference between the diameters CO
and COj amounts to 0"17 millim.
    IV. Though there could be no doubt as to the obliquity of
the grating, it was possible that we had to do with some
accidental anomaly peculiar to our special grating. For that
reason it was of great interest for me to find an opportunity to
examine another grating of the same kind, and this has been
made possible through tbe kindness of Dr. A. E. Andersson
at Kristianstad, who has been good enough to place at my
disposal a concave Rowland grating of exactly the same kind
as the preceding.
    The measurements, which have been executed in the same
order as before, follow here :—
                                                     Observed.     Calcu
 Spectral Wave                                                     lated.
    line.     length.                 i(«i+«3)
              10hi\.                                         d,.     d.
                                                    <v
 ~.~b^.      1X5165   1303   155-6      1430      -12-3     + 13-0  11-6
    I. D...  1x5893   129-2  158-5      143-9     -13 4     + 15-9  13-2
   II. J4... 2x5165   118-3  1646       141-5     -24 3     +220    23-2
   II. D...  2x5893   1155   168-7      1421      -27-1     +26-1   26-4
 III.&4...   3x5165   108 6  177-4      1430      -340      4-34-8  34-8
  III. I)... 3X5893   104-2  181-1      142-7     -38-4     +38-5   397
  IV. bt...  4x5165    95-5  189-6      142-5      -47-1    4-47-0  46-4
  IV. D...   4x5893    89-7   195-3     142-5     -529      +52-7   52-9
                                  Mean 1426
    The probable errors of the values of a are a little greater
than in the preceding case, and amount in maximum to 0-5
millim. Moreover the adjustments of the grating are not of
quite the same exactitude, owing to the limited time I had at
my disposal for making these determinations. Hence, there
is nothing astonishing in the fact that the mean, 142'6, of
the values of a differs a little more from the normal value,

             in Prof. Rowland's Concave Gratings.            197
144-8, than is the case with the other grating. The error
necessary to produce such a difference does not exceed
of the distance to be determined.            j
    On calculating as before the quotients — , we obtain
                                            n\
                      ^= 22440 + 120.
                         to           -
The radius of curvature of this grating was found to be 403
millim. greater than that of the other, viz., 6474 millim., the
uncertainty amounting to about 2 millim. With this value
of p and the nominal value of to, we find 5 = 30' 16" and
OOt = 57-0 millim.
    To judge from the inscriptions on the gratings the obli
 quity ought to have the same direction in both cases.
    V. The focal curve that passes through the centre of cur
vature of the grating being a circle, as shown above, it will
 always be possible to adjust the spectroscope in such a
 manner as to obtain in all positions distinct images of the
 spectra without altering the distance between the grating and
 the eyepiece. It follows from the preceding that this is
 effected by causing the girder to act the part of the diameter
 OjC of the true focal circle instead of that of a radius of
 curvature of the grating. Hence, in the first grating the
 girder ought to be lengthened by 0-17 millim., then turned
 round the point C through an angle S = 24'47". The easiest
 way of doing this is to displace the cross hairs of the eyepiece
 in 0 with the micrometer through a distance equal to the
 corresponding arc 46-4 millim. (to left or to right according
 to the side of the grating which we wish to make use of),
  and afterwards turning the grating until the cross hairs and
  their image coincide again. Then in all positions of the
  girder the slit ought to remain on the true focal circle. The
  exactitude of the theory and the measurements is confirmed
  by the fact, that after the execution of these adjustments the
  image became perfectly defined through the whole spectrum.
     It would also be possible to obtain distinct images in all
 positions by another method, viz., by altering the angle of the
  rails by a quantity 8. In that case the centre of curvature
  ought not to be displaced, but it is necessary to turn the
 micrometer and the photographic box through an angle 8,
  so that they may be always tangents of the focal circle.
     However, the supposition which we have made, that the
 true focal circle passes through the apex C of the grating,
  does not possess any very high degree of probability, because
 in that case the curve would intersect the surface of the

198        Dr. J. R. ltydberg on a certain Asymmetry
grating. It seems more likely that it touches it, but at
another point, which, as can be seen by construction and
calculation, would be situated at a distance of 4(3"4 niillim.
from the apex C. In reality, the conclusions that could be
drawn from the measurements would remain almost the same,
if we had replaced in fig 1 the circle CLjOiOM, by a circle
passing through 0 but not through C or 0, and touching
the grating at CV This circle would have a radius equal to p,
that is to say 0'17 millim. less than that of the former. As
to the variation AS of the angle S, we find sin AS=-r:            ,
                                                         2 cos fi
a quantity varying with fi, but which falls within the limits of
errors of observation in all parts of the spectra, that we can
use. The arc CCj differs from the arc 00x (46-4 millim.)
only by some tenth of a millimetre. Under this new sup
position an exact adjustment according to Prof. Rowland's
theory is obtained by displacing the grating 4G"4 millim.
along its own surface, until the point of contact of the focal
circle falls in with the axis of the carriage, where the apex of
the grating was situated before. The considerable obliquity
that the position of the grating would show in that case is
the only difficulty with this arrangement. Hence I have
preferred the first method of adjustment, after having con
vinced myself that the difference is of no importance from a
practical point of view.
   VI. On the other hand, the last manner of considering the
matter seems to possess a considerable advantage, because it
will allow us to account in a simple way for the relations
between the true focal circle and the grating. In reality,
the accordance with Prof. Rowland's theory is perfect and
the obliquity is only due to the point of symmetry of the
grating not coinciding with the apex of the concave mirror.
   Let ACjCBO (fig. 2) be a section through the centre of
curvature, perpendicular to the surface A G P> and to the
lines of the grating. Let AB be the chord of the section,
which is perpendicular to the radius CO that passes through
the apex of the spherical cap. The lines of the grating
being drawn perpendicular to the axis of the dividing-
machine (and perpendicular according to our supposition to
the plane of the paper) it will always be possible to draw in the
plane of the paper a straight line EF parallel to the axis in
question. On a tangent plane T11 to the spherical surface,
parallel to EF and perpendicular to the plane of the paper,
the dividing-machine would draw equidistant lines. On both
sides of the point of contact Cj of this plane the distances of
the corresponding lines are also equal, Cx is the point of
symmetry and the point of contact of the focal circle. Then

             in Prof. Rowland's Concave Gratings.          190
the angle 8 between the radii CO and CtO. AB being =
150 niillim. the values of the differences between AE and BF
in the two gratings are found to be l-08 and 1'32 millim.
respectively.
   In this way the asymmetry of the gratings is explained in
a manner as simple as it is complete. However, the found
differences being much greater than would be supposed in a
work of such perfection as are the gratings of Prof. Row
land, we cannot exclude another hypothesis, the same that
M. Cornu* has made use of in order to explain the focal
properties of plane gratings, viz., a systematic variation in
the distances of the lines. Such a variation would arise from
an irregularity in the screw of the dividing-machine, and in
the plane gratings this explanation seems to be the only one
possible. But in the concave gratings the same fault might
also arise from another cause. The two sides of the gratings
giving spectra of different brightness, we may conclude that
the furrows which the point of the diamond makes in the
reflecting surface are not symmetrical in section. Then it is
easy to see, that the distances of the lines are subject to a
continual variation from one side of the grating to the other.
But without knowing all details of work in the ruling of
gratings, it would be useless to enter more closely into this
hypothesis, and impossible to decide whether it is superior
to the preceding.
                        * C. M. lxxx. p. 645.

                            [   200   ]
XXIV. Separation and Striation of Rarefied Gases under the
   Influence of the Electric Discharge. By E. C. C. Baly*.
 SOME time ago, on examining with a spectroscope a
       vacuum-tube which happened to contain a small quantity
of hydrogen, during the passage of the electric spark I noticed
that the hydrogen lines, whiie strongly visible in the negative
glow, could not be seen in the body of the tube. The hydrogen
appeared to be, in fact, withdrawn from the tube and collected
about the negative pole. Finding the same result in a tube
 which I fitted up for the purpose, it appeared to me to point
 to a separation of the gases in the tube ; and I determined to
 make a series of experiments with a view to investigating the
 matter and the behaviour generally of different gases under
similar conditions.
   The tubes 1 employed were about 9 inches long and f inch
internal bore. The electrodes were of aluminium wire, and,
except in certain cases to which I shall refer, about 1£ inch
in length. Two of these tubes were connected to the pump
at the same time, one direct and the other through tubes for
the absorption of mercury vapour ; so that in all the expe
riments results were obtained in the presence and in the
absence of mercury vapour. Gas-generators, fitted with
purifying and drying apparatus, were connected so as to
allow of varying quantities of the particular gases under ex
amination being admitted to the tubes as might be required.
The pump, I may mention, was a modified form of the
Geissler mercury-pump, to which I was able to attach an
automatic apparatus for working it—a very great saving of
labour. Measurements of the vacua were obtained by means
of an ordinary barometer-gauge, and varied from 15 millim.
to \ millim.
   I first worked with varying quantities of carbon dioxide
and hydrogen. On using certain mixtures of these gases
exhausted to about | millim., when the current was first passed
a white glow appeared throughout the tube, no strise being
visible, giving a mixed spectrum of the two gases. After a
few seconds the negative glow changed to a pink colour, and
well-defined striae, whiter than the preceding glow, began to
appear. On watching this change with the spectroscope,
the hydrogen lines in the tube were seen to become fainter
and gradually to disappear, leaving only the spectrum of
carbon dioxide, while those in the negative glow became
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read Feb. 10, 1893.

          Separation and Striation of Rarefied Gases.    201
extremely brilliant. The current was then stopped, and the
tube allowed to rest for about an hour, when, the current
being passed again, the same phenomenon precisely occurred.
Judging that if this were caused by actual separation of the
two gases, it ought to be possible to frac
tionate out the hydrogen into another
tube, I endeavoured for a long time un
successfully to do so ; but at length suc        nun
ceeded by using a double tube of the shape
shown in the figure. The longer of the tubes
consisted of two chambers joined by capillary
tubing, the smaller tube being connected
to one of these by a narrow neck capable
of being sealed oft'. Both tubes were
furnished with electrodes. One of those
in the large tube was sufficiently long to
project through the capillary into the second
chamber, and being connected at its base to
the sealed platinum by a weak spiral wire
could be dropped sufficiently far to touch
the opposite electrode. This rod was made
of copper, as being heavier than aluminium.
It fitted the capillary fairly well, and
was furnished with small stops of cotton
wool in order to close the capillary, and thus prevent as
much as possible the diffusion of the gases. The tube,
after being filled with the gases carbon dioxide and hy
drogen, was exhausted and sealed from the pump. The
copper rod was caused to touch the opposite electrode, and
the current was passed so as to make the whole of the long
tube the negative pole and the electrode at the lower end of
the smaller tube the positive. The current was continued for
a considerable time, when the connecting-neck between the
tubes was sealed off and the copper rod shaken back to the
stop. On comparing the spectra of the two tubes, it was
found that the small tube (containing the positive pole)
showed only a trace of hydrogen, while the other showed it
brilliantly.
   This, 1 think, may be considered a proof of an actual
though not complete separation of the two gases.
   I then tried hydrogen mixed with many other gases—
amongst them nitrogen, carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide,
iodine, and mercury vapour; and in every case, without
exception, I found that the hydrogen was collected about the
negative pole in exactly the same manner as I have par
ticularized.
  Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.      P

202         Mr. E. C. C. Baly on tlie Separation and
   I proceeded to examine mixtures of other gases. With
carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, the carbon monoxide is
separated out and appears in the negative glow. With
carbon dioxide and nitrogen the carbon dioxide is separated
out, while the nitrogen remains in the tube, the separation
being remarkably distinct. In this case it is the heavier gas
which is separated out ; and the same is found with carbon
dioxide and sulphur dioxide, the sulphur dioxide appearing in
the negative glow.
    It would thus appear that the separation of two gases does
not depend on their relative molecular weights. On ex
amining a tube of air, however, the components of which are
 of fairly equal molecular weight, a separation was found to be
 very difficult, and only occurred after carrying the exhaustion
 to a much higher point than was usually necessary. The
 nitrogen remained in the tube, and the negative glow gave a
 spectrum presumably oxygen; I say presumably, for I am
 unable to see what else it can be. 1 was unable to produce
 the same spectrum in a tube with oxygen, but I was prevented
 from proceeding further. The spectra of oxygen Professor
 Schuster has shown to be very varied under different con
 ditions. Is it not possible that the two spectra in an oxygen
 tube, the banded one in the negative glow, and the bright-
 line one in the rest of the tube, may be due to separation of
 two gases?
    From these experiments it is evident that when the elec
 tric current is passed through a rarefied mixture of two gases,
 a process similar to electrolysis is set up, one of the gases
 being separated out and collected about the negative pole, the
 other gas remaining in the tube; the proof being that the gas
 separated out may be fractionated into another tube by the
 method I have above described. In pursuing these experi
 ments I was struck by the apparent close connexion between
 separation and striation ; that is to say, I found strongly
 marked striae when there was good separation, and feeble striae
 when the separation was difficult; I also found that the first
 appearances of these phenomena were coincident, the forma
 tion of striae being always the sign of the commencement of
 separation. There were no exceptions to this, the action in
 all the tubes I made being the same.
    It was evident to me that, if the connexion were real and
 the separation of the gases could in some way be prevented,
 by avoiding the negative glow, striae would not be formed.
 I accordingly made a tube the negative pole of which did not
 protrude from the little glass collar in which it was placed,
 the positive electrode being made as usual. The tube was

      Striation of Rarefied Gases by the Elect ric Discharge. 203
filled with a mixture of hydrogen and carbon dioxide and
exhausted. At a pressure of 24 millim. the current was
passed ; instead of a negative glow appeared a little bunch of
light about \ inch below the negative point. If this bunch of
light impinged on the'side of the tube, the glass became strongly
phosphorescent. At 4 millim. there was no bunch of light or
negative glow ; there was no sign of any striae, the tube
giving a spectrum of hydrogen and carbon dioxide, and no
evidence of separation. I then reversed the current ; imme
diately striae formed, separation began and became well-
marked.
    I tried various mixtures of gases and alwajs obtained the
same result, viz., that when the negative glow was avoided by
the use of the minute electrode point, neither stria? nor sepa
ration occurred, but in reversal of the current strongly
marked strise and good separation.
   My next step was to experiment with a pure vapour,
which, if my contention be correct, should not striate. It is
known that a tube of pure mercury vapour does not stratify.
I prepared a tube for the purpose, one end of which was con
nected with the pump and the other with a bulb containing
mercury. After exhaustion, I strongly heated the tube and
boiled the mercury, which thus distilled through the tube.
On passing the current, as I expected, no striaa appeared,
but simply a beautiful phosphorescence throughout the tube,
giving a spectrum of pure mercury only. On ceasing to boil
the mercury and allowing the tube to cool, a small quantity of
other gas was necessarily drawn in from the pump. Immedi
ately striae began to appear, beginning at the end of the tube
connected with the pump; the negative glow changed at the
same time and gave a spectrum containing other lines in
addition to those of mercury, thus strongly confirming my
previous conclusion.
    Thinking that possibly the absence of striae might arise,
 not from the purity of the mercury vapour, but from its
 molecules being monatomic, I repeated the experiment with
pure vapours of iodine, sulphur, arsenic, and mercuric iodide,
which are not monatomic. The result was in each case pre
 cisely the same—the tube while heated showing no stria?, but
 on cooling both striaa and separation.
    Wishing if possible to obtain a pure gas which did not
 stratify at ordinary temperatures, I made many attempts to
 prepare a tube of pure hydrogen. The nearest approach to
 success was with hydrogen prepared from pure caustic potash
 and aluminium. The gas was then absorbed by red-hot
 palladium, which was re-heated in the vacuum. On passing
                                P 2

 204       Dr. Gladstone on some Recent Determinations
 the current, the tube showed an even phosphorescent light
 throughout, with a very faint line of the most delicate striae,
 very difficult to distinguish. The striae did not become any
 plainer on carrying the exhaustion to a considerably higher
 point. I think it may be safely assumed that a tube of per
fectly pure hydrogen would not striate at all.
    From the foregoing results I think the following conclusions
may be drawn :—
    First, that when an electric current is passed through a
 rarefied mixture of two gases, one is separated from the other
and appears in the negative glow.
   Second, that striaa are caused by the separation of the two
gases, and do not occur in a single pure gas or vapour.
XXV. Notes on some Recent Determinations of Molecular
   Refraction and Dispersion. By J. H. Gladstone, D.Sc,
   F.R.S.*
AMONG the various indices of refraction which have
         been published by different observers of late years, there
are some which have led me to further studies bearing on
the general relation of this branch of Physics to Chemical
 theory. The following notes relate to the new metallic car-
bonyls, the metals indiumand gallium, sulphur, and to liquefied
 oxygen, nitrous oxide, and ethylene.
                       I. Metallic Oarbonyls.
   Messrs. Ludwig Mond and Nasini f determined the mole
cular refraction of nickel tetracarbonyl for the red ray of
hydrogen (Ha) as 57*7, and the specific dispersion between
the lines 7 and a of hydrogen as 0*03475, which will give a
molecular dispersion between those limits of 5"93. This
indicates a very great refraction and an enormous dispersion.
   Through the kindness of Mr. Mond I have been able to
determine the refraction of two specimens of iron penta-
carbonyl for several lines of the spectrum, with the following
result. The second and third lines in the Table relate to the
same specimen, the latter representing measurements taken
in a very acute-angled prism, and under the most favourable
circumstances for seeing the more refractive rays ; nevertheless
the spectrum was cut off so suddenly about the bundle of
rays at G that I cannot be sure of the exact measurement,
but think it differs little from the line 7 of hydrogen.
      * Communicated by the Physical Society : read Feb. 10, 1893.
      t Lincei, Rendiconti, vii. 411.

                  of Molecular Refraction and Dispersion.                 205
     Speci Temp. Sp. Gr.
     men. 0.                                       %¦                f0'
       I.... 2§      1-460 1-5026 1-5076 1-5096 1-5180 1-5289
     II.... 155      1-4705 1-5033 1-5117 1-5146 1-5224 1-5329
      II. ... 13-4   1-474 1-5071 ...            1-5230 ... 1-5446 1-5850
     From these observations we obtain the following molecular
refraction, ^-y-P=R.
   Speci        RA.                         RD .     RE.
    men.                                                       RF .  RG .
   I.          67-47     68-14    68-41    6954     7100
  II.          67-48     68-20    68-59    69-63    7103
  II.          67-43                       69-54             72-42  75-13
    It is evident that in the iron compound also the refraction
and dispersion are very great. The molecular refraction
for the line a of hydrogen may be assumed at 68"5, and the
molecular dispersion between the lines 7 and a of hydrogen
at 6-6. If we reckon for the lines A and H, we may assume
H would be about 78*0, which would give a molecular dis
persion between these limits of about 10'5.
    In discussing their observations, Messrs. Mond and Nasini,
assuming that CO has a molecular refraction of 8'4, reckoned
the atomic refraction of nickel at 24'1, instead of 9-9, which
I had assigned to this element in solutions of its salts, and
which subsequently has been fairly corroborated by Nasini's
own experiments. This difference they attributed to a dif
ference of valency in the metal. By parity of reasoning the
atomic refraction of iron for the line C would be 26'5, or
25'5 for the line A, instead of 11"6 previously determined for
bivalent iron from solutions of its salts.
    But this involves the assumption that CO in these carbonyls
has the same value as we should expect to find in an organic
substance. It also assumes that the nickel has 8 valencies,
while the iron has 10, in the above-named compounds, and
                                   7 .
that iron has presumably — indiferrohepta-carbonyl; and that

206       Dr. Gladstone on some Recent Determinations
potassium in its compounds with CO has still other valencies.
There is also another difficulty; for if we determine the atomic
dispersion of nickel and iron on the same principle, it will
be found to be 4" 8 and 5'2 respectively for the interval
between the lines y and a*; these numbers are about one fifth
of the atomic refraction of the two metals given above, viz,,
24" 1 and 26-5. But the ratio between the atomic dispersion
(7— a) and the refraction of the most dispersive elements
hitherto calculated, sulphur and phosphorus, is only about
one tenth.
   It seems more probable that the metals really retain their
ordinary valency, and that the excessive refraction and dis
persion is to be sought rather in the peculiar arrangement of
the CO. In such compounds we may imagine the CO
playing a part similar to that of the CH2 in ordinary organic
compounds, which may be increased or diminished in number
without altering the general type of the substance. In fact
I accept on optical grounds as well as chemical, the ring-
formulae indicated in Mond's lecture at the Royal Institution.
                                                  0
    In that case the molecular refraction due to each CO would
be, from the nickel compound about 11*9, and from the iron
compound about 11*3.
    Although the atomic dispersion of nickel or of iron has not
yet been definitely measured, it cannot greatly exceed 0"5 for
7— a. It is evident therefore from the figures for the disper
 sion, viz., Ni(CO)4=5"9, Fe(CO)5 = 6"6, that the molecular
dispersion of each CO must be about the same in these two
compounds, viz. 13, or thereabouts.
                   II. Indium and Gallium.
    In 1885 I calculated the atomic refraction of indium and
 gallium from determinations of the refraction of certain
 alums made by M. Charles Soret. Very shortly afterwards
                      * Troc. R. S. xlii. p. 401.

             of Molecular Refraction and Dispersion.                  207
he published another paper giving fresh and additional values
for alums containing these metals *.
   For indium the available data are derived from rubidium
and caesium indium alums, and for gallium from no fewer
than five compounds, viz., potassium, rubidium, caesium,
thallium, and ammonium gallium alums. Calculated from
these data, I find as mean values for the atomic refraction of
these two metals the following :—
        Metal.           Atomic Weight. ,       Jj-*.
                              113-4               0-121          137
                                69-9              0106           11*6
   These no doubt are nearer the truth then the higher figures
previously given, though they must still be looked upon as
only approximate. ]n regard to the atomic dispersion of
these metals, the new observations quite confirm the previous
remark that the order is " iron far the highest, chromium,
indium, gallium, and aluminium lowest."
                             III. Sulphur.
   In the following Table is given the atomic refraction of
sulphur, either uncombined, or in very simple combination:—
    Condition.        A.       0, or    D, or     F.     6 or y.    H.
                              " red." " white."
 Solid                          157     160
                     1598               16-47
 Gaseous                       16-1
 In solution         15-5       15-7    160      16-7     17-3
 From CS2 ... .....  15-8      1605     16 3     17-05    17-7     18-4
   „ ci2s                      15-8     160
                               15-9     161
       Br2S2                   16-35
   Sulphur in the solid condition is deduced from the observa
tions of Descloiseaux and other physicists; but as the crystals
of sulphur give three different indices of refraction for the
same ray, the arithmetical mean of these three indices has
been simply taken as the basis of calculation.
   Sulphur in a liquid condition is from the observations of
                 * Archives Sc. Ph. Sf N. Geneve, xiv. p. 96.

208      Dr.- Gladstone on some Recent Determinations
myself and the late Pelham Dale. It agrees, as far as D is
concerned, with a determination by Becquerel.        RE=16"86.
  Sulphur in the gaseous condition was determined by L.e Roux
in 1861. The specific refraction was calculated out by me
shortly afterwards, and recently by Nasini and Costa*. I
give their number for the atomic refraction in the Table.
   The sulphur in solution is from five determinations of this
element dissolved in carbon bisulphide which I made some
years ago with another object, and which have never been
published. The solutions contained from about 22 to 27
per cent, of sulphur. Two determinations of somewhat weaker
solutions were lately published by Nasini and Costa, and were
practically identical with mine. The refraction of 17-3 for
the line 7 is deduced from their figures alone.
   The four last lines give the values of sulphur reckoned
from its simplest compounds.
   In the case of bisulphide of carbon the figures in the Table
are derived from my own most recent observations, which
agree closely with those of other observers. The deduction
made for the atom of carbon is 5*0 for the line A, 5'26 for the
line H, and proportional numbers for the intermediate lines.
   In the case of bichloride of sulphur the calculations have
been made from the observations of Costa ; and in that of
chloride of sulphur from those of Haagen, Becquerel, and
Costa, which fairly agree. The refraction due to an atom of
chlorine is assumed to be 9'95 for the line C, and 10'05 for
the line D. Costa, in treating of these substances, has adopted
a slightly smaller value for chlorine.
   In the case of the bromine compound the sulphur is cal
culated from Becquerel's observations, taking the value for
bromine at 15'35.
   The figures for sulphur derived from these various sources
are very similar. I doubt, however, whether the sulphur
dissolved in bisulphide of carbon and the sulphur which forms
part of that compound do exert exactly the same influence
upon the rays of light. If we were to reckon the value of
carbon in bisulphide of carbon by deducting the value found
for sulphur in solution, we should get for A, 36*6 — 310 = 5'6,
a higher figure than we ever find for carbon in a saturated
compound. The difference would be still greater if reckoned
by Lorenz's formula.
   The accordance of the dispersion as exhibited throughout
the Table is worthy of notice.
   From the elaborate paper of Nasini and Costa, already
referred to, it would appear that in some organic compounds,
                  * Universita Inst. Ch. Roma, 1891.

            of Molecular Refraction and Dispersion.            209
such as the xanthates, sulphur has at least the value of 16-0 ;
but in the large majority of cases it has a distinctly lower
value. In its oxygen compounds it is known to be far less
refractive and dispersive.
  IV. Liquefied Oxygen, Nitrous Oxide, and Ethylene.
   In the recent paper of Professors Liveing and Dewar (Phil.
Mag., Aug. 1892) they give determinations of the specific
refraction of liquefied oxygen, nitrous oxide, and ethylene.
It is, of course, possible to compare these interesting results
with what theory would have led us to expect. The authors
have themselves done so in the case of liquid oxygen at its
boiling-point of — 1 82° C. They remark that the refraction-
equivalent, 3"182, which they found, differs but little from
that deduced from gaseous oxygen at the ordinary tempera
ture, viz. 3*0316, and " corresponds closely with the refrac
tion-equivalent deduced by Landoit from the refractive indices
of a number of organic compounds," which was 3-0. It
actually comes between the two values, 2"8 and 3-4, which
were assigned by Briihl to oxygen in its different states of
 combination with carbon, and to which an intermediate value
has since been added.
    Liveing and Dewar were able to determine the refraction
of liquefied nitrous oxide for six different wave-lengths, the
 extremes being the red ray of lithium and G. These gave
 for ^   - 0'2595 and 0'2691 respectively, and for the mole
 cular refraction of the red ray 11-418, and of G 11"840. The
 molecular dispersion between G and the lithium-line is there
 fore 0'422, which would indicate about 0-63 between H and
 A. Now it is difficult to say what the rational composition
 of nitrous oxide is, and therefore what its theoretical refraction
 and dispersion should be. Nitrogen in ammonia and its con
 geners is reckoned at 5*1, in nitriles at 4-l ; oxygen double-
 bonded is reckoned at 3-4, with two separate bonds at 2'8.
 We therefore, according to our theoretical views, might reckon
 nitrous oxide at 13'6, 13*0, 11*6, or 11*0. The probability is
 therefore clearly in favour of the lower figure for nitrogen.
 As the dispersion- equivalent of nitrogen in ammonia is as
 high as 0-38, this would also seem to exclude the idea of the
 nitrogen in nitrous oxide being in the same condition as in
 ammonia. This will probably be considered the most likely
 alternative also on chemical grounds.
    On calculating Messrs. Liveing and Dewar's numbers for
 liquid ethylene, we obtain the molecular refraction of 17'2 for

    210   High Resistances with the VArsonml Galvanometer.
    the line D. But Professor Dewar has kindly furnished me
    with a more recent determination of what he believes to be a
   purer specimen. The refractive index, at the boiling-point,
   for the line C is 1-3445, and for the line F is 1-3528, tbe
   specific gravity being 055. These figures give 17*53 as the
   molecular refraction for the line C, and 17'92 for the line F.
   These will indicate about 17 "41 for the line A. The theo
   retical value for ethylene, for the line A, is 17"4.
                                C2 . .     .   . =10 0
                                H4 . .     .   . =5-2
                   Double-linking .        .   . = 2-2
                                                   17-4
      The coincidence between experiment and theory is very
  striking.
  XXVI. High Resistances used in connexion with the D'Ar-
     sonval Galvanometer. By Frederick J. Smith, Millard
     Lecturer in Mechanics, Trinity College, Oxford*.
  THE great utility of the D'Arsonval galvanometer for
         determining current by the fall of potential method
  must have been felt by all who have used it for this purpose.
  When the instrument is thus applied, a large resistance is
  required in the galvanometer circuit. This is usually made
  of wire, and costs much. In 1890 I read a short paper before
  the Ashmolean Society of Oxford on the subject of resistances
  made of non- metallic substances and mercury jet-contacts.
     Since then resistances of this kind have been constantly in
  nse in the Millard Laboratory, and they have proved them
 selves to be both reliable and constant. They are made thus:
  Dry plaster of Paris and electrotype plumbago are intimately
  mixed together in suitable proportions!, the composition is then
  rammed tightly into a glass tube furnished with a platinum
 terminal ; when nearly full another termiual is introduced
 and fixed in the substance by compression ; the end of the
 tube is then closed over the wire in the blowpipe flame, and
 the resistance is finished.
    In one resistance thus made the glass tube is 10 centim.
long and 0'4 centim. in internal diameter, and has a resist
 ance of about one megohm. Very finely powdered glass
 mixed with plumbago makes a good composition for high
   « Communicated by the Author.
   t Equal quantities of each in a tube 0'4 centim. diameter and 11-5
centim. long gave a resistance of 65,000 ohms.

                    The Laws of Molecular Force.                    211
resistances, but it is not so easily manipulated as the plaster
and plumbago. Out of a large number of different substances
tried, I find these two the most reliable. A megohm made
by the method I have described costs only a few shillings.
    Since October 1888 a D'Arsonval galvanometer has been in
constant use here, in combination with a photographic appa
ratus, whereby a cylinder carrying bromide paper is constantly
 exposed to the reflected light from the galvanometer which
 shines through a long narrow slit placed in front of the re
 volving cylinder ; by this means a constant record is kept of
 the current in a certain circuit. When the resistance of the
 galvanometer circuit is very high, the dead-beat action of the
 instrument is somewhat affected. I find that if a few turns of
 fine covered copper wire are wound on the outside of the
 rectangular coil of the instrument so as to form a closed circuit,
 it gives the same reading as before for a given potential
 difference, and is perfectly dead-beat in its action, so that
  with the addition of this damping-coil any amount of re
 sistance may be used in the circuit of the galvanometer.
    Trinity College, Oxford,
         Feb. 10, 1893.
               XXVII. The Laws of Molecular Force.
              By William Sutherland, M.A., B.Sc*
  IN my last paper on this subject (Phil. Mag. April 1889)
       it was shown that if the law of force between two similar
  molecules is 3Aw2/r4, the parameter A could be calculated
  for a large number of bodies from Robert Schiff's measure
  ments of their surface-tensions, and a law was announced
  connecting the values of A with chemical composition ; but
  as this law was affected with exceptions in the case of the
  organic bromides and iodides and the amines, and as the
  argument from surface-tension requires the introduction of a
  considerable number of assumptions, I felt that it was very
  desirable to secure some other means of finding A. It soon
  appeared that the only satisfactory plan would be to return
  again to the search for the true characteristic equation of
  fluids on the model of Clausius's virial equation, as I had
   found that not one of those hitherto advanced was capable of
   general application. Fortunately the experimental material
   now available is so abundant and so well placed that I was
  completely successful in the quest, in the more tedious parts
  of which I had the advantage of assistance from my brother,
        * Communicated by the Physical Society : read Oct. 28, 1892.

  212               Mr. William Sutherland on the
 Mr. John Sutherland. Amagat's exhaustive study of the
 compression and expansion of gases, along with Ramsay and
 Young's work on ethyl oxide, were the groundwork of the
 research.
     As the true characteristic equations for fluids are the key
 to many chambers of molecular physics, I have been able to
 enter many of these, and especially to discover the true law
 of the parameter A without exception. To give an idea of
 the scope of these investigations free from detail, I furnish the
 following table of contents :—
     1. Establishment of characteristic equation for compounds
 above the region of the critical volume, with proof that there
 is discontinuity in the liquefaction of compounds.
     2. The same for the gaseous elements, with proof of con
 tinuity during liquefaction in their case.
     3. Brief discussion of exceptional compounds such as the
alcohols and ethylene.
    4. Establishment of characteristic equation below the region
 of the. critical volume, its main feature being the occurrence
 in it of the same internal virial constant as in the equation
 for the region above the critical volume.
    5. A short digression on the general interpretation of
Clausius's equation of the virial.
    6. Consideration of Van der Waals's generalization that if
each substance has its temperature, pressure, and volume
expressed in terms of the critical values as units, one and the
 same law applies to all bodies ; proof that this is true for
elements and compounds separately, above the critical region,
and approximately true below.
    7. Five methods of finding the internal virial constant :
first, from the expansion and compression of the substance as
gas or vapour ; second, from its expansion and compression
as liquid ; third, from its latent heat ; fourth, from its critical
temperature and pressure ; fifth, from its surface-tension :
all the methods being afterwards proved to give accordant
results for a large number of compounds.
    8. The fifth or capillary method treated in greater detail,
with digressions on the Brownian movement and molecular
distances.
    9. Establishment on theoretical grounds of Eotvos's rela
tion between surface-tension and molecular domain (volume).
    10. Tabulation for a large number of bodies of the product
of the square of the molecnlar mass by the virial constant
determined by several methods, and verification thereby of
the general principles preceding.
   11. Establishment of the law connecting the virial constant

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                 213
of a substance with its chemical composition. Definition of
the Dynic Equivalent of a substance and determination of its
value for several radicals.
     12. Close parallelism between Dynic Equivalents and
Molecular Refractions.
    13. Return to the discontinuity during liquefaction of com
pounds, and proof that it is due to the pairing of molecules.
    14. Brief discussion of the constitution of the alcohols as
liquids.
    15. Methods of finding the virial constant for inorganic
compounds, including a theory of the capillarity and com-
pressibity of solutions.
    16. Tabulation of the product of the square of the molecular
mass by the virial constant for inorganic compounds, and
determination of the Dynic Equivalents of the metals in the
combined state. Again a close parallelism between dynic equi
valents and molecular refractions or refraction-equivalents.
    17. Meaning of this parallelism ; general speculations as to
the volumes of the atoms and their relation to ionic speeds.
    18. Attempt to determine the velocity of light through the
 substance of the water-molecule.
    19. Suggested relation between the change in the volume
 of an atom on combination and the change in its chemical
 energy.
    1. Establishment of the characteristic Equation for Com
pounds above the region of the Critical Volume, with proof
that there is discontinuity in the liquefaction of compounds.—
 Amagat established (Ann. de Chim. et dePhys. ser. 5, t. xxii.)
 that for gases "dpfdT is a function of volume only down to
 volumes near the critical, but that at lower volumes it begins
 to vary with temperature. Eamsay and Young (Phil. Mag.
 May 1887), while verifying the independence of Bju/dT on
 temperature above the critical volume for such bodies as ethyl
 oxide and the alcohols, sought to show that this independence
 continues right into the liquid state ; but, as a matter of fact,
 their temperature-range in the experiments below the critical
 volume is not great enough to decide the question one way or
 another. We shall see that in the case of compounds Amagat's
 conclusion is the correct one, while in the case of the elements
 Eamsay and Young's contention appears to hold. The con
 viction that dp/dT becomes slightly variable with temperature
 below the critical volume was one reason that determined me
 to represent the behaviour of fluids by two equations merging
 into one another ; the one applying down to near the critical
  volume, the other helow that.

                    Mr. William Sutherland on the
   Clausius's equation of the virial is to be our guide in
studying HpfdT,
where V is velocity and R is force between two molecules at
distance r apart.
   According to the law of the inverse fourth power, the
double sum of the internal virial reduces to an expression
varying inversely as the volume and independent of the tem
perature, as I have shown before (Phil. Mag. July 1887).
   If we integrate Amagat's relation dp/dT=/(t>), we get
                           p=f(v)T + <J>(v)}
and as in the perfect gaseous state pv = TlT, where v being the
volume of unit mass and T reckoned as temperature C. + 273°,
R varies inversely as the molecular weight of the substance,
we will write our equation in the form
                        pv = RT«y(i>) + v<f> (v),
where we see that v<p(v) stands for the internal virial-term.
If, then, according to the law of the inverse fourth power, the
internal virial varies inversely as v, then v2<f>(v) ought to be
 constant. Now Ramsay and Young have carefully tabulated
the values of R/(«) and <f>(v) for different values of v in the
 case of ethyl oxide ; so it is easy to tabulate Rtf/(i') and v2(f>(v),
 as we proceed to do in the following Table, where v is the
 volume of a gramme of ethyl oxide in cubic centimetres, and
 the metre of mercury is the unit of pressure. These units
 will be used throughout when we are dealing with experi
 mental results involving pressures ; but when necessary, for
 theoretical convenience, we will convert to absolute units.
                       Table I.—Ethyl Oxide.
            V.       TLvfiv).            v.             *>(»).
       Perfect gas.    •842            3-3        1-758  2413
           100         •912    5710    30         1-865  2366
            50         •973    5190    2-75       2013   2371
            20        1-129    4554    25         2-30   2487
            15        1-201    4302    2-4        2-42   2519
            10        1-327    3908    2-3        2-56   2550
             8        1-409    3661    2-2        2-73   2589
             6        1-525    3308    2-1        2-95   2646
             5        1-595    3047    20         319    2691
             4        1-654    2656    1-9        3-54   2771
             37       1-682    2534

                      Laws of Molecular Force.                 215
    The critical volume of ethyl oxide is between 5 and 4; so
that if "dpfaT does become variable with temperature below
the critical volume, the values of Rvf(v) and v2<f>(u), calcu
lated for volumes below 5, on Ramsay and Young's assump
tion that even below the critical volume 'dp/'dT is independent
of temperature, will be affected with an error of more or less
importance ; they may therefore be regarded as a first approxi
mation only and are added for comparison.
     The first point to notice in these numbers is that Ri/(t>)
 increases steadily from its limiting value '842 in the perfect
 gas state to double that amount near the critical volume, while
 at the same time v'<j>{v) diminishes from its limiting value in
 the gaseous state to the half of it near the critical volume.
 This result would seem at once to contradict the law of the
 inverse fourth power ; but we shall see in the sequel that, in
 compression down to the critical region, there is a process of
 pairing going on among the molecules and producing this de
 parture from the requirements of the law of the inverse fourth
 power, uncomplicated by such a process.
     It is to be noted that the limiting value of r?<f>(v) is diffi
 cult to determine experimentally, because <f)(v), the quantity
 measured, tends to the limit zero. But while below volume 4,
  Hvf(v) increases with increasing rapidity, v2<f)(v) remains
  almost stationary, it dips a little and then increases ; but
  remembering that its values count only as first approxima
  tions, we may assume that v2<f>(v) attains near the critical
 volume a value which remains constant in the liquid state,
 and is about half of the limiting value for the gaseous state.
  Thus there is discontinuity in the passage from the region
  above the critical volume to that below (or, more briefly but
 less accurately, during liquefaction). We must note carefully
  that in the range of volume from 4 to 1*9, which is a large
  liquid range, v'^fy) remains constant, as it should according
  to the law of the inverse fourth power, now that the process
  of pairing is completed.
      To represent Rt/(u) I found the form R{1 +2k/(v + k)} to
  be efficient ; it gives the limit 2R to the function when v = k\
  and as "842 is the known value of R, each of the above
  tabulated values of R?/(i') yields a value of k, the mean value
  4'066 having been adopted by me. The other function,
  v2(f>(v), proved no less amenable to simple representation, the
  form found to fit it being lv/ (v + k) , which attains the value
   l]2 when v—lc; and as the value of k is known, we can calcu
   late from each tabulated value of vl<b(v) a value of I, and
   again adopt the mean value 5514. Hence down to near the

216                 Mr. William Sutherland on the
critical volume we have the behaviour of ethyl oxide repre
sented by the simple form of equation
    pv = m(l+ —,\                  1—„ with £=4-066 and Z=5514,
involving only the two constants k and I peculiar to ethyl
oxide.
   We will now compare a few values of the pressures, in
metres of mercury, given by this equation with those found
by Ramsay and Young.
                                  Table II.
                                       100.   50.   20.   10.    6.
  175° 0.    Pressure, experiment.    3-500  6620  13-88
          { Pressure, calculated.     3538   6-634 13-78
  195° C     Pressure, experiment.    3-710  7020  15 06 2300 27-00
          I Pressure, calculated.     3-719  7 021 14-90 22-99 27-44
  280° 0.    Pressure, experiment.                 19-80 34-59 49-62
          { Pressure, calculated.                  19-69 34-28 4900
    The agreement is as close as can be looked for ; because
although Ramsay and Young measure volumes to within
•01 centim., and pressures to within 2 centim. of mercury, the
quantities measured cannot be considered known with that
degree of accuracy; for the discrepancies between their mea
surements and those of Perot (Ann. de Chim. et de Phys.
ser. 6, t. xiii.), who made special determinations in a large
globe of the saturation-volume of ethyl oxide at different
temperatures, are greater than those in Table II. Accord
ingly it would be useless to seek a better empirical represen
tation of Ramsay and Young's results than the above ; and
as we are chiefly interested in establishing our simple form of
characteristic equation, we had better proceed at once to the
consideration of Amagat's experiments on carbonic dioxide,
practically identical with Andrews's, but more extensive.
Amagat's unit of volume is ^10 of that occupied by the gas
at 0° and 1 atmosphere ; taking the weight of a litre of the
gas at 0° and 1 atmosphere as 1"9777 gramme, we can
convert Amagat's data to the gramme and centim. as units.
The following Table is arranged in the same way as
Table I. :—

                         Laws of Molecular Force.                           217
                   Table III.—Carbonic Dioxide.
               V.        RvJ{v).                     B$/[t>).   t'20(w).
         Perfect gas.      1-421               204      2-56     16(il
             734           192       2159      235      2-64     15(56
            (700)        (2-11)     (2500)     205     2-77      1482
             5-14         2-13       2071      1-91    2-86      1441
            (500)        (2-37)     (2400)     1-76    302       1430
             3-67         2-31       1858
            (The brackeled numbers are introduced from Andrews.)
   A glance at this Table shows the same facts to be in it as
in Table I. The critical volume of C02 is somewhere about 2;
and we notice that near this volume ~Rvf(y) tends to double
the value 1'421 in the gaseous state, while at the same point
v2<f>(v) approaches a constant value about the half of what
must from inspection be estimated as the upper limit of it.
Both functions are accurately represented by the same forms
as in the case of ethyl oxide with &=1"762 and Z = 2773.
With these values the following pressures were calculated for
comparison with experiment :—
                     Table IV.—Carbonic Dioxide.
                                        11-74.  8-8. 5-87. 3-67. 2-64. 2-20.
  100° 0. | Pressure,    experiment. 39
               Pressure, calculated. 39-4
                                                49-8
                                                50-4
                                                      69
                                                      70
                                                              96-8
                                                              99
                                                                       124
                                                                       123
                                                                             143
                                                                             137
               Pressure, experiment. 34-5
   70° C. { Pressure,                           43-7  58-8    79-5       95  105
                          calculated. 34-8      440   59-4    80-0       94  100
               Pressure, experiment. 29-7
   35° C. | Pressure,                           36-5 46-4     55-8       61   63-6
                          calculated. 29-5      365  470      575        60   57-7
   The agreement is quite satisfactory except at the lowest
-volume, which is near the critical ; and I have shown (Phil.
Mag. August 1887) that near the critical point in capillary
tubes the relation of pressure to volume becomes fickle, the
measurements of Andrews and Amagat differing from one
another as much as experiment and calculation in Table IV.
To illustrate this at higher volumes I introduced into Table III.
a couple of Andrews's values of Jlvf(v) and v'2<p(v), from values
of R/(») and <f>(v) calculated by Ramsay and Young (Phil.
Mag. 1887), after conversion of Andrews's air-manometer
indications to true metres of mercury. It will be seen that
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.                        Q

218               Mr. William Sutherland on the
Andrews makes "bpfdT. a little larger than Amagat ; and this
being so, it is not worth while to seek for closer agreement
than that in Table IV., at least at present.
  We have, however, a sensitive means of determining whether
the form and the values of the constants adopted truly repre
sent the behaviour of C02 closely enough at high volumes,—
namely, Thomson and Joule's and Regnault's experiments on
the cooling of C02 when it escapes through a porous plug
from under pressure (Phil. Trans. 1854-1862; Mdm. de I'Acad.
xxxvii.). Natanson (Wied. Ann. xxxi.) has repeated the Joule
and Thomson experiments on C02 under the more favourable
conditions afforded by the commercial sale of the fluid in
large quantity and great purity, so that he has been able to
measure not only the cooling effect for a given pressure excess,
but also its variation with pressure. Taking all these experi
ments together, we have a delicate test for the equation at
high volumes.
   The most convenient expression for the cooling effect for
our present purpose is
where 8 is the cooling effect, Kp is the specific heat at constant
pressure, and 8 is temperature on the absolute thermo
dynamic scale. In previous papers I took from Joule and
Thomson's original investigation 0 = T + *7°, not then aware
that SirW. Thomson, in his article "Heat" (Encyc. Brit.),
had by a fuller discussion of all the experimental data proved
6=1, and so removed the difficulty that the term "7 opposed
to the harmony of the thermodynamic and molecular kinetic
conceptions of temperature.
   With our characteristic equation the cooling effect is, after
the appropriate reductions, given by
        Kp~ =2{l/RT-k) +p{4(//RT-i)(Z/RT-2*)
                                 - 2*(Z/RT - 2k) - Ik/UI \/li1.
Within Joule and Thomson's range of pressure this can be
reduced to
                     Kpg=2(Z/RT-A);
and dS can be made to stand for the integral cooling effect if
dp stands for the integral excess of 2'54 metres of mercury,
to which they reduced their results. The term in p will be

                        Laws of Molecular Force.                       219
 taken account of when we come to Natanson's results.              From
 Eegnault's data we have, in dynamical measure
                      KJ, = 424(-187 + -00027<).
                                Table V.
 (Cooling effect of C02 escaping through a porous plug under
           a pressure excess of 254 metres of mercury.)
  TemperatureO.... 7°4.     8°.  19°-1. 3.5°-6. 54°. 91°'5. 93° -5 97° 5
  Tli. and Joule ... 4-4    42     3-9    34    2-95  2-35   210    213
                     44     4-4    4-1    3-7   3-4   27     2-7    2-(i
   Temperature C. -25° 3°.        100°.
                     63     41     26
  Calculated         55     45     2-6
   The agreement is as good as possible if both sets of experi
ments are taken into consideration. But Nalanson's result
affords a more delicate test ; he found that at 20° up to 25
atmospheres the cooling effect for a pressure excess of one
atmosphere could be represented by
                            | -1-18 + -0126^;
while the theoretical equation above gives
                            dS
                            dp = 1-23 + -012 p,
which is practically identical with Natanson's. On account
of the closeness of this agreement we obtain as an indirect
conclusion, that the experimental work on C02 taken as a
whole makes the absolute thermodynamic zero —273°, the
same result as Sir W. Thomson has obtained for air and H
in the article "Heat" {Encyc. Brit.), while for C02. using
only Regnault's coefficient of expansion and Joule and his
own cooling effects, he found — 273°-9. Now that 00^ is
seen to be in harmony with the other two more perfect gases,
the number 273 may be accepted definitely as the absolute
temperature of melting ice.
   The equation therefore applies accurately at high volumes,
a fact which we can prove by another test, seeing that Amagat
carried out a special research ( Compt. Rend, xciii.) to determine
the ratios of pv top'v1 at different temperatures and up to values
of pi about 8 atmospheres, v being double
                                    Q 2

220                   Mr. William Sutherland on the
                                  Table VI.
            (Values of pv/p'rf at high volumes for C02.)
                (p = 5"7 metres of mercury : v = 2tt.)
                                 50°.        100°.    200°.        300°.
                              10145         1-0OS7   1-0040        10020
                               1-0156       1-0092   1-0026        1-0000
                                                                            1
As the experiments are not free from liability to an error of
 1 in 1000, the agreement is again close enough to prove the
applicability of the equation at high volumes.
   In the sequel it will be shown that this equation applies to
the great majority of compounds, but meanwhile the only
other experimental determinations similar to those already
discussed for ethyl oxide and carbonic dioxide are Amagat's
for H2, 02, N„ CH4, and C2H4 ; Roth's for S02 and NH3 (Wied.
Ann. xi.) ; Janssen's for N20 (Wied. Beibl. ii.) ; and Ramsay
and Young's on methyl and ethyl alcohol (Phil. Mag. Aug.
1887). Our form of characteristic equation applies to
S02, NH3, and N20 successfully, but not to H2, 02, N2, and
CH4, which require a still simpler type, the alcohols on the
other hand requiring a less simple type. These are the
values of k and I for S02, NH3, and N20 :—
                          SOa.              NH3.            N20.
             k . . 2-08                    4-8             2-3
             I . . 2740                    22040           3420
with which the following pressures have been calculated for
comparison with the experimental data, the latter being taken
direct from air or nitrogen manometer without correction for
departure from Boyle's law.
                                 Table VII.
       S02 at 99° •6.             NH3 at 99°-6.            N,0 at 25°1.
   v.     p exp. p calo.       ».     p exp. p oalc.    v.     p exp. p eale.
  41-9      7-9       80    172         7-6      7-6   7-0      391     37-2
  17-6     17-1      170     85-7      14-8     14-7   5-36     42 6    42-4
  13-6     21-2      20-8    654       18-8     18-9   3-78     43-9    467
   9-9     260       262     400       28-6     291
         At 183°                     At 183°                 At 43°-8.
  18-2    21-7       220 160           10-3     102   5-86      49-4    479
  100     37-3      36-9     81-6      198      196   4-62      556     544
   4-58   69-2      67-5 : 36- 1      409       42-1  3-47      61-4    610
   2-75   98-2      93-5 ! 162        82-6      85-4  2-82      641     64-3

                      Laics of Molecular Force.                   221
    This comparison has been made only to show that the form
is applicable to other bodies as well as to ethyl oxide and car
bonic dioxide ; full confirmation of the form will come later
on, in the study of many of its applications.
    2. Establishment of the Characteristic Equation for the
 Gaseous Elements, with proof of continuity during liquefaction.
—The simplest plan in the case of the gaseous elements will
be to take nitrogen as typical and tabulate for it Ri/ (v) and
v'2(j)(v) from Amagat's experiments up to 320 metres of
mercury.
                      Table VIII.—Nitrogen.
           V.                            v.
    Perfect gas    2233                415       325        1188
         922       263                 3-69      340        1007
        6-91       2-77      1197      346       344         982
        576        3-OS      1396      323       380        1250
        461        294        809
The values of v'^v) are unsteady, because the departures from
Boyle's law are so. small that <f) (v) cannot be determined with
accuracy ; but it is clear enough that v*<f>(v) does not tend to
diminish within the range of volume available, not a wide
enough one, however, to convince us that there is a radical
difference between the course of this function in elements and
compounds. But if we adopt from this Table as it stands the
only possible conclusion that v2<f>(v) is constant, we shall be
able to justify it by its consequences. In contrast to the
constancy of v9<f>(v) is the tendency of Rvf (v) at low volumes
to double its perfect gas-value.
    In the case of H2 and 02 the two functions run a similar
course to that for N2, but it is a more unexpected fact that
they also do the same for the compound methane, CH4, as is
shown in Table IX.
                        Table IX.—Methane.
           V.     Kvf{v).                 V. -  Be/(e).    v*<p(v).
     Perfect gas.  3-908                1211     5-24       6900
         32-3      4-16                 1009     543        6400
         28-2      4-30      5600        807     5-95       6500
         24-2      4-39      6200        7-27    6-47       7000
         202       473       6900        6-46    680        6800
         161       4-73      6200        605     6-73       6200
It is evident that we have here to do with v*<f>(i)) as a constant,

222                  Mr. William Sutherland on the
that is with an internal virial varying inversely as the volume
down to near the critical volume, and l&vf\v) tending some
where near that point to about double its value in the perfect
gas state. The course of Jlvf(y) in these four gases is repre
sented by the simple form
which attains the value 2R when v=k.                   Hence the charac
teristic equation down to v=k is
a form which I had already adopted for air (Phil. Mag. Aug.
 1887). The following are the values for k and I :—
                H.        N2.         Oa.          CHV          Air.
     k . . 12-0          2-64        1-78         5-51       2-47[2'll]
     I . . 41700 1175                851          6460        1110[910]
The values given in brackets for air are those previously
found by me from Amagat's data ( Compt. Rend, xcix.), but as
 these data are not carried to such high pressures as those for
N9 and Os, I have calculated values for air by adding to four
fifths of the values for N2 one fifth of the values for 02.
   This equation is almost identical with that of Van der
Waals, but it is a little simpler. It gives the following pres
 sures for comparison with Amagat's experimental results : —
                                 Table X.
        Hydrogen.                  Nitrogen.                   Oxygen.
        At 17-7° 0.               At 17-7° C.                At 14-7° C.
    v.    p exp. p calc.     v.     p exp. p calc.       v.      p exp. p calc.
  1669     57-5      569   13-83       46       45-7    5-73      88-9     89-7
  1001     99        99     6-91       92       91      358      141     142
   601    176       176     4-61      145     142       2-58     201     203
   46-7   238       241     3 69      194     188       2-43     216     219
                            323       223     226
        At 100° O.            *   At 100 C.                  At 100° C.
  1669     74-2      733   1383        60       60-5    5-73      123     124
  1001    129       128     691       125      124      3-58      20i    204
   601    230       229     4-61      200      199      2-58      300    301
   46-7   311       315     369       270     266       2-43      322    327
                            323       320     323
                                                     l

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                 223
  The experimental numbers for oxygen are taken from Amagat's
  data in the Comptes Rendus, xci.
     The most delicate test we can apply to our form at high
 volumes is, in the case of air, to compare the calculated with
 the experimental Thomson and Joule cooling effect. When
 I did this with the previous equation for air (£ = 2-ll and
 Z = 910), I assumed the difference '7° to exist between the
 melting-point of ice on the thermodynamic and gas ther
 mometers ; but, as already pointed out, Sir W. Thomson
 having proved this difference not to exist, there must have
 been a compensation of errors in the application of the
 previous equation. Thomson's expression for the cooling
 effect, applied to our equation for air, becomes
                      KpdS/dp = 2l/UT-k/2,
 which gives the following calculated values :—
    Cooling effects of air escaping through a porous plug into
         the atmosphere under a pressure excess of 2*54 metres
         of mercury.
     Temperature C         7°1.       17°.      39°-5.    92°&
    Experiment ... "88                '86        -75       -51
    Calculation ... -84               -80        -71       -55
The agreement is the closest to be looked for and proves tho
 accuracy of our equation for air at high volumes.
    At low volumes we can test the form for all the elementary
gases and CH4 by applying it to the calculation of the critical
volume, pressure, and temperature in each case. To do this
at the present stage we must assume that our form can be
trusted to hold not only to the critical volume but also a little
past into the liquid region, a legitimate assumption for the
elements, where we have seen the internal virial varying
inversely as the volume, and so giving a guarantee of con
tinuity, but not legitimate for the compounds where dis
continuity occurs. Then, applying James Thomson's idea
of the passage from the gaseous to the liquid state, as pre-
cisionized by Maxwell and Clausius, we have the critical point
determined by the conditions ~dpfdv=0, B2p/Bt,2 = 0.
   Along with the characteristic equation these lead to the fol
lowing values:—critical volume iv= 3A-/2 ; critical temperature
Tc= 16//27RA; critical pressure pcz=il/27ki,—to compare with
the experimental values found by Olszewski for 02 and N2
(Compt. Rend, c), by Wroblewski fcr air, and by Dewar
for CH4 (Phil. Mag. 1884, xviii.).

 224                    Mr. William Sutherland on the
                                    Table XI.
                                  H,           N2.     Os.        CH4.         Air.
     Critical     ' exper. . . .               3-4     2-5
    Volume.                                    3-96    267
     Critical       exper. ...                -146    -119       -99-5       -140
  Temperature.                   -229         -155    -127       -95         -149
     Critical       exper. ...                   27      38        37            30
    Pressure.                        19          25      40        32            27
    The agreement is all that can be looked for in view of the
difficulties of measuring these low critical temperatures and
their associated pressures. With regard to hydrogen all we
 know is that Olszewski (Com.pt. Mend, ci.) has submitted it to
a temperature estimated by him as —220° without a sign of
liquefaction. If our equation is to be trusted, it would indi
 cate that he would need to go some 10 degrees lower before
the only unliquefied gas is conquered. Wroblewski has pub
lished data on the compressibility of H2 up to pressures of 70
atmospheres at temperatures of —103° and —182° (Journ.
Chem. Soc. 1889), and with these our equation is in accord,
but there is hardly need of tabulated proof.
   3. Brief discussion of exceptional Compounds such as the
Alcohols and Ethylene.—To complete our survey of the ex
perimental material on bodies above the critical region we
have to consider Ramsay and Young's observations on methyl
and ethyl alcohol, and Amagat's on ethylene. Ramsay and
Young point out that at low volumes the values of ^pfdT for
the alcohols are not so reliable as for ethyl oxide, being deter
mined from a smaller temperature range ; hence our values of
Rvf(v) and i>20(r) are not so reliable as before, but they
suffice to show the exceptional nature of these bodies.
                       Table XII.—Methyl Alcohol.
             V.                  v2<p(v).          v.      Ei/(i').   v2<p(v).
       Perfect gas.     1-950                      25       350       24800
           340          214                       20        3-70      23000
           240          2-32     45500             18       3-79      22000
           200          2-40     48000             16       397       21700
           170          2-46     46100      1      14       4-18      20900
           135          256      43700     i      12        438       19900
           100          270      41000     ;      11        446       19000
            70          301      42100            10        453       17900
            50          3-10     33500              9       4'58      16700
            40          320      30200              8       4-55      15000
            80          337      26800 ¦  '         7       439       12900

                         Laws of Molecular Force.                 225
               Table XII. (continued).—Ethyl Alcohol.
            V.        Ri/(i>). v2<p(v).   V.
       Perfect gas.     1-35             8        343     11300
          1082          1(55
                        mo     18000 1   (i       334      8000
                        1-83   10000     4        3-37     0200
           30       1   2-16   15000     3        351      5000
           261          231    lliOOO    2-4      303      4000
           18-2         2-83   17000     2        4-87     4700
           12           332    15000     1-8      5-83     4000
           10           341    13500      1-6     700      4!K)0
            9           343    12500     1-4      8-81     4700
    The numbers for methyl alcohol do not extend as far as the
critical volume, while those for ethyl alcohol go considerably
beyond it, lying as it does between 3 and 4 ; but we notice
in both cases that Rt/(y) increases from the limiting gaseous
value, but attains a practically constant value before the
critical volume is reached. In ethyl alcohol we may say that
the value 3-4 is retained from volume 10 to volume 3, and
moreover this 3'4 is not now double the initial l-35, but about
2*5 times it. In methyl alcohol the value 4'5 may be said to
be retained constant from volume 11 to 7, the lowest on the
table ; so that it is probable that, as in the case of ethyl alcohol,
this value will be retained down to the critical volume : here
again, also, the 4-5 is more than double the initial 1'95, but is
only 2'3, not 2"5, times it.
    Note that, in ethyl alcohol, as soon as the critical volume is
passed Rvf(v) begins again to increase rapidly, just as
happened in the case of ethyl oxide. But for our present
purpose more interest attaches to the course of vsrf>(«). In
methyl alcohol at high volumes it seems to approach a limit
which we may assign as 4(5,000, and then at volume 16,
where Hvf(v) has risen to double its initial value, va0(r) has
 fallen to almost half of 46,000, but as H.vf(v) continues to rise
 v9^>(v) continues to fall, and still continues to do so even when
 Rvf(v) has become constant. In methyl alcohol we cannot
 follow the changes right down to the critical volume, but in
 ethyl alcohol we see that v*$(v) attains at the critical volume
a value which is carried constant into the liquid state, this
constant value being about one quarter of the apparent limiting
value 20,000 at large volumes. The constancy of v3^)(v) below
the critical volume is in striking contrast to the rapid variation
of nv/(v).
    I have not sought to represent by formulas the course of
the two functions for the alcohols, as I have doubts about

 226                 Mr. William Sutherland on the
  "dpfbT being independent of temperature in the case of the
  alcohols ; if it is variable then the values of our functions are
  affected with error. In any case we have seen that above the
  critical region the alcohols behave differently from our two
  typical compounds, ethyl oxide and carbonic dioxide ; in
  section 14 it will be seen thiit in the liquid region, on the other
  hand, the alcohols approach the regular compounds in many
  respects, but are still exceptional in others. There remains
 now only ethylene to consider as to its gaseous behaviour.
                        Table XIII.—Ethylene.
             V.      R»/(»).                 v.     WO).
        Perfect gas.   2-22                4-61      4-15  4500
           2075        2-71     5800       415       4-45  4500
            1614       2-78     5320       3 69      4-81  4400
            11-53      307      5500      322        571   4700
             9-23      3-24     5300      2-77       6-41  4400
             692       3 58     5100      2-65       6-63  4200
             5-76      383      4900      2-54       787   5000
     According to Cailletet and Mathias (Compl. Rend, cii.),
 the critical volume of ethylene is about 4-5 ; so that again in
 the above table we see Hvf(v) near the critical volume attaining
 double its initial value and increasing rapidly thereafter. Once
 more, too, we see v2<f>(v) attaining near the critical volume a
 value which it retains constant below ; but ethylene is excep
 tional in that this value is not half the limit at high volumes.
 The facts in the above table may be summarized in the state
 ments that Rv/(v) maybe represented by the form R(l+£/i>),
 and v2<p(v) by the form vl/(v + a) ; so that the characteristic
 equation for ethylene is
                     pv = m:(l + k-)            j-,
                     r           \    v / v+a
 with yfc=4-15, a=l-64, and i=6270.
    The form for ethylene is intermediate in simplicity between
 that for the simple gases and that for compounds, except that
 it has an extra constant. It is also worth noting that the
 forms
 are special cases of a general form
                            nk/{v + (n — 1)k\,
with n = \, 1, and 2.

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                 227
   4. Establishment of Characteristic Equation below the
region of the Critical Volume.—Now that we have practically
exhausted the available data of the gaseous state, we see that
by themselves they do not give much scope for generalization ;
but if we can secure an equation applicable from the critical
volume down to the volumes of liquids in the ordinary state,
then, with two equations covering almost the whole range of
fluidity, we shall have a much larger experimental area laid
under contribution for information on the characters of mole
cules.
    Already we have secured one important fact towards the
acquisition of such an equation, namely that below the critical
volume the internal virial term varies inversely as the volume ;
and in the case of ethyl oxide we know its actual amount l/2v
with Z = 5514. We have therefore only to add to l/2v Ramsay
and Young's values of pv at different temperatures for different
volumes below the critical, and we obtain the values of the
kinetic-energy term in the desired equation ; we can then
proceed to study how this quantity depends on temperature
and volume, and express the resulting conclusions in a
formula.
    As to the form we have this clue, that it must join on con
tinuously with the previous one where that ceases to be appli
cable. Now the first fact to notice is that our form for
compounds above the critical region cannot, like that for the
elements, give a critical point by itself at all ; for given p
and T it is not a cubic but a quadratic in v, and hence cannot
 give us the three equal roots which are adopted as charac
teristic of the critical point when we apply the conditions
                   ¦dpfdv = 0, d2iVdt>2 = 0.
 This emphasizes the discontinuity in compounds as contrasted
 with elements. However, we know as an experimental fact
 that at the critical point ^pfav = 0, which with the charac
 teristic equation gives us only two relations between the
 critical temperature, pressure, and volume. As a third relation
that would perfectly define these three quantities I was led to
believe that the critical volume is proportional to A, and found
                     critical volume vc=7k/Q
 is the relation which, with the two others, gives successfully
 the numerics of the critical state in agreement with ex
 periment. As this will be proved subsequently (Section 10)
 for a large number of substances, I will not delay at present to
 give examples, except for those compounds for which we have
  already found k and I.

228               Mr. William Sutherland on the
                               Table XIV.
   Critical temperature, To=120Z/409R& ; critical pressure,
                             p = 36Z/409F.
                            (C2H5)20. oo2.  SOa.  NH3.     »2o.
     Critical  exper. ...    194      32    155   130       35
  Temperature. ealc          199      52    125    96       36
     Critical  exper. . . .   27-1    59     60    87       57
    Pressure.                 29-3    786    56    84       57
   The want of accuracy in the agreement in parts of this
table is to be ascribed partly to inaccuracy in the ordinary
determinations of the critical point, as I have already pointed
out that capillary action must sometimes largely affect the
numerics of the critical state when these are determined in
capillary tubes (Phil. Mag. August 1887). Regnault, in
his account of his experiments on the saturation-pressures of
C02, expressly declares that be had liquid C03 at 42°, which
is 10° above the apparent critical temperature in capillary
tubes ; and Cailletet and Colardeau (Compt. Rend, cviii.)
have shown that although the meniscus between gas and
liquid C02 disappears to the eye about 31° or 32°, yet cha
racteristic differences between liquid and gas can be proved
to exist several degrees higher than this. Hence an error of
at least 10° is possible in ordinary determinations of critical
temperatures. On the other hand, an error of 5 per cent, in
the value of an absolute temperature of about 400° as given
by our equation would amount to 20°. Table XIV. is to be
taken in the light of these facts.
    We have now ascertained a second property that our
equation for volumes below the critical is to possess : it must
begin to apply when v=7k/6, as the other form cannot apply
below this volume at the critical temperature. At this volume
the kinetic-energy term in our form above the critical region
becomes
                 RT(1 + 12/13), or 25RT/13;
so that 25E/13 is the lower limit of the term which in the new
equation is to take the same place as Jlvf(v) hitherto. Hence
for this term the form
                            25R(1 + F(»)/13
naturally suggests itself, and as F(u) is to vanish when
v = 7k/6, we get (7k/Q — v)/ifr(y) as a suggestion for its form ;
and it only l emains from the data obtained, as I have said, by

                         Laws of Molecular Force.                229
adding l/2v to Ramsay and Young's values of pv for volumes
of ethyl oxide below k, to determine the form of the function
^r(v) . This was found, after a rather tedious search, to come
out in the simple form
so that finally we have the following as the equation for ethyl
oxide below the volume k :
with the following values for the constants :
           R'=25R/13,             k>=7k/6, B = 63'l,  /9=M1,
                            R, k, and I as before.
    I propose to call this the infracritical equation. It is to be
noticed that we have introduced only two additional constants ;
so that, as regards number of constants, we could hardly
look for a simpler form.
    Above the volume 7k/6 the appropriate form was proved
to be
w hich I propose to call the supracritical equation.
    Between k and 7&/6 we have the circacritical form
This, then, gives the complete representation of ethyl oxide
in the fluid state if we establish the sufficiency of the infra-
critical form, as we now proceed to do. In the next table are
compared the pressures found by Ramsay and Young and
those given by the equation.
                    Table XV.—Liquid Ethyl Oxide.
                                     3-7.  2-75. 225.    2.   1-9.
    quo nU\/ Pressure,
  ily0                 exper.....
                  .. cale.            28    29    43
                                      32    26    45
  175 nL-\/ Pressure,
  T7KO                 exper.....
                 „ cafe.                          19    43
                                                   14   48
  150° 0 ( ^>tessure' exPel-. .                              19-5
           1      * c\alc. ...                               20

230              Mr. William Sutherland on the
   For the proper appreciation of this table it must be borne
in mind that as soon as we enter the liquid region the pv term
of the characteristic equation becomes the small difference of
tw o terms, a small percentage error in either of which becomes
a large one inpv. The fact that the above table brings out
is that from 150° to 195° the relation between volume and
temperature given by the equation is so accurate as to make
only the small errors in pressure in the above table. But to
show this more directly, we will now compare the volumes of
the liquid under a pressure of 9 metres of mercury between
0° and 100°, as determined by Grimaldi (Wied. Bcibl. x.) and
as given by the equation. The specific gravity of ethyl oxido
at 0° and under one atmosphere is taken as "7366.
                Table XVI.       (^=19-5 metre.)
                            0°.        50°.     100°.    160°.
                           1-355      1-469     1 630     1-9
                           1-354      1 467     1633     1-9
   This, taken in conjunction with Table XV., shows that the
equation represents with a high degree of accuracy the ex
pansion of liquid ethyl oxide right up to the critical volume.
It is now to be tested as to its power to give compressibilities
correctly. The next Table contains the calculated compressi
bilities of liquid ethyl oxide, and also the experimental as
given by Amagat {Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. 5 ser. t. xi.),
Avenarius (Wied. Beibl. ii.), and Grimaldi (Wied. Beibl.x.).
Amagat's values had to be interpolated for comparison with
the others.
                         Table XVII.
  Compressibilities with metre of mercury as pressure-unit.
                            0°.        40°.      60°.    100°.
                          •000200    •000309   •000380  ¦000730
                          •000178    •000317   000403   •000654
                          •000207    •000316   •000407  •000632
                          ¦000183    •000300   •000392  •000710

                       Laws of Molecular Force.                  231
    The Agreement here is again satisfactory, and we have now
seen that our form, with only two constants in addition to
those characteristic of the gaseous state, can give both the
expansion and compression of the liquid at low pressures ;
but Amagat has measured these also at high pressures up to
2000 and 3000 atmos. (Compt. Rend. ciii. and cv.), and the
following Table compares first his values of the mean co
efficient of expansion between 0° and 50c at pressures from
76 up to 2280 metres with those given by the equation, and,
second, his values of the mean compressibility at 170,4 and at
pressures up to 1500 metres with those given by the equation.
If and v2 are the volumes at px and p2, then the mean com
pressibility is taken as (vj^ — v3)/vlip^—pi). The apparent
compressibilities given by Amagat are converted to true values
by adding "000002, which he has since given as the com
pressibility of glass.
                             Table XVIII.
        Mean Coefficient of Expansion at high pressures,
   pin metres ... 76.       380.   760.   1140. 1520. 1900. 2280.
Araagat             -00170 '00112 -00091 -00077 -00070 -00063 -00056
Equation           -00170 "00101 -00076 -00066 -00056 -00050 -00047
            Mean Compressibilities at high pressures.
   pin metres ... 76 to 114 to 366 to 654 to 933 to 1218 to 1500
Amagat             -000208 '000143 -000112 000086 -000070 -000062
Equation           -000197 -000128 -000085 -000060 -000046 -000037
    As regards expansion the equation goes fairly near to the
truth ; except at the lowest pressures, it gives coefficients
 somewhat smaller than the experimental, but it parallels
 closely the main phenomenon of the rapid diminution of the
 coefficient with rising pressure. But in the compressibilities
 there is an increasing divergence between experiment and
 equation with increasing pressure, although again the equation
 is true to the main fact of the rapid diminution of compres
 sibility with increasing pressure. We may conclude from the
 last table that our equation holds within the limits of experi
 mental accuracy up to 760 metres ; beyond that it begins to
 fail. A simple empirical modification would adapt the form
 to the whole of Amagat's range, but as it stands it will be
 found good enough for our applications.
    We will now consider briefly how this form applies to car
 bonic dioxide below the critical volume ; and the comparison

232              Mr. William Sutherland on the
is interesting, as it relates to temperatures both above and
below the critical. The values of the constants are B = 54,
£=•692.
                             Table XIX.
            Carbonic Dioxide below critical volume.
                              1-526.    1-203.      1115.         1-027.
                               150       274
  '°         „    calo. ...    152       266                             I1
                                69       126        187            320
       '\    „    calc. ...     69       120        184            320
                                                     99            200
                                                     97            208
   The agreement is witbin the limit of experimental error at
the high pressures. Cailletet and Mathias have determined
(Compt. Bend, cii.) the density of liquid C02 at various tem
peratures under the pressure of saturation. Here is a com
parison with a couple of their results :—
                          Temperature . . .      —34°.          0°.
      Volume—Cailletet and Mathias .             -946        1-087
           „     Equation                        -943        1-086
   As far as compound gases are concerned, the applicability
of the form for volumes below the critical has now been de
 monstrated in two typical cases. The elementary gases have
 now to be considered as to their behaviour below the critical
volume. The data are again those furnished by Amagat
(Compt. liend. cvii. and Phil. Mag. Dec. 1888) on the com
pressibility of these gases between 760 and 2280 metres of
mercury. Our study of these bodies above the critical volume
has given us the knowledge that the internal virial term below
k must be l/v, and the kinetic-energy term at the critical
volume is 3RT/2, and with these guides the complete form
required is soon found from the experimental numbers. It is
                P> = |RT(l + 6^)-l,
                                          /8,
with the following values for the additional constants /8
and b :—
                                     k.         0-           b.
        Hydrogen . . . 12                     4-3          •480
        Nitrogen                   2-64        •81         •420
        Oxygen                     1-78        •604        •4415
        Methane                  [5-51]      [1-59]       [•447]

                       Laws of Molecular Force.
   The approximate equality of the values of the constant b is
worth noting. I have also reproduced here the values of k at
the side of those for /3, in order to point out that /3 is nearly
A/3 in each case. Amagat has not published data for methane
at volumes below the critical region, but the numbers given
in brackets for methane were obtained indirectly as explained
below. These relations of /S and b give our equation such a
degree of simplicity as largely to establish the soundness of its
forin . The next Table shows the degree of accuracy with which
it represents the experimental facts.
             Table XX.—Oxygen at high pressures.
                              1-277.   1-097.   1-008.   •9-19.      ¦905.
  15O0 | Pressure, exp.......  760      1140    1520     1900        2280
                               739      1141     1512    1893        2296
   The agreement is quite as good for hydrogen and nitrogen.
   By means of this equation we can calculate the volumes of
a gramme of liquid nitrogen and oxygen at their boiling-
points under a pressure of "76 metre, for comparison with
Wroblewski and Olszewski's determinations of the same
 (Compt. Rend. cii. ; Wied. JBeibl.x.; and 'Nature,' April
1887).
                                        Oxygen.                 Nitrogen.
                  Wroblewski              •85                      1-20
      Volume                              •89
                   Olszewski                        at - 194° 1-13
     at -184° Equation                    •90                      1-26
    The equation is seen to give the volumes of these two bodies
at these low temperatures within the present limits of experi
mental accuracy, and accordingly it covers a range of 2000-
metres pressure and almost the whole experimental range of
temperature. In the case of methane, if we take Olszewski's
value 2*41 for its volume at —164°, and assume b is the mean
of b for H2, N2, and 02, then we can calculate the value of (3
which is tabulated above.
   To ethylene above the critical region we had to assign a
special form intermediate between that for ordinary compounds
and that for elements ; so that we had better do likewise for
its infracritical equation, which I have cast in the form
                      ^nm/i          vT U-v\           I     k
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.                  R

234               Mr. William Sutherland on the
with B=56'5, /3 = 1'53. For the elements we had vc=3k/2,
for ordinary compounds vc=7k/G ; so that to make ethylene
intermediate ve is taken as 5A/4, all these being of the general
form (1 + 2n)/2n, with n= 1, 2, 3.
    With the values of the constants B and y8 given above as
derived from Amagat's results at high pressures, we can
 determine the density of liquid ethylene ; at —21° under
 saturation-pressure the density is "414, identical with the
 experimental value of Cailletet and Mathias (Compt. Rend.
 cii.).
    It will be as well at this stage to extract clear from among
 the argumentative detail the most important results so far
 obtained.
     First, in the elements the internal virial varies inversely as
 the volume over the whole experimental range.
     Second, in compounds there is mathematical discontinuity
 in the value of the internal virial at volume k ; from volume k
 downwards the internal virial varies inversely as the volume :
 from the volume k upwards it tends towards variation inversely
 as the volume as the limiting law, the limiting constant being
 double that which holds below the volume k ; between the two
 limiting cases the internal virial of compounds varies inversely
  as (v + k).
     Third, a fact of the highest importance in connexion with
 the kinetic-energy or temperature term in the equation arrests
  our attention, namely, that the coefficient of T in it; or the
 apparent rate of variation of the translatory kinetic energy
 with temperature at constant volume, attains near the critical
  volume double its value in the gaseous state, and below the
 critical region increases rapidly with diminishing volume (see
  column Rvf(v) in Table I.), becoming at ordinary liquid
 volumes as much as ten times as large (see coefficient of T in
 infracritical equation). Now the specific heat of liquids at
 constant volume, which is the rate of variation of the total
 energy with temperature, is rarely much more than twice that
 for their vapours. Hence we must seriously consider the
 interpretation to be put on the different terms of our equations.
    5. A short digression on the general interpretation o/Clausius's
Equation of the Virial.—Returning to Clausius's theorem of
the virial,
we see that strictly the kinetic-energy term includes not only
the energy of the motion of the molecules as wholes, but also
that of the motion of their parts, and at the same time the

                   Laws of Molecular Force,                  235
internal virial includes the actions between the parts of the
molecules as well as those between the molecules. Calling
these actions the chemic force, we can write the theorem
thus:
   §pv = the total kinetic energy— chemic virial— virial of
                molecular forces.
   Now in the usual treatment of the equation it is assumed
that the chemic virial is equal to that part of the total kinetic
energy which is due to the motion of the parts of the mole
cules relatively to their centres of mass, and neutralizes it in
our equation, reducing it to
&pv — translatory kinetic energy of molecules as wholes
                                    — virial of molecular forces.
   But if we retain the full equation, and assume that the virial
term we have been finding for various bodies is the true virial
of the molecular forces, and includes none of the chemic virial,
then the term usually regarded as the translatory kinetic
energy of the molecules as wholes is really the total kinetic
energy minus the chemic virial.
   Let E be the total kinetic energy of unit mass, V the virial
of the chemic forces, and P their potential energy ; then, above
the critical volume,
                      E-v=^TK-f*)
and
                |(E-Y)=jE(l + ;fi),
which in the limiting gaseous state becomes 3R/2.
Also
                        ^(E-P) = K0,
the specific heat at constant volume.
   Below the critical volume,
               E-V=SKl(l+4I.t|),
           »,(E-V)-|Bf+|».£.££,
and, again,
                        ^(E-P)«K,.
                                R2

236               Mr. William Sutherland on tJie
   Now we can calculate KB from the experimental values of
Kp by the relation
Let us then make a comparison in the case of ethyl oxide,
using E. Wiedemann's value -3725 for Kp for the vapour at
0°, and Regnault's value '529 for the liquid at 0° ; then, con
verting to ergs per degree C, we get
                               Vapour at 0°.     Liquid at 0°.
              ^(E-V) =          1-68 xlO6         15-3 xlO6,
      K„ or |j(E-P) = 14-4 x 106                  17-9 xlO6.
Thus we see that while in the liquid d(E —V)/dT is nearly
equal to d(E— P)/oT, there is a great difference in the
vapour :
d(V-P)/0T = 12-7 for the vapour and only 2-6 for the liquid.
 Or, while K0 is nearly the same in the two states, d (E — V)/^T
 has in the liquid state increased to nine times its value in the
 vaporous. We have here, therefore,"an interesting opening
 into the regions of chemic force ; but meanwhile we must
 restrict ourselves to the question of molecular force at present
 in hand, calling attention, however, to the fact that our energy
 term in its two forms for elements and its two forms for com
 pounds is well worthy of the closest study. It summarizes a
 lot of information about the internal dynamics of molecules—
 perhaps about the relations of matter and aether ; but these
 would need to be extracted by a special research on the term
 and its relation to our experimental knowledge of specific heat.
 It is worth mentioning here that Clausius's equation of the
 virial, as usually applied to molecular physics, takes no account
 of the mutual action of matter and aether—an action which we
 know must exist, from the radiation of heat by gases as well as
 by liquids and solids. According to ordinary views of the
 aether this may be neglected, on account of the smallness of
 the mass and of the specific heat of the aether ; but it is well
 to remember that we are neglecting it.
    6. Consideration of Van der Waals's generalization.—We
 are now in a position to consider how far Van der Waals's
 generalization holds, namely :—If the volume, pressure, and
 temperature are measured for each substance in terms of the
 critical values as units, then one and the same aw holds for
 all substances.                 ,

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                237
   In the first place, we see from what has gone before that
the same law cannot apply to both elements and compounds,
nor can the alcohols and~water follow the same law as regular
compounds.
   In the case of the elements and methane we have the critical
volume, pressure, and temperature given in terms of R, I, and
k by three relations (see end of Section 2),
               *>«=3*/2, Pc=27j2,       To=27!r
Whence, in the supracritical equation replacing R, I, and k by
their values in terms of vc, pc, T0, we get
                    pv _8 T /.        1  \   3p, .
which shows that when the critical values are made the units
in the measurements of the variables, one and the same law
holds for the elements above the critical volume.
   Below the critical volume we have
   We have seen that b is nearly the same for these bodies and
that j3/vc is approximately constant, so that below the critical
volume the elements and methane all follow approximately
the same law.
   In the case of compounds, we have (see Section 4, at the
beginning)
with which, eliminating R, k, and I from the supracritical
equation, we get
                    zu T
              pv _ 20   x /„ .    2z   \ _4ua
                                           409      i
                               6»c              6 v,e
  Hence, above the critical volume the compounds follow the
same law among themselves.
   In the same way, below the critical volume we get for
compounds:—

238               Mr. William Sutherland on the
                                         l-v-
           pv     20                         v„      409 ve
                ; 7   13 T I    + B           Pi    " 98 v
   One and the same law holds for compounds below the
critical volume only if B varies as the square root of the
critical temperature, and if /S is proportional to the critical
volume : in the elements we have found the latter condition
to hold approximately, and so we are prepared to find it do so
for compounds. The following Table compares B with \/Te
and /3 with k, which is Gvjl for the five compounds for which
we have as yet found k. The values of B and /3 for NH3 and
NsO were obtained from Andr^effs data for the expansion of
these bodies as liquids (Ann. Cliem. Pharm. ex.) and for S03
from Jouk's (Wied. Beibl. vi.).
                            Table XXI.
                         k.       /3.  */(3.     B.     B/V'IV
      (02H5).2O        4 066     1-11   37       63       2-9
      co2              1-76        •69  4-0      54       30
                       208         •55  3-8      71       3-6
      NH3              4-8    "~l-22    3-9      70       36
      S.fi             2-3         •66  35       55       31
   In these bodies we find a fair approximation to propor
tionality between /9 and k on the one hand, and between
B and VTC on the other ; to the same degree of approxi
mation Van der Waals's generalization can be applied to
compounds below the critical volume (excluding of course
such exceptional bodies as the alcohols and water).
   The accurate statement of the generalization ought then to
be as follows :—When the variables are expressed in terms of
their critical values as units, then down to the critical point
compound bodies with certain exceptions have all one and the
same characteristic equation, but below the critical point they
have closely similar but not identical equations,
   It is a remarkable fact that Van der Waals should have
been led to his valuable generalization by means of a form of
equation which completely fails to apply to the substances
which are the subject of the generalization. As a point in the
history of this branch of molecular physics, it calls for mention
thatWaterston,in the Phil. Mag. vol. xxxv. (1868), had prac

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                  239
tically discovered the generalization, and expressed it in its
most striking aspects by means of several diagrams for a
number of bodies ; but the verbal expression of his results was
so unsystematic, and withal so crabbed, that his work has been
overlooked.
    There is one typical application of the generalization which
is of special importance—to the relation between pressure and
temperature of saturation. If with the aid of our equations
we trace the complete isothermals for temperatures below the
critical, we shall get curves with the James Thomson double-
bend as shown in Eamsav and Young's isothermals for ether
(Phil. Mag. May 1887).'
    According to Maxwell's thermodynamical deduction, the
pressure of saturation at a given temperature is that cor
responding to the line of constant pressure which cuts off
equal areas in the two bends, a result which Ramsay and
Young verified by actual measurement on their curves.
    Let «3 and Vi be the volumes of saturated vapour and liquid
at pressure P and temperature T ; then Maxwell's principle
gives us that the pressure of saturation is defined by the three
 equations :—
           P(»3—vx) = I pdv,
                 P, = WBT(1+^H=a)-2-i.
 v3 is given in terms of P and T by a quadratic, and can
 therefore be eliminated from the integral when evaluated ;
 Vi is given by a cubic, but as P^ can for practical purposes
 be put 0, a very close approximation to vi can be obtained also
 from a quadratic. The resulting relation between P and T,
 which is the law of saturation, involves the constants R, k, I,
 P>, and /3.
    The actual evaluation of the integral would of course
 proceed in three stages, corresponding to the supra-, circa-,
 and infracritical equations. The law of the integral in the
 first stage from vs to 7k/6, with critical values of the variables
 as units, would be the same for all compounds ; and we have
 seen that the integral in the other two stages will follow
 approximately the same law in all cases. Hence if saturation
 pressures and temperatures are expressed in terms of the
 critical values, the law of their relation will be approximately
 the same for all regular compounds.
    If this were an absolutely accurate relation, the best means

240                Mr. William Sutherland on the
 of testing it would be to take Eegnault's formula, with one
exponential term,
                            logp = a + ba,
and by a simple recalculation from his values for a, b, and a,
to cast it in the form
                          log p/Pc = e + d^°,
proving that the constants e, d, and y are approximately the
same for all compounds. But the objection to this plan soon
becomes obvious on trial, as the formula owes its empirical
convenience to tre power of adjustment amongst the con
stants ; and the same difficulty would be experienced with
any purely empirical equation.
   Accordingly, to test this matter, I have thought it best to
compare the pressures of a number of bodies at temperatures
which are constant fractions of their critical temperatures,
such as *6 T0, *7 Tc, and so on. The ratio of the pressure of
any substance to the corresponding pressure of ethyl oxide
ought to be approximately the same for that substance at all
values of the fraction. Great uncertainty attends the mea
surement of critical pressures : an error of 20° in the critical
temperature is not a large fraction of its value measured from
absolute zero, but it makes a large difference in a saturation-
pressure, and the critical pressure is the limiting saturation-
pressure. In the subjoined Table the critical-pressure ratios
are given for what they are worth in the column T0.
                              Table XXII.
Eatios of Saturation-Pressures at constant fractions of the
      critical temperature to the Saturation-Pressures of Ethyl
      Oxide at the same fractions of its critical temperature.
                                           Fraction of To.
                      lc.
                             '6.   ¦65.   •7.   ¦75.     •8.   •9. 10.
                    506        •87  ¦90    •92    •94     •95      1-4
                    404     1-7    1-5   1-4    1-4
  SO.                428     1-7   1-7   1-7    1-7     1-7        2-2
                     404    2-6    2-6   2-5    2-5     25    2-4  32
  J*                 373      ...  36    3-2    2-8     2-6        2-6
  C02                305                                1-8   1:7  21
                     308                                24    1-8  21
                     548    31     2-7   2V3    21                 21
  ool4               556     13    13    1-3     1-2               1-6
  CH013              537     1-6   15    1-5     1-4    1-8        1-6
  CH,C1              404     1-7   1-5   1-4     1-4               2-1
  CaH5Cl             456     1-4   1-4   1-3     12     i-2        1-5
  CaH,Br             509     1-9   1-5   1-6     15     1-4
  Benzene, 06H6 ... 560      1-3   1-3   1-2     1-2    11         1-4

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                    241
    This table makes it clear enough that, in applying Van der
"Waals's generalization below the critical volume, we have to
do with a first approximation only. The curves for all these
diverse bodies excepting CS2, while not identical, would form
 a compact bundle about a mean curve from which each body
 "would have its own characteristic departure ; and this is just
 what our study of B and /9 in Table XXI. should lead us to
expect.
    7. Five Methods of finding the Virial Constant.—The first
 method is that which we have already exhausted, namely, by
 means of extended enough observations of the compression
 and expansion of bodies in the gaseous state.
    Second method : to obtain the virial constant I from one
 measure of the compressibility and of the expansibility at the
 same temperature of the body as a liquid.
    Writing our infracritical equation thus,
                E'T/t , VT k'-v\           I
          dp _Bf      3R' VT k'-v_B            I _B!       3p
          BT~«        2 B 'v-0 2'2u2T 2v                   2 T"
 But at ordinary low pressures the term p/T is a negligible part
 of this expression, and we can write
                         B_£=3 J__B
                         BT 4VT 2t>"
 Now
                                        I
            Bp==_Bj> /^E = _^o go BT _ v0 a
            BT — Bp / Bp            v ' 1 Bj>      v ' fi'
                                        v Bp
 where a and n are the coefficients of expansion and the com
 pressibility at T as usually defined.
                         3     _R' _ vo a .
                    •'•  4 u2T 2v      vji.'
         ,.   I-J(^+tw)-T-J(^+»B)«T.
     In addition to giving us a value of I, this last equation gives
 a test as to whether the equation applies to a body or not, as
 the expression on the right-hand side is to be constant at all
  temperatures if //. is measured at low pressures. But on

 242                 Mr. William Sutherland on the
  account of the experimental difficulties hitherto met with in
 the measurement of /*, the equation gives no very delicate
 test, although it might with the improvements in accuracy
 made within the last few years. In addition to ethyl oxide,
 the two substances for which we have measurements of both a
 and fi over the widest range of temperature are ethyl chloride,
 studied as to expansion by Drion and as to compression by
 Amagat, who has corrected Drion's coefficients of expansion
 for change of pressure, and pentane, studied by Amagat and
 Grimaldi. The following are the values of I calculated from
 the data at different temperatures for these two substances,
 with the megadyne taken as unit of force.
 Temperature C. ...   0°.   11°.  13°.  20°. 40°.  60°. eo°.  100°.
05H12 (Grimaldi)... 8530               7430 7230 8000 8300 9250
03H12 (Amagat) ...               9200                         9250
02H5C1                     5820                   5450        5270
    Thig comparison has been made to show how, from mea
 surements of liquid compressibility at present available, we
 can get only a fair idea of the value of I, but not an accurate
 measurement of it.
    Amagat has determined the compressibility of several other
 liquids at different temperatures (Ann. de Chim. et de Physique,
 ser. 5, t. xi.) ; so have 'Pagliani and Palazzo (Wied. Beibl. ix.)
 and de Heen (Wied. Beibl. ix.), but their discussion would
 bring out nothing more than the above comparison has. De
 Heen's results would appear to make I diminish with rising
 temperature in every case ; but he measured his com
 pressibilities in comparison with that of water at the same
 temperature, and to calculate their values used Pagliani and
 Vincentinr's values for water (Wied. Beibl. viii.), which make
 the compressibility of water much more variable with tem
 perature than Grassi's.         If we used Grassi's values in
 de Heen's experiments, I would remain, nearly constant.
 We will accordingly use the compressibility-method of cal
 culating I subsequently, only to illustrate the general agree
 ment of values derived from purely mechanical experiments
 with those found by the more accurate methods to which we
 now proceed. The values found by this second method are
 tabulated later on in Table XXIV.
    Third method of finding the virial constant I : from the
 latent heat. If we differentiate with respect to T our equation

                    Laws of Molecular Force.             243
for saturation-pressures (see Section 6),
                      P(»»-»i) =     pdv,
we get
 Now from thermodynamics we have the relation
                      J\=(v3-v1)TdP/dT,
 where \ is the- latent heat,
 which of course could have been written down immediately,
 for if we write it in the form
                  J\=j "3(t||             Pvj-P*!,
 we remind ourselves that the latent heat of evaporation of a
 liquid is the heat supplied to neutralize a Thomson and
 Joule cooling effect.
    We must evaluate the integral in three stages,
 using in each integral the equation that holds between its
 limits.
    In the first,
                         \    v + kj    v+k
                BT~ v\ +v+k)'
              TBT=?>+,-+I-
  In the second,

244               Mr. William Sutherland on the
In the third,
                                      R'T
                                       2v
Hence
                                       , 3f*Mi>_ 1 ry R'Ttfo
                                         i), *       U,    •
    = T>(Vs-Vl) + -y ^+_log— + -log^
We must now evaluate the only integral that has been left
unevaluated,
A          Jr,  w V       B -v-fij       Jk v(v + k)  JCi2«s
         = R'Tlog^+ ^VT7^1og^-|logi)
                                      *logif+A       2U     ic)'
These last expressions are the only ones that introduce B and
f3 into the value of JX, and it is desirable to remove these
two constants. At low pressures we can neglect the pv term
in the infracritical equation, and we get
                R'T VT _/ I        TOmV>i-£
                —b— U'i               Jy-vS
removing B by means of this we get

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                     245
We can now remove /S and greatly simplify this equation, if
we apply it to latent heats near the ordinary boiling-point
Tj. The last term taken in its entirety has a small numerical
value compared to the rest, so that in it we can make approxi
mations without any sacrifice of accuracy worth considering :
we have seen that /S is approximately proportional to k (see
Table XXI.) and vt, the volume of the liquid at the boiling-
point, may be assumed to be approximately proportional to k'
 the volume at the critical temperature, and k'=7k/6: hence
the coefficient of (l/Zvx—H'T) in the last term is approxi
 mately the same for all bodies and we can evaluate it for
 ethyl oxide ; call it 0. Again, in P(»3 —            neglect vt and
 assume the gaseous law Pt>3=RT&. And further, k is small
 compared to v3, so that 2vt/[vi + k) is nearly 2, and its value
 for ethyl oxide can be applied to all bodies. R' = 25R/13.
 Hence multiplying by M the molecular weight we can write
     MR is the same for all bodies, and T6 is the absolute boiling-
 point. This equation still involves k as well as I ; when k is
 not known we must eliminate it by means of our previous
 assumption, namely, that k is proportional to i\, which we
 know to be approximately true ; in so far as it is inexact it
 will introduce inexactness into our calculation of I. Accord
 ingly in symbols kjvi = r, where r is the same for all bodies,
 and can be found for ethyl oxide. Making the numerical
 reductions we get
                      MJ/i^ee^Mx-ioiTj
 as the equation which gives I in terms of the megadyne as
 unit of force, when \ is the latent heat of a gramme in
 calories and v± its volume in cubic centimetres at the absolute
 boiling-point T4. This equation will be abundantly verified
 afterwards in Table XXIV.; but meanwhile, if to test it we
  apply it to calculate the latent heat of ethyl oxide, we find
  \=83*4, whereas several experimenters have agreed in an
  estimate of about 90 ; but, on the other hand, Ramsay and
  Young (Phil. Trans. 1887) have made a special study of the
  terms in the thermodynamic relation J\=(v3—v1)TdP/dT,
  and have so calculated values of \ almost up to the critical
  temperatures, their value at the boiling-point is 84-4, and
  there is the same amount of discrepancy between their values
  at higher temperatures and Regnault s experimental deter
  minations. Yet Perot, who has made an elaborate study
   {Ann. de Ch. et de Ph. s^r. 6, t. xiii.) both of X experimentally

246                Mr. William Sutherland on the
and of the quantities involved in it* calculation by the ther
modynamic relation, has found the most perfect harmony
between the results of the two methods. Now at 30° C.
Perot gives as the saturation-volume of the vapour 400*4, and
the saturation-pressure "635 metre, while Ramsay and
Young's values are 374 and '648 metre ; but if ethyl oxide
were a perfect gas, under Perot's pressure of "635 metre it
would have a volume of 400-8, almost identical with his value:
yet we cannot imagine that ethyl oxide under this pressure
and at this temperature is so nearly a perfect gas as this would
imply, unless there is some remarkable discontinuity in its
behaviour at high volumes. Accordingly, in spite of the
thoroughness of the researches of both Perot and Ramsay and
Young, we are on the horns of a triple dilemma, from which
only some experimental repetition can deliver us, and de
monstrate where the cause of these discrepancies lies. Wullner
and Grotrian (Wied. Ann. xi.) have put on record the results
of experiments which indicate the cause; they find the pressure
of condensation measurably different from the ordinarily
measured saturation-pressure,—a fact explaining the difficulty
of measuring v3 accurately, and showing also that the values
of dP/dT are not so reliable as usually supposed.
   Our last equation is verified by, and shows us the cause of,
an interesting relation that has been independently discovered
and expressed in different forms, between the molecular latent
heat and the boiling-point, by Pictet (Ann. de Ch. et de Ph.
ser. 5, t. ix. 1876), Trouton (Phil. Mag. xviii. 1884), and
Ramsay and Young (Phil. Mag. xx. 1885), namely, that the
molecular latent heats of fluids are nearly proportional to
their absolute boiling-points. Now we have seen that
To=120Z/409RA: (Section 4), and I have noticed that a large
number of substances have their ordinary absolute boiling-
points nearly equal to 2Tc/3, and k is nearly proportional to
vi, say is equal to 2*8 vu as it is for ethyl oxide. Hence we
have
                         8T _      120Z_
                         2 ~409R2-8V
                 .-. M= 14-3 MR«!Tj= 1190 VlTu
when the megadyne is the unit of force; hence from our
equation for M.I in terms of \ we have
                     1190T6=66-5M\-101T8 ;
            .-. 1291 T6= 66-5 MX, or    M\=19-4T4,

                      Laws of Molecular Force.                   247
or the molecular latent heat is proportional to the absolute
boiling-point.
    (It is to be noted that MZ=1190tVFj gives a rough means
of obtaining I from the boiling-points and the volumes at the
boiling-points of liquids, which might be convenient when
better data are wanting.)
   Robert SchifF {Ann. der Chem. ccxxxiv.) has made the
most accurate determinations to test this relation between
molecular latent heat and boiling-point. For 29 compounds
of the form (\H2tt02, from ethyl formiate up to isoamyl vale
rate, he finds M\=20"8TS in the mean,the greatest departures
being 204 for propyl isobutyrate, and 21*1 for propyl for
miate ; for 8 hydrocarbons of the benzene series he finds a
mean coefficient 20 with 19*8 for cymene and 20"6 for benzene
as the greatest departures. To these 37 examples we will
add the following from Trouton's paper, doubling his numbers,
as he used density instead of M.
                Table XXIII.—Values of M\/T6.
      C.2H,C1. CHC13.    0C14.    AsCl3.         S02.       CS2.
         21      22       21        21   20       23         21
                  (C3Hn)20.    (0H,),0O.  C10H10. I (C2H5)2C204.
           22         24           23       22           23
The mean value of the coefficient is higher than that deduced
theoretically above (19'4), because in round fraction we wrote
T6=2T /«3, but the general truth of the relation is well enough
brought oat.
   Fourth method of finding the virial constant I : from the
critical temperature and pressure. Now we have (Section 4)3
                 T„=12(H/409RA, ^=36^/409 A8,
              T>C=10£/3R and Z=409R2T2/400pc,
this is for compounds; for elements Z=27R9T^/64p(!. Where
both the critical pressure and temperature are known, this
gives I theoretically with accuracy, but practically the diffi
culties in measuring the critical pressure introduce inaccuracy.
In the relation Tc/jp(J=10A/3R, as R varies inversely as the
molecular weight, we see that the molecular domains (Mole
cular volumes) of bodies at the critical temperature are

 248              Mr. William Sutherland on the
 proportional to the quotient of critical temperature by critical
 pressure, a relation which Dewar has proved experimentally
 (Phil. Mag. xviii. 1884) for 21 volatile bodies, for which he
 has determined and collected the data. These with other
 data since published enable us to determine values of I for
 certain bodies for which the other methods are not available.
    As there are many more critical temperatures determined
 up to the present than critical pressures, and as we have seen
 that an error in the critical temperature is of less relative
 importance than an error in the critical pressure, we can
 make ourselves independent of critical pressures with ad
 vantage, by employing the approximation that has already
 been useful to us, that k is proportional to the volume of the
liquid at the boiling-point or £ = 2-83v1. Then
                 Mi=409MRT//120 = 800To«1
approximately, with the megadyne as unit of force. This is
a more accurate form of the relation M2 = 1190TsVi given
above, in which we assumed the approximation T8 = 2T /3.
   8. Fifth or Capillary Method offinding the Internal Virial
 Constant, with digressions on the Brownian movement in
liquids and on molecular distances.—So far we have been
proceeding on a purely inductive path, with two deductive
guides in Clausius s equation of the virial and in the law of
the inverse fourth power, which requires that the internal
virial should vary inversely as the volume. But now, in
passing on to our fifth and most useful method of finding I
from surface-tension, we must employ a deductive relation
between I and surface-tension, furnished by the law of the
inverse fourth power. In a previous paper (Phil. Mag. July
1887) it was shown that if the law of force between two
molecules of mass m, at distance r apart is 3Am2/r4, then the
internal virial for the molecules in unit mass is SirAp log L/a,
p being density, and L a finite length of the order of magni
tude of the linear dimensions of the vessels used in physical
measurements, a being the mean distance apart of the mole
cules. The ratio L/a remains the same for a given mass
whatever volume it occupies, but I also assumed that L/a is
so large a number that log L/a would hardly be affected by
such large variations as might occur in the value of L when
the behaviour of a kilogramme of a substance was compared
with that of a milligramme. To remove the haziness of this
assumption, I will now make a more accurate evaluation of
the internal virial.
   By definition it is ^ . £ . "ZXSAnfijr3, and we will evaluate it

                                                                          V
                        Laws of Molecular Force.                      249
  for a spherical mass. To cast it into the form of an integral,
  take any molecule m amongst the number n in a spherical
   vessel of radius R ; gather it to its centre as a true particle
   and spread the remaining n— 1 in a uniform continuous mass
   separated from m by a small spherical vacuum of radius a, so
   chosen that the virial of m and the continuous mass is the
   same as that of m and the n — 1 molecules.
      Suppose m at the point 0, and the centre of the vessel at
   C, and let 00 = c. Take 00 as axis of x and any two rec
   tangular axes through 0 as axes of y and z. Let polar
   coordinates r 6 <p be related to these in the usual manner.
   Then the equation to the surface of the sphere is
      {x— c)2 f#2 + 22 = R2 or r2 — 2cr sin 0cos <j>4-c2 — R2=0.
   Let rx and r2 be the two roots of this equation in r so that
  r]r2=B?— ci. Then m2/»"3 can be replaced by
                           mpr* sin 6 old d<p dr/r3,
   and
                   2m2/?-3 by jjjwip sin 8 dd d<f> dr/r.
  If we integrate with respect to r on one side of the plane yz from
  a to rx and on the other from a to r2 and add the two results,
  then we have to take 0 and <j> each between 0 and tr, thus :
          tm^-^'mp sin Odd d<p £P dr/r+J'^r/rJ.
  The two integrals in brackets give
                      log »y2/a2=log (R2-c2)/a2.
                    S?rc2/r3 = 2irmp log (R2+c2)/a2.
  To perform the second summation we can first add the values
  of the last expression for all the molecules at distance c from
  the centre of the vessel, and write the result in the form
                      ZirpkirpcHc log (R2-c2)/a2,
  and we then have
            I . i223Am2/r3 = 6Av*p* f           <?dc log (R2 -c2)/a2.
           .                            ^°
  Evaluating the integral, this becomes
6A7r p { S                            9 (R-«)3~ 3 R2(R-«) + y10^—J" J
  in which, neglecting unity in comparison with the large
  number R/a, we get
                      AttVR3{4 log 2R/a-16/3}.
     Phil. May. 8. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.               S

250                Mr. William Sutherland on the
But if W is the total mass in the vessel, then
                             W = 47rr3p/3,
and we get
                        Wa7rp{31og 2R/a-4}.
When W = 1 the first term of this becomes identical with the
 value of the internal virial previously given, with 2R written
 instead of L. Replacing R by its value in terms of W and p,
 we get for the internal virial of mass W,
                       WAwp(log m/irpa'-i).
 As pa3 is constant, we see that for a given mass the internal
 virial for molecular force varying inversely as the fourth
 power is rigorously proportional to the density, but it is not
 purely proportional to the mass. Although the number
 6W/7r/>a3 is a large one, and has a logarithm varying slowly
 with W, yet large enough variations in W can affect it
  appreciably, as we see if provisionally we accept Sir W.
  Thomson's estimate of 2 x 10~9 centim. as the lowest possible
  value for a. Suppose 7rp = 3, then 6W/irpa3 is 1027W/4, and
  if W is 4000, 4, or -004 grin., then the values of log 6W/irpas
  are as 30, 27, and 24, and we have a larger mass variation of
  the internal virial than is likely to have escaped detection in
  its effects, such as a difference in the density, expansion, com
  pressibility, latent heat, and saturation-pressures of a liquid as
  measured on a milligramme, from their values as measured on
  a kilogramme. The raising of this difficulty suggests to us
  in passing that there exists a department of microphysics in
  which little has as yet been done by the experimenter, and
  that great interest would attach to a research determining
  when a mass variation of the properties usually spoken of as
  physical constants actually sets in.
      But meanwhile we must scrutinize more closely the meaning
  of our last result. According to the views of Laplace (and
   of the early elasticians), if a plane be drawn dividing a mass
  of solid or liquid into two parts, then, in consequence of mole
  cular force, the one part exercises a resultant attraction on
  the other, and this has to be statically equilibrated by a
  pressure (called the molecular or internal pressure) acting
  across the plane, a conception which is necessary in any purely
   statical theory of elasticity. Adopting for the moment this
   mode of viewing things, we see that our .result amounts to
   this, that the internal pressure is measurably greater at the
   centre of a kilogramme than of a milligramme.
      But if we try to carry out the kinetic theory in its integrity,

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                 251
we must reject the idea of a statical pressure, and replace it
by its kinetic equivalent of a to and fro transfer of momentum ;
this may take place as a quite indiscriminate traffic of indi
vidual molecules across the plane, or as such a traffic modified
by the existence of streams of molecules in opposite directions.
If streams, or motions of molecules in swarms, actually exist
 in fluids, then our interpretation of the equation of the virial
would have to take account of their existence. The kinetic
 energy of the motion of a swarm as a whole would not count
 as heat hut as mechanical energy, and for the amount of it
 we should have approximately the kinetic energy of the swarm
 motion equal to the virial of the forces between the swarms.
 Therefore we require to divide the energy into two parts,
that of molecular motion inside the swarm constituting heat
 and that of the swarm ; in the same way the internal virial is
 divided into two parts, one within each swarm, the other be
 tween the swarms. But the swarms could on the average be
 regarded as equivalent to spheres of radius L, where L must
 be supposed nearly independent of mass and liable to the same
 variations with temperature and pressure as the linear dimen
 sions of any quantity of the liquid, so that L is proportional
 to a, and our expression (theoretical) WA7rp(3 log 2L/a — 4)
 for the internal virial becomes purely proportional to the
 mass and purely proportional to the density, as 3Wl/iv our
 experimental internal virial for a mass W of a compound
 liquid is.
    This hypothesis would affect somewhat the rigorousness of
 certain thermodynamical relations as usually interpreted, such
 as J\= (v3— v-JTdp/dT, since it provides a supply of internal
 mechanical energy not taken account of ; but if this supply
is only slightly variable with pressure and temperature it
 would make little difference in most parts of thermodynamics.
    With the addition of this hypothesis of molecular swarms,
 which will be used only in calculating molecular distances,
and will not affect at alt the rest of our work, the law of the
inverse fourth power is brought into strict harmony with the
behaviour of compound liquids and of elements both as liquids
 and gases. We must therefore inquire what experimental
evidence there is for the existence in liquids of a motion of
swarms of molecules, possessing the remarkable property of
not being degraded to heat as ordinary visible motions are.
In the motion long familiar to microscopists as the Brownian
movement we have such evidence.             Gouy has recently
{Compt. Mend. cix. p. 103) recalled the attention of physicists
to this remarkable ceaseless motion of granules in liquids.
He states that it occurs with all sorts of granules, and with an
                                S 2

252              Me. William Sutherland on the
intensity less as the liquid is more viscous and as the granules
are larger. It occurs when every precaution is taken to en
sure constant temperature, and to ensure the absence of all
external causes of motion. Granules of the same size but as
different in character as solid granules, liquid globules, and
gaseous bubbles, show but little difference in their motions—a
fact which proves that the cause is to be looked for not in the
granules themselves but in the liquid, the granules being
merely an index of motions existing in the liquid. The most
  ronounced character of the motion is its rapid increase with
 iminishing size of granules, so that all that is seen under the
microscope is the limit of movements of unknown magnitude.
Gouy considers the Brownian movements to be a remote
result of the motion of the molecules themselves, but according
to what we know of molecular dimensions I fancy that the
Brownian movement must be considered rather as a sign of
the motion of swarms of molecules. If swarms of molecules
are weaving in and out amongst one another, so that the
average transfer of momentum at a point is the same in all
directions, then the vibratory agitation of granules amongst
the swarms is just what we should expect. The striking fact
about the Brownian movement is that it is ceaseless ; it is
never degraded into heat. This alone forces us to conceive a
form of motion existing in liquids on a larger scale than
molecular motion but possessing its character of permanence ;
in other words, the motion of swarms of molecules.
    The existence of swarms would not affect our views of the
rise of liquids in capillary tubes as a purely statical question;
so that, for the connexion between molecular force and
surface-tension, we can use the calculation given in another
paper (Phil. Mag. April 1889) (rather badly affected with
misprints), where I have shown that the surface-tension of
liquids that wet glass, measured in tubes so narrow that the
meniscus-surface is a hemisphere, is given by the equation
where p is the average density of the capillary surface-film
(to be written also 1/v), and e is the distance which we must
suppose to be left between a continuous meniscus and the base
of a continuous column raised by its attraction, if the action
between the continuous distributions is to be the same as in
the natural case of discontinuous molecular constitution of
meniscus and column. The distance e is not identical with
the length a which occurs in our theoretical value of the
internal virial of unit mass,
                   A*/>(31og2L/a-4) = f L

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                   253
but it is closely proportional to it. If we can find the relation
between e and a, then from capillary determinations we can
obtain relative values of the virial constant I which, as we
have already found some absolute values of I, can be converted
to absolute values ; at the same time, too, we shall be able to
find a value of a the mean distance apart of the molecules.
    To find the relations between e and a we can proceed thus.
 If we have a single infinite straight row of molecules at a
distance a apart, the force exerted by one half of it on the
other is
                       n=oo p=oo 3A?Jt2
                     in=0 ^=> (p + n)4a*'
which can easily be evaluated as approximately 3-6Am2/«4.
 Two infinite continuous lines in the same line, of density m/a
with distance e between their contiguous ends, would exert a
force
                     3Am*(mCm dxdy
                       <* J Jo (*+f)4
 on one another ; this is equal to A?n2/2aV. If, then, the
 continuous distribution is to be equal to the molecular, we
nave
                      e2=a2/7-2, e-aft'l.
    Again, if along two infinite axes one at right angles to the
 other and terminating in an origin 0_at its middle point
molecules are arranged along each at distance a apart starting
from 0, then the force exerted by the unlimited row on the
other is
             9 p=oo„n=°° 3Am2n              «=a 3Am2
 which can be evaluated at about 5A?»2/a4.
    Replace the rows by two continuous line-distributions of
 density m/a, the one terminating at a distance e from 0 : it is
 required to find e so that the force may be the same as this.
 The force is
                  «2 )e Jo (V+y2)1
 Hence in this case
                      e2=a2/5, «= a/2"2.
    From these two simple cases we get an idea of the relation
 between e and a. The case of a meniscus attracting the
 column which it raises in a capillary tube is more analogous
 to the second than to the first, and it is easy to see that in the

254               Mr. William Sutherland on the
case of the meniscus we can say that e is not less than a/2'2.
It will suffice to write e=a/2'2.
   Now according to the definition of a in our theoretical
expression for the internal virial, it is the radius of the sphe
rical vacuum artificially used to represent the domain of a
molecule ; hut as it occurs in the expression log 2L/a, where
2L/a is a very large number and the value of L is indefinite,
we see that there is no inaccuracy in making it identical with
a the mean distance apart of the molecules. However, for
the sake of formal completeness, we can easily find the rela
tion between the two quantities which we have denoted by
the one symbol a. Let us now denote by x the mean dis
tance apart of the molecules, that is the edge of the cube in
a cubical distribution of the molecules ; then, from the defi
nition of a, x and a are connected by the relation
                    2Am2/»"3 = f 4:irAm2dr/xBr,
                              Ja
the summation being extended to all the molecules in a sphere
of radius R. By actual summation up to B. = 5# we find
approximately a='9x.
   With our previous estimate of e as a/2'2, which we must
now write ,r/2'2 on account of our change of symbol for mean
distance apart, we have the two equations,
                  1= Att(4 log 2L/-{to-16/3),
                  a=7rp2A#/2-2(2+ V2).
We can replace p by p, the difference between them being
necessarily very slight. Then for ethyl oxide we have the
following data : a at the boiling-point according to Schiff is
1*57 grammes weight per metre, or I'57/IO5 kilog. per cm. ;
I is 7500 kilog. cm.4, and v, = l'44 cm.3 Eliminating A from
the two equations, we have a relation between x and L,
namely
               x= 7-5^ | (9-2 log10 2L/-9^-16/3).
L being hypothetical is not known to us, but we can give it a
series of possible values, and calculate by trial from the last
equation the corresponding series of values for x, with the
following results :—
                      L.                  x.
                 l/105cm.           4-6/107cm.
                 1/10* „            7-7 „
                 1/1 03 „          11-0 „

                    Laios of Molecular Force.                   255
     As it is subsequently to be shown that in liquid ethyl oxide
and in all regular compound liquids the molecules are paired,
and that each pair acts on the others as if it were a single
molecule, we may estimate it as likely that the mean distance
apart of the pairs in ethyl oxide is between 1 and 10 micro-
millimetres (1/106 mm.). This result, though 100 times as
large as Sir William Thomson's limits for the distance apart
of molecules in liquids, namely 2 X 10~9 cm. and 7 x 10~9 cm.,
is yet in better agreement with the estimate of molecular dis
tances arrived at by Riicker (Journ. Chem. Soc. 1888) as the
most probable result obtainable from the most important
attempts yet made to measure the range of molecular forces.
The most suggestive of these is Reinold and Riicker's dis
covery, that the equilibrium of a soap-solution film becomes
 unstable when its thickness is reduced to between 96 and 45
 micromillimetres, but again becomes stable when the thickness
is still further reduced to 12 micromillimetres. At the latter
thickness the film shows black in reflected light. If the
intermolecular distances are nearly the same in soap-solutions
 as in liquid ethyl oxide, then the black film must be regarded
 as consisting of a single layer of molecules or groups of mole
 cules (in the case of water the molecules will subsequently be
 shown to go in double pairs). This is an intelligible result,
 and gives the simplest explanation of Reinold and Riicker's
 beautiful discovery of a stable thickness supervening on the
 unstable, for we recognize a single layer of molecules as a
 stable configuration. Of course it is to be understood that
 what we mean by the thickness of a single layer of molecules
 is the one nth part of the thickness of n layers ; and if the
 black film is really only a single layer, it is in this sense that
 Reinold and Riicker's estimate of 12 micromms. is to be taken,
 for they did not measure an actual distance from the front to
 the back of a bkck film, but only estimated from accurate and
 accordant measurements, made in entirely different manners,
 that the number of layers in the black film is to the number
 in a thickness of 1 centim. as 12 micromms. is to 1 centim.
    If the black film consists really of only a single layer of
molecules, it is surely a hopeful sign for molecular physics
that measurements should have been possible on it, though
only visible through its invisibility.
    If, encouraged by this experimental support, we say that in
round numbers the mean distance between the pairs of mole
cules in liquid ethyl oxide is 10 micromms., then one gramme
contains 2^ x 1018 molecules, or the mass of a single molecule
is
                   1/2-88 x 1018 grm. = 3-5/1 019,

256              Mr. William Sutherland on the
and so the mass of an atom of H is
              3-5/74 x 1019=5/1021 grm. nearly.
   It would lead us too far from our present purpose to discuss
other estimates of molecular distance, especially as Remold
and Riicker's measurement of the black film is the most defi
nite and striking yet made of these minute distances ; but the
question of the range of molecular force is of special import
ance to us.
   Quincke (Pogg. Ann. cxxxvii.) determined what thickness
of silver it is necessary to deposit on glass so that the capil
lary effect on water may be the same as that of solid silver;
that is, at what distance the difference between the molecular
attractions of glass and silver for water becomes too small to
be measured. He found the thickness to be about 50 micromms.
   Now, according to the law of the inverse fourth power, the
attraction of a cylinder of radius c, length h, and density p on
a particle of mass m on the axis at a distance z from the
nearest end is easily calculated as
               /l       1        1_             1        \
         m(m\'z      z+h      jJ+? + Vc2 + 0 + A)V"
If the cylinder consists of a length 7j, of silver with a length
h2 of glass, the silver being near the particle, then, the suffixes
1 and 2 applying to silver and glass, the attraction of the
composite cylinder is
 ~2Aim/>1 VF+^ ~2A2m/,27rC+A, +               ~ ^c2T"(^+A7+^p)'
   Making the circumstances correspond to Quincke's experi
ment, we have z nearly equal to the mean molecular distance
in water, about 10 micromms. ; hx is small compared to h2 and c,
and, according to Quincke, is 50 micromms. when the composite
cylinder exerts the same force on m as if it were all silver ;
accordingly the last expression reduces to the two terms
            2A1mpiTr/z — 2m7r (A1pL — A2p2) l(z + h{),
which permit us to compare the molecular force range Aj with
the molecular distance z. That the second of these terms
should become negligible when hx is 50 micromms. is a result
quite in accordance with the value 10 micromms. for z.
   Let us briefly compare the magnitudes of molecular and
gravitational force. The most convenient plan will be to
compare the two forces in the case of two single ethyl-oxide

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                   257
molecules at a distance of one centim. apart ; that is, to
calculate Am2 and Got*, where m is the actual mass of the
molecule, and G the constant in the expression Gm2/r2 for
gravitation.
    In the expression
                     a=7rp2AA-/2-2(2+x/2),
 using the value 10 micromms. for x and the values previously
 given for the other quantities, we can find A, and then using
the value S'S/IO19 for the mass of a molecule of ethyl oxide we
find Awi2=9/1030 in terms of the dyne. To calculate G we
have 981 as the acceleration of gravitation ; the mass of the
 earth is fi x 109 grm. and its radius is tr37 x 107cm., so that
 Gm2 = 2*l/1028 in terms of the dyne. Hence at a distance of
 1 centim. the gravitation of two ethyl-oxide molecules is
 about double their molecular attraction, or, allowing for un
 certainties in our calculation, we may say that at about
 1 centim. apart two molecules exert the same gravitational as
 molecular force on one another.
     We now return to the main business of this section, which
 is the Fifth Method of finding the virial constant I. This
 consists in using the equation already used for calculating
 molecular distances in the form
                 1= 7-5«2a(4 log 2L/-9ar-16/3)/«.
 Now x, the molecular distance for different liquids, varies as
 mi vi, and the expression in brackets may be assumed to be the
  same for all bodies ; hence l = cav^/mi, where c is a constant
  whose value can be obtained on substituting in the case of
  ethyl oxide the known values of I, a, v, and m, or, more
  safely, by taking a mean value from several substances.
     But we must remember that we are using v the volume in
  the body of the liquid, instead of v that in the surface-film ; a
  replacement which is not justified by experiment, seeing that
  for a given liquid uv$ measured at different temperatures is
  not constant, the reason being that v varies much more rapidly
  with temperature than v. But, in our ignorance of the rela
  tion between surface and body-density, all that we seek for
  from the above equation for I, is true values for I from mea
  sured values for a. Accordingly the question arises, Can we
   choose temperatures at which to measure a for different sub
  stances, so as to get true relative values of I irrespective of
  our ignorance of v ?
      As we have seen (Section 6) that at equal fractions of their
   critical temperatures, and under equal fractions of their critical
   pressures, one liquid is approximately a model of another on

   258              Mr. William Sutherland on the
   a different scale, we conclude that if we use the value of the
   surface-tension measured at a constant fraction of the critical
   temperature, and under a constant fraction of the critical
   pressure, we ought to get correct relative values of I ; as
  surface-tension is not appreciably affected by pressure, we
  can dispense with the condition as to pressure and use mea
  surements of « made under a pressure of one atmosphere at a
  constant fraction of the critical temperature. I have chosen
  the fraction as two-thirds, because it gives a temperature near
  to the boiling-point of most liquids.
      SchifFs abundant measurements (Ann. der Chem. ccxxiii.,
  and, further, Wied. Beibl. ix.) include not only the height to
  which different liquids rise in a capillary tube at their boiling-
  points, but also its temperature-coefficient, which is such as
  to show that the height in every case vanishes near the critical
  point.
     Let H be the height to which a liquid rises in a tube of
  radius 1 millim. ; then if H really vanished at the critical
  temperature and varied linearly with temperature, we should
 at 2Te/3 have H = Tc&/3, where b is the temperature-coefficient.
  But to use this would be to depend too much on the accuracy
 of b.
     If H4 is the value at T4 the boiling-point, then Tc = T4 + H4/&,
 and
               H = H* + (T4 - 2Tc/3) b = H4/3 + T4&/3,
 which depends partly on H4, measured by Schiff, and partly
 on b. Now a = Hp/2 = H/2t; ;
                     .'. I or cav*/ml=cH.vi/2m*,
                         J=c(H4/3 + T4i/3)»}/2mi.
     If H is measured according to the usual practice as the
 height in millimetres for a tube of radius 1 millim., that is, if
 a is measured in grammes weight per metre, then if I is
 desired in terms of the megadyne, gramme, and centimetre as
 units, c/2 = 5930, a mean value. Apart from all hypothesis
 about molecular force, our last relation between the virial
 constant and the constants of capillarity will be amply con
 firmed by the extensive comparisons soon to be presented in
 Tables XXIV. and XXV. Meanwhile a few consequences of
the relation may be glanced at.
    9. Establishment on Theoretical grounds of Eotvos's relation
between surface-tension, volume, and temperature.—Accord
ing to the modified equation of the fourth method of finding
I, M/ = 800TCV!; and according to that of the fifth method,
1 = cavii'mi. The first of these eqtiations would be more
accurate if we replaced vx by v, which in the second means
the volume at 2T</3 ; so. Ml=8QQTcv} and m the actual mass

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                 259
of the molecule is proportional to M its molecular weight ;
so that from the second we have Ml proportional to a(M.v)'v}
and hence «(Mf)s measured at 2Te/3 is for all bodies pro
portional to T,,. Now in our notation the relation discovered
by Eotvos (Wied. Ann. xxvii.) is
                      d{«(M»)*}/dT=-227,
or               «(Mi>)*=-227(T-T/);
where Tc' is a temperature very close to the critical ; and this
is only a more general statement of the relation we have just
deduced.
    As Eotvos has verified his relation experimentally for a
large number of bodies, his result is a verification also of our
general principles. The form of his relation also induces us
to examine a little more closely an important consequence of
the form of our infracritical equation, which, when multiplied
by M with the pv term removed at low pressures, becomes
 Now R'M is constant, and Ml/v is proportional to a(Mv)i, if
 a. and v are measured at 2Tc/3, or any other constant fraction
of the critical temperature, and under these circumstances
 a(M«)# has been shown to be proportional to Te ; hence if T
is aTe, a being a constant fraction, we get Tc proportional to
so that 1 +             tc, measured at a constant fraction of the
               rs v—p
 critical temperature, is approximately the same for all bodies,
a result which our study of Van der Waals's generalization
showed us to be approximately true. This shows that Eotvos's
relation is rigorous only to the same extent as the constancy
of this last expression is rigorous ; as a matter of fact, exclu
ding the alcohols and water, Eotvos finds the constant whose
mean value is taken as '227 to depart from this mean value
by not more than 5 per cent, in any individual case. This
brief discussion of Eotvos's relation has therefore furnished
us with additional proof of the general accuracy of the ap
proximations we have been forced to make in parts of our
work.
    One of the main difficulties in the way of pushing on with
the many interesting inquiries opened up by these relations
 lies in the fact that we do not know the relation between the
densities in the body and in the surface-layer of a liquid.

260              Mr. William Sutherland on the
    We have to replace our relation
                       a vanes as Ap*m*
by the less accurate one,
                       « varies as A/>*w» .
Multiplying by (Mv)* or (M/p)J, we get the a (Mo)* of
Eotvos proportional at all temperatures to AMp ; and as
d{a(Mvy}dT is constant, and has been shown by Eotvos to be
constant almost right up to the critical temperature, and to be the
same for all bodies, we ought, if our assumptions were rigorous,
to have AMdp/dT constant almost up to the critical tempe
 rature and the same for all bodies (whence another approximate
method of finding A or Z). Now dp/dT has been shown by
Mendeteeff to be constant for many substances within ordinary
temperature-ranges ; but the constancy does not hold up to
the critical temperature, and the ultimate meaning of the
apparent contradiction between Eotvos's result and this is
that, while for most purposes we may safely enough assume
p proportional to p, we cannot so accurately proceed to the
consequence dp*/dT proportional to dp^/dT ; in fact, a change
of temperature being accompanied by a change of stress in
the surface-layer, the change of p with temperature is more
complex than that of p. But within the range of temperature
for which dp/dT is approximately constant, we have the
important result that
is constant and is approximately the same for all bodies.
    As I now consider the term differentiated to be not two
thirds of the translatory kinetic energy of the gramme-
molecule, but two thirds of the sum of the total kinetic energy
and the chemic virial, I must replace the verbal statement of
the last result as given in my paper (Phil. Mag. April 1889,
p. 312) by the following :—The temperature-rate of variation
 of the sum of the total kinetic energy and the chemic virial
 of a molecule, measured at low constant pressure, is the same
 for all bodies (approximately).
    10. Tabulation of Values of the Virial Constant, determined
bv four of the five methods described, and multiplied by the
square of the molecular weight.—In the first place, I will
give a comparison of the values ,of M2Z for those bodies to
which existing data allow the application of three or four of
the previously described methods. The multiplication by M2
is for future convenience. The values obtained by the second

                         Laws of Molecular Force.            261
(liquid compression and expansion), third (latent heat), fourth
(critical temperature), and fifth (capillarity) methods are
entered in the columns marked 2, 3, 4, and 5. (The modified
fourth method was used, namely, MZ = 800T,r,.)
    The units are the megamegadyne (1012 dynes), grin.,
and cm.
                             Table XXIV.
                Substance.        2.     3.       4.  5.
         CS.                     26-5   25-7    272  269
         PCI.                           39-7    41-7 434
         001,                           46-3    462  45-6
         CHOI,                   330    38-2    36-1 36-8
         OjH,Cl                  22-3   28-3    26-5
         C2H,Br                         321     315  290
         o.ff,a                  480            453  471
         C8H14                   570            58-5 593
         06H6                    400    43-1    427  438
         07H,                    590    55-8    5(V2 50-4
         (OH3)S00                       360     313  311
         Methyl butyrate         65-0   604     55-6 561
         Ethyl butyrate .        84-0   746     69-5 71 -a
    The satisfactory agreement of these values, calculated for
 such diverse bodies from such diverse data, must be taken as
 the verification of the main principles so far unfolded—the
 chief of which as regards molecular force is that for most
 compound bodies the internal virial term of the characteristic
 equation is l/2v below the volume k, and lj(v + k) above that
 volume.
    We see, too, now how important for molecular dynamics is
 the detailed study of each of the constants k, B, and /3 in the
 characteristic equations ; but for the present we must refrain "
 from entering on such a study, and must consider the com
 parison in the last table as closing for the present the general
 discussion of the characteristic equation.
    Our immediate object is now to ascertain the law connecting
 the value of Msi for a body with its chemical composition.
 On the hypothesis of the inverse fourth power (with the sub
 sidiary one of molecular swarms),
                     mH = 7rm2A(4 log 2L/o- 16/3) ;
 so that, the bracketed expression being the same for all
 bodies, mH is proportional to m2A, and the law of mH or M2/
 will be the law of r»2A in the expression 3A?n2/r* for the force
  between two molecules. In the Phil. Mag. for April 1889 I
  announced a law for the parameter A, calculated from SchifFs
  capillary data, which applied fairly well to a large number of
  organic compounds, but was affected with exceptions subversive
  of its generality. Applying now the more accurate method of

262             Mr. William Sutherland on the
calculation described as the fifth to all Setoff's data, we obtain
ample material for generalization, which can be supplemented
by values calculated by the other methods.
   In the following Table the units are again the megamega-
dyne, grin., and cm. For brevity the radicals methyl, ethyl,
and propyl, &c, will be denoted by the first two letters of
their names, while the acid radicals --formic, propionic, &c.—
will be denoted by Fot, Prt, and so on, so that PrPrt stands
for propyl propionate. The numbers entered under the
beading S will he explained when we are discussing the law
of Wl.
                Table XXV.—Values of Wl.
                         First Method.
                   Wl.       s.                       Wl.    S.
 Et,0             40-2    4-5    H,                    ¦22   •04
 co2                71     1-07  N2                  1-23    •205
 so,              15-0    2-05    02                 116     ¦?95
 NH,                8-5    1-25  OH.                 2-2     ¦35
 N2d                8-8   1-3     CH, ..             6-5    10
                         Third Method.
                  Wl.        S.                       Wl.
 Sn014             61-3   61     IsoBuAct             762
 A»01.             490    5-2    EtBut                769
 B013              23-5   2-95   PrPrt                773
 SiCL,             473    505    IsoAmPot             78-7
 CH3I              27-4   3-3    PrisoBut             891
 EtI               40-0   4-5    EtVat                89-5
                   88-3   79     IsoBuPrt             92-5
 AmBr              61-8   615    IsoAmAct             93-1
 AmCl             48-7    5-15   PrBut               92-5
 05H10            350     40     IsoBuisoBut        105
 cioH20            90-4   8-0    PrVat              106
 cioH16          1090     91     IsoBuBut           109
 C2H4Br2          49-4    5-2    IsoAmPrt           110
 Et2Oa04         1090     9-1    IsoAmisoBut        125
 Et20              44-1   4-8    IsoPrVat           126
 EtFot            35-6    4'1    IsoAmBut           129
 MeAct             36-0   4-1    IsoAmVat           147
 EtAct             47-6   5-1    OtiH,.              43-1
 MePrt             475    5-1    07H8                55-8
 PrFot             50-2   5-3    C6H5Et              69-5
 MeButiso          (i0-4  604    CaH,0 (meta)        71-4
 IsoBuFot          63-7   6-3    C0H5Pr              85-9
 EtPrt            62-4    6-2    O0H12(mesitylene)   861
 PrAct            628     6-2    C9H12 (pseudo-l     87-1
 MeBut            61-8    6-15      cumene)      J
 EtisoBut         74-6    7-0    OioHu (cymene) .   101
 MeVat            74-1    7-0

                      Laws of Molecular Force.                263
                     Table XXV. (continued).
                           Fourth Method.
                    MH.          S.
Cla ....              5-8 . -9       PrCl ..        34f> 4-0
H2S .               ]0o       1-5    NH3 ..         100  1-4
o2H2 .                9-8 .. 1-4     NH2Me          176  2-3
C2H0 .              14-7. 2-0        SHMe,          23-5 3-0
C.,H,„ .            441       4-8    NMe,..         31-6 37
CHCL,               36-9      4-2    NH2Et          21-2 27
OS.....             27-0      3-3    NHEt2          41-4 455
&cNi :              17-7      2-3    NEt3 ..        655  6-4
                      79      1-15   NH„Pr          33-4 3-9
0H301               15-6      2-1    NHPr,          67-6 6-6
EtCl .              26-6      325
     Fourth Method modified (not using critical pressures).
                    m.           S.                 Wl.     s.
(CH2C1)2            38-0      4-3    EtC3H50        48-6 5- 15
 CH3CHC12           37-7      4-3    HC1 ....        73  M
 C3H,C1             340       4-0    MeCl ....      16-8 2-2
 Cfl2(OCH3)2        38-5      4-3    EtCl ....      26-4 3-2
    (methylal) ....                  PrOl ....      326  3-8
 OH3CH(OC2H5).      68-7     .6-6    NH3 ....        76   1-1
    (acetal)                         NH2Me .        15-6 21
 O.H.,              41-8      4-6    NHMe2 .        23-5 30
 C6Hi0              51-2       5-4   NMe3 ....      3P0  3-7
 08Hl8              805        74    NH2Et .        24-4 3-05
 0SH16              811        74    NHEt2 .        43-5 4-75
 Me20               20-3       2-6   NEt3 ....      6(>4  65
 MeEtO              29-9       3-6   NH2Pr .        310   3-7
 EtPrO              52-4       5-45  NHPr2 .        686   6-6
                             Fifth Method.
 EtPot               32- 1     38    EtBut
 MeAct ....          35-6      4-1    EtisoBut ....
 PrFot ....          44-2      4-8    MeVat
 EtAct               454      .4-9    IaoAmAct
 MePrt ...           448       4-85   IsoBuPrt ....
 IsoBuFot .          569       5-8    PrBut
 PrAct               57-9      5-85   PrisoBut
 EtPrt               58-5       5:9   EtisoVat ....
  MeBut ....         58-2       59    IsoAmPrt ....
  MeisoBut .         561        5-75  IsoBuBut ....
 IsoAmFot .          71-6       6-8   IsoBuisoBut .
  IsoBuAct .         70-6       675.  PrisoVat ....
  PrPrt              733        69

  264            Mr. William Sutherland on the
                   Table XXV. {continued).
                                                 mi.     a
    OcHu             Normal hexane               59-3   60
    CsHh             Diisobutyl                  90-6   80
   °ioH22            Diisoamyl                 1256   100
   O,Hl0             Amylene                    45-0    4-9
   csH16             Oaprylene                  91-8    81
   CioHm             Terpene                  1074      90
   0GH10             Diallyl                    54-8    5-6
   CGH0              Benzene                    43-8    4-75
   OtH,              Toluene                    56-4    5-75
   C,HI0             Orthoxylene                697     6-65
   C,HI0             Metaxylene                 69-7    6-65
   0»H10             Paraxylene                 70-3   6-7
   08H10             Ethylbenzene               706    6-7
   CaH12             Normal propylbenzene       86-9   7-8
   0„HU              Ethyltoluene               861    7-75
   C9H12             Mesitylene                 85-3   765
   0,oH„             Cymene                   103-0    8-75
   CHCL              Chloroform                36-9    4-2
   0C14              Carbon tetrachloride ...  45-6    4-9
   (CH2C1)2 ....    Ethylene chloride          44-4    4-8
   CH,CH01,....     Ethidene chloride          38-1    4-3
   PrCl             Propyl chloride            37-9    4-3
  IsoBuCl           Isobutyl chloride          520     5-4
  IsoAmCl ....      Isoamyl chloride           66-4    6-45
  OjH.Ol            Ohlorobenzene              57-7    5-85
  07II-C1           Chlorotoluene              76-0    71
  C7H7C1            Benzyl chloride            82-2    7-5
  O3H0Ol2           Propylene chloride         56-8   5-8
  C2014                                        65-6   6-4
! C2H3C13           Trichlorethane             58-2   5-9
  03H,C10 ....      Epichlorhydrin             49-8   5-25
  C013COH           Chloral                    50-9   5-35
  CH2C1002lit.      Ethyl chloracetate ....    63-2   6-25
  CHCl2C02Et..      Ethyl dichloracetate .     79-6   7-35
  C013C02Et ..      Ethyl trichloracetate .    93-5   8-2
  C7H50C1           Benzoic chloride           79-6   7-35
  07HGC12           Benzilidene cldoride .     89-4   80
  EtBr              Ethyl bromide              28-9   3-5
  PrBr              Propyl bromide             41-4   4-6
  IsoPrBr           Iaopropyl bromide .. .    41-2    4-6
  C3II,Br           Allyl bromide              39-9   4-45
  IsoBuBr           Isobutyl bromide ....      53-3   5-5
  IsoAmBr           Isoamyl bromide ....      66-2    6-45
  C6H,Br            Bromobenzene              66-8    6-5
  07H-Br            Orthobromotoluene .       81-5    7-45
  C2H4Br2           Ethylene bromide ....     51-2    5-35
  O3H0Br2           Propylene bromide .       61-5    61
  Mel               Methyl iodide             25-6    315
  EtI              Ethyl iodide               381     4-3
  PrI              Propyl iodide              50-9    5-3
  IsoPrI           Isopropyl iodide           49-8    5-25
  C3H.I            Allyl iodide               50-2    5-3
  IsoBuI           Isobutyl iodide            62-4    62
  IsoAmI           Isoamyl iodide             80-0    736

                       Laws of Molecular Force.                     265
                       Table XXV. {continued).
                                                      UH.        S.
 C„H5I                  Iodobenzene           ...     80-4      735
 NH2Pr                   Propyl amine                 37-8      4-25
 KH2C,H,                Allyl amine                   36-6      4-2
 NH2isoBu               Isobutyl amine                506       5-3
 NH2isoAm               l8oamyl amine                 64-4      6-3
 NHEt2                  Diethyl amine                 so- 1     55
 NEt3                   Triethyl amine                752       7-05
 NH2C Hs                Aniline                       660       6-35
 C,H5N                  Pyridine                      597       60
 C9H7N                  Piperidine                   1003       8-6
 C9H7N                  Cbinoline                    108-6      905
 MeNO,                  Nitromethane                  22-6      2-75
 CC13N02                Chloropicrin                  576       5-85
 EtN03             ...  Ethyl nitrate                 37-2      4-2
 IsoAmNO,               Isoamyl nitrato               76-9      7-2
 C3H7CN                 Isobutylnitrile               39-2      4-4
 C4H9CN                 Caprouitrile                  50-5      5-3
 C„H5CN                 Benzonitrile                  65-8      6-4
 CS2                    Carbon disulphide             26-9      33
 CSNC3H5                Allyl sulphocarbimid . . .    540       5-55
 CNSCH3                 Methyl sulphoeyanate          33-7      3-9
 CNSC2H5                Ethyl sulphoeyanate ...       441       4-8
 Et2S                   Ethyl sulphido                550       5-6
 PCL                                                  43-4      4-75
 POC1                                                 250       3-1
 P0C2H5C1               Etboxyphosph. chloride        62-8      6-2
 PSC1                                                 35-5      4-1
 (CH3)2CO               Acetone                       31-1      3-7
 C6Hi203                Paraldehyde                   85 7      7-7
 CH3CH(OCH3), ...       Dimethylacetal                53-3      5-5
 CH3CH(OC2H,)2 ...      Diethylacetal                 87 7      7-85
 Et2b          '        Ethyl oxide                   43-8      4-75
 (CH3CO)20              Acetic anhydride              51-9      5-4
 CH3C02C,H3             Allyl acetate                 541       5-55
 MeisoAmO                Methylisoamyl oxide ...      66-8      6-5
 Et2C20.                Ethyl oxalate                 91-0      8-05
 C6H5C02CH3             Methyl benzoate               91-4      81
 0„H5C02C2H5            Ethyl benzoate               109-9      915
 CH,(CO),CH2OEt         Acetacetic ether              81-5      7-45
 C6H,OCIT3               Anisol                       70-0      6-7
 C6H5OC2H5              Phenethol                     80-7      7-4
 C7H7OCH3                Methyl paracresolate ..      841       76
 C6H4(OCH3)2            Dimethyl resorcin             96-2      8-35
 C4H2OHCOH              Furfurol                      51-2      5-3
 C4H9COH                Taleraldehyde                 48-0      51
 C9HuCOH                 Cuminol                     113-0      9-3
 C10H14O                CarTol                       1178       9-6
 (CH3 CCOCH, ..          Pinakoline                   63-5      6-3
  The following are the chief sources of the data from which the above
table has been constructed:—Latent Heats from Berthelot (Chimie
Micanique) and R. Schiff {Ann. der Chem. ccxxxiv.). Critical Tem
peratures from Sajontschewski (Wied. Beibl. iii.), Pawlewski (Ber.deut.
chem. Ges. xv., xvi.), Nadejdine (Wied. Beibl. vii.), and Dewar (Phil.
Mag. xviii.). Surface-tensions from R. Schiff {Ann. der Chem. ccxxiii. ;
Wied. Beibl. ix.).
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.               T

266               Mr. William Sutherland on the
   To make clear the two simple laws that rule these tabulafed
values, it will be advisable to confine our attention at first
only to those values obtained by the fifth method, using those
by other methods only to fill gaps. It will also be well to
consider first a single chemical family, such as the paraffins,
for which we have the following values : —
            CH4.      C2H6.      C6H14.      C8H]8.       Ci0H22.
            2-2       14 7       59-3        90-6         125-6 ¦
These show that there is not a constant difference in the value
 of M2Z corresponding to the difference in the number of CH2
groups contained. We can amplify this list of paraffins by
using the material furnished by Bartoli and Stracciati (Ann. de
 Chim. et de Phys. ser. 6, t. vii;)j who have determined the more
 important physical constants for all the paraffins from C6H12
 up to Ci6H34. Their values of the capillary constants were
 found at about 11 degrees in every case. To obtain' those at
 two thirds of the critical temperature, we have to use the
values of the critical temperatures calculated by them from
Thorpe and Riicker's convenient empirical relation (Journ.
Chem. Soc. xlv.),
                      /j/(2Tfl—T) = constant,
p being density at T.
    The following are the values of M?l thus obtained :—
   C5H12.   C6H14.     C7H16.     CTH16.      C8H18.     C9H20.     Ci0H22.
    47-2     58 1       77-1       79-6        91-2        110       127
      CUHM.     012H26.     013H28.     C14H30.      C15H32.     Cl6H3i.
        147       171         192        215          230         256
    Considering the assumptions involved in the calculation of
these values and the difficulty of obtaining the paraffins pure,
the agreement for C6HU, 08H18, and Ci0H22 with SchitPs
numbers is excellent; but the higher we go in the series the
larger is the temperature-interval for which we have to
extrapolate, and the more uncertain do the values become.
However, they are useful as giving a general idea of the
course of M.H in an extended series.
    On plotting these numbers as ordinates with abscissae
representing the number of CH2 groups in the molecule,
a curve was constructed which proved to be the parabola
where S is the number of CH2 groups. It is only necessary
then to determine on this curve the abscissa corresponding to

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                   267
 the value of M*i for any substance to obtain the number of
 CH2 groups to which its molecule is equivalent as regards
 molecular force.
    11. Definition of the Dynic Equivalent of a substance, and
determination of its value for several Radicals.—In the manner
just described were obtained the numbers entered in Table
XXV. under the heading S, which I propose to call the
Dynic Equivalents of the substances. The dynic equivalent
of a molecule is the number of CH2 groups in the molecule of
the normal paraffin that exerts the same molecular force as it.
   The table shows that the atom of an element contributes
the same amount towards the dynic equivalent of all molecules
in which it occurs (except in the case of the simpler typical
compounds) : thus, for example, consider the iodides from
methyl to amyl iodide, and notice that each CH2 group has
the same value unity as in the paraffins, and that the iodine
atom is equivalent to about 2-30H2 in every case. The same
law holds throughout the table ; so that each elementary atom
or radical has its own dynic equivalent, which can be easily
determined.
    In the first place, it appears that the extra H2 in the
paraffins CnH2?i+2 can be neglected in a first approximation,
because C6H10 has practically the same dynic equivalent as
C6Hi2, and C8H16 the same as C8H18. It may be that the
double binding in the unsaturated compounds compensates
for the H2 of the saturated, but I think that the simpler idea
for the present is that the two terminal H atoms in a paraffin
chain have a dynic equivalent so small that we may neglect
it, or more generally the middle H in a CH3 group is negligible
in a first approximation. If there is really such a difference
between the middle H and the two others in CH3, we ought
to find the dynic equivalents for the iso- compounds smaller
than for the normal ; and the table shows that the isobutyrates
have equivalents smaller by "1 than the butyrates, while the iso-
butyl salts of the fatty acids have dynic equivalents nearly all
less than 1 greater than the propyl salts. But this is rather a
 matter for the chemist to work out in detail ; it suffices to
indicate the idea here, and to point out that it is in harmony
with the lowering of boiling-points among isomers with in
creasing number of CH3 groups. Accordingly, as a matter of
detail, in the estimation of the dynic equivalents of the elements,
it w as assumed that the equivalent of GnH2)i+2, CMH2n+1, and
 CmH2ji is in each case n when normal and n — 'ljp when the
molecule departs from normality by p CH3 groups. (In
constructing my curve for dynic equivalents, for the sake of

268               Mr. William Sutherland on the
simplicity at first, I ignored the fact that two of the paraffins in
SchifPs data are iso-compounds.)
   From the tabulated values for the alkyl salts of the fatty
acids, we get ihe following mean values for the dynic equi
valent of CO"0': —in the formiates 1"85, acetates 1'92, pro
pionates 1*91, hutyrates 1"92, isobutyrates 1*91, and iso-
valerates 1"83, the mean for all being 1*9.
   From the oxides (ethers) and other compounds containing
single-bound 0, we find for its mean value '6, although in the
ethers containing the benzene nucleus it comes out "8, while in
the benzoates C0"0' is about 2"5 ; so that the junction of the
benzene nucleus with other groups seems to be accompanied
with an increase in its value : witness also the bromide, iodide,
and amine of C6H5, equal to the bromide, iodide, and amine of
 CsHu, although C6H6 is less than C6Hi2 by -25. This slight
variation of the value of C6H6 is the only anomaly amongst the
numbers of Table XXV. excepting the simple typical com
pounds. The values *6 for 0' and l-9 for CO7 are in harmony
with the results for all the other compounds containing oxygen.
   From the values for the benzene series of hydrocarbons we
can get a value for H2 in CH2, and also some light on the
important question of the structure of the benzene nucleus.
Thomsen has been led by his therm ochemical investigations to
the conclusion that in benzene each carbon atom is bound
to three other carbon atoms by a single bond to each (the
" bond " phraseology is used merely for brevity, and not as
expressing definite statical or dynamical facts). If we accept
this conclusion, then the dj'nic equivalent of CJ6H12 minus that
for C6H6 is equal to the dynic equivalent of 3H2 ; similarly,
from the other members of the benzene series we get the values
for 3H2, the mean result being T29 or -43 for H2.
   The accepted structure for C6H10 diallyl is (OH2CHUH2)2,
or four whole CH2 groups and two CH2 groups with H removed
from each ; and as the dynic equivalent of C6H10 is 5 6, we find
that of H2 to be -4. Again, recent investigations on the ter-
penes ( Wallach, Ann. der Chem. ccxxv., ccxxvii., ccxxx. ; Briihl,
ccxxxv.) show that the two ordinary forms can have their for
mulae written CH3C3H7(CH2)2(CH)2C2 ; that is to say, they
have 6 hydrogen atoms cut out of CH2 groups, and as the dynic
equivalent of C10H16 is 9 we have that of 3H3 as TO or that
of H2 "33. Since the value "43 is derived from 10 accordant
members of the benzene series, we will take it as the value of
the dynic equivalent of H2 in CH2.
   By similar but simpler reasoning the dynic equivalents of
CI, Br, I, and other radicals are easily found, and the
following is a list of mean values :—¦

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                       269
             Table XXVI.—Dynic Equivalents.
       CH2.     H.        0.      CO'.       0'.  NH2.        CN.
         1-0   •215       •57      19         •6   1-23       135
        N03.     CNS.         S'.        01.     Br.           I.
         22       2-85        1-6        1-3      1-6         2-3
   To illustrate the applicability of these values, I furnish a
comparison of the values calculated by means of them for
twentv substances with the values tabulated in Table XXV.
                            Table XXVII.
  Comparison of calculated and tabulated Dynic Equivalents.
                    Oalo.     Tab.                      Calc.     Tab.
  06He               4-8      4-75    04H9CN             535      53
  C10H14 ...         88       8-75    C4H10S             5-6      56
  03H7C1 ...         4-3      4-3     C2H5CNS ..         485      48
  C5H^1 ..           63       645     (0H3)2O            26       2-6
  C2H5Br ..          3-rj     3-5     CH3C5HnO           6-6      65
  C5HuBr..           6-6      645     06H12O3            7-8      7-7
  OaH5I              4-3      43      (0H3CO)2O          5-2      54
  CJIUI ..           73       7-35    C4H9COH..          5-3      51
  NH2C3H7            4-23     425     C^O,               4-9      4-9
  NH2"C5Hn           6-23     6-3     C7H1402            79       7-9
    If we now look at the dynic equivalents of the uncombined
 elements given in the first part of Table XXV., we may notice
 that they are remarkably small compared to the values in the
 combined state ; thus, that of H2 is "04, of N2 -205, of 02
 •195, and that of CH4 is small too, "35, instead of 1 as it
 should be, seeing that CH4 is the first of the paraffin series.
 Other typical compounds have small values : C02 has 1*05,
 while C0"0' in more elaborate compounds has a value 1*9,
 C2H4 has 1, while C2H6 has 2 ; and so on. The same fact has
 been noticed in connexion with the molecular refraction of
 some of the typical compounds and some of their immediate
 derivatives, and it will yet prove a most important one in
 chemical dynamics. But meanwhile it is of greater importance

270              Mr. William Sutherland on the
for present purposes to notice that the dynic equivalents given
for various radicals in Table XXVI. are closely proportional
to their molecular refractions.
   12. Close parallelism between Dynic Equivalents and Mole
cular Refractions.—As is well known, there are two methods
according to which the molecular refraction is estimated, the
first by means of Gladstone's expression, (n — l)M/p, where n
is index of refraction ; the other by means of Lorenz's,
 (n2-l)M/(«2 + 2)p.
   In a brief paper (Phil. Mag. Feb. 1889) I showed that the
experimental evidence taken as a whole is in favour of the
Gladstone expression, for which also a very simple theoretical
proof can be given ; and, further, it was shown that it is best
to measure (n — l)M//a if possible in the gaseous state. But
as comparatively few measurements have been made on
bodies in the vapour state I suggested that, as the Lorenz
expression had been empirically proved to give more nearly
the same value in the liquid and vapour states of a body, its
value as determined in the liquid state and multiplied by 3/2
could be taken as giving the value of (n— l)M/p in the vapour
state. The result of the theoretical argument was that, if
M/p is taken to measure the molecular domain u, and if Q is
the volume occupied by the molecule in the same units, and N
is the index of refraction for the matter of the molecule, then
                     (n-l)u = (N-l)U.
   Landolt, Briihl, and others have determined the values of the
atomic refraction for several elements (Ann. der Chem. ccxiii.
p. 235), and by means of these and Masini's data for sulphur
 (Wied. Beibl. vii.) and Gladstone's latest determinations
 (Journ. Chem. Soc. 1884), I have obtained the values of the
refraction-equivalents of the preceding radicals in terms of
that for CH2 as unity. Mascart has given (Compt. Rend.
lxxxvi.) values of the refraction of a number of substances in
the vapour state, from which, for the sake of comparison, I
have calculated the refraction-equivalents for as many radicals
as possible.
   The following Table contains in the second column the
dynic equivalent, in the third the refraction-equivalent calcu
lated according to the Lorenz expression, in the fourth the
refraction-equivalent calculated according to the Gladstone
expression from Mascart's data for vapours, and in the fifth
that calculated by Gladstone from liquid data. The value for
CH2 in every case is 1.

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                     271
                         Table XXVIII.
      Comparison of Dynic and Refraction Equivalents.
                  1.         2.        3.      4.       5.
           OH,              10       1-0      10       10
           H                  •215     •23     •19      •17
           0                  •57      •54     •62      •66
           CO"0'            19       1-4      1-5      1-5
           0'                •6        •35     •4       •37
           NH,              1-23     M2                1 01
           CN               135      118      1-3      1-2
           N03              22       22                1-9
           CSS              2-85                       30
           S'               16       1-7               1-9
          01                1-3      1-3      1-5      13
          Br                1-6      20       1-7      20
          I                 2-3      31      2-7       3-2
   This table brings out the remarkable fact that the paral
lelism between the dynic and refraction-equivalents is so
close as almost to amount to proportionality. I shall not
discuss the meaning of this relation until I have shown how
to obtain the dynic equivalents for the elements usually
occurring in inorganic compounds, and established the same
relation for them also.
   Meanwhile it will be useful to compare the dynic and
refraction equivalents of the uncombined elements and of
those simpler typical compounds to which we have said the
summative law does not apply as regards dynic equivalents and
does not accurately apply as regards refraction-equivalents.
                          Table XXIX.
  Eatio of Dynic to Refraction Equivalents, each measured
               in terms of that for CH2 as unity.
  H2.   o2.      Na.   Cl2.   CH4. C2H4. H2S. C2H2. CHC13. CS2.
  •09   •21     •22    ¦38     •32   •45   •79     •75      •94  •72
 C2N2. HC1. CH3Ol NHa. CO,.         S02.   NaO. P01,. CC14. (0Hs)2O.
  ¦90   ¦83      •79  106      •76   •96   •83     •88     •89  •C6

272              Mr. William Sutherland on the
    We see (hat the ratio is small for the uncombined ele
ments and CH4 and G2H4, a result of the important fact that
while the refraction-equivalent of a non-metallic element is
almost the same in the uncombined state as in the combined,
the dynic equivalent is much smaller in the uncombined state
 of an element. The meaning of this fact will be discussed
later on ; connected with it is the fact that the ratio for most
 of the typical compounds in the last table is notably less than
 unity. A molecule has to reach a certain degree of com
 plexity before the summative law holds as regards its dynic
equivalent ; the same may be said about its heat of formation.
 Further comment on the connexion between dynic equivalent
 and heat of formation must be deferred for a little.
    We can now give a formal enunciation of the law of the
 virial constant :—If the molecule of an organic compound is
 of a degree of complexity higher than that of the ordinary
 typical compounds, then the virial constant for one gramme
 of the compound is given in terms of the megamegadyne,
 gramme, and centimetre as units by the relation
                        Wl = 6S + -66S4,
 where M is the usual molecular weight of the compound, and
  S is the sum of the dynic equivalents of the atoms in its
 molecule (measured in terms of that for CH2 as unity) .
     According to the law of force 3 Am2//-4, Am? is propor
 tional to M2/ and therefore follows the same law.
     13. Return to the Discontinuity during Liquefaction of
  Compounds and proof that it is due to the pairing of Molecules.
  —The interpretation of the form of the internal virial expres
  sion above the volume k is of the highest importance in the
  theory of molecular force, and can now be attempted in the
  light of the law for M?l. If the molecules of a substance do
  pair to produce an actual chemical polymer of it, then its
  molecular mass changes from M to 2M, while S the dynic
  equivalent changes to 2S, and consequently
                       I or (6S + -66S2)/M2
   changes to a value given by
                      I' = (6S/2 + -66S2)/M*.
   When S is small we see that the pairing of molecules to pro
   duce a polymer causes the virial constant (for one gramme)
   to diminish to nearly the half of its value for free molecules ;
   when S is larger this statement becomes less exact. In the

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                   273
case of C02, for example, if from Table XXV. we take S
as 1*05, then
                   1= -00367 and l'= -00206,
but in the case of ethyl oxide, with S = 4-5,
                   1= -00738     and   l' = -00491.
In both cases we see that the pairing of the molecules to
form a new chemical compound or polymer is attended
with a reduction of the virial constant towards one half,
but not exactly to one half of the original value. Now the
data given in Tables I. and III. and the form of virial term
taken to represent them, l/(v + k), along with the fact that
below volume k the form is l/2v, mean that in the limiting
 gaseous state the virial term is practically l/v, just as below k
 it is l/2v ; hence we must regard the pairing of the molecules
 to be such as to cause the virial constant to become one half
 of its higher limit—in other words, the pairing must be
 different from polymerization. We are therefore led to
 differentiate the chemical and physical pairing of molecules
 by the statement that while chemical pairing alters the virial
 constant in the ratio
     (6S + -66S2)/(12S + 2-64S2) or (l + -llS)/(2 + -44S),
 physical pairing alters it in the ratio
                          6S/12S or 1/2.
 The term -66 S2 would thus appear to have a certain chemical
 significance.
     And now as to the form l/(v + k) connecting the two ex
 treme cases. We can explain it in the following manner :—
  It will be shown when we come to treat of solutions that if a
  salt having a parameter of molecular force 3 A (proportional
  to its virial constant I) is dissolved in a solvent with parameter
  3 W so that there are n molecules of salt to one of solvent,
  then the solution behaves as if it consisted of molecules
  having a parameter 3 X given by the singular relation
                    X-i = (W-'+nA-^Al + n).
  Now, in a gas being compressed towards the volume k, let us
  assume that there are a number of pairs of molecules propor
  tional to k and a number of single molecules proportional to
  v—k, and that the same relation applies to the mixture of
  paired and single molecules as to the solvent and salt in a
  solution, then, replacing W by I and A by 1/2 and n by

 274              Mr. William Sutherland on the
 kj{v — k), we get for the reciprocal of the virial constant of
 the mixture
                        .-. X=lv/{v + k),
 and therefore the virial term is l/(y + k).
    This would be no demonstration of the pairing of molecules
 in compounds, if we did not already have it proved in the
 case of the elements that the virial term varies inversely as
 the volume at all volumes. Remembering this we can accept
 our form l/(v + k) as indicating the existence of a mixture of
 paired and single molecules, the number of pairs at volume v
 being to the number of single molecules as k to v—k.
    The form of the energy term,
                            V    v+kr
must also be partly determined by this existence of pairs, but
it would be foreign to our immediate subject to attempt to
 investigate it.
    14. Brief Discussion of the Constitution of the Alcohols as
Liquids.—To learn a little more on the subject of pairing, it
will be of some profit to consider briefly here the alcohols and
water, which so far have been left aside, after having been
proved in Table XII. to follow in the supracritical region a
different law from the usual one. But also in the liquid state
the alcohols and water, while conforming to the general liquid
laws in many respects, are still exceptional in others. Thus
Eotvos (Wied. Ann. xxvii.) has shown that the alcohols will
conform to his generalization if at the lower range of tempe
rature, from 20 C. to 170° C, the molecules be considered
complex (double relatively to ordinary liquids) and water
also conforms if from 100° upwards its molecules be con
sidered double ; the molecular lowering of the freezing-point
of water produced by the solution of bodies in it as measured
by Raoult and compared with the molecular lowering for
other liquids proves that relatively to these the molecule of
water is double. Taking all the facts into consideration, it
seems to me that the alcohols and water may be assumed, in
the liquid state, to have the pairs of molecules again paired,
the second pairing, however, not being of so intimate a nature

                     Laics of Molecular Force.               275
as the first, consisting of a mere approximation of the first
pairs without any change in the values of A or of /.
   According to this assumption we should expect the beha
viour of the liquid alcohols to be represented by a form similar
to our infracritical equation, and we will assume
where R" is about 2E.
    It was on the infracritical equation that our second method
of finding M4/ was founded, giving the relation
which can be applied to Amagat's data {Ann. de Chim. et de
Phyg. ser. 5, t. xi.), and Pagliani andPalazzo's (Wied. Beibl.
ix.) for the alcohols.
    Again, our assumption enables us to apply the fifth or
 capillarity method of finding M4Z to the alcohols, if only we
 remember that the molecular domain becomes twice as large
 and its radius 2^ as large as it would be with only one pair
 ing; hence the equation for the fifth method becomes for
 the alcohols
                         I = c av^/(2m)i.
 Setoffs data are available.
    As the latent heat and critical temperature are largely
 dependent on the supracritical equation, we ought not to
 expect the formulae for M4/ furnished by the third or latent-
 heat method and by the fourth or critical-temperature method
 to apply to the alcohols. But as the relation
                           MX = 19-4T6,
 or, empirically,
                           MX = 21 T„
 which was deduced in the discussion of the third method,
 does apply approximately to the alcohols, the constant being
 26, we may as well, for purposes of comparison, see what the
 formulae of the third and fourth methods give in the case of
 the alcohols.

276                 Mr. William Sutherland on the
                Table XXX.— Wl for the Alcohols.
      Method           Second.       Third.        Fourth.        Fifth.
  Methyl                   8        22(11)         17 (9)           94
  Ethyl.                  14        38 (19)        25 (17)         17 6
  Propyl                  24                       34 (26)         27-8
  Isopropyl ...           24                       33 (25)         27-6
  Isobutyl                34                       46 (38)         37 8
  Isoamyl                 47        82 (41)        57 (49)         481
  Cetyl                            320 (163)
  Water                             11 (5-5)        9               6
   The second and fifth methods give results in substantial
agreement with one another; the third gives numbers which,
when halved as in the brackets, come into agreement with
the others; while if 8 be subtracted from the numbers furnished
by the fourth method as in the brackets, the resulting num
bers are in very close agreement with those given by the
fifth method. That the two discrepant columns should be
capable of harmonization with the two others by the simple
operations of halving and of subtracting a constant is signi
ficant of some really simple principle on which the abnor
mality of the alcohols in the supracritical region depends.
   But too much importance must not be attached to the
general agreement among the numbers, as they are all founded
on tentative assumptions ; they simply prove that our idea of
a second loose pairing of molecular pairs in the liquid alcohols
is not discordant with facts.
   The following are the dynic equivalents corresponding to
the values of Ma/ found by the fifth method compared with
those calculated from the dynic equivalents of the elements
and placed in the third row.
       Alcohols            Methyl.  Ethyl.   Propyl. Butyl(iso). Amyl(iso).
Dynic equiv. found T35               2-35      3'4       4-3           5'1
   „       „     calcul. 1-8         2-8      3'8        4*7           5-7
   For water the dynic equivalent found is *91, while 1*03 is
the calculated value. The values found for the alcohols are
about '5 smaller than those calculated. If from the capilla
rity data we had calculated the values of M9Z and the dynic
equivalent as if the alcohols were not exceptional in any way,
we should have got:—
      Alcohols          Methyl.    Ethyl.     Propyl.      Butyl.      Amyl.
Wl                       11-8       22-2        35         47-6        60-6
Dynic equivalent           1*65       2*8        3-9         5"!         6*1

                    Laws of Molecular Force.               277
   These values of the dynic equivalents agree well with the
calculated ones above, but then the values of M2/ being all
increased in the ratio of 2^ to 1 are no longer in agreement
¦with the values got by the second method.
   Accordingly we see that the alcohols will require an
exhaustive study for themselves, if the interesting features of
their molecular structure are to be thoroughly made out. I
have merely sketched lines on which their abnormality may
be hopefully investigated. Those bodies, such as nitric per
oxide, studied by the brothers Natanson, and acetic acid,
studied by Ramsay and Young, which have been proved to
have double molecules split up both by the action of heat and
reduction of pressure have not been touched on in this paper ;
they also would require a special investigation in which our
characteristic equations would lend an assistance much
 required.
    15. Methods of finding the Virial Constant for Inorganic
 Compounds, including a theory of the Capillarity and Com
pressibility of Solutions.—So far I have secured only two
methods of finding the virial constants and dynic equivalents
of inorganic compounds from existing data, and only one of
these is practically useful, namely the first, in which the
surface-tensions of solutions are the source of the values ;
the second is based on the compressibility of solutions. Using
our expression for surface-tension in terms of molecular force,
                     u = 7rp2Ae/(2 + \/2),
in the form              a = Ap%m*/c,
where c is a constant, I was led to imagine that it could be
adapted to the case of a solution by means of the following
suppositions :—First, that in a solution containing n mole
cules of dissolved substance of molecular mass p to one of
solvent of molecular mass w, the solution may be assumed to
be a substance of molecular mass
                    m = (w + np)/(l +n) ;
 second, that if 3W is the parameter of molecular force for the
solvent and 3A for the dissolved substance, then the parameter
 3X for the solution is connected with W and A by the relation
                 X-i _ (W-^ + nA-O/Cl + n).
 This seems highly arbitrary, but will be completely verified
 by the results to which it leads. I could make no progress

278               Mr. William Sutherland on the
in the handling of solutions until, in the course of some work
on the elasticity of alloys, I discovered a relation similar to
the above to hold, and this proved to be the immediate clue to
the treatment of solutions.
   Let aK be the surface-tension of water, then we have the
following equations giving A :—
                  A-1 = X-»+ (X-^-W-1)/*.
   These equations ought to give the same values of A-1 what
ever the strength of the solution may be ; and herein lies a
first test of the truth of the principles involved.
   The following values of cA-1 for NaCl are calculated from
Volkmann's data (Wied. Ann. xvii.) for its solution in water
at 20° ; w is taken as 18, although we consider the water
molecule to be complex, but this does not affect the purely
relative comparison being made :—
   n . .      .   -105      -084       -052       -035       -017
   cA-1 .     .  1-34      1-38       1-47      1-46        1-42
   Considering that the solutions range from saturation down
to considerable dilution, the approach to constancy is satis
factory; but it will be noticed that, on the whole, there is a
tendency for the value of cA-1 to increase with diminishing
concentration, and this same phenomenon is to be seen in
the case of almost all Volkmann's solutions, most pronoun
cedly in that of CaCl2 :—
   n . .      .   -091      -068       -041       -021       -011
   cA-1 .     .  2-41      2-53      2 77       2 95        3-12
   This case shows us that there is a certain amount of incom
pleteness in our theory of the capillarity of solutions, as indeed
we ought to bo surprised if there were not, when we try to
apply our arbitrary definition of the molecular mass of a solu
tion to one which contains 56 parts by weight of CaCI2 to 100
of H20 as the solution for which n = *091 does, and also when
weassume that the concentration in the surface-layer is the same
as in the body-fluid at all strengths up to saturation. If our
object were an exhaustive representation of the connexion
between the surface-tension of a solution and its concentration,
it would be easy to introduce a slight empirical alteration into
the above equations to make them exhaustive. For instance,

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                  279
we might imagine that the effective value of W in a solution
experiences a small change proportional to the concentration ;
but the equations as they stand will prove to be sufficient for
our purpose if, in comparing solutions of different substances,
we calculate cA-1 for the same value of n throughout.
    In all subsequent calculations w= 18/1000. The experi
mental data for surface-tensions of solutions are abundant, the
chief that I know of and have used being those of Valson
 (Compt. Rend, lxx., lxxiv.), Volkmann (Wied. Ann. xvii.),
 Rontgen and Schneider (Wied. Ann. xxix.), and Traube
 {Journ. fur Chem. cxxxix.).
    The following Table contains the values of cA_I for a certain
number of compounds, the surface-tension being measured in
grammes weight per linear metre and the half molecules of the
salts of the bibasic acids being regarded as molecules.
                 Table XXXI.—Values of cAr\
                        I.   Br.    CI.   N03.   OH. *so4. *co3.
      Li              4-15  2-46    •83   1-61    •83 1-61
      NH4             399   2-21    •70   lM          1-45
      Na              4-74  306    1-45   2-30  1:37 2-30 1-95
      K               4-99  331    1-78   2-55  1-71 2-72 2-21
 The study of this table brings out the fact that the differences
 of the numbers in any two rows or in any two columns are
 constant : thus the differences for the iodide and chloride of
 the four bases are in order 3'32, 3-29, 3*29, and 3*21, while
 the differences of cA-1 for the Na and Li salts of the mono
 basic acids are in order '59, *60, '62, "69, and '54. Accordingly
  each atom contributes a certain definite part to the value of
  cA-1 for the molecule in which it occurs, and that part is
 independent of the other atoms in the molecule. I shall call
  this part the parameter-reciprocal modulus of the atom ; we
  have not at present sufficient data to get its absolute value in
  any case, but if we make Li our standard positive radical, and
  CI the standard negative, we can calculate the average values
  of the difference between the parameter-reciprocal modulus of
  a radical and its standard,—thus in the case of iodine this
  difference is 3"28, and in the case of Na *61, and so on.
     Before tabulating these mean values I will give the values
  calculated for the salts of some other metals with the values
  for the same salts of Li subtracted.

280                  Mr. William Sutherland on the
                                Table XXXII.
                               L         Br.       01.       N03.        iS04.
       iMg-Li                                      •39         ¦35         •53
       iCa -Li .       ,      .44        ¦73       •67         •55         ¦ ¦•
       4Sr -Li                                    1-67       1 71          ...
       }Ba -Li                                    249        2-52
       iZn -Li                                    1-35                    1:33
       ^Cd -Li               224       2:42       2-15         ...       2-29
       ^Mn-Li                 ...                 117          •93        1-22
   To these we may add the following values, obtained from
the sulphates £Fe-Li 1-27, £Ni-Li 1-19. £Co-Li 1-15,
£Cu-Li 1-49, £A1-Li -6, JFeio-Li -5, and |Crio~Li 1-0;
and the two following from the nitrates Ag — Li 3*91, and
iPb-LU-51.
   The following Table contains the values of the parameter-
reciprocal moduluses of the different metals minus that for
Li and of the negative radicals minus that for CI.
                               Table XXXIIL
 Mean Values of Parameter-reciprocal Modulus for the Metals
                         with that for Li subtracted.
     Na.      K.    NH.      Wg. iCa.        *Sr.    $Ba.    *Zd.      4Cd. JMn.
     •61     •90    -15 ¦42          •65     1-7     2-5      1-33     23         1-2
    iFeous.     JHL   4Co.     iOu.            JPb.     JA1.      iFe
                                                                  3 io .       iCr. .
      1-27      1-2      115    1-5     3-9     45       •6         •5          10
   The same for negative radicals with that for CI subtracted:—
          I.          Br.           N03.         OH.         iS04.           *0O3.
         3-28         1-56           -81         -04          -86              -46
   It may be worth mentioning that these differences show a
 pretty close parallelism to the corresponding differences of
 the atomic refraction given by Gladstone (Phil. Trans. 1870)
 but not close enough to be worth dwelling on.
    In the case of the organic bodies studied there was nothing
 analogous to this singular property possessed by these inorganic
 compounds of having the reciprocal of the parameter A of
 molecular force separable into a constant and definite parts

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                 281
Contributed by each constituent of the molecule. Thus we
have characteristic of inorganic bodies in solution another of
those properties called by Valson modular, who discovered
that the density, capillary elevation, and refraction of normal
solutions (gramme-equivalent dissolved in a litre of water)
could all be obtained from the values for a standard solution
 such as that of LiOl by the addition of certain numbers or
 jnoduluses representing invariable differences for the metals
 and Li and for the negative radicals and CI. Other properties
 of solutions have since been proved to be modular, as for
 instance their heats of formation from their elements and
 their electric conductivities. I think the modular nature ol
 some of these properties of solutions is the outcome of this
 modular property in the parameter reciprocal of molecular
 force along with the additive property in mass. To prove
 this in the case of density would require a special investiga
 tion, but if we assume the property for density we can easily
 deduce Valson's result that the property applies to capillary
 elevation. Let h be the height to which a normal solution of
any salt RQ rises in a tube of radius 1 millim., then
    Let r and q be the density moduluses of the radicals R and
Q, being small fractions, then p=d+r+g where d is a con
stant nearly 1 ; also
                   X-1 = ( W-1 + nA-1)/^ + n) ,
so that
Remembering that in the case of a normal solution n is small,
being 18/1000, we can develop the last expression in powers
of n as far as the first ; and it is evident that as p the mole
cular mass possesses the additive property and A-1 possesses
the modular property, then h must also possess the modular
property, which is Valson's result.
   16. Second method offinding the virial constant for inorganic
bodies or solid bodies in general from the properties of their
solutions.—In this method the compressibility of solutions is
used. If a solution could be treated as an ordinary liquid we
might attempt to apply the equation of our second method for
liquids, namely,
                      . 4/ a       25„ ™
but as the solutions to be dealt with are all aqueous, and as a
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.         U

282                Mr. "William Sutherland on ike
for water at ordinary temperatures is quite abnormal, it would
be useless to attempt to apply this equation to them ; but
from the " dimensions " of the physical quantities involved in
it we may make it yield a correct form of empirical equation
for solutions. If we neglect the small term 25R/26, and also
the difference between v and v0 at ordinary temperatures, the
 equation above suggests the simple form / varies as 1/fJ-p'2, that is
 X-1 varies as /ip*, say KX_1 = /ij02, where K is a constant,
and for water KW~1 = fJ-tD the compressibility of water, and
 as before we have X_1= (W_1 + nA_1)/(l + n). But on
 account of the rapid alteration of the compressibility of water
 ¦with pressure, and its anomalous variation with temperature,
 we must be prepared to admit that the part of the com
 pressibility of a solution due to the water in it is altered from
 its value in pure water, and is more altered the more the
  water is compressed in the process of dissolving the salt. Let
 this compression be measured roughly by the total amount of
 shrinkage that ensues when 1 molecule of salt is dissolved in
 1000 grms. of water, call tho shrinkage A, and let us amend
  the equation given above to KX_1=/a/)2+/(A). Let suffixes
 a and b attached to symbols refer them to two different bodies,
 then
            KX:'-KX-'=^-^+/(AJ -/(A4),
 but
             KX;'-KXri=Kn(A^-Ar>)/(l + «),
         K»(Ari-Ari)/(l + «) =Hapl-Kpl+AK)
  Hence selecting pairs of bodies for which Aa=As approxi
  mately, we ought to get /u^— /-yf proportional to cK~r — cA^"1}
  the values of the last expression being obtainable from
 'Table XXXI.
     To facilitate the comparison I furnish the following broad
  statements about A founded on the study of data as to the
  molecular volumes of salts, both solid and in solution, given
  by Favre and Valson (Comp. Rend, lxxvii.) Long (Wied.
  Ann. ix.), and Nicol (Phil. Mag. xvi. and xviii.). The modular
  property applies approximately to shrinkage on solution ; the
  shrinkage of a gramme molecule of LiCI is 2, and the shrinkage
  for a gramme molecule is increased when for Li is substi
  tuted
        K.       Na.         NH4.      $Ca.      £Sr.       £Ba.
     by 8          7         -5         10        11         12;
  and when for 01 is substituted
                Br.       I.      N03.     *S04.    4C03.
             byO          0        0         8        U.     ,

                          Laws of Molecular Force,                            283'
After giving the values of (ip* in the next table we can pro-
coed with the comparison.
                  Table XXXIV.—Values of 10V-
                          CI.    Br.         I.       N03.       isot.    4C03.
  Li                     432    484        541         457        433
  Na                     441    i.m        550         468        444      428
  K                      454    507        557         480        450      437
  NH4                    443    493        544         466        442
  iCa                    464
  iSr                    497
  £Ba                    521
    The experimental data used are those of Rontgen and
 Schneider (Wied. Ann. xxix.), and those of M. Schumann
 (Wied. Ann. xxxi.) for CaCl2, SrCl2, and BaCl2, in the case
 of which I calculated the compressibility for the half-gramme
 molecule according to his result that M— /¦*•«, =c/> where p is
 percentage of salt, using a value of c got from the more con
 centrated solutions.
    An inspection of this table shows that 107/ips possesses the
 modular property ; it gives for instance the following dif
 ferences for Na and Li, 9, 12, 9, 11, 11, with a mean value 10,
 and so on for the other metals ; the mean values for the metals
 minus that for Li are : —
        Na.           K.       NH4.         iCa.           }Sr.        JBa.
         10           20         8           32            65           89;
 and for the negative radicals minus that for CI :—
              Br.            L         NOs.       iSOv          iC03.
              52           105         25            0          -15.
 We can now select pairs of bodies for which Aa= A4 and test
if PafZ-PtPt }s proportional to cA-1 -cA~\
    The following are pairs of elements characterized by nearly
 equal shrinkage on solution with the values of the differences
 of 107/i/jJ and of cA-1 and also their ratio.
                               Table XXXV.
  Kqual shrinkage pair... K.Na.             £Ba, iOa. Br. 01. I,OL N03, 01.
   Mean diff. of lO'/ip2... 10       33         57         52      105     25
   Mean diff. of cA-1... •29         105        1-85     1-56     3-28    •81
   Ratio of differences ... 34       31         81         33      32      31
                                      U 2

284              Mri William Sutherland on the
   The agreement here is excellent, as will be seen more clearly
if we compare bodies not having equal shrinkage, as K and
Li, for which we get the 107/tp2 difference 20, the cA_1 diffe
rence "90 with a ratio 22, or K and NH4, for which the two
differences are 12 and l-05 with a ratio 11.
   The agreement above is a verification of the theory of the
compressibility of solutions, here barely outlined, and the
equation
               W(l>A-lhfi> =32(cA-i-cA6-i)
when Aa=As nearly constitutes a second method of getting
values of cA_1j but we will not use it, as it adds no bodies to
our list. It suffices to have partly verified the principles on
which the first method i3 founded by their application to quite
another physical phenomenon, and especially the principle
involved in the remarkable equation
                  X-1 = (W"1 + nA~l)/(l + n) .
With the values in Table XXXIII. and that for LiOl, namely,
*83, we can obtain the value of cA—1 for any salt whose con
stituents are to be found in the table, or we can if we like use
the actual values in Tables XXX. and XXXI. ; we can then cal
culate M'/cA-1, which is proportional to Wl, or Wl = QW/cAr1,
where C is a constant. To connect the values of M.H thus
found with those previously given absolutely in Table XXV.,
we must find the value of G/c, which we can proceed to do in
the following manner :—
   We have seen (Section 14) that we had better regard the
molecule of water as doubled relatively to that of ordinary
liquids, and as we have shown that the molecules are paired
in ordinary liquids the molecules are doubly paired in water ;
but it was suggested that the second pairing of the pairs was not
attended with any alteration in the parameter of molecular
force, and that the only effect of the second pairing was to make
the radius of the molecular domain of water 2^ as large as if
water were an ordinary liquid, And, again, in the case of
solutions the surface-tensions have been measured at about
15° C , whereas for comparison with our previous work they
ought to have been measured at 2T„/3, which for water is about
150° C. At this temperature the value of the surface-tension
of water reduces, according to Eotvos, to about "6 of its value
at 15° 0. Hence the equation, which treating water as an
ordinary liquid and at 15° we wrote «m = Ww>Vc, ought for
double pairing and at 150° to become •6«»= W^w^/c, and
similar statements hold for the equation for a ; so that values

                         Laws of Molecular Force.                     285
of W, X, and A, as deduced from measurements at 15°, ought
to be reduced by the factor '6/2J, or 1/2, to give the desired
values. Now in the case of homogeneous liquids in the
equation l=cav§/m$ giving I in terms of the megadyne we
found a value 5930 for c/2, with the megamegadyne as unit
of force c/2 = "00593 ; and we can use this same value in the
case of solutions after we have halved our values of A, or
doubled those of cA_1 so far given ; hence using the values
of cA-1 so far given we get Wl- -00593 W/cA-\
    Fortunately, a test of this argument is made possible by
means of Traube's data for the surface-tension of solutions of
certain organic acids and sugars, for which the values of
•00593M2/cA-1 are given in the following Table, as well as
values of S found by the relation M2/=6S (the term -66S2
being omitted), and also values of S calculated from the
dynic equivalents in Table XXVI.
                              Table XXXVI.
                      Oxalic Acid. Citric Acid.   Glycerine. Mannite.
                       (COOH)2. C3HpH(COOH)3 C3H5(OH)3. CcH8(OH)c.
  M.H                    194              43-5        33-5      63-0
  S-M2//6                 3-               7-2         5-6       10-5
  S from dynic equiv.     42               9-7         5-0       10-0
                                  Tartaric Acid. Dextrose.  Saccharose.
                              C2H2(OH)2(COOH)2. C0H12O6.     0laHMOu.
  MH                                   38-9         721        112-5
  S-M2/6                                6-5         12-0        18-8
  S from dynic equivalents              7-4          9-6        18-1
    The agreement between the two sets of numbers is not all
that could be desired, but it is good enough to show that the
only part of M2£ effective in a solution is the linear term in
M2Z=6S + "66S2 ; and we have already seen that when the
 molecules of ordinary liquids pair during liquefaction the term
 •66S2 is inoperative in the process, so that there is a certain
resemblance in the relations of two paired molecules and those
of solvent to those of substance dissolved.
    Returning to the inorganic compounds we can now tabulate
the absolute values of M% calculated according to the rela
tion M2Z=-00593M2/cA~1. The manner of calculation is best
illustrated by an example, say for KBr ; first "83 is taken as
the value for LiCl, and to it are added *90 and 1*56, taken
from Table XXXIII., as the differences for K and Li and for

280                    Mf. William Sutherland on the
Br and CI ; the square of the molecular weight of KBr is
divided by this sum and multiplied by "00593 to give the
tabulated value of MSZ in terms of the megamegadyne. From
the value of M*Z thus found the dynic equivalent S is calcu
lated by the relation M9Z=6S, which has been seen to be
appropriate to values of Ms£ obtained from solutions.
              Table XXXVII.—Values of M*l and 8.
              01.             Br.             I.           NO 3*          iSO 4-       4C03.
           MH.     S.    MH.       S.   MV.       S.    MH.     s.     MH.       s. MH. s.
  Li ...   125    2-1     18-7    31    25-7     4-3     17-1   2-8     10-6   1-8
  Na ...   137    2-3    20-8     3-5   280      4-7     18-8   31      12-8   2-1 8-6 14
  K ...    18-5   31      28-3    4-7   32-4     5-4     235    3-9     172    2-9 12-8 21
  NH4      23-0   3-8     27-0    4-5   310      5-2     250    4-2     17-0   2-8
  P*g      104    1-7     17-7    30    251      4-2     15-6   26      10-1   1-7
  iCa...   120    20      19-4    3-2    267     4-5     173    2-9
  |Sr...   14-2   2-4     21-8    3-t;   29-3    4'9     19-5   3-2
  |Ba...   18-8   3-1     26-4    4-4    33-9    5-6     240    40
  iZn...   12-5   21                                                    12-6 21
  la...    15-7   26      23-2 8-9 30-5 5-'i             21-0 3-5       16-2 2-7
           115    1-9       ...                   ...    16-8 2-8       11-7 2-0
    To these may be added the following :
                  AgNOa.        *Pb(N03)2.                      iFeS04.        £NiS04.
      MH.           30-6            26-3            11-5          11-4 ¦          12-3
      S...            5-1             44              19            1-9            2-0
                       4CoS04          j-Ala(S04)3        |Fe2(S04)3.       jCr2(SQ4)3.
                         12-7               89                12-6               9-6
      S....                2-1              15                 21                1-6
    The additive principle holds amongst both sets of numbers
 except in the case of NH4; see for instance the following list
of the differences of S for the iodides and chlorides :—2% 2-4,
 2-3, 2-5, 2-5, 2-5, 2-5, 2-5. Now we have already seen that
the modular principle applies to cA-1 (the modular principle
applies when a quantity is given by the addition of moduluses
to a constant, the additive principle is a special case of the
modular in which the constant is zero) ; the additive principle
applies to M the molecular weight : hence it would appear

                     Laws of Molecular Force.                 287
to be a mathematical impossibility that the modular or additive
principle should apply also to M2/cA_1, rigorously ; or, more
accurately, if the modular principle applies rigorously to one
of the quantities cA-1 and M2/cA_1 it cannot apply rigorously
to the other : but practically we find such relations amongst
the numbers that both are approximately obedient to the
modular principle. The case of NH4 casts some light on the
question, for with it cA_1 shows the same differences in the
values of the chloride, bromide, iodide, and nitrate as with
the other positive radicals, while M2/cA_1 does not do so :
this case would make it appear that the modular principle
applies rigorously to cA_I, but not so rigorously to M2/cA-1.
    But leaving out of the count this case of NH4, significant as
it is, we can find mean values for the differences of the dynic
 equivalents of all the metals and Li, and of all the negative
 radicals and CI ; if we can obtain the absolute value of the
 dynic equivalent of Li and of 01, we shall have those for all
 the metals and radicals. Now from the organic compounds
 we have already got a value 1"3 for the dynic equivalent of
 CI, and hence from the value for LiCl we could obtain that
 for Li. The value tabulated for LiCl is 2*1, but we can
 obtain a mean value fairer to all the other bodies by sub
 tracting, for example, from the value for KI the mean difference
 for K and Li, and for I and CI ; in this way we arrive at a
 mean value T9 for LiCl, from which, taking the value 1*3 for
 CI, we should get "6 for Li. But the refraction-equivalents of
 the halogens are supposed by Gladstone to be a little larger
in inorganic than organic compounds ; so that in the light of
 our previous knowledge of a close parallelism between dynic
 equivalents and refraction-equivalents it might be safer to
 assume that the dynic equivalents of Li and CI in LiCl are in
 the ratio of their refraction-equivalents in that compound,
 namely, 3*8 and 10'7. According to this assumption the values
 for Li and CI come out "5 and l-4, which we will adopt as
 true and use in the calculation of the dynic equivalents of the
 elements given in the following Table. These are measured
 of course as before in terms of that for CH2 as unity, and,
 again, for comparison there are written along with the dynic
 equivalents the refraction-equivalents in terms of that for CH2
 as unity, calculated from Gladstone's values (Phil. Trans.
 1870).

 288                  Mr: William Sutherland on the
                             Table XXXVIII.
                        Li.   Na.   K.      iMg.     JOa.     iSr. iBa. iZn. iCd.
Dynic equivalent         •5    •8 1-6        •3       •55      •9      17      •65 1-22
Refraction-equivalent .  •5    •63 1-06      •46      •68      •90     104     •67 ¦9
                        Ag- P>b. *Cu. JMn.                    iNi. iOo. JAL iFe.
                        2-70 20      ¦6       5       ¦6       •7        •8    •2    ¦8
Refraction-equivalent . 206 1-63    ¦76       8       •81      • 69      •71   •37   •93
                        JCr.    01      Br.      I.      N03. *BO, *oo3. iCK)4.
                         •3     14      27       38       23        1-35     5     17
Refraction-equivalent .  •7     1-4     2-2      3-6      1-8       11       8     2-4
     Again we see a remarkable parallelism between the dynic
  and refraction-equivalents of the elements and radicals. Of
  course there are refinements which will yet have to be made
 in the calculation of the dynic equivalents, but it is not likely
  that they will make the parallelism seriously closer.
     17. Meaning ofthe Parallelism between Dynic and Refraction
  Equivalents, and general speculations as to the volumes of the
  atoms and their relation to ionic speeds.—We are now called
  upon to consider the meaning of this parallelism which has
  been demonstrated both for organic and inorganic compounds,
  and we shall be helped thereto by the very simple theory which
  I have given of the Gladstone refraction-equivalent (Phil. Mag.
  Feb. 1889), showing that to a first approximation
                          («-l> = 2(N-l)U,
  where n is the index of refraction and u the molecular domain
  of a substance, N the index of the matter of an atom, and U
  its volume in the molecule. Hence the refraction-equivalent
  of an element is the product of the refractivity (Sir W. Thom
  son's name for index minus unity) of the substance of its atom
  and the volume of the atom (the volume of the atom being
  measured in terms of the unit in which the molecular domain,
  usually called molecular volume, is measured); so that the re

                     Laivs of Molecular Force.                  289
fraction-equivalent is a function of the two variables only,
namely, the volume of the atom and the velocity of light
through it. Now we have seen that the expression M% as a
whole, in one aspect appears to be not dependent directly on
the molecular mass M, seeing that M2l can be represented in
terms of certain quantities which we have called dynic equi
valents. Hence, as I is proportional to A in our expression
3Am?/rl for molecular force, we see that in one aspect mole
cular force seems to be not directly dependent on the mass of
the attracting molecules ; and yet, on the other hand, in con
 sidering solutions we found that the quantity A asserted its
individuality as separate from the whole expression Am2, so
 that in another aspect there does appear to be a mass action
 in the attraction of two molecules. However, regarding
 M2l or Am2 as a whole, the simplest hypothesis we can make
 about the mutual action of molecules is that it depends most
 on the size of the molecules. This would make Am2 a simple
 function of U ; so that the dynic and refraction equivalents
 would have this in common, that they are both simple functions
 of U. Suppose, now, that the velocity of light through all
 matter in the chemically combined state is approximately the
 same, or that N is approximately the same for all atoms as
 constituents of compound molecules, then the refraction-equi
 valents given by Gladstone are directly proportional to the
 volumes of the atoms in the combined state, and then the
 parallelism between dynic and refraction equivalents would
 mean that S is nearly proportional to the volume. It is very
 interesting, therefore, to inquire briefly whether there is any
 evidence to prove that Gladstone's refraction-equivalents are
 proportional to the volumes of the atoms ; and I think that
 in Kohlrausch's velocities of the ions in electrolysis we have
  such evidence. If different solutions, such as those of KC1,
  NaOl, or -|BaC]2 sve electrolysed under identical circum-
                                              Faraday's law, that
  each atom of K and of Na, and each half-atom of Ba, may be
  considered to receive the same charge, so that they acquire
  their ionic speeds under the action of the same accelerating
  force. Accordingly, the ionic speed characteristic of an atom is
  reached when the " frictional " resistance to its motion is equal
  to this accelerating force ; hence the " frictional " resistance is
  the same for all atoms, or rather for all electrochemical equi
  valents. Now the " frictional " resistance will be a function
  of the velocity of the atom and of its domain (atomic volume)
  and of its actual volume as well as of the domain and actual
  volume of the molecule of the solvent ; but if water is the
   solvent in all cases, the only quantities which vary from body

290                Mr. William Sutherland on the
to body are the velocity and the domain and volume of the
ions, so that we can say
            " frictional " resistance = <jf>(V, u, U),
or                         V = F(m, U).
    Now the simplest connexion that one can imagine between
the velocity and the domain and volume of the ion is that
the velocity will be greatest when the free domain or the
difference between the domain and the volume is greatest,
or, to be more general, when the difference between the
domain and some multiple of the volume is greatest ; but
if N is the same for all combined atoms, then U is proportional
to the refraction-equivalent q. Hence the form of F is such
that it contains u—aq, where a is a constant. On studying
the experimental data I found that a might be considered
unity, and that V is a linear function of u—q. There is a
little difficulty in determining with accuracy the domain of an
ionic atom in a solution. Nicol, in his work (Phil. Mag. xvi.,
xviii.) on the molecular domains of inorganic compounds in
solution, has confined his attention almost entirely to differ
ences of domains, making the assumption suitable to his purpose
that the molecular domain of water is unaltered in solutions,
whereas we should expect that the greater part of the shrinkage
occurring on solution of an inorganic crystal happens in the
water, which is far more compressible than the crystal.
   Accordingly I take the molecular domains of salts in the
solid state, as given by Long in his paper on diffusion of
solutions (Wied. Ann. ix.), as nearer to the true domain when
they are in solution than Nicol's values ; but to allow to a
certain extent for the change of state on solution, I have assumed
that in each case the water experiences four fifths of the total
shrinkage and the dissolved salt one fifth. This is an arbitrary
adjustment, and is of no material importance to the comparison
to be made except as showing that the point has not been over
looked. In the following Table are given under u the mole
cular domains, under q the molecular refractions (Gladstone's),
in the next column their differences, under k the specific mole
cular conductivities determined in highly dilute solution by
Kohlrausch and shown by him to be equal to the sum of the
velocities of the ions in each case. These are taken from his
paper (Wied. Ann. xxvi.), with a few additions from an
earlier one (Wied. Ann. vi.). Under k (calculated) are given
values of the conductivity calculated from the equation
                        k = 68 + 2-2 {u-q),

                    Laws of Molecular Force.                    291
expressing the linear relation between conductivity or sum of
ionic velocities and u—q.
                          Table XXXIX.
                       u.       ?•   u—q.      k.   k (calc).
      KI             535      35-3    18      107      108
      KBr            44       25      19      107      110
      KC1            36       18-8    17      105      105
      Nal            41       32       9       87       88
      NaBr           32       21-7    10       87       90
      NaCl           24       15-5     8-5     87       87
      LiCl           20-5     14-5     0       78       81
      *Mg012         20       14       6       80       81
      lOaOL          22       16       6       81        81
      *SrCla         24        175     6-5     83        82
      £BaCl2         24        18-6    5-4     86        80
      £ZnCl2          23       15-8    7        77       83
    The agreement is here such as to prove a true connexion
 between conductivity and u—q, the more striking as no relation
 can be seen between conductivity and u or q taken separately.
 The only bodies I have omitted from Kohlrausch's latter list
 are the nitrates of some of the above metals and of silver, the
 hydrogen compounds of the halogens, and the ammonium
 compounds. These do not give results in harmony with
 those in the last table, and, indeed, we should hardly expect a
 compound radical like N03 to experience frictional resistance
 in the same manner, as a single atom like 01, and as to the
 hydrogen compounds they form a class by themselves with
 respect to many physical properties. It will be as well to
 show the amount of departure in these cases in the following
 Table :—
                         u.       ?•   u—q.      k.   k (calc).
       HI              56       26       30    327       134
       HBr             50       16       34    327       142
       HC1             42       11       31    324       136
       KN03            47       22       25      98      123
       NaN03           36       19       17      82      105
       NH.NO,          475      25-5     22      98      116
       NHjOl ,   .     35-5     22-2     13    104        97
     Kohlrausch has pointed out that there is some difficulty in
  determining the true connexion between ionic velocities and
  conductivities in the case of the bibasic acids S04 and C03, so
  that we must leave them out of the count for the present.

 292              Mr. William Sutherland on the
    18. An Attempt to JUetermine the Velocity of Light through
 the substance of the water-molecule.—In spite of the excep
 tions, the relation demonstrated in Table XXXIX. is suffi
 ciently striking. To explain it, let us replace q by its value
 (N — 1)U ; then, in interpreting the expression u — (N— 1)U
as occurring in our expression for the conductivity of a solu
 tion, there are two methods of procedure : first, we can assume
that u — U, the free or unoccupied part of the domain, is the
most likely to occur, in which case N = 2 j second, that w— cU
occurs in the expression for conductivity, and that c happens
to have the same value as N— 1, on which supposition it would
be desirable to determine N. At present I know of only one
way of attempting to find N or v/V, the ratio of the velocity
of light through free aether to its velocity through the matter
of an atom, namely by means of Fizeau's experiment, repeated
by Michelson and Morley, on the fraction of its motion com
municated by flowing water to light passing through it.
Exactly in the manner of my paper (Phil. Mag. Feb. 1889,
p. 148) we can estimate the effect of the motion of matter on
the light passing through it. Let s be the distance travelled
by light in water flowing through the aether at rest with
a velocity 8 in the same direction as the light, v'1 the mean
velocity of light through the flowing water, v' the mean
velocity through still water, v its velocity through free aether,
V through a molecule of water, I the mean distance through
a molecule, and a its mean sectional area ; then the total loss
of time experienced by a wave of unit area of front or a tube
of parallel rays, or, briefly, a ray of unit section in passing
through the matter-strewn path s instead of a clear path in free
aether, will be equal to its loss in a molecule multiplied by the
number of molecules passed through in the path. This
number, when the matter is at rest, is proportional to s, to a,
and to p/M, or it varies as sap/M ; but when the matter is in
motion it is reduced in the ratio 1 — B/v": 1. The loss of time
in each molecule is found thus : l/V is the time taken to pass
through a molecule, and in this time the molecule moves
a distance IS/Y and the unit wave-front moves a distance
1(1 + 8/V) , which in free aether would take a time 1(1 + S/Y)/v ;
so that the loss of time in a molecule is l/V — l(l + o/V)/v.
Hence, the total loss of time in the path s may be written
                               1+A
                 ksalp (1              /,    S\
                   M \V          v   A      v")'
But the loss of time is also s/v"—s/v; equating the two ex-

                      Laws of Molecular Force.                 293
pressions and putting M/p=w and al=TJ, v/v"=n", u/V=N
we get
               u (n" - 1 ) = U(N - 1 - - N)(l -
as £ is equal to 1, seeing that if 8=0 andU = w, then N must
be equal to n. This equation is the companion to that for
still matter, namely,
                          u(n-l) = U(N-l).
But to allow for deformation of the wave-front in passing
through molecules it was shown (Phil. Mag. Feb. 1889,
p. 150) that this first approximation might be altered to the
form
                     w(»-l) = U(N-l)+cp,
where c is a constant, and this form was verified, so that we
may write
             m(«"-1)=U(N-1-|n)                        +cp
                                           8   N
neglecting the term in 82 ;
         ... u(n»/_B) = _|u(N-l)(i-+n'')
              n"-n=        8 U(N-l) n-lf N | A
               n           v u{n — 1) ' n VN — 1        /'
Now
         n"—?i      v'—v"        x8       x8        -ii
                 - —j- =--p = --f approximately,
            n
where x is the fraction of the water's velocity imparted to the
velocity v' to change it to v". Fizeau {Ann. de Ch. et de Phys.
ser.3, t. Ivii.) found a value '5 for x,while Michelson and Morley
(Amer. Journ. Sc. ser. 3, vol. cxxxi.), in a more extended and
accurate series of experiments, found a value ^ = '43 ±'02,
which we will adopt. U(N — 1) is equal to u{n — l) measured
in the vapour of water, for which Lorenz (Wied. Ann. xi.)
gives the value 5*6 ; the value for water at 20° C, according
to his data is 6, and n is 1*333, which may also be taken as the
value for n" where it occurs ; all these values being substituted
in the equation
                    N _        n2    w(re-l)      „
                  N-l~*n-l,U(N-l) n

204              Mr. William Sutherland on the
give the value N = 9. Hence the' velocity of light through
the water molecule appears to be one ninth of that through
free aether. But before we could ascribe any degree of
accuracy to this estimate we should need to be surer of the
value of x, whose measurement is attended with great experi
mental difficulties. It is much to be desired that we had
similar measurements for other bodies than water, both liquid
and solid, to permit of other estimates of N, so as to see if it
is the same for all compound bodies/and also to decide be
tween the theory here sketched and Fresnel's hypothesis,
that matter carries its own excess of aether with it, so that
x= (n2 — l)/»2, which in the case of water is "437, in excellent
agreement with Michelson and Morley's experimental number ;
but one such agreement is not sufficient to establish an
hypothesis founded on such artificial grounds. However, if
N = 9 then N — 1 = 8, and we have the electrical specific mole
 cular conductivity ^=68 + 2*2 (m — 8U). It is only a coinci
 dence that this agrees so exactly in form with Clausius's
calculation that the number of encounters experienced per •
 second by a molecule of volume U moving amongst a number
 of others of volume U is greater than that experienced by an
ideal particle moving under the same circumstances in the
ratio u:u — 8U. Further experiment must elucidate the
 subject-matter of these speculations.
   19. Suggested relation between tlie change in the volume of an
atom on combination and the change in its chemical energy.
—Returning to the idea that the dynic equivalent furnishes
a measure of the volume of its atom, we can get a suggestive
glimpse into the relation between the volume of an atom and
its chemical energy. Kundt has recently (Phil. Mag. July
 1888) shown that the velocities of light through the metals
(uncombined) are as their electrical conductivities, being in
the case of silver, gold, and copper greater than through free
aether, and as in this case both n— 1 and N — 1 are negative,
we see that {n — l)u or (N — 1)U for the metals changes
greatly when the metals pass from the combined to the free
state. Now this is in strong contrast to the behaviour of the
 non-metallic elements, which have been shown in the case of
 0, N, C, S, P, CI, Br, and I to possess nearly the same values
of (n— l)w in the combined and free states, and the same may
perhaps be said of H. Again, in contrast to this approximate
inalterability of (n— l)u for these non-metals we have the
fact, already pointed out, that the dynic equivalents of H, 0,
and N are much smaller in the free than the combined state.
If, then, the dynic equivalents give a measure of the volumes

                      Laws of Molecular Foree.                 295
of the atoms in both states, we must consider the volumes of
free H, 0, and N to be smaller than when they are combined,
the change of volume corresponding to the change of energy
on combination. If this is true, then the elasticity and density
of the non-metallic atoms (or the equivalents of these proper
ties in the electromagnetic or any other theory of light) are
so related that although the density changes (N — 1)U re
mains constant, whereas in the metallic atoms the relation
 between density and elasticity must be quite different, because,
 as we have seen, (N — 1) U actually changes sign in some cases.
    It would be possible to determine approximate values for
the dynic equivalents of the uncombined metals from Quincke's
 data for the surface-tension of melted metals, and also to get
 some light on the constitution of salts from his measurements
 of the surface-tension of melted salts, but these would be
 most appropriately discussed in connexion with a general
 study of the elastic properties of solids. I have, however,
 satisfied myself that the dynic equivalents of the uncombined
 metals are different from their values in the combined state.
    To show the existence of an intimate relation between dynic
 equivalents and chemical energy we Can enumerate the follow
 ing propositions :—That in the great majority of inorganic
 compounds the evolution of heat accompanying the passage
 of an atom from the uncombined to the combined state is
 almost independent of the nature of the atoms it combines
 with, similarly the change of dynic equivalent of an atom on
 combination is almost independent of the nature of the atom
 it combines with ; that in organic compounds with the excep
 tion of the simpler typical forms the same proposition as this
  applies both as regards heat and dynic equivalent.
    These general remarks are intended to indicate the most
 hopeful direction for the continuation of these researches to
 open up new fields ; and yet in old fields there is abundance
 of scope for the application of the law of molecular force
 towards the acquisition of a knowledge of the structure of
  molecules, in the elasticity of solids, in the viscosity of gases
 and of liquids, in the kinetics of solutions, and many kindred
 subjects.
    Melbourne, February 1890.

                                 [   296     ]
XXVIII. The Fusion- Constants of Igneous Rock.—-Part III.
      Tlie Thermal Capacity of Igneous Rock, considered in its
     Searing on the Relation of Melting-point to Pressure. By
     Carl Barus *.
                                 [Plate VI.]
 1- TNTRODUCTORY.—The present experiments are in
          series with the volume-measurements of my last paper,
and the same typical diabase was operated upon. Since it is
my chief purpose to study the fusion behaviour of silicates,
more particularly the relation of melting-point to pressure,
the observations are restricted to a temperature-interval
(700° to 1400°) of a few hundred degrees on both sides of
the region of fusion f (§ 11).
     2. Literature.—Experiments similar to the present, but
made with basalt, were published quite recently { by Profs.
Roberts-Austen and Riickerfj. The irregularities obtained
by these gentlemen with different methods of treatment
(heating in an oxidizing or a reducing atmosphere, repeated
heating, sudden cooling), the anomalously large specific heat
between 750° and 880°, where basalt is certainly solid, and the
absence of true evidences of latent heat||, contrast strangely
with the uniformly normal behaviour occurring throughout
my own results. Basalt is chemically and lithologically so
near akin to diabase (particularly after melting) that I anti
cipated a close physical similarity in the two cases. Unfor
tunately the account given of the basalt work is meagre.
Detailed comparisons are therefore impossible.
    The elaborate measurements of Ehrhardt (1885) and of
Pionchon (1886-7) are less closely related to the present work.
                               Apparatus.
    3. The Rock to be tested.—About 30 grammes of diabase
were fused in the small platinum crucible together with which
they were to be dropped into the calorimeter. Two such
charged crucibles were in hand, to be used alternately. The
molten magma, after sudden cooling, shows a smooth, appa
rently unfissured surface, glossy and greenish black. After
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t The geological account of the present work is begun by Mr. Clarence
King, in the January number of the American Journal.
   J This was written some time ago. See American Journal, December
1891 and January 1892. A forthcoming Bulletin, No. 96, U.S. Geological
Survey, contains the work in full.
   § Roberts-Austen and Riicker: this Magazine, xxxii. p. 355(1891).
   'I Supposing basalt to solidify (§ 13) below 1200°.

                The Fusion Constants of Igneous Rock.                     297
 drying and weighing, the mass is often found to have gained
 5 percent, in weight. I was at first inclined to believe that
 this was attributable to water chemically absorbed by the
viscous magma ; but the water is only mechanically retained,
for it passes off after 24 hours of exposure to the atmosphere,
or by drying at 200° C. for, say, 30 minutes. Hence I
weighed my crucibles at the beginning of each measurement,
having previously dried them at 200°. The solid glass, sud
denly cooled from red heat, soon shows a rough and fissured
surface, and its colour changes from black to brown, possibly
from the oxidation of proto-to sesquisalt of iron, possibly from
mere changes in the optical character of the surface (§ 2).
    Throughout the course of the work the charge of the
crucibles was neither changed nor replenished.
    4. Thermal Capacity of Platinum.—Data sufficient for the
computation of the heat given out by the crucibles were
published in 1877 by Violle*, whose datum for the high
temperature (t) specific heat of platinum is "031 7 + "000012 1.
Hence the increase of thermal capacity from zero Centigrade
to the same temperature is < ('0317 + - 00000(5 <), which is the
allowance to be made per gramme of platinum crucible.
    5. Furnace.—Inasmuch as heat is rapidly radiated from the
 white-hot slag, it is necessary to transfer the crucible from
the furnace into the calorimeter swiftly. I discarded trap
door, false bottom, and other arrangements for this purpose,
because the mechanism clogs the furnace, interferes with con
stant temperature, and is too liable to get out of order. The
plan adopted is shown in figs. 1 and 2 (Plate VI.), in sectional
elevation and plan. The body of the furnace consists of two
similar but independent bottomed half-cylinders, A A and
B B, of fire-clay properly jacketed, which come apart along
the vertical plane c c c c. The lid, L L, however, is a
single piece, and fixed in position by an adjustable arm (not
shown). Each of the halves of the furnace is protected by a
thick coating of asbestos, C C, DD, and by a rigid case of
iron, EE, FP. Set screws, gggg, pass through the edges
of this in such a way as to hold the fire-clay and asbestos in
place. The horizontal base or plate of the casing E F is bent
partially around the two iron slides, G (jr, along which the
two halves of the furnace may therefore be moved at pleasure
while the lid is stationary ; as is also the blast-burner, H,
clamped on the outside (not shown), and entering the furnace
by a hole left for that purpose.
   • Violle's calorimetric work will be found in C. Jt. Ixxxv. p. 543 (1877),
lxxxvii. p. 081 (1878), Ixxxix. p. 702 (1879) ; Phil. Mag. [4] p. 318 (1877).
   Phil. Mag. 8. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1893.                    X

2!I8               Mr. Carl Barus on the Fusion
   The charged crucible is shown at K (figs. 1, 2, and 3), and
is held in position by two crutch-shaped radial arms, N, N, ot
fire-clay, the cylindrical shafts of which fit the iron tubes
 P, P, snugly, and are actuated by two screws, R, R. More
over P, P are covered with asbestos (not shown), and thus
subserve the purpose of handles, by grasping which the two
halves of the furnace may be rapidly jerked apart. It is by
this means that the crucible is suddenly dropped out of the
furnace into the calorimeter immediately below (not shown).
Care must be taken to have the arms N, N free from slag.
   6. Temperature.—As in the former work, the temperature
of the furnace is regulated by forcing the same quantity of
air swiftly through it at all times, but lading this air with
more or less illuminating-gas, supplied by a graduated stop
cock. The amount of gas necessary in any case is determined
by trial, and observations are never to be taken except after 1 5
or 20 minutes' waiting, when the distribution of temperature
is found to be nearly stationary. Nevertheless the tempera
ture of the crucible is never quite constant from point to
point. I therefore measured this datum at three levels—near
the bottom, the middle, and the top of the charge, after the
stationary thermal distribution had set in (see Tables, § 10).
For this purpose the fire-clay insulator*, tt, of the thermo
couple, a b, passing through a hole in the lid, is adjustable
along the vertical. Before dropping the crucible the thermo
couple is withdrawn from the charge and suspended above it.
The cold junction is submerged in petroleum and measure
ments made by the zero method.
   When the charge is solid, a small platinum tube previously
sunk axially into the mass (see fig. 3) enables the observer to
make the three measurements for temperature as before. In
my later work I also encased the insulator of the thermocouple
in a platinum tube closed below (see fig. 1) when making
these measurements for the molten charge. Slag being a
good conductor at high temperatures, hydroelectric distor
tions of the thermoelectric data may not otherwise be absent.
   I state, in conclusion, that,when constancy of temperature
is approached the hole in the lid is closed with asbestos, and
the products of combustion escape by the narrow seam in the
side of the furnace, through which, moreover, crucible and
appurtenances are partially visible.
  * These are cylindrical stems, 0 5 centim. thick, 25ceutjm. long, with,
two parallel canals running from end to end, through which the platinum
wires are threaded. Cf. Bulletin U.S. Geolog. Survev, No. 54, p. 05
(1889).

                   Constants of Igneous Rock.              299
   7. Calorimeter.—A hollow cylindrical box, provided with a
hollow hinged lid, through both of which a current of cold
water at constant temperature' continually circulated, sur
rounded the calorimeter on all sides. Thus the temperature
of the environment was sharply given, and the correction for
cboling could be found and applied with accuracy.
   The calorimeter was a vessel of thin tinned sheet iron,
28 centim. long, 8 centim. in diameter, having a water-value
of 19 gramme-calories, and holding a charge of about 1200
grammes of water. The inside of the vessel was provided with
a fixed helical strip running nearly from top to bottom, and
was supported on a hard rubber stem. This could be actuated
oil the outside of the outer case from below, and served as
a vertical axle around which the calorimeter could be rotated.
In this way the water within the vessel was churned, and
three small hard rubber rowels near the top gave steadiness
to the rotation. I pass the description of this apparatus
rapidly here, but shall recur to it in connexion with other
calorimetric work.
   The box or outer vessel of the calorimeter, with its pro
jecting stem, was movable on a small tramway, the tracks of
which lay at right angles to the slides (x, G (figs. 1 and 2) .
Thus at the proper time the lid of the box was opened and the
calorimeter rolled directly under the furnace. After receiving
the crucible the calorimeter was again rolled away and the box
closed, whereupon the temperature-measurements were made
by a sensitive thermometer inserted through a hole in the lid.
   Were I to continue work like the present I should make the
crucible bullet-shaped, and provided with a permanent central
tube much like fig. 3. The splashing of water by the drop
ping crucible (an annoyance which is sometimes serious)
would then be to a great extent obviated.
                           Results.
   8. Method of Work.—While waiting for stationary furnace
temperature I made the initial measurements for the cooling
 of the calorimeter in time series. Knowing, therefore, the
time at which the body was dropped I also knew the tempe
 rature of the water into which it was dropped, accurately.
 Similarly the three measurements for the temperature of the
charge had just before this been made in time series.
   The experiments showed that ten minutes after submer
 gence the crucible and charge might safely be considered
cold, for the maximum temperature of the calorimeter was
                              X 2

300               Mr. Curl Barus on the Fusion
reached after 5 minutes. Hence the time from 10 to 15
minutes was available for making the final measurements for
cooling ; knowing the extremes, I found the intermediate
rates in accordance with the law of cooling. Thus, while the
calorimeter was being constantly stirred, its temperature "was
measured at the end of each minute. Hence I knew the mean
excess of its temperature above its environment during the
course of every minute, and was able to add the corresponding
allowance for radiation and evaporation at once. How im
portant this correction is the Tables (§ 10) fully show. The
only drawback against sharp values is the lag error of the
thermometer ; but this is eliminated in a long series.
    I have stated that both the calorimeter and the crucible
were weighed before and after each measurement. The latter
data were taken.
    9. Arrangement of the Tables.—The two crucibles (§ 3)
and tubes (fig. 3) are designated I. and II. In all cases m
is the mass of the charge, M the calorimetric value of the
 calorimeter (corrected for temperature), t the temperature of
 the environment. @ is the temperature at the top, the
 middle, and the bottom of the charge at the time of submer
 gence. The mean value is also given. The temperature of
 the calorimeter at the time specified is given under 0, and a
 girallel column shows the correction of 8 for radiation,
   inally, the computed thermal capacity of the platinum cru
 cible and appurtenances (correction A), and the thermal
 capacity* h of the charge computed up to each of the con
 secutive times, are found in the last columns. A few obvious
 remarks follow. Note that h reaches its true (constant) value
 in proportion as the body is cold.
    To avoid prolixity I have only given full examples of the
 data here defined at the head of each table. The remainder
 is abbreviated.
     10. Tables.—In the data of the first series (Table I.) only
 one value of ® is in hand for the liquid state. Moreover the
 construction of the furnace was somewhat faulty, not being
 flat-bottomed. Hence these results are of inferior accuracy
 as compared with Series II. (Table II.), which are the best
obtained.
    • The constant h is really the increase of thermal capacity above zero
degrees Centigrade.

                        Constants of Igneous Rock.                        301
        Table I.—Thermal Capacity of Diabase. First Series.
       Platinum crucible, L, 11-169 g. ; Platinum tube, I., -985 g.
       Platinum crucible, II., 1 1*271 g. ; Platinum tube, II., -654 g.
Cruc.                       Mean 8.         Correc- Correc
              Time.    e.      M.       9. I tion     tion      h.
 No.                                            0.     h.
         °0. Minutes.                  °0.     °0.   g.-eal. g.-cal.
   I.    12      0           1367° 1492                              Immersion
                                              "•02    17:9    "267     Liquid.
                 1           1202 g. 22-80      ¦06
                 2          33-36 g. 25-20                     355
                 3                    25-50     •11            367
                 5                    25-58     ¦20            372
                 8                    25-40     •33            370
                                      25-25     -46            370       370
                11                              •60
                14                    25-12                    370
         16      0           1306°    25-90                          Immersion
                11           1145 g.  3604    110     16-6     3U4     Liquid.
                            33-75 g.
  II.    12      0           1378°    2216                           Immersion
                14           1202 g.  30-97   Ml      207      385     Liquid.
                             29-32 g.
         12      0           1337°    14-55                          ImmerBion
                14                    24-40     ¦69   180      373     Liquid.
                             1196g.
                            32-22 g.
  II.    12      0           1274°    21-92                          Immersion
                14           1196 g.  29-98   1-10    17-1     358     Liquid.
                            2916g.
         12      0    1199   1166°    14-87                          Immersion
                14    11«3            22-98     •81   16-7     311     Solid.
                             1195g.
                      1138  32-22 g.
  II.    12      0    1100   1078°    2116                           Immersion
                14    1074   1196g.   27-25     •74   16-4     263     Solid.
                      1060   2916 g.
    I.    11     0    1021   1001°    14-89                          Immersion
                11     998            21-31     •47   13-9     242     Solid.
                             1196g.
                       983  32-23 g.
   II. 11        0    1035   1025°    19-76                          Immersion
                14    1025            25-55     •73   15-5     253     Solid.
                             1195 g.
                      1015  2916 g.
         11      0     889    880°    1619                           Immersion
                11     880            21-59     •41   120      204     Solid.
                             1198 g.
                       872   32-24 g.
  II     11      0     827    829°    20-07                          Immersion
                14     827            24-39     ¦65   121       191    Solid.
                             1192 g.
                       833   2916 g.

     &Q2              Mr. Carl Barus on the Fusion
      Table II.—Thermal Capacity of Diabase.            Second Series.
  Cruc. T.        Mean 6.                 Correc Correc
   No.        e.    M.      Time.     e.    tion   tion     h.
                    m.                       6.     h.
         °c. °c.           Minutes. °c.    °C.   g.-cal. g.-cal.
    n.   12 1265 1251°         0    18-94                         Immersion
             1246 1189g.       1    24-60   ¦04    206    236       Liquid.
             1241 26-39 g.     2    26-05   •10           305
                               3    2652    •16           329
                               5    26-61   •30           339
                               8    26-45   •50           341
                              11    26-25   -69           340    | 340-5.
                              14    26 08   •88           341
     i. 12 997 993°            0    1407                         Immersion
              995 1192 g.     11    20-61   •22   13-8    238-3     Solid.
              987 32-22 g.
t
    ii. 12 1260 1251°          0    19-34                         Immersion
             1251 1190 g.     14    2649    ¦80   20-8    342-5     Liquid.
             1243 26-07 g.
    ii.  10 1354 1334°         0    13-78                         Immersion
             1333 1190 g.     14    2179    ¦84   22-4    376-6     Liquid.
             1319 26-27 g.
     i.  10 954 948°           0    20-24                         Immersion
              948 1186 g.     14    25-81   •94   130     226-6     Solid.
              942 32-22 g.
    ii.  10 1364 1352°         0    1718                          Immersion
             1354 1194 g.     14    24-82   •87   231     367-0     Liquid.
             1339 2605 g.
     i.  10 877 873°           0    14-83                         Immersion
              873 1191 g.     14    2013    •46   11-9    202-1     Solid.
              870 32-20 g.
    ii.  10 1176 1166°         0    17-40                         Immersion
             1164 1187 g.     14    24-21   •77   19-2    309-5     Liquid.
             1158 25-97 g.
    ii.  10 1215 1197°         0    14-38                         Immersion
             1191 1192 g.     14    21-13   •62   19-9    318-5     Liquid.
             1186 2595 g.
     i.  10 782 781°           0    19-36                         Immersion
              780 1189 g.     14    23-61   •94   10-4    179-7     Solid.
              780 3219 g.
   ii.   10 1204 1194°         0    14-54                        Immersion
             1195 1195 g.     14-5  21-22   ¦66   19-9    317-9     Liquid.
             1183 25-90 g.

                          Constants of Igneous Rock.                     303
                            Table II. {continued).
  Cruc. r.          Mean 9.                  Correc Correc
   No.          9.     M.      Time.     9.   tion   tion      H.
                       m.                       e.     h.
          °C. °C.             Minutes. °C.     °o.  g.-oal. g.-cal.
     I.    10 1177 1171°          0    19-88                        Immersion
1              1170 1192g.       14    27-37 110     16-7    301-6    Solid.
               1166 3220 g.
           11 1106 1096°          0    16-28                        Immersion
               1094 1195g.       14    23-24 •68     15-5    268-2    Solid.
               1088 32-21 g.
    IX. 11 1262 1248°             0    19-72                        Immersion
               1244 1191 g.      14    26-55 •89     211     338-8    Liquid.
               1238 2549 g.
      i. 11 1237 1218°            0    13-67                        Immersion
               1216 1188g.       14    21 60 ¦69     17-7    330-3    Liquid.
               1202 29-43 g.
    ii. 11 1224 1215°             0    19-73 •95                    Immersion
               1216 1185g.       14    26-27         204     326-6    Liquid.
               1205 25-57 g.
         For brevity the later observations were averaged per
     3 minutes, and under h the mean value for the last 11 minutes
     is usually given.
         In Series I. the increase of temperature from top to bottom of
      the crucible is as large as 60° at 1200°, usually much smaller,
      however, and falling off pretty regularly to 6° at 829°. In
      Series II. the corresponding mean difference is about 25° at
      1300°, 14° at 1000°, 10° at 800°. The errors thus involved
      caunot be greater than 2 per cent, in the extreme case ; but
      since the distribution of temperature is measured, it is probably
      negligible except at very high temperatures. I am inclined
      to infer that the greater constancy of the solid distribution
      as compared with the liquid is due to greater thermal con
      ductivity in the former case (solid), convection being neces
       sarily absent in both.
          Considering the observational work as a whole, the data
       are satisfactory, seeing that an error of 0"1° C. in the calori-
       metric temperatures, initial or final, must distort the results
       at least 1 per cent. But the real source of error is probably
       accidental, and is encountered when the hot body falls through
       the surface of the cold water.
                                    Inferences.
          11. Digest and Charts.— In Tables III. and IV. I have
       summarized the chief results on a scale of temperature. The

304                 Mr. Carl Barus on the Fusion
results of the latter (Series II.) are graphically shown in the
chart (fig. 4), in which thermal capacity in gramme-calories
is constructed as a function of temperature *. Straight lines
are drawn through the points, showing the mean specific
heats for the intervals of observations, solid and liquid. The
letter a marks the region of fusion.
      Table III.—Thermal Capacity of Diabase. Series I.
                             Digest, cf. § 15.
   Mean specific heat, solid, 800° to 1100°          . -304.
                       „ liquid, 1200° to 1400° . -350.
   Latent heat of fusion, at 1200°, 24 g.-cal. ; at 1100°, 16 g.-cal.
                                        !
                Solid.                  i              Liquid.
  Temp. Thermal            Thermal        Temp. Thermal           Thermal
         capacity. Temp. capacity.              capacity. Temp. capacity.
   829      191      1025     253          1274    358       1367   370
   880      204      1078     263          1306    364       1378   385
  1001      242     tll66     311          1337    373
     Table IV.—Thermal Capacity of Diabase. Series II.
                             Digest, cf. § 15.
    Mean specific heat, solid, 800° to 1100°          . -290.
                       „ liquid, 1100° to 1400° . -360.
    Latent heat of fusion, at 1200°, 24 g.-cal. ; at 1100°, 16 g.-cal.
                Solid.                                   Liquid.
  Temp. Thermal            Thermal        Temp. Thermal           Thermal
         capacity. Temp. capacity.               capacity. Temp. capacity.
   781      180      i096     268          1166    310       1248   339
   873      202     tll71     302          1194    318       1251   340
   948      227                            1197    319       1251   342
   993      238                            1215    327       1334   377
                                           1218    330       1352   367
   • The corresponding chart for Table III. is almost identical with this,
   t Incipient fusion (?) at the base of the crucible.

                     Constants of Igneous Rock.                          305
   In both the tables, III. and IV., the solid points lie on lines
which, if reasonably carved, would be nicely tangent to an
initial specific heat of about 02 at °C. The grouping, in
other words, is so regular as to exclude the probability of
anomalous features, either in the observed or the unobserved
parts of the loci. The solid point near a (fig. 4, a similar point
occurs in Table III.) alone lies markedly above the curve ; but
inasmuch as in my volume work I found solidification to set in
at 1100°, it is altogether probable that the occurrence at 1170°
is incipient fusion (§ 13).
   The regularity of the liquid loci (Tables III. and IV.) is
slightly less favourable ; but the discrepancies which occur
are above 1300°, and obviously accidental (§ 10, end).
   12. Specific Heat. —As regards the mean specific heats be
tween b00° and 1100° in Tables III. and IV., it will be seen
that the intermediate datum would satisfy both groups of
points about as well as the individual data given. A tracing
made of the first group practically covers the other. The
same remarks may be made for the liquid state. I have not
attempted any elaborate reductions, since the equations of
the necessarily curved loci would have to be arbitrarily
chosen, and since values for specific heat are of no immediate
bearing on the present inquiry.
   13. Hysteresis.—Recurring to the suggestion of the pre
ceding paragraph, it appears that the fusion behaviour of rocks
must be accompanied by hysteresis* of the same nature as
that which I observed with naphthalene and other substances :
for, whereas in my volume work with diabase I was able to
cool the rock down to 1095° without solidifying it, evidences
of fusion (at a, figs. 4 and 5) do not occur in the present
work until 1170° is reached. The magnitude of the lag is
thus of the order of (say) 50°, and its pressure-equivalent
may be estimated as 500 atmospheres.
   14. Latent Heat.—In virtue of the fact that the (upper) end
of the solid locus (Tables III. and IV.) may be carried so
near the beginning of the liquid locus, the datum for latent
heat is determinable with some accuracy, in spite of its sur
prisingly small (relative) value. Difficulties, however, present
themselves in the determination of the true melting-point, a
datum which can only be sharply defined when the tempera
ture of the crucible is quite constant throughout. I have,
therefore, considered it preferable to state the conditions at
1200° and at 1100°, the former being nearer fusion and the
latter very near solidification. The latent heats for these
     Am. Journal, xlii. p. 140 (1891) ; cf. ibid., xxxviii. p. 408 (1889).

SOtI          The Fusion Constants of Igneous Rock.
temperatures are 24 and 16 respectively. The coincidence of
results in both of the independent constructions (Tables II I.
IV.) is in a measure Accidental.
    15. The Relation of Melting-point to Pressure.—The first and
second laws of thermodynamics le id to the equivalent of
James Thomson's fusion equation, which in the notation of
Claudius* is oT/dp—T(a— t)/E/ ; where T is the absolute
melting-point, a— t the difference of specific volumes solid
and liquid at T, r the latent heat of fusion, and E Joule's
 equivalent.
    Combining the present Series I. of thermal measurements
with the former Series III. of volume measurements, I ob
 tain at 1200°, since T= 1470°, <t-t= -0394/2-72 (where 2-72
 is the density of the solid magma at zero), and / = 24.
                                      = •021 ;
and at 1100°, since T= 1370°, o—t='0385/2'72, and /=16,
 Similarly, combining the present (heat) Series II. with the
former (volume) Series IV., at 1200°, since ff-T=-0352/2 72,
 and r' = 24,
                             (r)
 and at 1100°, since a- -t = -0341/2-72, and / = 16,
                             (?) =-°26'
                             \<lp Aioo
 Hence the probable silicate value f of dT/dp falls within the
 margin (-020 to -036) of corresponding data for organic sub
  stances (wax, spermaceti, paraffin, naphthalene, thymol). I
 may, therefore, justifiably infer that the relation of melting-
 point to pressure in case of the normal type of fusion is
 nearly constant irrespective of the substance operated on, and
  in spite of the enormous differences of thermal expansibility
 and (probably) of compressibility. And in the measure in
 which this is nearly true on passing from the carbon com
 pounds to the thoroughly different silicon compounds, is it
     « Wiirmetheorie, i. p. 172 (1876).
    f For reasons to be stated elsewhere, 8m = a-\- ¦0'25p (where 6m is the
 melting-point in °C. at the pressure p atmospheres) will be assumed in
  making geological application of the above data.

                    Notice* respecting New Books.                  307
more probably true for the same substance changed only as
to temperature and pressure. In other words, the relation
of melting-point to pressure is presumably linear. In my
work on the continuity of solid and liquid * these relations
are corroborated for naphthalene within an interval of 2000
atmospheres.
               XXIX. Notices respecting New Books.
       Treatise on Thermodynamics. By Petbb Alexander, M.A.
              London : Longmans, Green, and Co. 1892.
"t^ROM the preface it appears that, this book is ambitious : it
        claims to have elevated the science of Thermodynamics into
an organic unity from being a mere collection of detached propo
sitions, to exhibit the thermodynamic relations as the outcome of
physical, as opposed to mathematical, considerations, to have
cleared away the fog that has enwrapped the subject of irreversi
 bility, and, by an enlarged definition of entropy, to have opened1
up a mode of dealing with this subject, and, finally, to have
dissipated the haziness that has overlain the subjects of Motivity
and Dissipation of Energy.
    The idea is to be deprecated, however, that, as hitherto treated,
the science of Thermodynamics has consisted of anymore detached
propositions than the two, representing the two laws, which are
 the necessary basis of this as of every other treatise on the sub
ject, viz. that of the conservation of energy and that of the perfec
tion of a reversible engine or its equivalent, together with their
 consequences ; and indeed a set of relations, which are the expres
sions in different forms of the same fact and which are all deducible
 from each other by simple transformations, does not constitute
 different but identical propositions. What the author has really
done is to express the two laws, i. e. practically the values of the
dynamical equivalent and of Carnot's function, in a manner even
 more general than that worked out (though not otherwise employed)
 by Clausius, viz. in terms of two general variables with any scale
 of temperature ivhatever, and then from these expressions to deduce
 particular thermodynamic relations by the substitution of particular
 variables : and it is these relations, which are necessarily identical,
 that constitute the " detached propositions " above mentioned.
    Even if this method does not really tend to promote the organic
 unity of the science, it has without doubt its advantages and, by
 reason of its generality, should find place in some form or other
 in every formal text-book : it is certainly convenient if only as a
 simple mode of demonstrating certain identities and even of bringing
 to light identities, unimportant enough it may be, that might
 otherwise escape recognition. At the same time it is unlikely that
 general resort will be made to it for obtaining the really important
                      * Am. Journ. xlii. p. 144 (1801).

80S                Notices respecting New Books.
forms of the thermodynamic relations, each of which is patent on a
glance at the corresponding infinitesimal cycle.
   In his investigation of these general expressions, the author
prefers not to avail himself directly of the fact that infinitesimal
changes of entropy and intrinsic energy are perfect differentials,
and so, according to Lord Kelvin's simple plan, to apply the corre
sponding criteria forthwith, this method savouring of mathematics
only : he follows Clausius' original lead instead, without, however,
Clausius' elaboration, and, taking an infinitesimal cycle composed
of two pairs of thermal lines of any different types, he sums up the
heat absorbed all round the cycle and also the changes of entropy,
and equates the former sum to the area of the cycle and the latter
to zero, this lengthier process being chosen as being of a more
distinctly physical character than the other. In the second of
these calculations the criterion of a perfect differential is of course
necessarily arrived at, since the process of determining the cri
terion is essentially that of the method pursued ; attention might
therefore with advantage have been called to the mathematical
character of this resulting equation, more especially as after
reading Chap. XV., wherein is given Lord Kelvin's method, a
student will not be likely to have recourse to the other. Advan
tageous, too, would be the omission in this calculation of the signs
of integration, which are finally discarded as quite unnecessary
and are not even introduced into the other calculation on p. 42.
   With respect to irreversibility, it is pointed out that there may
be processes which, though not actually reversible, are, so far as tlie
working substance is concerned, in one direction equivalent to pro
cesses that are reversible, in which case the changes of entropy
that occur in the working substance itself during such processes
(termed conditionally irreversible, in contradistinction to intrinsi
cally irreversible processes which have no such equivalents) depend
only on its initial and final states. But we are not really helped
by these considerations—which are not new—since it is the actual
sources &c. and the actual variations of entropy with which we
are really concerned.
   The proposed enlargement of the definition of entropy which is
to help with the treatment of irreversibility greatly needs defence.
It is ushered in with an objection to the definition of the entropy
of a body or system as the sum of the entropies of its parts,
" which seems to me as unwarrantable as to define the temperature
of a body or system as the sum of the temperatures of its parts," so
that to speak of entropy per unit mass " seems to me as un
warrantable as to speak of temperature per unit mass " ; though no
reason whatever is given or even hinted for likening entropy to
temperature rather than to such another physical property as
energy or volume. Such a definition of entropy is then desired
as will make the entropy of any system whatever invariable when
no heat passes into or out of it ; and the author considers that he
has obtained such a definition—which satisfies also his previous
objection— in the formula 2 . rmp/S . rm, where m is the mass

                     Notices respecting New Books.                    809
of a portion of the system of which the entropy and absolute
t emperature are f and r.
    Assuming, however, the formula for a single mass, consider a
system of two masses ro,, m2 of the same substance with entropies
<pv fa and at absolute temperatures r,, ra respectively; and let
these masses be respectively expanded and compressed adiabati-
cally to the temperature r and then respectively compressed and
expanded isothermally to the pressure p: the system is now in
equilibrium, and, if r is taken such that no energy is lost or gained
by the system and that the heat lost by the one mass is equal
to that gained by the other, it is in that state of equilibrium
 which the system would finally attain in isolation. If, then, <f> is
the final entropy of the system, the heats lost and gained are
mlT (0,-0) and mj (</>—fj, whence 0=(mfa + m^) / (m, + mj,
 which does not satisfy the proposed formula except forr,=raor
     Entropy being thus considered a debatable subject, it is surpri
 sing to see it postulated in the Introduction as an evident property
 of a substance and to find it treated as such without debate or
 explanation till the last chapter. In Maxwell's opinion,- " it is to be
 feared that we shall have to be taught thermodynamics for several
 generations before we can expect beginners to receive as axiomatic
 the theory of entropy."
     The account given of thermodynamic motivity and dissipation of
 energy is good and clear, and it is properly remarked that Clausius'
 theorem of the tendency of the entropy of the universe to a maxi
 mum is only a restatement in terms of entropy of Lord Kelvin's
 dissipation theorem published thirteen years earlier.
     Though the book, therefore, does not seem quite to fulfil the pro
 mise of the Preface, it will doubtless prove a useful mathematical
 introduction to the subject, which it does not pretend to treat
 experimentally, the few experiments that are referred to being
  mentioned only briefly and without detail.
     Its arrangement seems capable of improvement. Thus, it is not
  broken up into articles and its equations are numbered consecu
  tively from first to last, so that references are tedious : the theorem
  of the dependence on pressure of the temperature of the maximum
  density of water is placed where it seems to be dependent on
  thermodynamical considerations, while that of the equality of the
  ratios of the principal specific heats and of the principal elasti
  cities is actually proved by such considerations, of which it is
  absolutely independent—as is obvious, since it was known to
  Laplace : and two general equations of very great importance,
  (216) and (217), are deduced only incidentally to prove that the
  principal specific heats of superheated vapours are approximately
  functions of temperature only.
     There is some looseness of expression : thus the word perfect
  is used as equivalent to efficient, which leads to the solecisms
  more perfect and equally perfect ; the dyne, centimetre, and erg are
  called French units : the dynamical equivalent of heat is said to be

  •Mi)
                      Notices respecting New Book.*.
  " 772 on the Fahrenheit scale "; Mayer is credited with an experi
  ment which was repeated by Joule, whose object in experimenting
  is rather made to appear as the justification of Mayers hypothesis.
  Technical terms, too, are used w ithout definition : thus the idea of
  tfllciency is introduced on p. 26 without any explanation though
   its quantitative measurement is concerned, and, indeed, when an
  implicit definition is finally given on p. 35 in connexion with a
  Carnot cycle, it is in terms which are neither general nor such as
  Carnot could have accepted. It may also be pointed out that
  in Chaps. XVI. and XVII. there is no distinguishing symbol for
  absolute temperature, though everywhere else the letter r is used ;
  that in Chnpter XV. the numerical specification of entropy differs
  from that adopted elsewhere; and that in (151) only a particular
  integral is given of the partial differential equation (150), the
  general solution of which is K=r2/(r3—3Ar02p) corresponding to
  the characteristic v/t = i£(p) + Ar0j<Zr t~2J{t3 — 3Ar02p).
      The notation is not all that can be desired ; that of partial
  differential coefficients is specially abused, after Clausius' example,
  in being applied to denote thermal capacities, and in Chap. XT.
 the differential coefficients of p and X with respect to t are con
 tinually enclosed in brackets armed with some such subscript as <j>,
 which is entirely incorrect, as these are not partial differential
 coefficients at all except with respect to the state of saturation ;
 elsewhere, too, occurs repeatedly the meaningless form (dr/dt)^,
 wherein r is an acknowledged function of t only.
     These are, however, blemishes which do not impair the value of
 the book, but might be considered in view of a second edition.
 Among its good points must specially be mentioned the stress that
 is laid on the proper definition of absolute temperature, though
 on p. 168 the author himself uses the definition to which he objects ;
 and there is an in'eresting modification of Bankine's characteristic
 for gases suggested which deserves discussion. It is further well
 remarked that even on the caloric theory Clapeyrou's version of
 Carnot's operations (which is that adopted in the book) would be
 improved by the adoption of Clausius' modification,—which, by the
 way, is ascribed to J. Thomson, though contained in that memoir
 of Clausius which first set the subject on its new basis. It may
 be here remarked that Carnot's own version of his cycle requires
 no modification whatever, even from the new point of view.
 Die physikalische Behandlung und die Messung hoher Temper aturen.
              By Dr. Cael Babtjs. Leipzig : Barth, 1892.
The subject of pyrometry, although forming an important
application of physics to manufactures, has not received from
physicists the attention which it deserves. One reason for this is
undoubtedly the difficulty of maintaining a constant high tempera
ture, and another is to be found in the fact that the subject neces
sitates a detailed study of the alterations produced in the properties
of matter by excessive heating. In order to measure any tempera»

                  Notice* respecting New Books.                   311
ture absolutely, we must assume that some property of a substance
remains constant at that temperature aud at other known tempe
ratures. If this is not the case, the same temperature will have
different values according to the method by which it is measured,
and its true value will most probably be that found by a majority
of the methods. The author in his present volume has criticized
the different methods of determining temperatures, and has given
the results of experiments by himself and other workers in the
same field, from which it appears that only three properties remain
constant over wide ranges of temperature. These are the expan
sion of gases, the change of their viscosity with temperature, aud
the thermoelectric properties of certain metals. All these methods
yield consistent results for the value of a given high temperature.
   The second part of the volume is a discussion of the applicability
of these three methods, and Dr. Barus pronounces in favour of the
thermoelectric method. He then goes on to discuss the various
forms of apparatus which might be used in applying this method ;
from which it appears that a junction of platinum with an alloy oil
platinum and iridium or rhodium gives the best results.
   The book is the outcome of several years of difficult experi
menting, and it is to be hoped that it will encourage a closer study
of the properties of bodies, and especially of metals, at high tem
peratures.                                        Jambs L. Howard.
Hiilfsbuch fur die Ausfiihruny elektrisvher Messum/en. By Dr. Al).
                Heydweiller. Leipzig: Barth, 1892.
This volume is not intended to serve as a text-book, but merely as
an epitome of the various processes of electrical measurement. It'
gives in a collected form the different methods available for any
particular kind of measurement, together with a short description
of each ; the formulas necessary in order to calculate the results1
being likewise quoted, but not proved. In the majority of cases,
however, the original papers and treatises are referred to for more
complete information on this latter point. Under each experiment
the author mentions the sources of error to which it is liable, and
the devices for avoiding or eliminating them are stated, when such
exist. This, portion of the work has been carefully written, and
will be found useful when the choice of a suitable method of
measurement has to be made. At the end of the volume the
various electrical constants have been tabulated, and four-figure
logarithm and trigonometrical tables are also to be found there..
Although the title of the book refers to electricity only descriptions
of magnetic observations have also been given ; but, as the author
tells us in his preface, these are treated more briefly, and only
those which are necessary in electrical measurements have been
described.                                        James L. Howard.

                                 [  312    ]
              XXX. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                          GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                          [Continued from p. 150.]
  December 21st, 1892.—Prof. J. W. Judd, F.R.S., Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
rPHE following communications were read :—
       1. "On a Sauropodous Dinosaurian Vertebra from the Wealden
of Hastings." By R. Lydekker, Esq., B.A., F.G.S.
    2. " On some additional Remains of Cestraciont and other Fishes
in the Green Gritty Marls, immediately overlying the Red Marls of
the Upper Keuper in Warwickshire." By the Rev. P. B. Brodie,
M.A., F.G.S.
    3. " Oalamostachys Binneyana, Schimp." By Thomas Hick, Esq.,
B.A., B.Sc.
     4. " Notes on some Pennsylvanian Calamites." By W. S.
Gresley, Esq., F.G.S.
    5. " Scandinavian Boulders at Cromer." By Herr Victor Madsen,
of the Danish Geological Survey.
     During a visit to Cromer in 1891 the author devoted much
attention to a search for Scandinavian boulders, and obtained three
specimens ; one (a violet felspar-porphyry) was from the shore, and
the other two were from the collection of Mr. Savin. The first was
 considered to come from S.E. Norway, and indeed Mr. K. 0. Bjorlykke,
to whom it was submitted, refers it to the environs of Christiania.
    The author considered that the two specimeps presented to him
by Mr. Savin, who had taken them out of Boulder Clay between
Cromer and Overstrand, were from Dalecarlia; and these were
submitted to Mr. E. Svedmark, who compared one of them (a brown
felspar-hornblende-porphyry) with the Gronklitt porphyry in the
parish of Orsa, and declared that the other (a blackish felsite-
porphyry) might also be from Dalecarlia.
      January 11th, 1893.—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. " Variolite of the Lleyn, and associated Volcanic Rocks." By
Catherine A. Raisin, B.Sc.
    The district in which these rocks occur is the south-western part
of the Lleyn peninsula, marked on the Geological Survey map as
' metamorphosed Cambrian.'
  . Some of the holocrystalline rocks are probably later intrusions.
The igneous rocks, which are described in detail in the present paper,
belong to the class of rather basic andesites or not very basic basalts ;
they show two extreme types, which were probably formed by

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            313
differentiation from an originally homogeneous magma. Corre
sponding to the two types of rock are two forms of variolito.
These are fully described, and their mode of development is dis
cussed.
    The variolites occur near Aberdaron and at places along the coast.
Their spherulitic structure often is developed towards the exterior
of contraction-spheroids, and in this and in other particulars they
correspond with those of the Fichtelgebirge and of the Durance.
The volcanic rocks include lava-flows and fragmental masses, both
fine ash and coarse agglomerate. They are associated with lime
stones, quartzose, and other rocks, which are possibly sedimentary,
but which give no trustworthy evidence of the age of the variolites.
    2. " On the Petrography of the Island of Capraja." By Hamilton
Emmons, Esq.
    The rocks of Capraja consist generally of andesitic outflows resting
on andesitic breccias and conglomerates. The southern end seems
to have formed a distinct centre of volcanic activity, whose products
are younger in age and more basic in charactor than the rocks of the
rest of the island, and may be termed ' anamesitos.' The lavas
appear to have flowed from a vent at some distance from the cone
which probably occurred here and gave out highly scoriaccous
fragments. In the other parts of the island andesite is almost
everywhere found, with patches of the underlying breccias here
and there in the valley bottoms. The chief centre of activity prob
ably lay west of the centre of the island.
    1'etrographical details of the andesites and anamesites, descrip
tions of the groundmass and included minerals of each, and chemical
analyses are given. As regards the age of the constituents, the
author arranges them in the following order, commencing with the
 oldest :—magnetite, olivine, augite, mica, felspar, nepheline.
          XXXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
     ON A NEW ELECTRICAL FURNACE. BY M. HENRI MOISSAN.
rpHIS new furnace is made of two carefully plane pieces of quick-
 -*- lime one placed under the other. In the lower one is a longi
tudinal groove for the two electrodes, and in the middle is a small
cavity more or less deep acting as a crucible ; it contains a layer
of a few centimetres of the substance to be acted upon by the arc.
A small carbon crucible may also be placed in it containing the
substance to be calcined. In the reduction of oxides and the
fusion of metals, larger crucibles are used, and through a cylin
drical aperture in the upper brick small cartridges of the compressed
oxide and carbon can from time to time be added. The diameter
of the carbons which act as conductors will of course vary with the
strength of the current; after each experiment the end of the
carbon is changed into graphite.
    The current most frequently used was one of 30 amperes and
Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 214. March 1 893.                 Y

314            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
55 volts ; the temperature did not much exceed 2250°. A current
furnished by a gas-engine of 8 horse-power was 100 amperes and
45 volts produced a temperature of about 2500°. Finally, thanks
to the courtesy of M. Violle, we had at our disposal 50 horse
power ; the arc in these conditions measured 450 amperes and
70 volts, the temperature was about 3000°.
   With high-tension experiments certain precautions must be
taken and tho conductors be carefully insulated. Even with
currents of 30 amperes and 50 volts, like those used at the
beginning of the investigation, the face must not be exposed to a
 prolonged action of the electrical light, and the eyes must always
 be protected by means of very dark glasses. Electrical sun-strokes
 were very frequent at the outset of these researches, and the
irritation produced by the arc on the eyes may produce very painful
 congestion.
   The temperatures given are only approximate ; they will be
especially determined by M. Violle by methods to be afterwards
described. A certain number of the results obtained are briefly
enumerated.
   When the temperature is near 2500°, lime, strontia, and magnesia
crystallize in a few minutes. If the temperature reaches 3000° the
substance of the furnace itself—quick-lime—melts and runs like
water. At this same temperature carbon rapidly reduces calcic
oxide, and the metal is liberated freely ; it unites readily with the
carbon of the electrodes, forming a calcic carbide, liquid at a red
heat, and which can be easily collected. Chromic oxide and magnetic
oxide of iron are melted rapidly at a temperature of 2250°.
Uranium oxide when heated alone is reduced to protoxide, crystal
lizing in long prisms. Uranium oxide, which cannot be reduced
by carbon at the highest temperature of our furnaces, is reduced
at once at the temperature of 3000°. In ten minutes it is easy to
obtain a regulus of 120 grains of uranium.
   The oxides of nickel, cobalt, manganese, and chromium are
reduced by carbon in a few minutes at 2500°. This is a regular
lecture experiment not requiring more than a quarter of an hour.
   By this method we have been able to cause boron and silicon to
act on metals, and thus obtain borides and silicides in very
beautiful crystals.
   This investigation is being continued.— Comptus Rendtts, Dec. 12,
1892.
   ON THE DAILY VARIATIONS OF GRAVITY. BY M. MASCART.
   I have on former occasions used under the name of a gravity
barometer an instrument by which the variation of gravity between
different stations may be determined. The apparatus has the
drawback of being very fragile, but the same arrangement haa
great advantages in examining whether there are temporary varia
tions in one and the same place.
   For some years past I have arranged a barometric tube contain
ing a column of mercury four metres and a half in length, which

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.             315
counterbalances the pressure of a mass of hydrogen contained in a
lateral vessel. The whole apparatus is sunk in the ground with
the exception of a short column of mercury at the top. The level
of the liquid is compared with a lateral division, the image of which is
formed in the axis of the tube, and the points may be fixed to
within the        of a millimetre.
   Direct observations at different times of day only showed a
continuous course, the greater part of which was due to inevitable
changes of temperature ; certain results can only be obtained by
photographic registration.
   In the proofs submitted the differences of level are multiplied
by 20; they correspond to the variations which are directly ob
served on a column 90 metres in length.
   The curves ordinarily present a very regular and slow course
which is especially due to changes of temperature : but for some
days sudden accidents are seen, the duration of which is from
fifteen minutes to an hour, and which do not seem to be explicable
otherwise than by correlated variations of gravity. These accidents
may attain and even exceed ^ of a millimetre, which corresponds
to ^oTrnr or one second per day, supposing that they lasted the
whole day.
   In order to have a term of comparison, it is sufficient to observe
that if the difference between high and low water is 10 metres,
the liquid layer would produce a variation of xowoo" °^ ^ne ^eve^
value of gravity, that is one fifth of the preceding.
   The existence of these temporary variations of gravity appears
undoubted and deserves attention. I intend to organize at the
Observatory of the Pare Saint Maur an apparatus constructed
with more care, from which all casual trepidation of the ground is
excluded, and the indications of which can be continuously followed.
   Observations of this kind will no doubt present a peculiar interest
in volcanic districts if the changes are due to displacements of
masses in the interior.— Comptes Bendus, January 30, 1893.
         PRELIMINARY NOTE ON THE COLOURS OF CLOUDY
                    CONDENSATION. BY C. BARUS.
   By allowing saturated steam to pass suddenly from a higher to
a lower temperature (jet) in uniformly temperatured, uniformly
dusty air, the following succession of colours is seen by transmitted
white light, if the difference of temperature in question continually
increases :—Faint green, faint blue, pale violet, pale violet-purple,
pale purple, muddy brown-orange, straw-yellow, greenish yellow ;
green, blue-green, grey-blue, intense blue, indigo, intense dark
violet, black (opaque); intense brown, intense orange, yellow,
 white.
   Seen by reflected white light, the same mass of steam is always
 dull neutral white.
    If the colours enumerated be taken in the inverse order, be
 ginning with white, they are absolutely identical with the inter
 ference-colours of thin plates (Newton's rings) of the first and

 316            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 second order, seen by transmitted white light under normal inci
 dence. Thus it is worth inquiring whether small globules of water,
 when white light is normally transmitted, affect it like thin plates.
 For a given homogeneous colour, if 1 be the intensity of the incident
 light and k ( 04 to "05) the reflexion-coefficient, then after a single
 transmission the interference maxima and minima are
                 (1 _               and (1         - k*)I ;
 they differ only very slightly. But if there be an indefinite number
 of particles all of the same size available, then this process is in
 definitely repeated in such a way that while the coloured light is
 not extinguished, the admixed white light becomes continually
 more coloured. Hence, after a sufficiently great number of trans
 missions, the emergent ray will show intense colour. Seen by
 reflected light, the case is almost the converse of this. For a single
 particle the masses which interfere are (M and ^(1 — ^)2I) weaker,
 but nearly equal, and the interference is therefore very perfect.
 It is not, however, capable of indefinite repetition, for after each
 interference the direction is reversed. The light which emerges in
 a direction opposite to the incident ray must therefore have passed,
 through the particles, i. e. it has been brought to interference both
 by reflexion and by transmission, and its colour is thus virtually
 extinguished.
    The final point to be considered is the occurrence of black between
 brown and dark violet of the first order. Here, however, for
 relatively very small increase of the thickness of the plate, the
 colours run rapidly from brown through red, carmine, dark red-
 brown to violet. Hence these interferences are apt to occur to
 gether and an opaque effect is to be anticipated. Particularly is
 this presumable, because the opaque field is coincident with the
 breakdown of the steady motion * of the jet.
    Thus it seems that the colours of cloudy condensation may,
 without serious error, be interpreted as a case of Newton's inter
ferences by transmitted light. In so far as this is true, one may
pass at once from the colour of the field to the size of the particles
 producing it ; and the dimensions so obtained agree well with B..
v. Helmholtz's estimate made in accordance with Kelvin's equation
for the increase of vapour-tension at a convex surface. In the
 study of the condensation phenomena vapour-liquid, the experi
mental power of a method, which is adapted for instantaneous
observation, and which, for a certain range of dimensions, not only
discriminates between vapour and a collection of indefinitely small
suspended water-globules, but actually defines their size, cannot
be overestimated. An account of my work, together with other
allied observations, will be given in the March number of the
' American Meteorological Journal.'—Silliman's Journal, February
1893.
   * I refer here to Osborne Reynolds' work (Phil. Trans, iii. p. 935, 1883)
with liquid jets, according to which, after a certain critical velocity is
surpassed, the uniformly steady motion breaks up into eddying motion.
I am also searching for Reynolds' lag phenomenon (I.e. p. 957).



                                                  PHI. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. PI. VI.
                                                                     Fig. 3.
                                                            Crucible , showing fJte solid
Sectional t'LevaUmi of f/te \0                              chucnge. & aaaal pJatcrizun
                                                                    Seal*' '*4 .
                         Sectional plan, of furnace^<&cr*VLcU~>Le,.
                                         Scale,
    400
         ¦I1
          vS
    3Q0    u \                                     —ST
        1 a
          6
    200
    100
    00"                        10                                                  IS
                                          Fig.*.
             Ciixwb, showing the relr.ih.on. of thermal cMftcuctiby, voir*/ &
                             liqiiul . tV> -tpmpi'i-dixwe ,
                                       Series II.

1
WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS.
The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine.
       Monthly. 2s. Gd.
The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. 2s. Gd.
The Observatory, Monthly Review of Astronomy. Is.
Aelfrie Society's Publications. 15 parts. 37s. Gd.
Aitchison's (J. E. T.) Catalogue of Plants of Punjab. 10s.
Bairds (Major) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. Gd.
CJhimmo's (Capt.) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 6s.
Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
Davis's (J. B.) Crania Britannica. £6 10s.
Davis's (J. B.) Thesaurus Craniorum. 20s.
Denning s Telescopic Work for Starlight Evenings. 10s.
Douse s Introduction to Gothic of Ulfilas. 10s. Gd.
English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School. 3s. Gil.
 Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
        Surgeons. Gd.
    Ditto for Diploma in Public Health. 6c?.
 Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics. 15s.
 Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T. Blanfoud, F.R.S.
               Mammalia. 20s.
              Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
               Birds. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 15s.
              Reptilia and Batrachia. 20s.
 Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 50s.
 Glaisher's Barometer Tables. Is.
  Glaisher's Diurnal Range Tables. Is. Gd.
  Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. Gd.
  Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. eacli .
  Hopkins's (E.) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 16s.
      Ditto. Elustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
  Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
  Lewis's ( G.) Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s. Gd. ; on one side, 3s. Gd,
  London Hospital Pathological Catalogue. 7s. Gd. nett.
  Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, Memoirs. Vols. 8 and
         10. 7s. each.
  M'Intosh's Marine Invertebrates and Fishes of St. Andrews. 21s.
   Merington's French Primer. 2s. 6c?.
   Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. Gd.
   Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3s. 6c?.
   Merington's Perrin's Fables. 2s. Gd.
   Merington's Reading made easy. 2s. 6c?.
   Mulcaster's (J. W.) Statics. 7s. 6c?.
   Olsen's (O. T.) Piscatorial Atlas. Coloured, 52s. 6c?. ; uncoloured, 42s.
   Owen's (Sir R.) Aspects of Body in Vertebrates and Invertebrates.
         2s. 6d.
   Pascoe's Classes, Orders, &c. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. 6c?.
   Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
   Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. 6c?.
   Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol. I. Part I. 4s.,
         Part II. 7s. 6c?., Part III. 6s.
    Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
    Royal College of Surgeons Calendar. Is.
    Sharp's (Dr. D.) Staphylinidae of Japan. 3s. 6c?.
    Smith's (R. A.) Century of Science in Manchester. 10s.
    Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £6 6s. ; Ser. 2, £1 4s.
    Thomson's (Sir W.) Tables for facilitating Sumner's Method at Sea.
         10s. 6c?.
       Forms for ditto. Sun, Is. Stabs, Is.
    Univ. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. 6c?.
    Univ. Coll. Pathological Catalogue. 4 Parts. 2s. each.
    Univ. Coll. Library Catalogue. 3 Vols. 7s. 6c?.
    Univ. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. 6c?.
    "Walker's (Rev. R.) Constitution of Sun. 3s.
     Wheatstone's (Sir C.) Scientific Papers. 15s.
    Wiegmann's Herpetolbgia Mexicana. Part I. Coloured Plates. 40s,
     Wollaston's Notes on Lepidoptera of St. Helena. 3s. 6c?.
              RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E,0,

              CONTENTS of N° 214.—Fifth Series.
     XXI. On the Equilibrium of Vis Viva.—Tart ILL                  By Prof.
  LUDWIG BOLTZMANN                                                        JiHltje 153
     XXII. The Fusion Constants of Igneous Rock.—Part II.
  The Contraction of Molten Igneous Rock on Passing from Liquid
  to Solid. By Carl Barus. (Plate Y.)                                             173
     XXIII. On a certain Asymmetry in Prof. Rowland's Concave
  Gratings. By Dr. J. R. Rydberg, Docent of Physics at the
 University of Lund, Sweden                                                       190
     XXIV. Separation and Striation of Rarefied Gases " under the
  Influence of the Electric Discharge. By E. C. C. Baly                           200
    XXV. Notes on some Recent Determinations of Molecular
 Kefraction and Dispersion. By J. H. Gladstone, D.Sc, F.R.S. . . 204
    XXVI. High Resistances used iu connexion with the D'Arsonval
 Galvanometer. By Frederick J. Smith, Millard Lecturer in
 Mechanics, Trinity College, Oxford                                              210
    XXVII. The Laws of Molecular Force.            By William Suther
land, M.A., B.Sc                                                                 211
    XXVIII. The Fusion Constants of Igneous Kock.—Part III.
The Thermal Capacity of Igneous Rock, considered in its Bearing
on the Relation of Melting-point to Pressure. By Carl Baris.
 (Plate VI.)                                                                     296
    XXIX. Notices respecting New Books:—Mr. P. Alexander's
Treatise on Thermodynamics ; Dr. Carl Barus's Die physikalische
Behandlung und die Messung hoher Temperaturen ; Dr. Ad.
Heydweiller's Hiilfsbuch fiir die Ausfiibrung elektrischer Mes-
sungen                                                                   307-311
    XXX. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
      Geological Society                                                        312
   XXXI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On a New Electrical Furnace, by M. Henri Moissan                          3 1 '.i
      On the Daily Variations of Gravity, by M. Mascart                         314
      Preliminary Note on the Colours of Cloudy Condensation, by
         C. Barus                                                               315
*»* It 13 requested that all Communications for this Work may be addresspd,
       post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.

bl. 35.                      APRIL 1893.                               No. 215
         .Published the First Day of every Month.—Price is. Gd.
                                        THE
             LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
  PHILOSOPHICAL                                    MAGAZINE,
                                         AND
              JOURNAL                   OF        SCIENCE.
     Being a Continuation of Tillooh,s 'Philosophical Magazine,'
       Nicholson's 'Journal,'' and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                   CONDUCTED BT
         LORD KELVIN, LL.D. P.R.S. &c.
        GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                        AND
         WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                             FIFTH          SERIES.
                           N° 215.—APRIL 1893.
                                   LONDON:
        PMNTED BY TAYLOB AND FBANCIS, BED LION COUBT, FLBBT STBBBT.
   an\A hv Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent, and Co., Ld.; Whittaker and Co. ;
   80 ^ L A and 0. Black ;-T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh; Smith and Son,
     GlaBeow ^Hodges, Figgis/and Co., Dublin :-Putnam, New York:-VeuTe J.
     Boyreau ,'Paria :—and Asmer and Co., Berlin.                     ____

rp. xi, 361 ; Demy 8vo.       With 2 Plates and 65 Woodcuts.           Price 10*.
    TELESCOPIC WORK FOR STARLIGHT EVENINGS.
                                         BY
                   WILLIAM F. DENNING, F.R.A.S.
           (Formerly President of the Liverpool Astronomical Society.)
   This work is intended as a useful companion for amateur observers, and
contains many facts and references likely to stimulate their interest in th»
•ublime science of Astronomy.
    Chapters are given on the Invention of the Telescope, on Large and Small
Telescopes, and copious notes on Telescopic work. Then follow descriptions
of the Sun, Moon, Planets, Comets, Meteors, Stars, and Nebulae. The methodi
 and requirements of modern observation are alluded to, and. the information has
 been carefully brought up to date.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
       Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. Qd. ; Part III., 6$.
                 PHYSICAL MEMOIRS,
     SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                          UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
                 PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
           Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plate*.
                         JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                   OF THE LATE
                   J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
             Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
     Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates
                                    and Portrait.                            '
    Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. J0I7LEL
                                  D.C.L., F.R.S.
             Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                Demy 8vo, price Is.
                    THE OBSERVATORY,
                A MONTHLY REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY.
                                     Edited by
                   H. H. TURNER, M.A., B.Sc, Sec R.A.S.,
                                        AND
                 A. A. COMMON, LL.D., F.R.S., Treas. R.A.S.
        THE COMPANION TO THE OBSERVATORY FOR 1S93.
                                    Price Is. 6d.
             Taylor and Francis lied Lion Court, Fleet Street, EC

                                    THE
           LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
      PHILOSOPHICAL                            MAGAZINE
                                    AND
           JOURNAL                  OF        SCIENCE.
                         [FIFTH SERIES.]
                          APRIL 1893.
XXXII. On Plane and Spherical Sound-Waves of Finite
         Amplitude. By Charles V. Burton, D.Sc*
                      Part I.—Plane Waves.
1. ri^HE subject of plane waves of finite amplitude has
      A been considered by Riemannf; and so long as we
confine our attention to the case where velocity and density
are everywhere continuous, his investigation, as is well known,
leaves little to be desired. It will not, therefore, be necessary
here to make further reference to this aspect of the subject ;
but there is one part of Riemann's work which Lord Rayleigh
has clearly shown to be unsatisfactory, and it is this point
which we have now especially to consider. Lord Rayleigh
says J:—
    "          It has been held that a state of motion is possible
in which the fluid is divided into two parts by a surface of
discontinuity propagating itself with constant velocity, all
the fluid on one side of the surface of discontinuity being in
one uniform condition as to density and velocity, and on the
other side in a second uniform condition in the same respects.
Now, if this motion were possible, a motion of the same kind
in which the surface of discontinuity is at rest would also be
possible, as we may see by supposing a velocity equal and
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 24, 1893.
   t " Ueber die Fortpflanzung ebener Luftwellen von endlicher Schwing-
ungsweite," Odtt. Abhandl. t. viii. (1860) ; reprinted in Werke, p. 145.
   X Theory of Sound, vol. ii. § 263, p. 41.
 Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 215. April 1893.                    Z

318           Dr. C. Burton on Plane and SpJwrical
opposite to that with which the surface of discontinuity at
first moves, to be impressed upon the whole mass of fluid. In
order to find the relations which must subsist between the
velocity and density on the one side (uu pt) and the velocity
and density on the other side (u2, p2), we notice in the first
place that by the principle of the conservation of matter
piu3=p1ui. Again, if we consider the momentum of a slice
bounded by parallel planes and including the surface of dis
continuity, we see that the momentum leaving the slice in the
unit of time is for each unit of area (p2u2= piUi)us> while the
momentum entering it is piu^. The difference of momentum
must be balanced by the pressures acting at the boundaries of
the slice, so that
                 PiWi(«2 - w,) =pi -pi = a\px - p^,
whence
The motion thus determined is, however, not possible ; it
satisfies indeed the conditions of mass and momentum, but it
violates the condition of energy expressed by the equation
                 i w/ — \ Mi2 = a2 log pi — a2 log p2."
    2. The assumed motion here criticised is one in which
density and velocity are constant for all points on the same
side of the surface of discontinuity, while this surface itself is
propagated through the fluid with constant velocity. It is
easily shown, however, that the same objection applies when,
on either side of the surface, velocity and density vary con
tinuously in the direction of propagation, while the velocity
of propagation of the surface is also allowed to vary. For
let S (fig. 1) be a surface of discontinuity which
is being propagated through the fluid, while the         Fig. 1.
planes A, B, parallel to S and lying on either
side of it, are fixed in the fluid. At a given
instant let
           distance of S from A = m,
                 „      B „ S = n;
 density and velocity of fluid just to the left
      of S=pi, Mi,
density and velocity of fluid just to the right
      of S=p2, u3 ;                                     A S B
velocity with which S is travelling = V.

                 Sound- Waves of Finite Amplitude.              319
    Then, since A and B are fixed in the fluid, they are ap
proximately moving with the respective velocities «x, u2 ; m
and n being taken sufficiently small. On the same under
standing, the mass of fluid between A and B (referred to
unit surface) = mp1 + np3 ; and since this mass must remain
constant,
                        ^(mpi + wp3)=0;
i. e. in the limit, when m and n are infinitesimal,
                           dm       dn   »
or
                        Pi(V-«i)=P),(V—wj)                       (1,
    Similarly, if px and ps are the pressures corresponding to
pi and pi, the principle of momentum gives:—
    px—p2= rate of change of momentum between A and B
            = ^(«i/Vrc + «2/>2w)
            = «iPi(V — mi)-m2P2(V-m2)                            (2)
    If the energy per unit volume corresponding to density p
 (in the absence of bodily motion) is called x(p)> ^e principle
of energy would further give
    Piui~~Piu3= rate of change of energy between A and B
                 = jt W ipi«i2 + X0i)) + n{hp%< + X (p») ) \
     = {ipiV +x(pi) \              - ^p2«/           } (V-M2). (3)
    Since (1) , (2) , and (3) involve only the instantaneous values
 of Ui, pi, u2, p2, and V, together with explicit functions of such
 values, while the space- and time-variations of all these quan
 tities are absent from the equations, it is evident that the
 conditions to be satisfied at the surface S are the same as if
 «!, pi, u2, p2, V were absolute constants. We conclude then,
 that, with our assumptions, a surface of discontinuity cannot
 be propagated through a fluid with any velocity, uniform of
 variable, except under that special law of pressure for which
 progressive waves are of accurately permanent type.
    3. What, then, becomes of waves of finite amplitude after
 discontinuity has set in ? We may emphasize this difficulty,
 and at the same time obtain a clue to its solution, by con
 sidering the following case (fig. 2):—A is a piston fitting a

320          Dr. 0. Burton on Plane and Spherical
cylindrical tnbe (or, if we                    j^g 2.
please, is a portion of an un- —m—
limited rigid plane). All the           ||
air to the right of A is initially      ^
at rest and of uniform density,
and then A is impulsively set in
motion, and kept moving to the right with uniform velocity v.
 Consider the speed with which the disturbance generated by
A advances into the still air to the right ; it is evident that
in all cases the front of the disturbance must advance faster
 than A. Take, then, the case in which
                               v > a,
where a is the propagation-velocity of infinitesimal disturb
ances. Two alternatives present themselves :—
   (i.) If velocity and density are always either constant or
continuously variable in the direction of propagation, the rate
of propagation at any point will, in accordance with known
principles, be
                                dp
and therefore at the front of the disturbance, where u = 0 and
p '= the " undisturbed " density, the velocity of propagation
will be simply =a ; that is, less than the velocity with which
A is advancing. Obviously this will not do.
   (ii.) If velocity and density are not always either constant
or continuously variable, that is, if one or more surfaces of
discontinuity are being propagated through the air, we are
met by the difficulty explained in the last section.
   4. A simple mechanical analogy will help to indicate the
actual motion. A number of equal spheres, of the same
material throughout, are capable of sliding without friction
                                Fig. 3.
along a straight bar (fig. 3) , and are connected together by a
number of very. weak and exactly similar springs (not shown),
so that when there is equilibrium they are equally spaced

               Sound- Waves of Finite Amplitude.             321
  along the bar. If one of the spheres were moved backwards
 and forwards through a small range, a disturbance would
 travel through the whole system, but owing to the weakness
 of the connecting springs it would travel very slowly. Sup
 pose, now, that the last sphere on the left hand is connected to
 a movable piston by a spring half the length of the others,
 but otherwise similar to them ; and let this piston be suddenly
 moved to the right with a considerable velocity which is kept
 constant, and which we may call unity. The weak connecting
 spring between the piston and the first sphere produces no
 sensible effect until the two are almost in contact, when the
 sphere rebounds with velocity 2. This first sphere then
 strikes the second, imparting to it the velocity 2, and at the
 same time coming to rest. The positions of the spheres after
 successive equal intervals of time are represented in fig. 3,
where the number written on any sphere represents its velo
city just after the impact which it is suffering. No number
is written on those spheres which have not so far been affected
by the motion. From this it will be evident that when the
piston moves to the right with a constant velocity which is
very great compared with the propagation-velocity of infini
tesimal vibrations of the system, the disturbance advances to
the right with twice the velocity of the piston, provided that
the diameters of the spheres are excluded from the reckoning.
   Now suppose that the spheres are too small and too close
together to be individually distinguished; then, at any instant,
the system will appear to be divisible into two parts, in one
of which the velocity is unity, while in the other it is zero ;
and in the moving part the spheres will appear to be twice as
thickly condensed as in the still part. That the constant
velocity of the piston is very great compared with the propa
gation-velocity of small vibrations is of course only a sup
position introduced for the sake of simplicity. If, on the
other hand, theso two velocities are comparable, two adjacent
spheres will always remain finitely separated from one another,
and the velocity of any individual sphere within the disturbed
stretch will never be as small as zero, or as great as twice the
velocity of the piston ; the mean velocity within the disturbed
stretch being equal to that of the piston. When the spheres
are very small and very close together, we shall still have
apparently an abrupt transition from finite velocity and greater
density to zero velocity and smaller density; and the energy,
which is apparently lost as the spheres pass from the latter
condition to the former, exists as energy of relative motion
and unequal relative displacement amongst the spheres in the
disturbed stretch.
   5. Let us now compare the case just considered with the

322          Dr. 0. Burton on Plane and Spherical
case of § 3 (fig. 2) : and first, concerning the nature of the
analogy, it should be noticed that the individual spheres are
not the analogues of the separate gaseous molecules, but that
when both spheres and molecules are very small and very
numerous, the apparently continuous properties of the system
of spheres correspond to similar properties of the gas. The
connecting springs represent the elasticity of the gas, iso
thermal or adiabatic as the case may be, and the energy of
relative motion and unequal relative displacement amongst
the disturbed spheres suggests that there is a production of
heat over and above that which would be due to the (iso
thermal or adiabatic) change of density ; that is, a dissipative
production of heat. The motion considered in the last section
properly corresponds to the case where there is no conduction
of heat, so that the connecting springs are the representatives
of adiabatic elasticity, and the additional heat generated
remains wholly within the more condensed part of the air.
If we make the somewhat violent assumption that the tempe
rature of the air remains constant throughout, the additional
heat generated will be conducted away isothermally, and the
equivalent energy will be, for our purposes, entirely lost.
To represent this case by means of our spheres we should
have to regard the connecting springs as representing iso
thermal elasticity, while the energy of relative motion and
unequal relative displacement among the disturbed spheres,
as fast as it is produced, is to be consumed in doing work
against suitable internal forces.
   6. The mechanical system of spheres and springs, having
suggested a solution, has served its purpose, and it now
remains for us more closely to consider the aerial problem in
the light of this suggestion. We may take, first, the case
where the temperature is supposed to be invariable ; for
although such a supposition is necessarily far removed from
the truth, it leads to very simple results, which indicate well
enough the general character of the motion. Let the piston
A (fig. 4) be moving to the
right with constant velocity                pjg< 4
v (which may be either less
or greater than a, the velo
city of feeble sounds in air).
Assume all the air between
A and a parallel plane sur
face B to have the velocity v
and density plf while all the air to the right of B is at rest
and has the density p0. Let the plane B move to the right
with velocity V. Then the invariability of mass between A

                 Sound- Waves of Finite Amplitude.                323
and a plane C fixed in the still air gives
                          Pi(V-«)-po»=0;                           (4)
while from the principle of momentum,
                          Piv(V—v)=p1—p0;                          (5)
the pressure p being a function of p only, since the tempera
ture is supposed to be constant throughout. If we assume
for this case the truth of Boyle's law, so that p=a?p always,
(5) becomes
                         Pl(a*-Yv + v*)=Poa\ .... (6)
which together with (4) is sufficient to determine V and p1
when v and p0 are given. Taking all these quantities to
remain constant throughout the motion, we see that at each
instant the following conditions are satisfied :—
     (i) Every necessary condition between A and B, since
           density and velocity are there constant with respect
           to space and time ;
    (ii) Every necessary condition to the right of B, since the
           air there is at rest and in a constant uniform state ;
   (iii) Equality between the velocity of A and that of the
           air in contact with it ;
   (iv) At B, the conservation of mass and momentum, which
           are necessary conditions, and which, together with
           our supposition that the temperature is somehow
           maintained uniform, are sufficient to determine what
           takes place at B *.
    Moreover, if at a time t (reckoned from the instant when
 A was impulsively started into motion) we take the distance
 of B from A to be (Y — v)t, so that initially B coincides with
 A, the initial conditions are satisfied.
    Thus the assumed motion satisfies all the necessary con
 ditions ; it is therefore the actual motion.
    7. Let us now examine what occurs when no heat is
 allowed to pass by conduction or radiation ; a state of things
 much more nearly realized in practice. Suppose the motion
 of A and the condition of the undisturbed air to be the same
 as in the last section, while the (constant) velocity of B is
 now called V, and the density and pressure of the air between
 A and B (called p', p' respectively) are also taken to be uni
 form and constant. At each instant, in place of (4) and (5),
 we shall now have
                          p'(V>-v)-p0v=0,                         (7)
                          p'v(V'-v)=p'-p0                          (8)
   * Energy appears to be lost, because dissipatively produced heat is
 conducted away isothermally.

324          Dr. C. Burton on Plane and Spherical
    Since we assume that there is no transference of heat by
 conduction or radiation, the rate at which the total energy of
 the system increases must be equal to the rate at which work
 is being done upon it by the piston A. Let 0O be the abso
 lute temperature to the right of B, that between A and B
 being 0', and let us further assume for simplicity that
                         ~i =a const. ;
                         ptf
 while 7, the ratio of the two specific heats, is also supposed
 constant. It can then be shown without difficulty that the
 total energy per unit mass between A and B exceeds that to
the right of B by
                         p0     &-0Q V* .
                      (7-l)p0 0O +2'
 and multiplying this by p0V> the mass of air which crosses
 one unit of the surface B in each unit of time, we obtain the
 rate (referred to unit area) at which the system is gaining
 energy. Again, the rate at which unit area of the piston does
 work on the system
                                   p'0'
 and equating this to the rate of gain of energy, we obtain
 We may also write equation (8) in the form
                    p>v(Y>-v)=^y0i-po0o); ¦            •  •   (10)
 and (7), (9), and (10) will then serve to determine V, p', ff
 when v, p0, 0O are given. Since we have taken all these
 quantities to remain constant throughout the motion, we see,
 as before, that at each instant all the necessary conditions are
 satisfied ; the principles of mass and momentum, together
 with our supposition that there is no exchange of heat, being
 sufficient to determine what takes place at B. Again, if at a
 time t from the commencement of the motion we take the
 distance of B from A to be (V— v)t, so that initially B coin
 cides with A, the initial conditions are satisfied. The assumed
 motion thus satisfies all the necessary conditions, and is there
 fore the actual motion.
    8. If we compare the results of the last two sections with

               Sound- Waves of Finite Amplitude.            325
those given by Biemann*, we shall find complete accordance
so far as § 6 is concerned, though with § 7 the case is dif
ferent ; and this may be easily explained. We cannot in
general investigate the motion of a (frictionless) compres
sible fluid by means of the equations of continuity and
momentum, without further making some supposition as to
the exchange or non-exchange of heat, and so we usually
assume either that the temperature remains constant, or that
there is no exchange of heat : in either case (provided the
motion is continuous), the pressure is a function of the
density only. At a surface of discontinuity there is not only
the ordinary heating effect due to compression, but also, as
we have seen, a dissipative generation of heat, and so, when
applying the equations of continuity and momentum at such
a surface, we must know what becomes of this additional
heat. Now in all cases Biemann makes the assumption that
the pressure is a function of the density only, and this is
necessarily equivalent to an assumption concerning the trans
ference of heat. Throughout most of his treatment of waves
 of discontinuity Riemann assumes that temperature is
 constant and that Boyle's law holds good j accordingly our
 § 6 is entirely in harmony with his conclusions, in fact (4)
 and (5) are only particular forms of equations given by
 Biemann. Of course the hypothesis that a portion of gas
 can be instantaneously compressed to a finite extent without
 any appreciable change of temperature, is not in accord
 ance with experience, but provided we accept the assump
 tion that the temperature remains constant throughout, all that
 Riemann says concerning the propagation of waves of discon
 tinuity under Boyle's law will Iwld good.
    The assumption made in § 7, that there is no appreciable
 transference of heat, is probably much nearer the truth ; but
 this is not in accordance with any assumption made by
 Biemann. When pressure is assumed to be a function of
 density only, and to vary with it according to the adiabatic
 law, it is virtually assumed that at the discontinuity just so
 much heat remains in the gas as would be due to slow adiabatic
 compression, while the further amount of heat which is dissipa-
 tively produced is completely and instantaneously removed by
 conduction. But though Biemann's results may thus be
 justified by impossible assumptions concerning the diffusion
 of heat, we may more reasonably, following Lord Bayleigh,
 regard them as involving a destruction of energy. The real
 source of error lies in Biemann's fundamental hypothesis.
 At the outset he supposes the expansion aDd contraction of
                             * Loc. cit.

  326            Dr. C. Burton on Plane and Spherical
  the air to be either purely isothermal or purely adiabatic, and
  thenceforward he treats the air as a frictionless and mathe
   matically continuous fluid, in which pressure and density are
  connected by an invariable law. But in general the existence
  of such a fluid is contrary to the conservation of energy ;
  for as soon as discontinuity arises, energy will be destroyed.
      9. It may not be out of place to conclude this portion of
  the subject by a short reference to a paper by Dr. 0. Tum-
  lirz * . This author starts, as Riemann did, with the assump
  tion that the pressure is a function of the density only, the
  law of pressure being further assumed to be the adiabatic
  law ; and in order to avoid Riemann's error, he explicitly
  uses the principle of energy applicable to continuous motion,
  in place of the principle of momentum. But the foregoing
  discussion will have made it clear, I think, that the solution
  of the difficulty is not to be sought for in this direction. In
  addition to the assumptions common to his own work and to
  that of Tumlirz, Riemann uses only the principle of mass
  and the principle of momentum ; and since by their aid alone
  he arrives at a completely determinate motion, it follows
  that any other motion consistent with the same arbitrary
  assumptions, and with the condition of mass, must violate
  the condition of momentum. We have seen, in fact, that
  there is dissipation of energy at a surface of discontinuity, so
 that the condition of energy applicable to continuous motion
  ceases to hold good. We are acquainted, too, with other
  instances where loss of continuity involves dissipation of
  energy ; for example, there is the case of one hard body
 rolling over another.
     As the result of his investigation, Dr. Tumlirz concludes
 that as soon as a discontinuity is formed it immediately dis
 appears again, this effect being accompanied by a lengthening
 of the wave and a more rapid advance of the disturbance.
 In this way, therefore, he seeks to explain the increased
 velocity of very intense sounds, such as the sounds of
 electric sparks investigated by Mach f . But it has already been
 pointed out [§ 3 (i.)],that when density and velocity are every
 where continuous functions of the coordinates, the front of a dis
 turbance advancing into still air must travel forward with the
 velocity of infinitely feeble sounds. A greater velocity can
only ensue when the motion has become discontinuous.
    * " Ueber die Fortpflanzung ebener Luftwellen endlicher Schwing-
ungsweite," Sitzungsb. der Wien. Akad. xcv. pp. 367-387 (1887).
    T Sitzungsb. der Wien. Akad. lxxv., lxxvii., lxxviii. Cf. also W.
W. Jacques [On Sounds of Cannon], Amer. Journ. Sci. '3rd ser. xvii.
p. 116 (1879).

               Sound- Waves of Finite Amplitude.               327
                  Part II.—Spherical Waves.
   10. When plane waves of finite amplitude are propagated
through a frictionless compressible fluid, discontinuity must
always occur sooner or later, and a moment's consideration
will show that there are at least some cases when the motion
in spherical waves becomes discontinuous ; the question arises
whether in any case it is possible (in the absence of viscosity)
for divergent spherical waves to travel outward indefinitely
•without arriving at a discontinuous state. This question was
suggested to me by Mr. Bryan, who at the same time kindly
handed me notes of his manner of attacking the problem.
His method was to write down the exact kinematical equation
for spherical sound-waves, and then to obtain successive
approximations to the integral of this equation. If it appears
that after any number of approximations the integral would
remain convergent for large values of the radius, we may con
clude that our equation holds good throughout, and hence that
no discontinuity arises. If, on the other hand, the second or
any higher approximation becomes divergent for large values
of the radius, it is probable that the motion becomes some
where discontinuous. This method I have not followed out ;
but by another method which is, I hope, sufficiently con
clusive, I shall now endeavour to show that discontinuity
must always arise.
   The case in which the motion loses its continuity compara
tively early requires no further consideration here ; we have
only to concern ourselves with the case in which the initial
disturbance has spread out into a spherical shell of very small
disturbance whose mean radius is very great compared with
the difference between its extreme radii. The equations
applicable to the disturbance are then, very approximately,
          u or a -J- cc - for a given part of the wave,   .   (12)
where p is the mean density, p + op the actual density at a
point where the velocity is u, and a is the velocity of infinitely
feeble sounds in air of density p ; r is as usual the distance of
a point from the centre of symmetry. Let us consider two
neighbouring points M and 1ST, on the same radius, each being
fixed in a definite part of the wave, the point M being behind
N (i. e. nearer to the origin), and the air-velocity at M ex
ceeding that at N by Am. Then, as the wave advances, each

  328           Dr. C. Burton on Plane and Sp/ierical
  part of it will be instantaneously moving forward with (very
  approximately) the velocity
  determined by the corresponding values of p and u ; so that
  M will be gaining on N at the rate
                     Au+d /d£±Au                                       (13)
                            rfpV dp du                                 v '
 approximately. We may admit then that the rate at which
 M gains on N is
                             never < BAm,
 where B is a constant suitably chosen.
    Again, if A0w is the difference between the air-velocities at
 M and N at the time t = 0, and r0 is the corresponding co
 ordinate of M, we may admit that
                      a •        •      Ar0 A
                      A?t is never <           A0w,
                                       r0 + at
 where A is a constant not very different from unity. Thus
 M gains on N at a rate which is
                       never < AB ——— A0m ;
                                    r0 + at
 and between the times t = 0 and t=ti the distance gained by
 M relatively to N will be
                     at least ABAowf''^^-,
                                      Jo ro + at
            i.e.     atleast ABAoW^W^t^-1.                 .   .   . (14)
If B is finite and positive this expression increases indefinitely
with the time, so long as the laws of continuous motion hold
good. If A0r was the distance between M and N at time
<=0, the time required for M to overtake* N will be not
greater than the value of t1 given by
                  -A07-=ABAoM^log^±^;
or, when M and N are taken indefinitely close together at
starting, by
              iogro±^ = «^ iAB(-!?Uj
                             r0    L      \     Or Jo J
       i.e., we have tx <^(e^ ^AB(-^)°1' - 1 \                   .  . (15)
        * Of. Lord Kayleigh, ' Theory of Sound,' vol. ii. p. 36.

                Sound- Waves of Finite Amplitude.                      329
which gives us a finite upper limit to the time required for
discontinuity to set in, provided B is finite. As our assump
tions only remain approximately true so long as the motion is
continuous, (15) will only give an approximation to the time
when discontinuity first commences, and accordingly the
relation must be taken to refer to that part of the wave for
which its right-hand side is a minimum. If B is negative
 (which is not the case for any known substance), the appro
priate part of the disturbance will be such that ^ufor is
positive.
    To determine approximately the value of B, we may refer
to (13) and the inequality immediately following. If we
 assume Boyle's law of pressure, so that         (dp/dp) = const., we
 have evidently
                          B = l very nearly.
 If we assume that the changes of density take place adia-
 batically, so that^? ocpY and y is nearly constant, the approxi
 mate value of B becomes
 by means of (11) ;
                                _7 + l
                                     2 •
 If, then, viscosity be neglected, we must conclude that under
 any practically possible law of pressure the motion in spherical
 sound-waves always becomes discontinuous, and a, fortiori the
 same will be true of cylindrical waves. But inasmuch as
 our result for spherical waves depends on the existence of an
 infinite logarithm in (14) when <j is increased without limit,
 we may conclude that for waves diverging in tour dimensions
 (or, more generally, in any number of dimensions finitely
 greater than three) there would be some cases where the
 motion remained always continuous.
    11. The general question of spherical sound-waves of finite
 amplitude is by no means an easy one. In the case of plane
 waves we can write down at once from Kiemann's equations
 the condition that the disturbance may be propagated wholly
 in the positive or wholly in the negative direction. The
 respective conditions are * :—
 where p0 is the density of that part of the fluid whose velocity
      * Cf. also Lord Rayleigh, ' Theory of Sound/ vol. ii. p. 35 (3).

330           Dr. 0. Burton on Plane and Splwrieal
is reckoned as zero. No such simple criterion can be given
for the existence of a purely convergent or purely divergent
spherical disturbance ; a fact which may be readily seen from
the equations for waves of infinitesimal amplitude. If <f> is
the potential of a purely divergent system of waves, we have
                         r<f>=f(at -r),                       (16)
where / is a function whose form is unrestricted. Let p be
the ordinary density of the air, and p + Bp the actual density
at a point where the coordinate is r and velocity u. We
have, then, on differentiating (16) the well-known relations
                    Or           r            r
 and
                Jp _       lB<ft=     f'(at-r)                ,lg.
                   p       aQt            r                   v
 From (17) and (18),
                     (a-£ — uy=f(at—r),
 whence differentiating with respect to r, and neglecting small
 quantities beyond the first order,
        W^|£ _ W) + 2r(a*E -u)= -f[at-r)
          \p Or     Or/      \ p       I
                                              hp
                                              P
 by (18) ; therefore
                  «|P_2%«^_|lf=0                               (19)
                  pOrrrpor                                     x '
  If, then, an infinitesimal spherical disturbance is to be purely
  divergent, this equation must be satisfied for every value of
  r. But since the left-hand side involves Bp/p as well as u,
  Ou/or, and o (log p)fdr, it is evident that the question whether
 or not the equation is satisfied for some particular value of r
  does not depend solely on the state of things in the immediate
  neighbourhood of this value, but is influenced also by the
 value of p corresponding to the undisturbed air. We must
 not therefore seek to characterize a purely divergent dis
 turbance by a differential equation expressing that, with
  respect to the air at each point, the disturbance is wholly
 propagated in the positive direction of r.
     12. Not recognizing this, I had attempted to discover such
  an equation, and one step of the inquiry is reproduced here,
  for the sake of any interest which it may have.

                 Sound- Waves of Finite Amplitude.           331
   It is required to write down the differential equation of an
infinitesimal spherical disturbance, which is superposed on a
purely radial steady motion.
   Though a steady motion extending inward to the pole
would involve a violation of the principle of continuity, we
 may suppose that throughout a shell of finite thickness the
distribution of density and velocity is such as would be con
sistent with steady motion ; the motion within such a shell
would then continue steady, provided that its spherical
boundaries were constrained to expand or contract in a
suitable manner. In the absence of constraints the shell of
steady motion would be invaded from without and from
within by disturbances emanating from adjoining parts of the
fluid, but, at points well within the shell, the character of the
steady motion would necessarily be maintained for a finite
time.
   Let <f> be the potential of the steady motion.
    Let <f> + i/r be the potential of the actual motion so that
      ¦\fr and its derivatives are small.
    Let p, p be the pressure and density in the steady motion.
    Let p + Sp, p + Sp be the pressure and density in the actual
      motion, and assume that the pressure is a function of
      the density only. From the ordinary equations for the
       motion of compressible fluids we obtain
                 * — *®y                                     <*»
               p+*pdp_ , /d</>        o^\2    .
             f      7~~*U- + &) ~*
                           *\dr)       oror~*>      ¦  •  •  (21)
 when small quantities of the second order are neglected.
 Subtracting (20) from (21)
                                                              (22)
 Now
                              Sp _ dp Sp _
                              p ~ dp' p '
 therefore
                        ft^Sp _ dp IB . Sp .
                                                              (23)
                        ot p ~ dp' p ot
 and the equations of continuity for the steady motion and the

332         On Plane and Spherical Sound- Waves.
actual motion may be written
whence by subtraction
Again,
expanding this and substituting in (24) we get
B<       PVY      P\dp)     \    r    B*1 B»" /    9  Brdr
                         ~dr     'dr'dr2      Br2 Br /Jdr  '
Now differentiate (22) with respect to t and we have, remem
bering (23),
                     v     B</>B^ _ 1^ Bfy
                     '     Br Bf       pdp ' B*
In this equation we have to substitute the value of Bfy>/d<
from (25), and if we then put ^=^rr, and perform the
necessary reductions, we finally obtain as the differential
equation satisfied by ifrr,
where
       a2=the variable ^ (in the steady motion) ,
         _B<£ constant
            Br        pr1 '
       jj I'd (up) _ 2m B«           2m _ 2m B«
            p Br         a B»'        r     a B**'
                Br\a/          p   B*"

                   On a new and handy Focometer.                  333
    If the steady motion in question is a state of rest, w = 0 and
p is a constant, so that U = 0, V = 0, and our equation reduces
to the ordinary form for small spherical disturbances,
                         ^2     a Br2     U-
    If, on the other hand, r=co , the motion may, through any
finite distance, be treated as linear. We shall then have u and
p both constant, as well as a, and as before U = 0, V = 0. In
that case
and this, by a change of independent variables, is easily seen
to be the appropriate form for small plane disturbances of a
fluid whose motion is otherwise uniform.
            XXXIII. On a new and handy Focometer.
               By Professor J. D. Everett, F.R.S.*
THIS focometer is designed to permit the distance of the
         " object " from the screen to be varied, while the lens
which is to throw on the screen an image of the " object " is
automatically kept midway between the two. This position,
as is well known, gives both the sharpest definition and the
 simplest calculation.
    The instrument is constructed on the principle of the well-
 known toy called lazy-tongs. A number of flat bars (fig. 1),
                                Fisr. 1.
                                 Plan.
 all exactly alike, are jointed together in such a way that half
 of them are in one plane and the other half in a superposed
 plane. With the exception of the end bars, each bar in either
 plane is jointed to three of the bars in the other plane, one
 joint being in the middle and one at each end. The end bars
 are jointed at the middle and one end only. All the bars in
 the same plane are parallel, and the two sets together form a
  single row of rhombuses all equal and similar, a side of a
  rhombus being half the length of a bar. The system has only
       * Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 24, 1893.
     FUl. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 215. April 1893. 2 A

334                   Professor J. D. Everett on a
one degree of freedom, and its length is a definite multiple of
the longitudinal diagonal of a rhombus.
    The joints are arranged in three rows, one down the middle
and one along each edge, and the distance from joint to joint
in any row is equal to this longitudinal diagonal. . This
common distance can be varied between very wide limits by
pulling out or pushing in the frame, and we have thus a means
of dividing an arbitrary length into any number of equal
parts. I utilize only the middle row for this purpose, and
utilize it only or chiefly for bisecting a variable distance.
    The pins on which the middle joints turn are continued
upwards, as shown in fig. 2, to serve as supports for clips
holding the object, the lens, and the screen. The lens is
                                  Fig. 2.
                D . I . I i m ¦ 1 ¦ j - I ¦
               LI ' li U ' Li U Li LI U LI LI LJ Li U lJlI
                                Elevation.
mounted on the centre pin, and the object and screen usually
on the two end pins, as in fig. 2. In order to avoid flexi
bility, the clips are made short, and the pins, on which they
are held by screws, rise only 1^ inch above the frame. The
base of each pin is a substantial disk (see fig. 3) which rests
upon the table ; all the pins, not only in the middle row, but
also in the two outside rows, terminate in such disks, which
 serve as the feet of the instrument, and slide upon the table
when the frame is expanded or contracted. The pins are
of brass £ inch in diameter, and the bars are of £-inch
 mahogany, f inch wide, and 13 inches in gross length.
 There are 18 of them, as shown in fig. 1. There are 9
 pins in the middle row ; and when the object and screen
 are on the two end pins, the distance between them is
 divided by the other pins into 8 equal parts, any two of
 which should together make up the focal length.              The
 unused pins are the most convenient handles for manipulating
the frame.
    The screen may conveniently be a piece of white card a
 little larger than a post-card, and a square of wire-gauze
 about half as big may be used as the object ; but a still
 better ' object ' is a cross of threads stretched across a square
 hole in a card. The light which passes through the square
 hole is very conspicuous on the screen before the correct
 distance is approached, whereas the shadow of the wire

                     new and handy Focometer.              335
 gauze is almost invisible. Two thin cards about the size of
 post-cards should be taken, a hole a centimetre square should
 be cut through both of them, and they should be gummed
 together with the cross threads between them, the threads
 being in the first instance long enough to project beyond the
 cards to facilitate adjustment while the gum is wet. Waxed
 carpet-thread, or any very stout thread with smooth edges, is
                               Fig. 3.
                                             9
                          A supporting pin.
the best for giving a conspicuous and at the same time a
sharp image. As the cross will sometimes have to be raised
or lowered, the hole should be much nearer to one end of
the card than to the other, in order to give a greater range
of adjustment in mounting on the clip. One thread should be
vertical and the other horizontal, in order that their simul
taneous focussing may serve as a check on the correct
orientation of the lens.
   The instrument is intended to be used by placing it on a
table of length not less than four times the focal distance
which is to be measured. A lamp is to be placed either on
one end of the table or on a stand opposite the end, at such
a height that its flame is about level with the tops of the
clips. The clips should be fixed as low as possible on their
supporting pins, unless it is necessary to raise them to suit
the height of the lamp. In default of a lamp at the proper
height, an adjustable mirror may be used instead, and made
to reflect a beam of light from any large gas-flame in the
room so that the beam shall pass along the tops of the clips.
                              2A2

336                Professor J. D. Everett on a
When the lamp or mirror has once been adjusted to throw
its light in the proper direction, it should not be disturbed,
as all necessary adjustments can be better made by moving
the instrument.
   The lens and screen may conveniently be mounted first,
and the adjustments made so that the light collected by the
lens falls on the screen as a horizontal beam. The cross is
then to be mounted in such a position that a bright patch
 corresponding to the square hole is seen on the screen, sur
 rounded by the shadow of the card. The frame must now be
 extended or compressed till the image of the cross appears in
 the bright patch ; and the lens, object, and screen should then
 be carefully set square by hand before the final adjustment.
 If the vertical and horizontal lines of the cross do not focus
 simultaneously, it is a sign that the lens needs setting square.
    The focussing having been completed, the distance of the
 object from the image is to be measured and divided by four.
 This will give the focal length ; and the calculation can be
 checked by measuring one or more of the four equal parts
 into which the distance is divided by alternate pins. Owing
 to slight play in some of the joints, or other mechanical
 imperfections, the theoretically equal distances may exhibit
 sensible differences, especially when the frame is nearly
 closed up ; but the method of observation is so well con
 ditioned that these inequalities do not practically affect the
 correctness of the result.
    In fact, if the distances of the lens from the object and
 image, instead of being exactly equal, are a + x and a — x,
 the true focal length is —^       , and in taking it to be one
 fourth of the whole distance we are simply neglecting a? in
 comparison with a2. Suppose the two distances a + x and
 a — x to measure 20^ and 19^ inches, which is a larger
 inequality than is likely to occur, the ratio of «2 to a4 is 1 to
 1600 ; and this error is negligible, in view of the fact that
 the doubt as to when the image is sharpest involves an un
 certainty in the focal length to the extent usually of more
 than one per cent.
    When the focal length does not exceed 10 or 12 inches,
 the instrument may be supported with the two hands and
 pointed towards a gas-flame, which need not be at the same
 level, but may be at any height. A fairly good measure
 ment can thus be made by one person, if there is opportunity
 for setting the instrument down on a table or floor when the
 lens needs setting square, and when the final measurement
 of distance is to be made. The friction at the joints of the

                    new and handy Focometer.                  337
frame is just sufficient to keep them from working while the
instrument is being carefully set down. The chief difficulty
is from flexure.
    Instead of receiving the image on a screen, it can be viewed
in mid air. For this purpose I mount the cross on one of
the two end clips, and a piece of wire gauze about the size of
the palm of my hand on the other, setting the wires at a
slope of 45° by way of contrast with the upright cross. The
end which carries the cross should be turned towards the
strongest light ; as this renders the cross more visible to an
observer behind the gauze, and also renders the glistening
wires of the gauze more visible when the observer stations
himself behind the cross. The adjustment for focus is made
by lengthening or shortening the frame till parallax is re
moved. This is a very convenient way of establishing
experimentally the fact of the interchangeableness of object
and image.
    The instrument can also be employed to illustrate the
general law of variation of conjugate focal distances, the lens
being for this purpose shifted from the central pin to any one
of the other pins, and the frame being then extended till the
image is correctly focussed. Regarded as an optical bench,
the instrument is remarkably light and handy. Its weight,
including screen, cross, wire-gauze, and lens, is 2 lb. 10 oz. ;
and a lecturer can carry it through the streets of a town
without inconvenience.
    The dimensions and number of bars of the instrument as
exhibited are recommended as the most convenient for general
purposes. Ten bars only were constructed for the first trials,
and any number included in the formula 4n + 2 might theo
retically be employed.
   In order to prevent looseness at the joints, it would be well
to make the holes in the bars bear against a cone below and
another cone above, with a very slightly tapering wedge for
adjustment, as indicated in fig. 3.
   If the instrument were to be set up permanently in one
place, guides might be used for compelling the middle row of
pins to travel without rotation, or the pin on which the lens
is mounted might be a fixture ; but as long as portability is
to be preserved, I do not think that any arrangements for
automatically preventing rotation would be practically bene
ficial. It is only in the large movements which precede the
final adjustment that rotation occurs to any injurious extent.
   The instrument has been constructed from my drawings by
Messrs. Yeates of Dublin, and the cost is trifling.

                            [   338   ]
XXXIV. A Hydrodynamical Proof ofthe Equations ofMotion
   of a Perforated Solid, with Applications to the Motion of a
   Fine Rigid Framework in Circulating Liquid. By Gr. H.
   Bryan*.
                            Introduction.
1. TN the whole range of hydrodynamics, there is probably
     X no investigation which presents so many difficulties
as that which deals with the equations of motion of a per
forated solid in liquid. The object of the present paper is to
show how these equations may be deduced directly from the
pressure-equation of hydrodynamics, without having recourse
to the laborious method of ignoration of coordinates. The
possibility of doing this is mentioned by Prof. Lamb in his
'Treatise on the Motion of Fluids' (pp. 119, 120), but he
dismisses the method with the brief remark that in most cases
it would prove exceedingly tedious. I think, however, that
it will be admitted that the following investigation is more
straightforward and simple than that given by Basset in his
' Hydrodynamics/ vol. i. pp. 167-178.
    The usual method presents little difficulty when the motion
 of the liquid is acyclic, because the whole motion could in
 such cases be set up from rest by suitable impulses applied to
 the solids alone ; and a consideration of South's modified
 Lagrangian function shows that in this case the equations of
 motion can be obtained by expressing the total kinetic energy
 as a quadratic function of the velocity-components of the solid
 alone, and applying the generalized equations of motion re
 ferred to moving axes.
     If, however, the solid is perforated, and the liquid is circu
 lating through the perforations, this method presents several
 difficulties. If the solid were reduced to rest by the applica
 tion of suitable impulses, the liquid would still continue to
 circulate through the perforations, the " circulation " in any
 circuit remaining unaltered. From this and other circum
 stances we are led to infer that these circulations are not
 generalized velocity-components, but rather that the quan
 tities Kp are generalized momenta. Now the kinetic energy
 of the system is naturally calculated as a function of the
 velocity-components of the solid and of these constant circu
 lations (or the corresponding momenta) ; a form unsuited for
 obtaining the equations of motion. We ought either to have
 the kinetic energy expressed in terms of generalized velocity-
 components alone, or to know the "modified Lagrangian
    * Communicated by the Physical Society : read February 24, 1893.

             Equations ofMotion of a Perforated Solid.                     339
function " obtained by " ignoring " the velocity-components
corresponding to the constant momenta or circulations. Either
of these expressions involves constants which cannot be deter
mined from the ordinary expression for the energy alone, and
to determine them in the usual way it is necessary to resort
to arguments based on a consideration of the "impulse" by
which the motion might be set up from rest.
   In the following investigation the equations of motion are
deduced from purely hydrodynamical considerations, and from
them the modified function is found. In §§ 12-16 the equa
tions of motion are interpreted for the case in which the solid
is a light rigid framework and the inertia is entirely due to
the circulation of the liquid, and the results are applied to
interpret the effective forces of the cyclic motion for a per
forated solid in general.
                General Hydrodynamical Equations.
   2. Let a perforated solid bounded by the surface S be
moving through an infinite mass of liquid (density p) with
translational and rotational velocity-components u, v,w,p, q, r,
referred to axes fixed in the solid, and let               ac4, k3 . . . iem be
the circulations in circuits drawn through the various aper
tures. Then we know that                 the velocity-potential of the
fluid motion may be expressed as a linear function of the
velocities and circulations in the form
          (f> = u4>u + v<j)v + w<]>w+p<f>p + q<pq + r<f>r + '2ic<])K,   .    (1)
where evidently <f>u="d4'fau &cv an<l tQe coefficients </>„. . .
depend only on the form of the solid.
   If dv denotes the element of the normal to S measured
from the solid into the liquid, (I, m, n) its direction-cosines,
then, in the usual way, we have
        =l[u— ry + qz) + m(v—ps + rx) +n(w— qx+py). . (2)
   The six coefficients <f>u. . . <f>r are single-valued functions of
the coordinates, while the coefficients cf>K which determine the
part of the velocity-potential due to the circulations are cyclic
functions making dtj>K[dv=0 at the surface of the solid; these
coefficients are supposed known for each form of solid, although
their determination in any given case is generally beyond the
range of mathematical analysis.
   3. Let oi, o-2, . . . <rm be barriers drawn across the perfora
tions ; then, in the usual way, the kinetic energy of the liquid

  340           Mr. G. H. Bryan on the Equations of
  is found to be X. where
                       4^dS + \pllK^da=Xl + K.                    .  (3)
  Here Xi is a quadratic function of the velocity-components of
 the solid, and is the kinetic energy when the motion is acyclic,
 and K is a quadratic function of the circulations.
     If the axes were fixed in space, the pressure equation
  (supposing no forces to act on the liquid) would be
  (where p1 = pressure, ql = resultant velocity of liquid).
 Owing to the motion of the axes, however, B</>/d< must be
 replaced by the rate of change of <f> at a fixed point, that is by
    dt~ (u-yr + zq)^-{v-zp + xr) ^-{w-xq+yp)fz,
 whence the pressure equation becomes .
                               + 2?i2= const.      ...          .   (4)
       The Mutual Reactions between the Solid and Liquid.
    4. Let Xj, Ylt Zi, Lj, Mj, Nj be the component forces and
 couples which the solid exerts on the liquid ; then we have
 evidently
           X1=jj^,dS,           U=§{ny-mz)Pld8. .               .   (5)
    To reduce these expressions to the required form, we shall
have to resort to repeated applications of Green's formula.
 Since the velocity-potential </> is a multiple-valued function,
it follows that in transforming volume integrals involving <p
we shall obtain surface integrals over the barriers <rlf cr2, . . . crm
as well as over S the surface of the solid. On the other hand,
the pressure pi and the velocity-components d<£/3#,
"d<pfdz are single-valued and do not contribute barrier terms
to the surface integrals. Moreover, since the circulations k
are independent of the time,
             d<f>           .      .            .        .
             y =         + v<Pv + w<p„ +p<f>p + q<j>t + r<f>r ;
and "d<f>fdt is therefore a single-valued function of the velocity-
components of the solid satisfying Laplace's equation.

             Motion of a Perforated Solid in Liquid.           341 '
   We also notice that
                  1=          ny~mz = iv>                       (6)
as may be at once seen by differentiating (2) with respect
 to u and p respectively.
   5. Substituting for       in (5) in terms of the velocities, we
have
 f- -JF*-
       + JT-^(w—       +           (two similar) ^-WS
   The first line of this expression is, from (6), equal to
                'd4>~d$u
          -If dt ~dv
         JJJ l B« B«         oy By          B« J
by Green's transformation. Remembering that $u is inde
pendent of the time, this integral, taken throughout the liquid,
becomes
         ld~dZ_ 1 B Bit
      ~ pdt^xi pB< B«
   By Green's transformation the second line is equal to
    - JjJ{ («-*/»• + s?) ^ + (two similar) } |^ <ty dz,
which by a second application of Green's transformation
becomes

342          Mr. G. H. Bryan on the Equations of
=§\ (mr— nq) <pdS — 2*jjJ(»ir — nq) da
    +§\{l(u—yr + zq) + m(v— zp + ier) +n(w— xq+yp) }^c?S
=JJ(»r-»J)^B-S*S!'(«r-»j)Ar+jy|*|JdB
by (2).
   Lastly, the third line of (7) is, by Green's transformation,
    fff{ ¥P + d,yd#d«/ + ¥¥t
 = JJJIB^S*                      d^d^d^JI *****
 -    JJb" d#dS"
   Hence, adding the several terms together, we have
  1   dt dw
     + r{p$m<pd$ — Xicp^mdcr} — q{p^n<pdS — "Zicpfyida} . (8)
   Now by (6),
 Therefore
  6. In like manner we have
     £~JJ"*»—>af*
          + jj { ^       + ^ |^ + (-tW° Similar) }      ~ ms) dS

              Motion of a Perforated Solid in Liquid.         343
    - jJJ [y { (« -y + «?) ^ + (two similar) j ||
                   (n—yr+zq) ^ + (two similar) ^            c?y <fc
     +
    l d BS
  " p tft Bp
     -JDW#-*g)-('S-'g)
                  — (t>— ^p + a'r)   +        xq+yp) ^^dxdydz.
   Remembering that in this expression one factor of the
surface integral is zero at every point of S, we have, by
again applying Green's transformation to the volume integral,
   T _ dBl
             Bp
          + w{p$m<j>dS — %K-p§§mdo-} — v{p$n<f>d8—'2lKp$nd<r}
          + r {pjj {lz—na;)<pdS — S«pjj (Iz — nx)dcr)
          -q{p§{mx-ly)<pd&-?,Kp§(mx-ly)d<T\ .             .   (10)
    Now, just as before,
                      JJJ\B« B*        By By       B* B^'

344           Mr. G. H. Bryan on the Equations of
    Therefore,
        L = - ^?
             -{iHDO— -£M
               Application to the Equations of Motion.
     7. The equations of motion of the solid may now be written
 down at once. Let X' be the kinetic energy of the solid, T
 the total kinetic energy =X + X' ; and suppose that the motion
 takes place under the action of a system of external impressed
 forces and couples designated by X, Y, Z, L, M, N. Then
 the effective forces and couples to which the motion of the
 solid itself is due are X — Xj . . ., L — Lj . . ., respectively, and
 the six equations of motion of the solid referred to the moving
 axes are of the form
                   ||£_r|5'+?|I=X-x                               (i2)
                   dtdu       B»      B«>
         <*BX'       BX'      BX'     BX'     BX' T T             ,19,
        TtK        w^—+v^           r^— +q^r- =L — Lx. . (13)
        at dp        ov       qw      By      B»*
    Hence, on substitution, we see that the required equations
of motion are found by writing T for X and X, Y, Z, L, M, N
for Xj, Y1( Zu Lu Mu Nx in equations (9) (11). The resulting
equations may be written :
  ^     ^BT        /BT^      \    /BT , .a
   T    ^BT         /BT      \    /BT     A
                                 -'(SH+c+'>                       (15)
where f, 17, ?, \,      v are defined by the equations

               Motion of a Perforated Solid in Liquid.                          345
                 g = 2«PJJ(/-^)fo>&o                                           (16)
                 \=%Kp^(ny-mz-^>)d<r, &c.                          .    .    . (17)
   As Lamb has pointed out (' Motion of Fluids/ p. 140), the
six quantities (£, 77, f, \, p., v) are " the components of the
impulse of the cyclic fluid motion which remains when the
solid is (by forces applied to it alone) brought to rest " *. They
are linear functions of the circulations and their form depends
on the form of the solid. If there is only one aperture they
are all proportional to the circulation
                   The Modified Lagrangian Function.
   8. We shall now show that the motion of the solid can be
determined in terms of Routh's modified Lagrangian function,
and shall find the form of this function for the system.
Putting
           E.=T+Su+flv+fr+\p+/Lq + vr+'F(tcp), . . (18)
where F(*cp) denotes any function whatever of the quantities
Kp, we see that the equations of motion reduce to the standard
form
            Y d BH              BH         BH                                     .
                  dt B«          ov      1 qw '                                v '
            T      dBH          BH         BH       BH^ BH
            L=-7-^            w^—+v^              r=r       Yq^—.          •   (20)
                  dt op          ov        3w       oq           or
   The function H, therefore, plays the same part in deter
mining the equations of motion of the solid as the kinetic
energy T in the case of an imperforated solid (or any solid
when the motion of the liquid is acyclic). It remains (i.) to
determine what quantities are to be regarded as the generah'zed
velocities if the quantities xp are regarded as generalized
momenta ; (ii.) to find the form of the function F(«jo) in order
that H may represent the modified Lagrangian function.
   9. Let j^m be the generalized velocity-component corre
sponding to the ignored momentum Kmp. Then, as Routh has
shown ('Rigid Dynamics,' vol. i. § 420), the modified La
grangian function H is of the form
                            H = T-2«„ljo^,„,                                   (21)
  * Our £, i), £, A, fi, v are the same as the £„, i/„, f0, X0, fim v0 of Lamb, or
the X, 3), 3, 8, Wl, 3t of Basset's ' Hydrodynamics.'

346               Mr. G. H. Bryan on the Equations of
and therefore by equating the two expressions for H we must
have
         gu + i]v + &o + \p + iiq + vr + ~F(K:) = — %>cpx- • • (22)
   Since           is the generalized velocity-component corre
sponding to the momentum Kmp, therefore
Now H is a homogeneous quadratic function of the six
velocities (u...,p . . .) and the momenta icp ; therefore
Hence, from (21),
          2T=2«|^    OU + S^xr/V = S«|5_2*p
                                         ()U        0'«*/>  .   . (25)
                                                                  K '
The portions of T and H which involve only the momenta icp,
and are independent of the six velocities (u . . ., p . ..), must
arise from the terms 2«p% in the above expressions (24) (25),
and must therefore be equal and of opposite sign in the ex
pressions T and H respectively. Hence, since from (3)
                            T=X/ + I1 + K,
the portion of H which is independent of the six velocities
(u . . ., p . . .) must be — K, so that
       K = V + Zl + (£u + 7iv + & + \p + fiq + vr) -K
          = T +(£u + t)V + & + \p+iJ,q + vr)-2K, . . (26)
and therefore                 F(iep) = — 2K                       (27)
   The function F(/cp) does not enter into the six equations of
motion of the solid, but its form requires to be determined if
we wish to reduce the equations of motion of the whole
system to the canonical or Hamiltonian form.
                The Generalized Velocities and Momenta.
   10. Comparing (21) with (27), we see that
              Zk/>X = 2K — (£m + W + $w + \p + /j,q + vr).    .   (28)
   Now equation (3) may be written in the form
2 (Si + K) =                     + • • • +p4>, + ... + 2*k)dS
                   + S^JJ—(m^„ + . . . +pcf>p + ... + %K<p.)d*. (29)

              Motion of a Per/orated Solid in Liquid.        347
   But by § 2, ~d^>Kfbv = Q all over the surface S of the solid.
Hence, equating the terms independent of the six velocities
(u. . ,,p .. .) on the two sides of (29), we have
   But by (16) (17),
fu + rjv + £w + \p + fiq + vr
      = - 2*pjT^; (M<£« + • • • +p*p + • • • ) da
         + %Kp^{lu + mv + nw + (ny—mz)p + . . .}dcr.
   Hence, by (28) and (30),
       = 2^1*1, ('<</>» + • • -+P4>r + - • • + ^ic<f>K)da-
      — ~%Kp^{l{u—yr + zq) +m(v—zp+xr) +n(w—a:q+yp)}da-;
and therefore
     *m=JJ(|t —Ku-yr + z<l)- (two similar) ^dam. .            (31)
   Now B^>/9v is the velocity of the liquid resolved along the
normal to the barrier <r , and
         l(u—yr + zq)+m(v—zp + xr) + n (to — xq + yp)
is the velocity of the barrier <rm resolved normally to itself at
the point x, y, z, supposing the barrier to be fixed relatively
to the solid. Their difference, therefore, represents the nor
mal relative velocity of the liquid with respect to the barrier.
   Hence xm represents the total rate of flow of the liquid
across the barrier am relative to the solid; in other words, the
generalized velocity corresponding to the ignored momentum
p/em is the volume of liquid per unit time flowing through the
aperture relatively to the solid.
   This property is proved in a different way by Basset in his
' Hydrodynamics,' vol. i. page 176.
                 The Form of the Modified Function.
   11. It may be interesting to examine a little more closely
the effect of the circulations on the motion of a solid.
   When the motion of the liquid is acyclic, the kinetic
energy is a homogeneous quadratic function of (u, v, w,p, q, r) .
In general it therefore involves 21 constants, but by a suitable

348           Mr. G. H. Bryan on the Equations of
choice of axes it is always possible to reduce this number by
six, and a further reduction may be effected when the body
is symmetrical. When the motion is cyclic the kinetic
energy must be replaced by the modified function which in
addition contains the seven terms
                 j-u+yv + Zw+Xp + fiq + vr— K,
of which the last term does not enter into the equations of
motion of the solid. The six coefficients (f, . . . \ . . .) are
linear functions of the circulations, and they remain con
stant so long as only conservative forces act on the liquid,
for the circulations themselves then remain constant. Hence
the modified function H may be regarded as a non-homo
geneous quadratic function of the six velocities involving
28 constants, of which 27 enter into the six equations of
motion of the solid.
 Equations of Motion of a light thin framework of rigid wires.
   12. To take the simplest possible case, let us suppose the
solid to consist of a network of infinitely thin rigid massless
wires through the meshes of which the liquid is circulating.
If the motion of the liquid were acyclic, the wires would
simply cut through the liquid without setting it in motion :
hence the kinetic energy X' + Si of the acyclic motion
vanishes, and the modified function becomes
            ~B. = £u + r)v-\- Jto+Xp + f*q-\- vr—K, .     . (32)
a result otherwise evident from the fact that Xi only involves
surface integrals taken over the infinitely small surface of the
solid, while       17. \, ft, v being integrals taken over the
finite surfaces of barriers are in general finite.
   If we choose as our axis of x the Poinsot's central axis of
the impulse whose six components are £, 77, £, X, /j,, v, the
modified function will reduce to the form
                         H = Sw+A;?-K                        (33)
   If there is only one aperture, £, rj, X, fi, v are all pro
portional to the circulation k and the central axis of the
impulse is fixed in position relative to the solid : if there are
several apertures the position of the axis depends on the
ratios of the circulations through the various apertures, but
throughout the motion it in every case remains fixed rela
tively to the solid.
   The six equations of motion (19) (20) now reduce to
               X=0,               L = 0,          -j
               Y=rS,              M=wB + rA, \ • •           (34)
                Z=— qS,           N=—vE — qA.)

               Motion of a Perforated Solid in Liquid.         349
 Since these equations do not involve u or p, we see that
 no forces will have to act on the solid in order to maintain a
 screw motion whose axis coincides with the central axis of the
 impulse.
    13. To interpret the equations still further, let us suppose
 that u and p are both zero, since they do not enter into the
equations of motion. Then the motion whose components are
 (0, v, w, 0, q, r) consists of two screws whose axes are the axes
 of y and z respectively, and, by the theory of screws, these
 are equivalent to a single screw whose axis is a certain
 straight line intersecting the axis of x and perpendicular to
it. We may take this straight line as our axis of z, for
hitherto we have only fixed the position of the axis of x.
We have then
                             v=0, q=0.
    The equations (34) therefore reduce to
                      X=0,           L=0,        ~\
                      Y=rS,         M=w3 + rA, (¦ . . . (35)
                      Z=0,          N=0.         J
    Hence the solid is acted on by a wrench (Y, M) whose axis
is the axis of y. Thus the axis of the impressed wrench is
perpendicular to the central axis of the impulse of the
fluid motion, and to the axis of the screw motion of the body.
    Let II be the pitch of the impulse, ¦uy the pitch of the
screw motion of the solid, P the pitch of the impressed
wrench, then
                      n-A m-w P_M
                      11 -g,            r-^Y'
and therefore by (35) ,
                             P=w + n                          (36)
is the relation connecting the three pitches.
    In particular, if r = 0 the equations of motion give
                           Z=0,     M=wS,
showing that a couple M about the axis of y will produce
translational motion with velocity M/3 along the axis of z.
    14. More generally, let the motion be a screw motion
about an axis whose inclination to the axis of x is 9 and
whose shortest distance from that axis is a. Take this
shortest distance as the axis of y, and let the screw motion
consist of a linear velocity V combined with an angular
velocity O, the pitch V/O being denoted, as before, by w.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 215. April 1893.         2B

350            Mr. Q-. H. Bryan on the Equations of
    It will be readily found that the six components of the
screw motion are
             M=Vcos0+Oasin0,           j0=Ocos#, "j
             v=0,                      q=0,            ; . . (37)
             w= V sin 6—Sla cos 0,     r=fi sin 0, J
so that the equations (34) now give
X=0,                 L=0,                                  -j
Y=ftSsin0, M=V3sin0-OaB (K>s0+i2Asin0, [ .(38)
 Z=0,               N=0,                                    J
 The impressed wrench therefore has for its axis the shortest
 distance between the axis of the screw motion of the solid
 and the axis of the impulse of the cyclic fluid motion. To
 find the pitch of the wrench, we have, by division,
                        M V          +     A
                         Y = Q~a0ote+B,
 that is,
                       P = is—a cot 0 +                       (39)
     15. In the case of a fine massless circular ring A vanishes,
  or the impulse of the cyclic motion is purely translational.
  For it is clear that the axis of the ring is the axis of this
  impulse (the above axis of x), also the fluid motion will
  evidently be unaffected by rotating the ring about its axis;
  and therefore the modified function is independent of the
  angular velocity p.
      The equations (34) now become
                   X=0,           L=0,         -\
                   Y=rB,          M=wS,              ... (40)
                    Z=—qB,        N=-«E. .
      Hence a constant force Y along the axis of y causes
   uniform rotation with angular velocity Y/S about the axis
   of z, and a constant couple M about the axis of y causes
   uniform translational velocity M/S along the axis of z.
      It is to be noticed that the impressed wrench never does
   work in the resulting screw motion, in accordance with the
   principle of Conservation of Energy.
       16. The above results show the effective forces produced by
   circulation of the fluid on any perforated solid whatever. In
   the general case the modified function contains the quadratic
   terms X' + Xi in addition to the terms of the first degree con
   sidered in the above investigation. If we suppose that the
   solid is moving in any given manner, the six equations of
    motion (19, 20) determine the components of the impressed
    wrench (X, Y, Z, L, M, N) necessary to maintain the given

             Motion of a Perforated Solid in Liquid.           351
motion. This impressed wrench may be divided into two
parts, one being due to the terms 37 + %x in the modified
function, the other being due to the terms
                    |w + t]V + %w + \p + fiq + vr.
The first portion is the same as if the motion were acyclic,
and represents, therefore, the wrench which would have to be
impressed on the solid in order to maintain the given motion
if there were no circulation. The second part represents the
additional wrench which must be applied on account of the
circulations, and the equations to determine it are of the forms
found above.
   We notice, in particular, that if the solid has any screw
motion whose axis coincides with the axis of the impulse of
the cyclic fluid motion, the latter wrench vanishes ; so that
the forces required to maintain the motion are unaffected by
the circulations. In other cases the additional wrench is
about an axis perpendicular to the axis of the impulse. This
is true whatever be the form of the solid and the number of
the circulations ; but, as has already been pointed out, the
position of the axis of the impulse relative to the solid is not
in general independent of the circulations unless the solid has
but a single aperture.
    It is probable that these results might be made to furnish
 mechanical illustrations of certain physical phenomena ; but
 with these we are not concerned in the present paper.
                   Note on the foregoing Paper.
    Concerning the proper measurement of the impulse of the
 cyclic motion, a difficulty arises ; for, as Mr. Bryan remarks,
 this motion cannot be set up from rest by impulses applied to
 the solid alone. Suppose, however, that we close each perfora
 tion by a barrier in the usual way, and let the barriers be acted
 on by the impulsive pressures K^p, K2p, . . . respectively. And
 instead of these impulsive pressures being due to external
 forces, suppose that they are due to some immaterial mechanism
 attached to the solid. In general, an impulsive wrench must
 act on the solid to keep it at rest, and this wrench is the
 required impulse of the cyclic motion ; for the only other
 impulses acting on the system are due to the mutual reactions
 of the solid and fluid, exerted partly over the surface of the
 solid and partly through the barriers and attached mechanism,
 and such mutual reactions cannot affect the impulse. The
 wrench thus found is of course the same as would be
 obtained by supposing the impulses on the barriers to be due
 to external impulsive forces, and compounding with these the
                                 2B2

352             Mr. G. H. Bryan on the Equations of
impulse then necessary to hold the solid at rest. This is in
agreement with Prof. Lamb's investigation, which Mr. Bryan
has quoted.
   More generally, if the solid is in motion, and the liquid is
also circulating, we may suppose the instantaneous motion to
have been set up from rest by an immaterial mechanism con
necting the barriers with the solid at the same time that the
requisite external impulses act on the solid. The resultant of
these last is, as before, the impulse of the whole motion, and
is identical with that found by supposing the barriers actuated
by impulses from without, and compounding with these the
impulse then necessary to give to the solid its instantaneous
 motion.
    The same point may be further illustrated by supposing the
 circulations k to vary continuously during the motion. To
effect this variation we may suppose finite uniform pressures,
 Pi • • • P»i> to be exerted over certain ideal surfaces which
occupy the positions of barriers. The rate of variation k of
any circulation is given by F=kp, and in order that it may
take place without the direct operation of external forces and
 couples we may conceive the pressure P to be due, as before,
 to some highly idealized mechanism attached to the solid. As
 before, the only forces capable of modifying the impulse are
 the external forces acting on the solid ; and the equations of
 motion are therefore still to be found by equating the
 impressed force- and couple-components to the corresponding
 variations of the " impulse." Since we know the expressions
 for the impulse-components corresponding to a given instan
 taneous motion of the solid and given circulations, we have
 only to remember that in these expressions the ac's are
 functions of the time, and, just as before, the equations
 of motion are directly deducible from Hayward's formulae.
 Equations (19) (20) of Mr. Bryan's paper will thus be
 applicable to the present case, provided that in the value of H
 given by (27) the ac's are allowed to vary.
    An investigation proceeding from a consideration of the
 impulse of the whole motion is not so entirely satisfactory, I
 think, as the direct method given by Mr. Bryan ; but, at the
 same time, this brief attempt to interpret the impulse of the
 cyclic motion may not be without interest.—C. V. Burton.
                      Note added by the Author.
    Dr. Burton's note is of much value as showing more
 exactly what is meant by the " impulse " of the motion in the

             Motion of a Perforated Solid in Liquid.            353
ordinary investigations given by Prof. Lamb, and, in a less
intelligible form, by Basset.
   The equations of motion tinder finite forces may be deduced
by equating the change of momentum in a smalltime-interval
St to the impulse of the impressed forces, taking into account
the fact that in the interval St the origin has a displacement
of translation (uSt, vSt, wSt) and the axes have rotational dis
placements {pSt, qSt, rSt), so that the final momenta are referred
to a different set of axes to the original momenta.
   The mode of forming the equations of motion is given by
Prof. Greenhill (Encyclopaedia Britannica, art. " Hydro
mechanics ") for the case of acyclic motion, but it is hardly so
obvious why in thus forming the equations of motion of a
perforated solid, it is necessary to include in the " impulse "
terms representing the components of the wrench applied to
the barriers as well as to the solid. "We may, however, sup
pose the changes which actually occur in the time St to have
been produced as follows :—
   1st. Let the solid and fluid be reduced to rest by an impul
sive wrench applied to the solid, and transmitted to a series of
barriers crossing the perforations. The components of this
wrench will be found to be
                  ^- + f, &c, . . . ^ +\ &c. ...
                  0t«               OP
   2nd. The barriers being rigidly connected with the solid, let
the latter receive small displacements whose translational and
rotational components are (uSt, vSt, wSt, pSt, qSt, rSt) and let
the solid come to rest in its new position. The fluid will
evidently also come to rest, and therefore no impulse will be
impressed on the system by this change (as may be otherwise
seen by supposing the change to take place very slowly).
   3rd. Let the solid be set in motion with velocity-compo
nents (u + "du[dt .St, . . . p + ~dp/ot . St . . .) referred to the
new positions of the axes, and let the circulations k be started
in the new position of the solid by a suitable impulsive wrench
applied to the solid and transmitted from it to the barriers.
   Then the impulse of the impressed forces (components
X8t . . ., L8i . . .) is the resultant of the wrenches required to
stop the whole system in the first process and to start it again
in the third.
   It is, therefore, that impulse which must be compounded
with the total impulse in the initial position in order to
obtain the total impulse in the final position.
   Whence Hayward's equations of motion follow at once (as

  354           Prof. Gr. M. Minchin on the Magnetic
  shown in Grreenhill's article above referred to), and they take
  the form of the above equations (14), (15).
     If we were merely to stop the solid in the first process
  without stopping the liquid, the cyclic motion would cause
  the liquid to exert a pressure on the solid in the second pro
  cess, and the impulse of this pressure would not be zero, but
  would have to be taken into account in forming the equations
  of motion. It would be wrong, therefore, to deduce the
  equations of motion from the impulse applied to the solid
  alone, as is evident in the analogous case of a solid containing
  one or more gyrostats.
       XXXV. The Magnetic Field of a Circular Current.
               By Professor Q. M. Minchin, M.A.*
 CLERK MAXWELL gives a method of drawing the
        lines of magnetic force due to a circular current
 (' Electricity and Magnetism/ Art. 702) by means of a series
 of circles and a series of parallel lines. The object of the
 following paper is to show how these curves can be described
 by a slightly different method, and to exhibit the geometrical
 connexion of the series of circles.
    Let AQBQ' be the circular current whose sense is indicated
 by the arrows, the plane of the circle being that of the paper;
                               Fig. 1.
let P be any point in space, PN the perpendicular from P on
the plane of the circle, and NAOB the diameter of the circle
drawn through N. We shall calculate the vector potential of
the current at P.
   Draw any ordinate, QQ', of the circle perpendicular to BA;
and consider two equal elements of length of the circle, each
equal to ds, at Q and Q\ Resolving each of these along and
perpendicular to QQ', we see that the latter components are in
opposite senses, and hence their vector potentials at P cancel
    * Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 10, 1893.

                   Field of a Circular Current.              355
each other, since PQ = PQ'. If                is the angle QOA,
a = radius of circle, i = current strength, the components
of ids along Q'Q being equal and in the same sense, the two
elements of current at Q' and Q conspire in giving a vector
potential — pj-p-- ds perpendicular to the plane PON.
Hence the total vector potential at P is perpendicular to
the plane PON. -If, therefore, OA is the axis of se, the
perpendicular at 0 to the plane of the circle the axis of z,
and the diameter at 0 perpendicular to AB the axis of y,
the components of the vector potential being, as usual, denoted
by F, G, H, the only component existing is G ; but, by
taking the components of the vector potential at a point
indefinitely close to P in the direction of the axis of y, we
easily find that
                            dF= _G
                            dy       « '
Hence if X, T, Z are the components of the force of the
current per unit magnetic pole at P, since this force is the
curl of the vector potential, we have
                  X=-^, Y=0, Z=^+^,
                          dy'        1          da.  a.
where *( = ON) and y ( = NP) are the coordinates of P.
If along the line of force at P the increments of the co
ordinates are Act, Ay, we have
                              A« _ X
                              Ay- Z*
Hence along this line we have
                 dCr.       dGA , G.             .
                 -y- Aa + -t— Ay H       A«= 0,
                 da.        dy        a.           '
       i.e., Gr.a= constant along the line of force.
We shall therefore calculate the vector potential, Gr, at P.
   Evidently
                         rcOsi/r
                      Jo "PQ"
                = 2ia .'               T . dyjf
                                  cos ylr    Y-
                         0 Va2 + a2 + y2 — 2aacos^r
                    -     —              Dj df,

356            Prof. G. M. Minchin on the Magnetic
denoting the denominator by D. Now let yjr=trr—ao, and
let p* at (« + a)3 + 7s, p'3 = (« - a)3 + 72, so that p = PB, (I = PA.
Then
where
                    *-Vi-(1-?)*'f
 Let to = 2<£, and F=l—            then, finally,
 where K and E are the complete elliptic integrals of the first
 and second kinds with modulus k ; so that the quantity in
                                          PA
 brackets is a function of the ratio           simply.
    Also, since p2 — p'2=iaa, we have a=^->and the quantity
 G . a which is constant along the line of force is given by the
 equation
                     G.a=i/»{2(K-E)-PK}.
     It is thus seen that at every point in space G is of the
 form ~/(~^> 80 that at all points on the surface for which
 - is a constant, the value of G will vary inversely as p.          The
  surface for which - is constant is a sphere having its centre
  on the line BA produced and cutting the sphere having BA
  for diameter orthogonally. If we assign a series of values to
             0'
  the ratio — , we obtain a series of spheres having their centres
             P
  on BA and cutting the given sphere orthogonally, the radius
  of each sphere of the series being, therefore, the length of a
  tangent from its centre to the sphere described on BA; for,
  given the base, BA, of a triangle, and the ratio of the sides,
  the locus of the vertex is a circle whose diameter is the join
   of the points which divide BA internally and externally in the
   given ratio. The surface locus of the vertex is the sphere
   generated by the revolution of this circle.

                 Field of a Circular Current.                357
   On account of the symmetry of the current round its
axis through 0, the lines of force and those of constant
vector potential are the same in all planes through the axis.
We may, then, confine our attention to the plane PON,
and suppose fig. 2 to be in this plane, the current being
                               Fig. 2.
 in this figure represented in projection by the line BA.
 Describe a series of circles having their centres on BA pro
 duced and cutting the circle described on BA as diameter
                                                              PA
 orthogonally. Along each of these circles, then, the ratio
 is constant, P being any point on the circle.
    Consider first the lines of constant vector potential. For
                                                    2
 each of the circles let the value of the quantity (K— E) — K
 be calculated.   Denote this quantity by Q for any one circle ;
 then
                             ~i AOia
                             <j =      ;
                                     P
 so that if we wish to trace out the line of constant vector
 potential for which Gr has any given value, we can find the
 point, P, in which it cuts any circle of the series by measuring

   358           Prof. G. M. Minchin on the Magnetic
   the length PB such that
                             PB =          a.
   Let PT be any circle of the co-orthogonal series cutting BA
   at n and m. Then for this circle
                           p' _ An _ mA .
                           p     Bw mB
   and if this ratio is denoted by s, it is well known that
                                OB       '
   where C is the centre of the circle. Now the modulus, k, of
  the elliptic integrals which belongs to the circle wPn is
   /     PA2\* .
   \ — PB2/ ' l'e'            s2; ^ence
                                    BO'
  or the square of the modulus is inversely proportional to the
  distance, BC, of the centre of the circle from B.
     The circles employed by Clerk Maxwell in drawing the
 lines of force can be easily shown to be this co-orthogonal
 system whose centres are ranged along BA produced. For,
 his rule is to assign a series of values to 6, and construct
 a series of circles whose centres lie on BA, the radius of
 each being ~ (cosec 6 — sin 0), while the distance of its centre
 from 0 is ~ (cosec 9 + sin 6) ; the modulus belonging to this
 circle is sin 6. For the series of circles he then calculates
 the values of the expression (constant for each circle)
    sin 0
-^g—         and the point on each circle which lies on any
assigned line of force is found by drawing a certain right
line perpendicular to BA. It is at once found that this
series of circles is precisely the co-orthogonal system above
described ; but Clerk Maxwell's modulus is not the same
function of the ratio -, or of the radius of the circle selected,
                        P
as that adopted above ; for, with Clerk Maxwell, if r is the
radius of any circle of the series and k the corresponding
modulus,

                  Field of a Circular Current.                 359
whereas above we have
                          r = —w—.a.
Of course (as stated in a note by Clerk Maxwell) the elliptic
integrals depending on the one modulus can be transformed
into elliptic integrals depending on the other ; and in this
case the transformation is the well-known one of Lagrange.
But the constructions for the points in which any given line
of force cuts the series of circles will not be the same in both
cases—those of Clerk Maxwell depending on a series of right
lines perpendicular to BA, and those above indicated de
pending on a series of radial distances from B.
    When we propose to draw the line of constant vector
potential through any point, P, which lies on a circle whose
constant is Q0, let PB be p0 ; then the point, R, in which this
line meets any other circle, whose constant is Q, is found from
the relation
                                    Q
                            p = PoQo,
where p = BR.
    This latter method has a certain advantage for the eye,
inasmuch as it enables us to see readily those circles of the
series outside which the line of constant vector potential
through any proposed point lies.
    Consider now the lines of force. With the above value of
Q, the quantity which is constant along a lino of force is
p . FQ, so that on each of the above circles in fig. 2 we must now
mark the number PQ. Denote this by Q'. Then the above
relation for points on the same line of constant vector potential
becomes for the lines of force
                            „_„ Qo'
and the construction proceeds in the same way. The con
stants, Q', for the above series of circles, beginning at the
innermost, are :—
•4841 ; -4301 ; -3775 ; -3396 ; -2782 ; -2376 ; "1954 ; -1727.
    The values of the Q's diminish outwards for the circles ; so
that if we consider the line of vector potential at any point,
S, suppose, which is such that SB is greater than the distance
from B of the point along AC in which any circle interior to
that passing through S cuts the line BAC, it is at once obvious
that the line of vector potential which belongs to S is wholly
outside all such circles. The numerical values of Q for the

360            Prof. Gr. M. Minchin on the Magnetic
circles in fig. 2 are marked at the circumferences, and as much
of the line of potential belonging to P is drawn as is justified
by the number of circles represented in the figure.
   The fundamental proposition of electromagnetism is that
the intensity of magnetic force produced at any point in
presence of electric currents is the curl of the vector potential
                              Fig. 3.
           A                     P         Q         B
at the point. But if in the field there is a current in an in
finitely long straight wire, AB, we find that at every point in
the field the vector potential due to this current is infinite.
Hence it seems impossible to deduce the magnetic force, and
the fines of magnetic force, from the above fundamental pro
position. This result is unsatisfactory, and it manifestly points
to some defect in our definition of the vector potential.
   We are presented with a similar unsatisfactory result in the
general theory of gravitation potential. Thus, taking the
common definition of gravitation potential, if AB is a limited
uniform bar attracting according to the law of inverse square,
we know that the potential which it produces at any point,
P, is proportional to log ^cot        cot ?J, where A=Z.PAB>
B=zPBA. Now, if the rod extends to infinity, this ex
pression becomes infinite. I have shown (' Statics/ vol. ii.
Art. 332) how this difficulty arises, and how it is to be
remedied by mending the definition of potential. The diffi
culty is avoided in a similar manner with regard to the vector
potential.
   Thus, since we are concerned only with differential co
efficients of the vector potential, the ordinary components,
F, Or, H of this vector may have added to them any constant
quantities whatever. This amounts to saying that the vector
potential at any variable point, P, in the field is the vector
potential at any fixed point, 0, plus the vector difference
between P and 0. It does not matter whether the vector
at 0 is infinite or not: it is a constant in the field. As in
the general gravitation field we are concerned with differences

                    Field of a Circular Current.               361
of potential only, so in the electromagnetic field we are
concerned with Vector differences only.
    Let us, then, calculate for the infinite straight current AB
the vector difference between P and a point 0 on the per
pendicular, Pp, at a constant distance Op=a from the line.
    Let Yp=r, and let an element, ds, of the line AB be taken
at any point, Q ; let Lp?Q,=0. Then the vector difference,
                              • ds     ds
 due to this element, at P is       — qq , or
                 fi              r         \ JL
                 V         + (a?-r2) cos20J " cos 6 '
                                                   IT
     Double the integral of this from 0=0 to 6=       is the vector
 difference at P due to unit current in AB. Expanding the
                                        (a2_rS\
                                          = —-j— j, we have the
 vector equal to
  2 |2|i\_il|^cos20 + ^|^|\3cos^- . . .}d(sin0)
                      =\-£\2 + £X3-±\4 + . . .
  and this=loge(l +X) = 2 log^ .     Thus, then, the vector dif
  ference at any point, P, is measured by
                               C-21ogr,
  where C is a constant ; and this gives the known value of
                                       dGr
  the magnetic force at P, viz., —          (where Q is the vector
                                                        k
  potential) , perpendicular to the plane PAB, i. e. -, where k
                                                        r
  is a constant. In this way, then, the inconvenience of deal
  ing with an infinite vector potential in presence of an infinitely
  long (or very long) straight current is avoided.
      The lines of constant magnetic potential, or the loci of
   points, P, at which the given circular current subtends a
   constant conical (" solid ") angle, are the orthogonal trajec
   tories of the fines of force, and can be drawn when these
   lines are drawn.
      It is not easy to draw these equipotential curves independ
   ently, or even to deduce their typical equation from that of

362           Prof. G. M. Minchin on the Magnetic
the lines of force by the mathematics of orthogonal trajec
tories.
   The magnitude of the conical angle subtended at any point
by a given circle can be expressed in finite terms by means
of complete elliptic integrals of the third kind. The para
meter involved in these integrals will depend on the way in
which they are token.
   If a sphere of unit radius is described round P as centre,
and lines are drawn from P to the points on the circum
ference of the given circle, BMAI, fig. 4, these lines will
intercept on the sphere a spherical ellipse, bmai, whose area
is the conical angle subtended by the circle at P. The minor
axis of this ellipse is the great circular arc ab determined by
the lines PA, PB, while the major axis, mi, is determined by
the chord, MI, of the circle which subtends a maximum angle,
MPI, at P. This line is determined by drawing the bisector,
                                Fig. 4.
 PC, of the angle BPA, meeting BA in C; then MI is the
 chord through C perpendicular to the plane BAP. _ The
 point c in which PC meets the surface of tho sphere is the
 centre of the spherical ellipse.
    Now, given any curve, mpi, fig. 5, on a sphere of unit
                                Fig. 5.
 radius, its area is V(l — cos 0)dij>, where, if o is any point on
 the sphere inside the area, 0 is the circular measure of the

                     Field of a Circular Current.                  363
spherical radius vector op drawn to any point, p, of the curve,
and <f) is the angle between the radius op and any fixed arc,
oa, drawn at o. If, as said, the pole o is inside the area,
goes from o to 2tt ; but if o is outside the curve, the area has
a different expression, viz.:—
                               j* cos 6d<f>,
the longitude angle $ obviously starting and ending with a
zero value. If o is on the curve, the expression for the area
is again different.
    In calculating the area of the above ellipse it would be
natural to choose for pole (o) the point n in which the sphere
is cut by the line PN ; but this leads to difficulties when the
 position of P is such that n falls on the ellipse. This will
 happen when P is on any perpendicular to the plane of the
 circle of the current drawn at any point on its circumference;
 and, moreover, the choosing of n for pole will lead to expres
 sions for the conical angle which present its values in forms
 which are apparently discontinuous for points P which project
 inside and outside the area of the given circle BMA1. Such
 discontinuity must not exist, and to get rid of it from the
 expressions requires troublesome transformations of elliptic
 integrals of the third kind.
    We must, then, choose for pole a point which is always
 inside the spherical ellipse. The simplest point is the point
 0 (fig. 4), in which the sphere is cut by the line PO which
 joins P to the centre, 0, of the given circle. This point is,
 of course, always inside the ellipse.
    Let, then, Q be any point on the given circuit, and p the
 point in which PQ cuts the ellipse. Taking for the fixed
 plane of longitude through o the plane baP, or BAP, and
 denoting the angle poa by <j>, the area of the ellipse is
             f2,r(l — cos op)d<p, i. e., 27r— f^cos op. d<f>.
             Jo                               Jo
  Denoting, as before, the position of Q by the angle ^r, or
  QOA, we easily find, if PN=z, PO=r, ON=a;,
                           r2 — cue cos ifr
            C0S °P~ r>/r!i + a2-2axcoST}r'
  Hence
  f2w           ,, „ C"          r2— ax cos-*]/           d^lr
  1 cos op .d<p=2z l                         i             „~ ,, , .
 Jo                     Jo Yr^ + a2— 2a«cosi^ r + a?am^

364         The Magnetic Field of a Circular Current.
   Putting ^r=7r—x, this becomes
where, as before, p = PB, p' = PA, and P = l — ^V.           If we put
                                                       P
X=2w, this becomes
                                2— a\
                          . , r*—   a'\        dm
                                 pA        +     sin* 2»'
where As V 1 — W sin2 w.
    To reduce this to elliptic integrals, we must resolve the
fraction Ijz2 + x2 sin2 2co into two fractions. It is easily found
that
              z2 + m? sin2 2a> = z2 + ix2 (sin2 a — sin4 co)
       = ( tfzF+a? + x— 2x sin2 «)( V l?+a? — x + 2x sin2 to) .
    Let v denote the sine of the angle between PO an^
the axis of the current (or PN) ; then the expression, after
resolution into partial fractions, becomes
    z ijj(pA+ pA )(l-v + 2vsin2<B + l+v-2y sinso))dw-
   2?
    The portion of this expression which has A in the deno
 minator is at once the sum of two complete elliptic integrals
 of the third kind ; and the portion which has A in the nume
 rator is easily reduced to the same form. The result is
                            n
                        z f2fr + a , r—a\j
                        ^JoCna + FAr
 where Ns 1— j/+2vsin2t», and N' is the value of N when v
 is changed to —v. Hence we have two elliptic integrals of
 the third kind, one with               &\ for parameter and mo
 dulus, and the other with (rr— ,               In the usual notation
                                \l + v' )
 then, we have for the complete expression of the conical
 angle subtended by the circuit at P the value

            On Hydrolysis in Aqueous Salt- Solutions.       .36.5
    Of course it is not pretended that this expression is the
most convenient for the purposes of calculation: the approxi
mate value of the conical angle which is given by a series of
spherical harmonics is that which should be employed ; but
it may be well to give the complete expression in the above
form, which I have not seen published anywhere.
     XXXYI. On Hydrolysis in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.
               By John Shields, B.Sc, Ph.D.*
ON dissolving potassium cyanide in water it is partially
       decomposed into potassium hydrate and hydrogen cya
nide. This action of the water in producing decomposition is
called hydrolysis. Probably all salts are hydrolysed in aqueous
solution to a certain extent, but in the majority of cases the
amount of hydrolysis is so excessively small that the means
which we have at our command are not sufficiently delicate to
enable ns to detect it. Besides the salts there is another im
portant class of compounds, namely the esters, which are sus
ceptible to hydrolysis on being mixed with water. Methyl
and ethyl acetate, for example, are decomposed by water to a
considerable extent into acetic acid and the corresponding
alcohol. The extent to which hydrolysis takes place is regu
lated by the law of mass action as enunciated by Guldberg and
Waage. In all cases we are dealing with a state of chemical
equilibrium or balanced action which is usually represented
thus :—
               KCN + HOH            KOH + HON,
or
      CH3COOC2H5 + HOH ^=±:C2H6OH + CH3COOH,
the sign ^ * being substituted for the ordinary sign of
equality as suggested by Yan't Hoff.
   Now, a priori, we should expect a substance, for example
potassium cyanide, which is formed from chemically equivalent
quantities of acid and base to be neutral, and we have every
reason to believe potassium cyanide, as such, to be so. Its
solution in water, however, as is well known, has a strongly
alkaline reaction, and the above explanation of hydrolysis
furnishes us with no reason why the solution should react
alkaline rather than acid, since the hydrolysed fraction of the
potassium cyanide still exists in the solution as chemically
equivalent quantities of acid and base. Here Arrhenius'
theory of electrolytic dissociation comes to our aid, and shows
us that although we may have in the solution equivalent
  * Read before the Swedish Academy of Science, Stockholm, 11th
January, 1893. Communicated by the Author.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 215. April 1893. 2 0

  366               Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
  quantities of potassium hydrate and hydrogen cyanide, yet the
   former is very largely dissociated into its ions, and, therefore,
  in a particularly favourable state for entering into reaction
  with the indicator, whilst the latter is not so. According to
  the same theory, if we add other salts to a solution of hydro
  cyanic acid, which, per se, is only slightly electrolytically
  dissociated, then the amount of dissociation is diminished
  many thousand times, and this is practically what occurs in
  the solution under consideration. The presence of the un-
  hydrolysed potassium cyanide causes the dissociation ratio of
  the hydrocyanic acid to be vastly decreased.
     There are salts, on the other hand, whose solutions have an
  acid reaction. This is due to the fact that the acid, which is
  one of the products of hydrolysis, is more highly electrolyti
 cally dissociated than the base which is formed at the same
  time. Usually the above facts are expressed by saying that
  the base is stronger than the acid, or vice versa.
     If hydrocyanic acid were as nearly completely dissociated
 as hydrochloric acid is, at the same dilution of course, then
 probably a solution of potassium cyanide would be as nearly
 neutral as one of potassium chloride, for Ostwald has pointed
 out that all acids when completely dissociated are equally
 strong.
     In this memoir, salts of strong bases with weak acids only
 have been considered. The investigation was undertaken at
 the suggestion of Dr. Svante Arrhenius, in Stockholm, and
 the main object in view was the determination of the amount
 of free alkali in aqueous solutions of such salts as potassium
 cyanide, sodium carbonate, &c; that is, of salts whose solutions
 exhibit an alkaline reaction, or act as mild alkalies.
    I should like to avail myself of this opportunity to express
 to Dr. Arrhenius my warmest thanks for the help which he so
 willingly gave me and for the interest which he all along took
in the work.
    A research, " Zur Affinitatsbestimmung organischer Basen"
 (Zeits.f. physikal. Chemie, vol. iv. p. 319, 1889), on somewhat
similar lines, has already been carried out by Dr. James
 Walker. In it the relative strengths of different organic
bases were measured ; but one of the experimental methods
which he adopted could have served equally well for the
determination of the amount of free acid in aqueous solutions
of salts of the bases.
    As a general rule, it will be found that the determination of
the amount of free alkali in solutions of the above salts is
beyond the scope of ordinary analysis. A reaction which
enables us to do so, however, is known. The velocity with
which the salt-solutions saponify methyl or ethyl acetate gives

                   in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                367
us a measure of the quantity of free alkali which they contain.
The essential condition for saponification to take place is the
presence of hydrogen or hydroxyl ions. Now Walker's
method was based on the presence of hydrogen ions, whilst
in the experiments about to be described we are dealing with
hydroxyl ions. This places us, as it were, on vantage ground ;
for, since hydroxyl ions saponify much more rapidly than
hydrogen ions, it is thus possible to work with more dilute
solutions where perturbing influences are reduced to a
minimum.
   To return once more to the typical example of the salts
under investigation, potassium cyanide, let us for a moment
consider what takes place when we dissolve this body in water.
                                                               +
Besides the undissociated KCN we get a great number of K
and CN ions, the water itself, too, is slightly dissociated into
 +       -                    +
H and OH ions. Now the H ions coming into contact with
the CN ions unite with them to form HON which is uncharged,
being practically undissociated, whilst the hydroxyl ions re
main free and counterbalance the potassium ions.
   The water goes on continually supplying hydrogen and
hydroxyl ions, which are disposed of in this way, until equili
brium takes place. If we now make up a small inventory of
the principal constituents of the solution we get :—
             +
   1 and 2, K and CN ions.
          3, KCN undissociated.
         4, HOH undissociated (say).
          5, HCN undissociated (say), and, corresponding to this,
             +
   6 and 7, K and OH ions.
   6 and 7 taken together represent the quantity of free potash
present in the solution. The task which now lies before us is
comparatively easy, but before proceeding to deduce formulas
for the calculations it is as well to point out what will be
proved later on, namely, that potassium cyanide itself is not
an active agent of saponification. Attention may also be
directed to the fact that the dissociation of the hydrogen
cyanide is so excessively slight in presence of the salt, that it
cannot exercise any appreciable influence on the velocity of
saponification : the truth of this will be the more readily ad
mitted if we bear in mind that hydrogen ions are much less
active than hydroxyl ions. What has already been said
regarding the influence of the salt on the dissociation of the
hydrogen cyanide applies equally well to the water.
   When ethyl acetate is saponified by a solution of potassium
                              2C2

368               Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
hydrate, the velocity of the reaction is represented at every
instant by the general equation
                      ^(O-sMCx-a),                           (1)
where k is the coefficient of velocity of reaction, C and Cx the
concentrations of the ester and base respectively at the com
mencement, and x the quantity of ester which has undergone
change during the time t.
   In the case of the salt-solutions we wish to determine the
concentration of the base, i. e., the amount of active free
alkali at the commencement, the coefficient of velocity for the
various bases being already known. On dissolving potassium
cyanide in water we get
                 KOH + HCN—»- KCN + HOH
   (quantity KOH x diss, ratio) x (quantity HCN x diss, ratio)
 = (quantity KCN x diss, ratio) x (quantity HOH x diss, ratio).
   The dissociation ratios of potassium cyanide and potassium
hydrate, water and hydrogen cyanide, do not alter appreciably
with change of concentration in the solution, and may conse
quently be regarded as constant. (Arrhenius, Zeits.f.physikal.
 Chemie, vol. v. p. 17, 1890.)
    The quantity of water as compared with the other substances
is supposed to be infinitely great and regarded as a constant
K. The saponification of ethyl acetate by means of aqueous
potash takes place according to the equation :—
        CH3COOC2H5 + KOH=CH3COOK + C2H5OH ;
 and if we represent by C2 the initial concentration of the
 potassium cyanide, by A the concentration of the free
 potassium hydrate, and by x that of the potassium acetate
 formed, then C2— x— A will represent the actual concentration
 of the potassium cyanide, and A + x that of the hydrocyanic
 acid : all of course being expressed in the same unit, namely,
 gram-molecules per litre. From the equilibrium,
                 KOH + HON—*<U+25BA> KCN + HOH
 we now get, using our new symbols, the equation
                   A(A + *)=K(C,-*-A),                        (2)
 which represents what takes place at any stage of the reaction-
 After the first few moments, however, when A becomes very
 small compared with x, we may write the equation thus :—
                         A=«^|                                (3)

                    in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                 369
Now, in the general equation (1) Ci— x the concentration of
the base is what we now call A, so that we may re-write it in
the form
                              dx     1   1                      a)
Combining (3) and (4) we get
                    dx     1   1 _ KjC.-x)
                    dt'U-x'k~            x      '  '  *  "  *   U
which on integration gives the solution :
              C2 i       4. 02 — xn      0    .      , C — x0
      _ U^ur2 lognat- 1£=£ - u^r2 lQg nat-
      K=                        T^=U)                         • ^
k, the specific coefficient of velocity, is known, and for potash
 at 240,2 C. is numerically equal to 6*22. Having got K from
equation (6) all that remains to be done in order to know how
 much free potash is present in the solution at the commence
 ment is the calculation of A from equation (2). At the
 beginning, when x = 0,
                         A2=K(C2-A),                            (7)
 from which we get A in gram-molecules per litre.
    The percentage amount of potassium cyanide which has
 been decomposed by the water is therefore
                               100 A
                                 C2 '
    It is here unnecessary to describe in detail the apparatus
  and method which I used to determine the velocity of the
  saponification of ethyl acetate by the salt-solutions, as it was
  precisely similar to that which has already been employed by
  Ostwald (Journ. f. pr. Ch. [2] vol. xxxv. p. 112, 1887),
  Arrhenius [Zeits.f. physikal. Chemie, vol. i. p. 110, 1887), and
  others. Measured volumes of a known strength of salt-solu
  tion and of ethyl acetate were mixed at the temperature of the
  thermostat. (For the construction of the thermostat, &c.
  see Zeits. f. physikal. Chemie, vol. ii. p. 564, 1888.) From
  time to time small fractions of the mixture were withdrawn
  by means of a pipette and titrated as expeditiously as possible.
     In calculating the concentration of the salt at the com
  mencement, it has been assumed that the volume of the mixed
  solutions of salt and ester is the sum of the volumes taken
  separately. This is of course, strictly speaking, not true, but
  the deviation from the truth is so small as to be entirely
  negligible. I shall now proceed to give the experimental

370               Dr. J, Shields on Hydrolysis
results which I obtained. The first column in the tables
contains the time t expressed in minutes since the beginning
of the reaction. The second and fourth columns C2— x and
C — x contain the concentrations of the salt and ester re
spectively in hundredths of a gram-molecule per litre. The
third column contains x the quantity of ester which has under
gone change, also expressed in the same unit. In the last
column will be found the constant expressed in arbitrary units.
Here it may be noticed that the first few values have been
neglected in accordance with the derivation of. the formula.
From the mean value of these the characteristic constant K
has been calculated. A represents the amount of free alkali
in gram-molecules per litre, and besides this will be found the
percentage amount of salt which has been hydrolysed in the
solution experimented on and at the temperature at which the
experiment was carried out. It is conceivable that the
addition of ethyl acetate to the solution of salt would disturb
the existing equilibrium, but a discussion of this question is
reserved for a later part of the memoir.
                        Potassium Cyanide.
   Solutions of this salt of four different concentrations were
examined, namely, \, \,          and ^ normal. The tempera
ture at which the experiments were made was 24°-2 C. The
value of k, the coefficient of velocity for potash at this temper
ature, is 6'22. Nitrophenol was found to be the most suitable
indicator, and enabled me when titrating with decinormal
hydrochloric acid to observe the end point pretty accurately.
                      Y Potassium Cyanide.
         t.        02-x.         X.         C-x.
            0      94-74        000         39-34
            4      93-40        1-34        3800
          16       9228         2-46        36-88    (313) x lO"7
          30        91-40       334         36 00     324
          90       88-72        6-02        33-32     385
        210        86-40        8-34        3100      337
        353        84-20       10-54        28-80     342
        580        81-20       13-54        25-80     378
                                                Mean=353xl0-'
   K= 0-000928.
   A = 0'00296, or 0*31 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.

             in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                    371
                j- Potassium Gyanide.
     t.      0,-x.          X.       O-x.
        0    23 48        000        39-34
        6    22-52        0-96       38-38
      19     21-98         1-50      37-84       (117) XlO-7
      34     21-50         1-98      37 36        189
      95     2012         3-3(i      35-98        219
    213       18-68       4-80       34-54        216
    347      1744         604        33-30        226
    584       15 98       7-50       31-84        226
   1394      13-00       10-48       28-86        225
   2789        9-82      13-65       25-68        245
                                            Mean=221xl0-'
K=0-00121.
A =0-00168, or 0-72 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
                Yjr Potassium Cyanide.
     t.      C.A-x.         X.       C-x.
        0     9-52        o-oo        48-70
        2     9-23        0-29        48-41
        6     8-87        0-65        48-05    (251-5) XlO-6
      12-5    8-67        0-85        47-85     123-8
      33      8-15        1-37        47-33     1261
      60      7-67        1-85        4685      131-2
    130       6-78        2-74        45-96     145-1
    209       6-25        3-27        45-43     133-7
    319       5-56        3-96        44-74     141-8
   1372       2-93        6-59        42-11     137-6
                                          Mean = 133-8 XlO-6
K=0-001204.
A=0-00107, or 1-12 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.

372                Dr. J. Shields on Flydrolysis
                        -jr. Potassium Cyanide.
         t.         Cu-x.           X.         C-x.
          0           2-38        o-oo         4870
          2           220         018          4852
          45          210         0-28         48-42       (449) X 10-"
          8-5         200         0-33         48-32        732
        22            1-83        055          48-15        602
        44            1-59        0-79         47-91        683
       112            117         1-21         47-49        759
       191            100         1-38         47-32        634
       303            0 72        1-6(5        47-04        765
      1351            016         2-22         46-48        742
                                                   Mean =702;4xl0-6
   K =0-001336.
   A =0-000557, or 2'34 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
        Potassium Cyanide (concentrations in ^qo gram-
                           molecule per litre).
         t.         Oa-x.           X.         C-x.
          0          4-73         000          97-40
          2          442          031          9709
          5          411          062          9678      ( 1050) x 10-"
        10           386          0-87         96-53        (893)
        23           357          1-16         96-24         728
        36           326          1-47         95-93         728
        60           294          1-79         95 61         686
       122           2 30         2-43         94-97         720
       180           2 02         2-71         94-69         653
                                                     Mean =703x10-°
  .K- 0-001328.
   A =0-000553, or 2-35 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
                           Sodium Carbonate.
   Experiments were made with J, j^,                    and          mole
cular normal solutions of sodium carbonate.
   The titrations were made with the aid of phenol phthaleiin at
the ordinary temperature of the laboratory. In this way the
amount of standard acid added corresponded only to one half of
the real concentration of the salt in hundredths of a gram-mole
cule per litre, as the solution becomes practically neutral when
the unaltered sodium carbonate has been converted into sodium
hydrogen carbonate. This would necessitate the doubling of

                    in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                  373
the apparent concentrations ; but since the exact point of
neutrality was difficult to observe, two series of experiments
were made to eliminate as much as possible the experimental
error and the sum of the apparent concentrations taken to
represent C2 — x. Consequently, in the tables for sodium car
bonate there are two extra columns (I. and II.) with the
sum of the numbers contained in them given under the
column G2—x. The temperature at which all the experiments
on sodium carbonate was made was 240,2 C, and the co
efficient of velocity k for sodium hydrate at this temperature
is taken at 6*23.
                      (mol.) Sodium Carbonate.
       t.      I.      II.             X.    O-x.
           0 1900     1900    38-00   000    48-70
           2 1815     1810    36-25   1-75   46-95
           4 1740     17-27   34-67   3-33   45-37 (150) X 10-"
           8 16-55    16-65   33-20   4-80   43-90 129
         12   15-95   1599    31-94   606    42-64 138
         20  1515     1515    30-30   7-70   4100 135
         30  1472     14-74   29 46   854    4016 112
         50  13-23    13-26   26-49  11-51   3719 136
         85  11-80    11 95   23-75  14-25   34-45 136
      155    10-10     9-97   20 07  17-93   30-77 141
                                               Mean =132-4x10-'
   K=O01738.
   A =0-00804, or 2-12 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
                      (mol.) Sodium Carbonate.
        t.      I.     II.    Ca-x.    X.    C-x.
         0   9-40     9-40    18-80  000     48-70
         2   9-07     9 05    18-12  0-68    4802
         4   8-85     8-10     1695  1-85    46-85   (625) xlO-6
         8   7-85     7-60    15-45  3-35    45-35    815
      12     7-30     7-25    14-55  4-25    4445     839
      16     6-95     6-90    13-85  4-95    43-75    854
      20     6-60     6-62    13-22  5-58    4312     880
      24     6-40     6-35    12 75  6-05    42-65    874
      32     5-82     6-08    11-90  6-90    41-80    885
      66     512      5 10    10-22  8-85    4012     741
                                                Mean=841xl0-6
   K=0-01954.
   A =0-00596, or 317 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.

374                Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
                   ^t: (mol.) Sodium Carbonate.
       t.      I.         H.    02-x.    X.   C-x.
                                                                    !
        0    4-77      4-77      9-54  000    48-70               i¦
        2    4-30      4-33      863   091    47-79
        4    3-84      390       7-74  1-80   46-90     278xl0-s
        8    3-44       3-50     6-94  260    46-10     247
       12    301        318      619   3-35   45-35     281
      16.    2-90       2-96     5-86  3-68   45 02     255
      32     2-47       2-25     4-72  4-82   43-88     243
      40     2-05       207      4-12  5-42   43-28     266
      62     1-52       1 60     3-12  6-42   42-28     283
      92     1-22       1-24     246   7-08   41-62     265
                                                  Mean = 265x10-'!
   K=0-02383.
   A = 0"00465, or 4*87 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
                    j~ (mol.) Sodium Carbonate.
        t.     I.         II.    C2-x.    X.   C-x.
         0    2-38      2-38      4-76  000    48-70
         2    1-95      2-25      4-20  056    48-14
         4    1-75      1-80      3-55  1-21   47-49     634 xlO-5
         8    1-35       1-53     2-88  1-88   46-82     676
       12     1-22       1-23     2-45  2-31   46-39     698
       16     110        1-17     2-27  2-49   46-21     613
       20     1-02       1-07     209   2-67   46 03     579
       28    0-75       0-85      1-60  316    45 54     665
       56    0-49       0-41      0-90  3-86   44-84     656
                                                  Mean=646xl0-5
   K=0-02586.
   A =0-00338, or 7-10 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
                           Potassium Phenate.
    Carbolic acid or phenol is another well-known weak acid
which forms a crystalline salt with potash. As an experi
 ment with this salt seemed likely to be interesting, solutions
 of it were prepared by mixing equivalent quantities of solu
 tions of potash and phenol of known strength and then diluting
 until solutions of the salt of the required concentration were
 obtained. Two sets of experiments were made ; one with

                   in Aqueous Salt- Solutions.                  375
-fa and the other with fa normal solutions. The indicator
used for titration was nitrophenol.
   The temperature of the thermostat was 24°"1C., and the
coefficient of velocity for potash at this temperature was
taken as 6-19. Each set of experiments was done in duplicate,
the separate results being given in the columns I. and II.
The mean of these is contained in the column C2— x. In the
case of the fa normal solution the concentrations are ex
pressed in        instead of        gram-molecule per litre, as
before.
                     N
                     =-r Potassium Phenate.
      t.       I.     II.     C2-x.     X.   C-x.
        0    9-62    9-62     9-62    000    48-70
        2    880     8-80     8'80    0-82   47-88
        4    8-30    820      8-25    1-37   47-33   (133) xlO"5
        6    803     8-00     8-01    1-61   4709     107
        8    7-81    7-77     7-79    1-83   46-87    101
      10     766     760      7-63    1-99   46-71     95
      12     7-45    7-43     7-44    2-18   46-52     96
      16     7-09    709      7-09    253    46-17     99
      22     675     fi-71    6-73    2-89   45-81     97
      30     6-20    610      6-15    3-47   45-23    109
                                                Mean = 101 XlO"5
   K = 0-00925.
   A = 0*002936, or 3-05 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
                      =7? Potassium Phenate.
                                                                  1
       t.      I.      II.    C2-x.     X.   C-x.
        0    3-90    3-90      390    000    97-40
        2    315     310       312    0-78   96-62
        4    2-78    2-80      2-79   111    96-29      567 XlO"5
        5    2-60    2-67      2-64   1-26   96-14      611
        6    2-49    2-54      2-52   1-38   96-02      627
        8    227     2-27      2-27   1-63   95-77     (704)
      12     2-10    2-04      207    1-83   95-57      596
      16     1-88     1-86     1-87   2 03 • 95-37      578
      20     1-66    1-64      1-65   2-25   9515       613
      25             1-46      1-46   2-44   94-96      616
      30              1-29     1-29   2-61   94-79      629
                                                 Mean=605xl0"6
   K- 0-00939.
   A =0"001305, or 6*69 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.

376               Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
                             Borax.
   Several experiments were made with solutions of borax>
but the results were by no means as satisfactory as could be
desired. The chief difficulty seemed to be in the want of a
suitable indicator. After trying about twenty I finally selected
litmus as the one which gave the best results. Next to litmus
came rosolic acid. I first of all prepared a solution of litmus
of a certain purple tint to act as a guide or standard, and
then I added acid to the solution under examination until it
became of the same tint. I shall only give one series of
experiments with a       molecular normal solution of borax, so
that some conception may be formed as to the amount of
hydrolysis in solutions of borax.
   The temperature of experiment was 24°-2 C, and the co
efficient of velocity for sodium hydrate corresponding to this
temperature is 6*23.
                            (mol.) Borax.
         t.        0,-*.         JC.      C-x.
            0      585         000        48-70
            4      5-82        0-03       48-67
            8       572        0-13       48-57     (30) X lO-8
          30       555         0-30       48-40     (22)
        188        410         1-75       46-95     120
       1190         2-73       312        4558       86
       28a5         1-40       4-45       4525       95
       4375        0-95        4-85       43-85      94
                                              Mean = 99xl0-6
   K =0-00050.
   A =0-000738, or 0-92 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
     The Influence of Dilution on the Amount of Hydrolysis.
   The table which follows contains the general results of the
foregoing experiments and shows the effect of dilution on the
amount of hydrolysis.
   The first column gives the approximate concentration of
the solution, the second the amount of free alkali in the solu
tion in gram-molecules per litre, and the last the percentage-
amount of salt hydrolysed.

                     in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                 377
        Concentration.            A.            Hydrolysis.
    N
    yKCN                        0-00296         0 31 per cent.
    N                           0 00108         072      „
     4 "
    N                           000107          112      „
     10
    K                           0 000557        234      „
     40 '
    _N (raol.)Na2C03            0-00804         212      „
     N                          0-0059(1        317
    10
     K                          0 00465         4-87
     20     "
    »                           0 00338         710
     40     "
     N                                          305      „    •
      „C„H,OK                   0-00294
     N                          0 00131         6-69     „
     50     "
     |(mol.)Na2B407 ...         0 00074         092      „
   A glance at the table will show that among the four sub
stances examined the greatest amount of hydrolysis occurs in
the case of sodium carbonate. The numbers cannot pretend
to a very high degree of accuracy, chiefly on account of the
difficulties in obtaining suitable indicators for the titration of
the solutions, but the following regularity is easily discernible.
 The amount of free alkali contained in the salt-solutions is
proportional to the square root of the concentration of the salt.
This is, however, not strictly true, but more nearly expresses
the truth the greater the dilution of the solution. A rough
calculation on the numbers for the two most concentrated
solutions of potassium cyanide shows that there is a deviation
from the law of about 13 per cent., whilst for the less concen
trated solutions the deviation is reduced to about 4 per cent.
If the dilutions be plotted as ordinates against the percentage
amount of salt hydrolysed as abscissae, curves are obtained.
Fig. 1 represents the curves for potassium cyanide and sodium
carbonate. These curves enable us to see at a glance the per
 centage of salt hydrolysed at any given dilution. For example,

378              Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
                        Percentage of Salt hydrolysed.
 reading from the curve, ihere should be 1 "65 per cent, of
 the potassium cyanide decomposed in a                 normal solution
 of that salt. If calculated from the above law, the amount of
 hydrolysis is l-58 per cent.
    Now if the salt itself were the cause of the saponification of
 the ester, the velocity of the reaction which is proportional to
 the amount of free base present would have been verv nearly
 directly proportional to the concentration of the salt ; but it
 has been found approximately proportional to the square root
 of the concentration, consequently the view that the salt itself
 produces the saponification is untenable.
    The law which has just been enunciated is what we should
 expect from the theory ; for if we again take the case of
 potassium cyanide, we get, neglecting the dissociation ratios
 as formerly,
               KOH + HCN —»- KCN + HOH,
                         x . x = (C2— x)K ;
 where G2 is the initial concentration of the potassium cyanide,
 and x the fraction of it which has been hydrolysed. When x
 is very small compared with C2, the above equation becomes

                    in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.              379
that is to say, the amount of free potash is proportional to the
square root of the concentration of the potassium-cyanide
solution.
    It has long been known that water decomposed certain salts,
with formation of free acid and free base, but the amount of
such decomposition has up to the present time only been
measured in a few cases. It is true some guesses at it have
occasionally been made, but they have proved rather unsatis
factory. For example, it has been supposed (see Ostwald's
Lehrbuch der allgem. Chemie, vol. ii. p. 187, 2nd edit.), from
measurements of the heat of neutralization of hydrocyanic
acid by caustic soda, that a solution of sodium cyanide con
tains only one fifth of the salt as such, whilst the other four
fifths are decomposed into free acid and free base.
    The experiments which I have made on the velocity of
reaction show that in a tenth-normal solution of potassium
cyanide only about one per cent, of the salt is decomposed in
 the way indicated. The results which J. Thomsen (Thermo-
chemische Untermehungen, vol. i. p. 161) obtained on neutra
 lizing one molecule of sodium hydrate with n molecules of
hydrogen cyanide are as follows :—
                                 NaOHAq, nHCNAq.
                         .  .  .  13-68 heat units.
                        .  .  .   27-66     „
                         .  .  .  27-92     „
    These numbers indicate that the amount of heat which is
 developed increases in the same proportion as the quantity of
 hydrogen cyanide added, until there are equivalent quantities
 of acid and base present. An excess of acid, then, produces
 only a very slight alteration in the value of the heat of
 neutralization.
    Now manifestly this small increase in the heat of neutrali
 zation means that the first equivalent of hydrogen cyanide
 has almost all combined with the sodium hydrate. The cause
 of the incomplete combination is due of course to the mass
 action of the water. In short, it would seem that only a small
 fraction, presumably about one per cent., of the potassium
 cyanide is decomposed by the water into free acid and free
 base.
    This corroborates the result which I have obtained by a
 totally different method.
   A guess which H. Rose (Jahresbericht, 1852, p. 311 )
 hazarded as to the amount of hydrolysis in an aqueous solu
 tion of borax is just as unsatisfactory. Rose supposed that

380               Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
this substance in pretty dilute solution was almost entirely
 decomposed into acid and base ; but the preceding experi
ments go to prove that in a ^ molecular normal solution
 rather less than one per cent, is decomposed by the water.
 If the statement that the amount of free alkali in the solution
is proportional to the square root of the concentration holds
good for borax, then a solution in which the borax was com
 pletely hydrolysed would be almost infinitely dilute.
    Rose has described a very interesting experiment which is
intended to show the decomposition of borax by water. A
tincture of litmus reddened with acetic acid is added to a
concentrated solution of borax until the red colour has almost
but not quite disappeared ; the whole is then diluted with
water, when the red colour changes to blue. I have repeated
this experiment, and find that a solution prepared in the way
Rose has indicated becomes distinctly blue on dilution. Joulin
(Bull. Soc. Chim. de Paris [2] vol. xix. p. 344, 1873), how
ever, could not observe this change of colour, and moreover
has attempted to show that water exercises no decomposing
influence at all on salts ; but there is little doubt that he has
been too hasty in coming to this conclusion, and that Rose,
at least qualitatively speaking, was right.
                      Trisodium Phosphate.
   A preliminary experiment with a ~ solution of this salt
showed that the velocity of reaction, on saponifying ethyl
acetate, was singularly great when compared with what had
been observed in the case of the other salt-solutions, and in
fact closely approached that for a ^ normal solution of
caustic soda itself. This seemed to indicate that the solution
under examination was almost entirely hydiolysed in the
sense of the equation
             Na3P04 + HOH = Na2HP04 + NaOH.
    The formulae which have hitherto been employed are of no
use in this case, for they depend on the condition that A
should be very small compared with x. Here A can in no
case be neglected ; consequently the equation (3)
                         A= K(C8-a)
is inapplicable.                  x
   The general equation
                     ^(cwxc-a)
becomes
                     J=K(CW)(C-*),                ....        (8)

                     in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.               381
when we substitute for the concentration of the base that of
the sodium phosphate.
   Instead of K we may write k/j,, where ft, is a factor which
expresses the ratio of the amount of free alkali present to
what would be present if the hydrolysis of one sodium atom
was complete.
   Equation (8), on integration, gives the solution
    c^lognat-§=5-c^c2lognat- fe2 =*K<i-*o),
or
        02— x0 ¦log C—go
    log                         0-4343 */*(<! -«o)(C-C,), . (9)
from which we can calculate fi at the time t\.
    In order to determine fi at the commencement, the different
values of fi are plotted against the times, and the curve so
obtained prolonged. The point at which it cuts the axis for
the time t = 0 gives the value of n at the commencement.
    Experiments have been made which show that Na2HP04 is
 only slightly hydrolysed ; so if we neglect this and assume
 that the equation
              Na8P04 + HOH = NasHP04 + NaOH
 represents the possible quantity of caustic soda which can be
 formed in the solution, then 100/* represents the percentage
 amount of the caustic soda which actually exists in the solution.
    The following experiments were made with a         molecular
 normal solution of trisodium phosphate at 240-2 0., at which
 temperature the coefficient of velocity of reaction for caustic
 soda is 6'28. The concentrations are expressed in giro °f a
 gram-molecule per litre, and the employment of phenol
 phthaleiin enabled the titrations to be made pretty accurately.
                     N
                    ^ (mol.) Trisodium Phosphate.
         t.      I.       n.   C2-x.      X.    C-x.
          0     381      381    3-81    0-00     4-87
          2     2-93     2-95   2-94    0-87     4-00  0-945
          4     2-41     245    2-43    1-38     349   0-882
          6     206      203    2-04    1-77     3-10  0-873
          8     1-82     1-77    1-79   2'02     2-85  0831
         10     1-58     1-55    1-56   2-25     2-62  0-827
         12     1-35     1-40    1-37   2-44     2-43  0-827
         16     112      114     1-13   2-68     2'19   0-788
         20     091      0-94    0-93    2-88    1-99  0780
         24     0-79     0-80    079     3'02    1-85   0-764
     |   30     0-63     0-66    0-64    3-17    1-70   0-738
 Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 215. April 1893.          2 D

382               Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
   If the equation
             Na3P04 + HOH = Na3HPO, + NaOH
represented accurately the amount of hydrolysis, then ft at
the commencement should be l-00. A glance at the last
column of the table shows that the equation must be nearly
true. In order to find approximately the initial value of /*,
a curve (fig. 2) has been drawn by plotting the values of fi as
ordinates against the times t as abscissae.
                               Far. 2.
   By referring to the curve it will be found that the initial
value of /i is 0-98 at least ; that is to say, at least 98 per cent,
of one of the sodium atoms in Na3P04 exists as free caustic
soda in a ^ molecular normal solution of the salt at 240-2 C.
In other words, although trisodium phosphate exists in the
solid state, yet in dilute solution it is for the most part
decomposed into hydrogen disodium phosphate and sodium
hydrate. This result is in entire agreement with Berthelot's
recent researches.

                     in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                          383
   Allusion has already been made to the fact that hydrogen
 disodium phosphate is only slightly hydrolysed when dissolved
in water. This salt behaves rather differently from the others.
During the saponification the solution, which is at first
alkaline, becomes neutral and then acid.
   For the sake of comparison with trisodium phosphate, the
                                                        N
following set of experiments was made with a ^t- (mol.) solu-
tion of hydrogen disodium phosphate at 24°"2 C. The solution
was prepared from a sample of the salt obtained from Kahl-
baum, and had a slightly alkaline reaction.
   The titre of the solution during saponification was as
follows :—
          ^T77 (mol.) Hydrogen Disodium Phosphate.
        Time.            Titre.
         min.
             0            000        ,Jff g.-inol. per litre (alkaline).
             2            004                   it          M
             5            000        Neutral.
           32             006        TJa g.-mol. per litre (acid).
          120             010                   >>          »>
          22t>            015                   it         M
          380             0-17                  M          II
         1380             030                   «i         If
        2815              041                   ii          ||
        4500              052                   n          J»
   The titrations were made with phenol phthale'fn.
   At the commencement the solution contained 0-0003 gram-
molecule of free soda per litre.
   The case is a very complicated one, but possibly the bulk of
this alkalinity is due to the formation in the solution of tri
sodium phosphate ; there is still, however, a minute amount
of free alkali in the solution, owing to the hydrolysis of
hydrogen disodium phosphate. The following attempt has
been made to measure it, but no stress must be laid on the
results. I give the calculations here merely for the sake of
comparison with trisodium phosphate, and to show that at the
best there is not much free alkali in the solution. The calcu
lations were made with the help of equations (6) and (7). It
is evident, of course, that what we measure here is the quan
tity x. The initial concentrations of the salt and ester,
expressed in hundredths of a gram-molecule per litre, are
4-76 and 48-76.
                                2 D2

384               Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
   If we start at the point where the mixture is neutral we
may construct the following table, from which we can calcu
late the quantity of free alkali in the solution at the point of
apparent neutrality. This quantity, as has already been sug
gested, is perhaps due to the hydrolysis of hydrogen disodium
phosphate ; whilst the quantity of free alkali determined by
direct titration is due to the presence of trisodium phosphate,
 formed according to the equation
               2Na2HPO, = Na3P04 + NaHsP04.
 The influence of the dihydrogen sodium phosphate has been
 neglected altogether.
          t.       02—x.         X.        O-x.
             0      4-76        000        48-70
           27       4-70        006        48-64
         115        466         010        48-60      64xl0-8
         221        4-61        015        48-55     (86)
         375        4-59        0-17       48-53      65
        1375        4-46        0-30       48-40      59
        2810        4-35        0-41       48-29      55
        4495        4-24        0-52       48-18      54
                                             Mean = 59xl0~8
    K= 0-00000236.
    A=0-000033, or 0*07 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
    The amount of free alkali determined by direct titration is
 0*63 per cent., whilst that determined from the velocity of
 saponification, starting at the neutral point, is 0-07 per cent. ;
 it is therefore evident that the total amount of free alkali in
 the solution is very small when compared with what is present
 in a solution of trisodium phosphate.
                          Sodium Acetate.
     After having estimated the amount of hydrolysis in salts
  of strong bases with some of the weakest acids, it was
 thought desirable to extend the experiments a little and
  determine the amount of hydrolysis in a salt of a stronger
 acid, for example acetic acid.       For this purpose a tenth
 normal solution of sodium acetate was prepared and investi
 gated in the same manner as the salts of the weaker acids.
 The calculation of the results, however, was in this case much
 simplified, owing to the fact that the concentrations of the salt
 and ester did not alter much during the reaction, consequently

                       in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                 385
the mean values have been employed in calculating the
characteristic constant.
   If, in the equation (5),
                      dx      1   1 _ K(0,-a)
                       dt'C— x k            x      '
we substitute for C2— x and C — x their mean values 9'316
and 48-49, which were obtained from a series of experiments
made at 240,2 0., where k = 6'23, we get :
                      dx _L          1_ _ 9-316K
                      d '48-49' 6-23 ~         x     '
which on integration gives the solution
                 6-23 x 48-49 x 9-31 6 K=        ~f° •
    Having got the characteristic constant K, equation (7)
enables us to determine A, the amount of free soda in the
solution at the beginning, expressed in gram-molecules per
litre. The solution was titrated with the help of phenol
phthalei'n.
    In this case of course x, which is expressed in hundredths
of a gram-molecule per litre, was measured directly. The
values of x in the following table are the means of two con
 cordant sets of experiments.
                          -p: Sodium Acetate.
        t.          C2-x.         X.          C-a\
           0        952          0-000        48-70
      1224          9-46         0-060        48-64
      3952          9-455        0 065        48-635
      6882          9 385        0-135        48-565     2-58X10-6
     21252          920          0-320        48-380     4-93
     25550          9-20         0-320        48-380     4-06
     34160          9165         0-355        48-345     3-72
     41290           9-14        0-380        48-320     3-51
             Mean = 9316.              Mean=48-49. Mean=3-76xl0~6-
    K= 0-0000000668.
    A = 0-00000798, or 0-008 per cent, of salt hydrolysed.
     According to these measurements and calculations, it will
 be seen that in a tenth normal solution rather less than ^
  per cent, of sodium acetate is hydrolysed into free acid and

386               Dr. J. Shields on Hydrolysis
free base ; thus,
       CH3COONa + HOH                CH3COOH+NaOH.
   It has already been stated that the presence of free weak
acids has no measurable influence on the velocity with which
the saponification takes place.
   This is equally true in tbe case of sodium acetate, where
acetic acid is one of the products of hydrolysis, and is also
formed on the saponification of ethyl acetate. Arrhenius
(Zeits.f. physikal. Chemie, vol. v. p. 2, 1890) has thoroughly
investigated the change of the dissociation ratio of acetic acid
on the addition of sodium acetate, and has shown that it may
be regarded as nil in presence of large quantities of its salts.
   By referring to the table it will be seen that the experi
ments on sodium acetate lasted for a considerable time, and it
is conceivable that the water itself may have played an im
portant part in the saponification of the ester. In order to
test this a blank experiment was made with water and ethyl
acetate under the same conditions as the experiment with the
sodium acetate, and after the lapse of nearly three weeks the
solution of the ester was only slightly acid. If, then, pure
water, in virtue of its being electrolytically dissociated to a
small extent, produces such an inappreciable effect, we can
easily conjecture how infinitely slight this effect will be in
presence of a strongly dissociated salt like sodium acetate.
     Tlie Influence of the Ester on the existing Equilibrium.
   All the preceding deductions regarding the amount of
hydrolysis in aqueous solutions of salts of strong bases with
weak acids are based on the assumption that the equilibrium
in aqueous solutions,
               KON+HOH               HON + KOH,
is not disturbed by the presence of small quantities of ethyl
acetate. To justify this assumption, I have made some expe
riments in which the concentration of the ester was varied,
whilst the concentration of the salt remained nearly the same.
Now, if the presence of the ester produced any change in the
state of equilibrium, we should expect an alteration in the
concentration of the ester to be accompanied by a corre
sponding variation in the amount of salt hydrolysed.
   The following tables contain the results of experiments, on
an approximately 0*1 normal solution of potassium cyanide,
made at 25°'0 C, at which temperature &=6,54.           .

                 in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.                  387
 I. Concentration of Ester = 0"4870 g.-mol. per litre.
       t.     Ca-*.         X.        C-x.
          0     1008       o-oo        48-70
          2      970       0-38        48-32
          6      946       0-62        4808     (100) x io-»
        10       920       088         47-82     143
       20        8-81      1-27        47-43     153
       40        8-38      1-70        4700      142
       84        7-70      2-38        46-32     141
     152         700       3-08       45-62      140
     264         6-20      3-88        44-82     137
    1484         2-90      718         41-52     139
                                          Mean = 142x10-'
K=0-001305.
A = 0-001 14, or 1-13 per cent KCN hydrolysed.
  IT. Concentration of Ester = 0*2005 g.-mol. per litre.
     t.       C2-x.         X.        C-x.
         0     10-38       000         20 05
         2     10-20       018         19-87
         6       9-99      0-39        19-66     (27)xl0-«
       12        9-77      0-61        19-44     (36)
       27        941       0-97        1908       39
       63        8-90      1-48        18-57      40
     131         8-26      212         1793       42
     243         7-67      2-71        17-34      39
   1463          4-85      553         14-52      41
   1683          4-56      5-82        14-23      42
                                           Mean = 40x10-'
K=0-00151.
A=0-00124, or 1-20 per cent. KCN hydrolysed.
 III. Concentration of Ester =0*1013 g.-mol. per litre.
      t.      02-x.          X.       C-x.
         0     10-49       000        1013
          2    10-40       009        1004
       10     1016         0-33         9-80    (103) x 10-s
       37       9-66       0-83         9-30     130
     104        919        1-30         8-83     143
     215        8-57       1-92         8-21     160
   1435         6-40       409          604      164
   1655         6-26       4-23         5-90     150
                                          Mean = 149x10-*
K= 0-0*0148.
A = 0-00124, or 1*18 per cent. KCN hydrolysed.

388          On Hydrolysis in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.
   The next small table contains the collected results of these
experiments.
      Cone. Ester.           K.         A.         KCN hydrolysed.
          0-4870           0-00131    0-00114       1-13 per cent.
          0-2005           0 00151    0 00124       1-20    „
          01013            0 00148    0-00124       118     „
    The numbers show that the concentration of the ester has
 no measurable influence on the amount of hydrolysis, since
 the figures in the last column do not arrange themselves in a
 series which is either gradually ascending or descending.
    The differences between them are probably chiefly due to
 experimental error. The mean value is 1*17, and the greatest
 deviation from it is less than 5 per cent.
    Resume.—-The general results of this investigation may
 briefly be stated as follows :—
    1st. It is shown how the velocity with which salt-solutions
 saponify ethyl acetate may be utilized to determine the extent
 to which hydrolysis has taken place in aqueous solutions of
 salts of strong bases with weak acids.
    2nd. The amount of hydrolysis has been measured in solu
 tions of the following salts ; and in            molecular normal
 solutions between 24 -25° C. the amount of salt which is
 decomposed by the water is :—
           Potassium, cyanide .... 1*12 per cent.
           Sodium carbonate .... 3*17                  „
           Potassium phenate .... 3-05                 „
           Borax (about)                      0"5      „
           Sodium acetate                     0*008 „
     3rd. When the stilts are not hydrolysed to a great extent
  the amount of free alkali in the solutions is nearly propor
  tional to the square root of the concentration.
     4th. Trisodium phosphate can scarcely be said to exist in
  a -gQ molecular normal solution, as it is almost completely
  hydrolysed in the sense of the equation
                 Na3P04 + HOH = Na2HP04 + NaOH.
     5th. The presence of small quantities of ethyl acetate in the
  solution does not materially disturb the equilibrium,
                  KCN + HOH           KOH + HCN.
     University College, London,

                               [   389    ]
XXXVII. Suggestion as to a possible Source of the Energy
    required for the Life of Bacilli, and as to the Cause of their
    small Size. By Gr. Johnstone Stoney, M.A., D.Sc,
    F.R.S., Vice-President, Royal Dublin Society *.
IN that part of the material universe which man's position in
       time and space, and the limitations of his senses, permit
him to investigate, the Dissipation of Energy is so prevalent
that instances of the reverse process can seldom be clearly-
traced out, though many such can he dimly seen. Under
these circumstances, even possible instances, such as that dealt
with in this paper, are instructive if they are of a kind to be
fully understood. They are also important, for if the universe
is permanent, there must be, or havo been, or be about to
be, parts of the universe where the Concentration of Energy
is as largely predominant as its dissipation is within our
experience.
     Some bacilli, e. g. some of the nitrifying bacilli of the soil,
are said to be sustained by purely mineral food, while they
furnish ejecta which contain as much potential energy as the
food, or more. If this be the case, they must be supplied
 with a considerable amount of energy to enable them to evolve
protoplasm and the other organic compounds of which they
 consist, from these materials. Now many bacilli are so
 situated that this energy is certainly not obtained from sun
 shine, and it is suggested that it may be derived from the
gases or liquids about them.
     The average speed with which the molecules of air dart
 about is known to be nearly 500 metres per second—the
 velocity of a rifle-bullet ; and the velocity of some of the
 molecules must be many times this, probably five, six, or
 seven times as swift. We do not know so much about the
 velocities of the molecules in liquids as of those in gases, but
 the phenomenon of evaporation and some others indicate that
 they are at least occasionally comparable with those of a gas.
 Accordingly, whether the microbe derive a part of its oxygen
 or other nourishment from the gases, or from the liquids about
 it, it is conceivable that only the swifter moving molecules
 can penetrate the microbe sufficiently far, or from some other
 cause are either alone or predominantly fitted to be assimi
 lated by it.
     Now if this be what is actually taking place, the adjoining
  air or liquid must become cooler through the withdrawal from
     * From the Scientific Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Society,
  vol. viii. part i. Communicated by the Author.

390            Dr. G. J. Stoney on the Source of the
it of its swiftest molecules ; and, in compensation, an amount
of energy exactly equivalent to this loss of heat is imparted
to the microbes and available for the formation within them of
organic compounds.
   It is further evident that if this be the source of energy
upon which bacilli and cocci have to draw, the minuteness of
their narrowest dimension will be of advantage—probably
essential—to them. Presumably it would only be limited by
such other necessary conditions as may forbid the diminution
of size being carried beyond a certain point. The diameter
of a bacillus is frequently as small as half or a third of a
micron, which brings it tolerably well into the neighbourhood
of some molecular magnitudes.
   The transference of energy here suggested may be what
occurs notwithstanding that it does not comply with the
Second Law of Thermodynamics, which states that heat will
not pass from a cooler to a warmer body, unless some ade
quate compensating event occurs, or has occurred, in con
nexion with the transference. This law represents what
happens when vast numbers of molecular events (which are
the real events of nature) admit of being treated statistically,
and furnish an average result. It, therefore, has its limits :
and the communication of energy from air to minute organ
isms which is described above, is an example of a process
which is exempt from its operation ; since this transference
is supposed to be brought about by a discriminating treatment
of the molecules that impinge upon the bacillus of precisely
the same kind as that which Maxwell pictured as made by his
well-known demons. It therefore belongs to the recognized
exception to the Second Law of Thermodynamics, viz., that
which occurs in the few cases in which we can have under
observation the special consequences of selected molecular
events, instead of, as on all ordinary occasions, being only
able to measure an average outcome from all the molecular
events in the portion of matter we are examining.
   If some bacilli—those which live on mineral food—obtain
their whole stock of energy in the way here indicated, it may
be presumed that all bacilli get at least a part of what they
require in the same way.
   Should the reader have any doubt as to whether the pro
cess here described is one of those that contradict the Second
Law of Thermodynamics, he may satisfy himself on this head
by the following considerations :—
   Imagine a perfect heat-engine within an adiabatic envelope
with some bacilli and an abundance of their mineral food, all

                Energy required for the Life of Bacilli.               391
being at one temperature. If events take place as supposed
above, the bacilli receive sufficient energy from the sur
rounding medium to enable them to assimilate their mineral
food, and thereby to grow and multiply. Meanwhile the
medium becomes cooler. We may then suppose that the new
bacilli which have come into existence, and all the excreta,
are used as fuel in the heat-engine, and that its refrigerator is
as near as we please to being at the temperature to which the
medium has been reduced. The combustion of the fuel may
take the form of resolving the bacilli and excreta back into
the mineral substances from which they had been evolved,
 except that these are now at the temperature of the combus
tion. Let us next reduce this temperature in the heat-engine
 to the temperature of the refrigerator. During this process
 a portion of the heat may be converted into mechanical energy ;
 and at the end of the process everything within the enclosure
 is in the same state as at the beginning, with the sole excep
 tions that some of the bodies within the enclosure are now at
 a lower temperature than at the beginning, and that the heat
 which they have lost has been converted into mechanical
 energy.
     It thus appears that the contents of the adiabatic envelope
 may be regarded as a heat-engine, all the parts of which start
 at a certain temperature, and which yields mechanical energy,
 while the only other change is that some of its parts are cooled
 to a lower temperature. This contradicts the Second Law of
  Thermodynamics as formulated by Lord Kelvin, if we leave
 the word " inanimate " out of his enunciation. His state
 ment of the axiom is :—" It is impossible by means of inani-               v
  mate material agency, to derive mechanical effect from any
  portion of matter by cooling it below the temperature of the
  coldest of surrounding objects." It is legitimate here to
  omit the word " inanimate," as its insertion merely means
  that cases of exception to the law may be met with in the
  organic world ; and if this be stated it will need to be added
  that cases of exception may also be found among inorganic
  processes : the correct statement being that the law does not
  apply to individual molecular events, and that therefore it
  need not be obeyed in the cases, whether organic or inorganic,
  in which any observable effect is the outcome of one-sided
  molecular events.
     It should be borne in mind that the heat of a given portion
  of matter is the energy * of motions of and within its molecules ;
    * The energy here spoken of may be partly potential : in fact while
  motion is going on, the " energy of the motion," or a part of it, usually
  fluctuates between being kinetic and potential.

392           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
not necessarily of all such motions, but of those among them
which are capable of restoring energy to the parts of the
molecule carrying electra (see Stoney on " Double Lines in
 Spectra," Scientific Transactions of the Eoyal Dublin Society,
vol. iv. part xi.) whenever the motion of the electron haa
transferred energy from the molecule to the aether. As ful
filling this criterion we are probably to include all irrotational
 motions within the molecules, and we must also include rela
 tive motions of the molecules—all of them indeed if time
 enough be allowed for turmoil within a fluid to subside. It
 does not include any motion which the molecules have in
 common, as in wind, or in the rotation of a wheel.
    When these circumstances are taken into account, it is
obvious that the energy of the heat-motions of an individual
molecule undergoes rapid fluctuations, while there may be a
 definite average of the energy of these motions, whether esti
mated by what happens in an individual molecule over a
sufficiently long period of time, or when estimated by what
occurs simultaneously in all the molecules of a body. In
other words, the motions of an individual molecule do not
from instant to instant conform to the Second Law of Thermo
dynamics, although the law may apply both to the average of
the motions of a single molecule taken over a long period of
 time, and to the average of the simultaneous motions of vast
multitudes of associated molecules. As regards molecular
motions (the motions within a solid, or motions within a fluid
that do not produce currents in the fluid), the millionth of
one second is a long period.
       XXXVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    ON THE MAGNETIZATION OF IKON RINGS SLIT IN A BADIAL
                   DIRECTION. BY H. LEHMANN.
THE chief results of the present research may be summed up in
      the following principles, which hold for an imperfectly closed
ferromagnetic ring, the radius of which is large in comparison
with the radius of the section :—
   1. The demagnetizing factor, or the factor which, multiplied
by the mean magnetization, gives the mean factor of the demag
netizing force, is constant up to about half the saturation.
   2. The coefficient of dispersion (Streuungs-coeffieient), the ratio
of the mean induction to that in the slit, is constant up to half
saturation.
   3. The region of the dispersion of the lines of force is limited
essentially to the vicinity of the slit, and is narrower as the
magnetization increases.
   4. The coefficient of dispersion is independent of the radius of
the ring ; in regard to its constancy (2), it only depends on the

                   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.       393
relative width of the ring d/r. The empirical expression for this
dependence is a linear one of the form
                                   1+*-;
                                        r
where h is a constant which, for the Swedish iron investigated, has
the value 7, and will presumably have values differing but little
 from this in the ease of other ferromagnetic metals. This will
 probably be the case more especially in the kinds of iron used in
 technical processes.
     5. "When the empirical constant h is known, the factor of
 demagnetization can be calculated from the geometrical dimensions
 of the system by the formula
                           «.          2d
 in which p is the radius of the ring, r that of the section, and d
 the width of the slit. This formula holds with the same limitation
 as (1), (2), and (4), that is, up to demisaturation. In general the
 equation holds,
                                   (ri)'
  in which v is the factor of dispersion.
      6. For high magnetizing values the factor of demagnetization
  approaches the limiting value
                                            d
  The previous results may find an approximate application even in
  imperfect magnetic circuits of complicated shapes.—"Wiedemann's
  Anncden, No. 3, 1893.
                 THE SPECIFIC HEAT OF LIQUID AMMONIA.
                      BY C. LUDEKING AND J. E. STAKE.
      The specific heat of liquid ammonia, though it has often been the
   subject of calculation in development of theory and practice, has
  not yet been satisfactorily determined experimentally, if we except
   the work of Regnault. His results, however, were unfortunately
   lost during the Paris Commune. He assumed the specific heat to
   be 0799. Since then the interest in this constant has very
   considerably increased through the rapid development of the
   artificial ice industry. Generally the specific heat has been taken
   at unity. Thus De Volson Wood in his ' Thermodynamics,'
   page 337, recommends this value " until the experimental value is
   determined."
       It was our good fortune to have ready access to all the means
   necessary for executing the somewhat laborious experiments
   involved, and we take this opportunity to present briefly the

394            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
results of our work. The liquid ammonia used in the experiments
was found on examination to contain 0-3 per cent, of moisture
and on spontaneous evaporation to leave only a trace of residue.
The impurities were therefore of no consequence in influencing the
result to the limit of accuracy intended.
   Of this liquid ammonia 10-01 grams were introduced into a
small steel cylinder of 16-122 c.c. capacity, stoppered by a steel
screw. The mode of filling was quite simple. After cooling the
cylinder in a bath of the liquid ammonia itself and while still
immersed, it was possible to pour it brimful by means of a beaker.
The steel screw stopper, also previously cooled, was then inserted
and drawn almost tight. On then removing the cylinder from the
cooling bath, the liquid contents gradually expanded and escaped
in quantity proportional thereto, and besides a very small vapour
space was allowed to form as is indicated in the experimental data.
Then the stopper was driven tight. Thus the error in the result
due to the latent heat of condensation of vapour of ammonia in the
course of the experiments was reduced to a minimum and
rendered, as will be seen, almost inappreciable in its influence.
   The cylinder was perfectly free from leakage and remained
constant in weight during each series of determinations. It was
suspended in the drum of a Eegnault apparatus heated by the
vapour of carbon disulphide. The entire mode of procedure was
in all details that commonly used in the Eegnault method. After
the cylinder had been heated for about six hours, it was dropped
into a brass calorimeter whose water value was 1-36 cal. and which
contained 150 grams of water. In each experiment it required
very nearly two minutes to raise the calorimeter to its maximum
temperature. The influence of loss by radiation was reduced
 to a minimum by the Eumford manipulation. The thermometers
 used were standardized, carefully compared, and read to hundredths
 of a degree by means of a magnifying lens. The experiments were
 conducted sufficiently far from the critical temperature, which
according to Vincent and Chappuis is 131° C.
    The following are the data of Experiment 1 :—
      Weight of steel cylinder and ammonia . .. 81 "008 grams.
      Weight of steel cylinder                     70-998 „
      Weight of ammonia                            10-01      „
    The specific gravity of liquid ammonia being 0-656, the volume of
 10-01 grams is 15-26 c.c.
      Total water value of calorimeter, thermometer,
         and water                                    151-76 cal.
      Water value of steel cylinder                     8-34 cal.
      Temperature of air                               25°-4 C.
      Temperature of steel cylinder                    46°-51 C.
      Temperature of calorimeter after immersion 26°-69 C.
      Temperature of calorimeter before immersion 240,44 C.
      Eise in temperature                                2°-25 C.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           395
    Thus 341-46 cal. were given off by the cylinder in cooling 19°-82
or 17-23 cal. for one degree. Of this 8-34 cal. are due to the
steel cylinder itself, leaving 8-89 cal. for 10-01 grams of liquid
ammonia or 0-888 per gram = specific heat. In a second and third
experiment the values 0-897 and 0 896 were obtained. The
determination of the specific heat of liquid ammonia would be
influenced, as stated, by the latent heat of condensation of part of
the small quantity of vapour present, when the cylinder cools in
the calorimeter. This would to a degree be neutralized by the
contraction of the liquid ammonia itself in the cooling and the
consequent formation of more vapour space.
    It seemed desirable to ascertain the influence of these factors
collectively by experiment. For this purpose specific heat deter
 minations were made in a way somewhat different from the
 ordinary. The steel cylinder was cooled in an iron shell in melting
ice, instead of being heated, and then introduced into the warm
 calorimeter water. The mode of precedure was in detail similar to
 that described above, and we will therefore only give our results.
 In three experiments the values 0-878, 0-863, and 0-892 were
 obtained. They are a trifle lower in their average than the results
 obtained by the ordinary method. It is reasonable to assume that
 they are somewhat low, while as stated the other results are
 presumably somewhat high ; and in order to arrive at the specific
 heat of this substance nearest the true value from our experimental
 evidence, we will take the average of our six values, viz. ;
            0-888 ]                       0-878 )
            0-897 [ 1st series,           0-863 1 2nd series,
            0-896 J                       0-892 J
 and state it as being=0-8857.
    We beg herewith to acknowledge our obligations to Chancellor
 W. 8. Chaplin and Prof. Wm. B. Potter for kindly placing the
 laboratories under their charges at our disposal.—Sillimaris Journal,
 March 1893.
           ON THE OFFICIAL TESTING OF THEEMOMETEES.
                             BY H. F. WIEBE.
    In the year 1885 the Imperial Standards Commission undertook
 on a large scale the official testing of thermometers which is of
  such great importance both in science and in practice ; while pre
  viously only a few institutions, such as the Naval Office, had
  occupied themselves to a limited extent with the investigation of
  thermometers. These official testings were transferred to the
 recently established Physical Technical Imperial Institute, to which
  since then a great number of thermometers have every year been sent
  for investigation. (In Ilmenau there is a branch for these testings.)
  Through the great progress which has been made since Jena glass
  has been used for thermometers, it has been possible to undertake
  a permanent guarantee for the results obtained in such testing ;
  and from the uniformity of this glass the thermometric constants,
  once determined, may be universally adopted. The testing takes

396            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
place in two ways—either by comparison with a standard thermo
meter at different temperatures, or by calibration and determina
tion of the thermometric constants. The comparison of the thermo
meters is made between 0° and 50° in water-baths ; above- 50°
in boiling-point apparatus with reversing condensers, in which
liquids of various boiling-points are used for the determinations.
The following liquids were found to be especially suitable :—
                       Boiling-point.
Chloroform                   60-6°      Toluole                  10
Methylic alcohol             64'5       Isobutylic acetate       114-1
Methylic ethylic alcohol                Paraldehyde              124-6
   1:1                       69-8       Amylic alcohol           129-8
Methylic ethylic alcohol                Xylole                   139-4
   3:7                       724        Amylic acetate           140-0
Ethylic alcohol              78-1       Bromoform                148-9
Ethylic propylic alcohol                Turpentine         about 1600
   16:3                      79-8       Aniline                  184-3
Benzole                      799        Dimethylamine            194-0
Ethylic propylic alcohol                Methylic benzoate        1993
   7:4               T       82-2       Toluidine                199-5
Isobutylic bromide           87'4       Ethylic benzoate         212-3
Ethylic propylic alcohol                Ohinoline                2359
   1:8                       91-5       Amylic benzoate          259-5
Propylic alcohol             96-0       Glycerine                2901
Ieobutylic alcohol          1057        Diphenylamine            301-9
    By boiling various liquids under diminished pressure constant
temperatures may be obtained, and this method is also used in the
Imperial Institute between temperatures of 50° and 140° (compare
Beiblatter, vol. xvi. p. 507). The statement as to the correction
refers to thermometers completely immersed, and corrections must
be introduced afterwards for the projecting thread (compare also
Eimbach, Beiblatter, vol. xvi. p. 417).
    The second kind of investigation which is indispensable for
accurate instruments consists in calibrating them, determining the
distance of the fixed points, &c. The methods for this are described
in the Trav.'et Mem. du Bureau international, &c. The position of
the freezing-point at t° is, according to Bottcher,
            E« = E100 + 0-0055 (100-0 +O0e8 (100-<2)-
The reduction of the data of the mercurial thermometer of Jena
glass 16"' to those of the air-thermometer, according to Wiebe and
 Bottcher, are calculated from the formula
               a= -0-04280 (100-0-O06299 (100-*3),
in which t stands for degrees of the mercury-thermometer, B the
reduction to the air-thermometer (see Beiblatter, vol. xvi. p. 352).
    For testing the thermometers at low temperatures mixtures of
 salts are used to— 33° ; for still lower temperatures mixtures of solid
 carbonic acid with mixtures of alcohol and water in various pro
portions (to — 78°-8). Above 300° baths of fused nitre are used ;
the best is a mixture of potassium and sodium nitrates in equal parts
 melting at 230°. Thermometers of Jena glass filled with nitrogen
 may be used after a previous continuous heating to about 480°
 to 450°.—Zeitschrift fur analyt. Chemie, vol. xxx. p. 1 (1891) ;
 Beiblatter der Fhysih, vol. xvii. p. 100.

         THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                   AND
             JOURNAL                 OF     SCIENCE.
A JOUKNAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTKONOMY, MECHANICS,
   CHEMISTKY, MINEKALOGY. AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                       MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
  The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
       on hand, wanting some plates—price on application.
  The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.    Price £2 4s.
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.      „ £6.
  The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.      „ £25.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
THE ANNALS AND                                  MAGAZINE
                                      OF
        NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                 INCLUDING
             ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.     Price ,£10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.      „ .£10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.       „ .£12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.      „ £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

            CONTENTS of N° 215.—Fifth Series.
   XXXII. On Plane and Spherical Sound-Waves of Finite
Amplitude. By Chaeles V. Bxjeton, D.Sc                                 pag$
   XXXIII. On a new and handy Focometer.              By Professor <T-4j9
Byeebtt, F.B.S                                                          *iM
   XXXIV. A Hydrodynamical Proof of the Equations of Motion
of a Perforated Solid, with Applications to the Motion of a Fine
Bigid Framework in Circulating Liquid. By Gr. H. Betas'                        338
   XXXV. The Magnetic Field of a Circular Current. By Professor
G. M. Minchin, M.A
   XXXVI. On Hydrolysis in Aqueous Salt-Solutions.               By John
Shields, B.Sc, Ph.D
   XXXVII. Suggestion as to a possible Source of the Energy
required for the Life of Bacilli, and as to the Cause of their small
Size. By G. Johnstone * Stonet, M.A., D.Sc, F.R.S., Vice-
President, Boyal Dublin Society                                                3"
   XXXVIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles :—
     On the Magnetization of Iron Bings slit in a Radial Direction,
        by H. Lehmann
     The Specific Heat of Liquid Ammonia, by C. Ludeking and
        J. E. Starr                                                            3-
     On the Official Testing of Thermometers, by H. F. Wiebe              .. 3
%* It is requested that all Communications for this Work may be addressed
       vost-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Francis, Printing Office, Red
       Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.                            '        '

35.                    MAY 1893.                                No. 21o\
  Published the First Day of every Month.—Price 2s. <id.
                                 THE
      LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
HILOSOPHICAL                                 MAGAZINE,
                                  AND
        JOURNAL OF                         SCIENCE.
Being a Continuation of TillocKs 'Philosophical Magazine,'
 Nicholson's 'Journal? and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                              CONDUCTED BY
   LORD KELVIN, LL.D. P.RS. &c.
   GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. So.D. F.R.S.
                                  AND
   WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.R.A.S. F.C.S.
                       FIFTH           SERIES.
                      N° 216.—MAY 1893.
                         WITH ONE PLATE.
      Illustrative of Prof. J. Pebm's Article on Liquid Friction.
                              LONDON:
   PBKTBD BY TAYLOK AND EBANCIS, BED LION COUBT, FLEET STBEET.
    veaU) Paris :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.                  ^

Pp. xi, 361 ; Demy 8vo.     With 2 Plates and 65 Woodcuts.            Price 10s.
   TELESCOPIC WORK FOR STARLIGHT EVENINGS.
                                        BX
                  WILLIAM E. DENNING, E.R.A.S.
          (Formerly President of the Liverpool Astronomical Society.)
  This work is intended as ft useful companion for amateur observers, and
contains many facts and references likely to stimulate their interest in the
sublime science of Astronomy.
   Chapters are given on the Invention of the Telescope, on Large and Small
Telescopes, and copious notes on Telescopic work. Then follow descriptions
of the Sun, Moon, Planets, Comets, Meteors, Stars, and Nebulae. The methods
and requirements of modern observation are alluded to, and the information has
been carefully brought up to date.
           Taylor and Fbancis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
       Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7*. Gd. ; Part III., 6s.
                PHYSICAL MEMOIRS,
    SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN^ SOURCES
                         UNDER THE DIRECTION OP THE
                PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
          Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                        JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                  OF THE LATE
                  J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
           Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
    Uniform with the above, price £1 , with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates
                                   and Portrait.
   Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. P. JOULE
                                 D.C.L., F.R.S.
           Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                              Demy 8vo, price Is.
                    THE OBSERVATORY,
               A MONTHLY REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY.
                                    Edited by
                  II. II. TURNER, M.A., B.Sc, Sec. R.A.S.,
                  T. LEWIS, F.R.A.S.,
                  H. P. HOLLIS, B.A., F.R.A.S.
        THE COMPANION TO THE OBSERVATORY FOR 1893.
                                   Price Is. 6d.
            Taylor and Francis Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.

                                    THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
PHILOSOPHICAL                                  MAGAZINE
                                    AND
        JOURNAL                     OF       SCIENCE.
                          [FIFTH SERIES.]
                               MA Y 1893.
            XXXIX. Gratings in Theory and Practice*.
                       By Henry A. Rowland t.
                                  Part I.
IT is not my object to treat the theory of diffraction in
       general, but only to apply the simplest ordinary theory
to gratings made by ruling grooves with a diamond on glass
or metal. This study I at first made with a view of guiding
me in the construction of the dividing-engine for the manu
facture of gratings, and I have given the present theory for
years in my lectures. As the subject is not generally under
stood in all its bearings I have written it for publication.
    Let p be the virtual distance reduced to vacuo through
which a ray moves. Then the effect at any point will be
found by the summation of the quantity
                    kcosb(p — Yt) +B sinb(p— Yt),
in which b= -y, I being the wave-length, V is the velocity
                                                                       A
 reduced to vacuo, and t is the time. Making 8 = tan-1 g'
   * Reprinted from a separate copy from the 'Astronom. and Astero-
 Physics ' for February communicated by the Author.
   f I am much indebted to Dr. J. S. Ames for looking over the proofs of
 this paper and correcting some errors. In the paper I have, in order to
 make it complete, given some results obtained previously by others,
 especially by Lord Uayleigh. The treatment is, however, new, as well
 as many of the results. My object was originally to obtain some guide
 to the effect of errors in gratings, so that in constructing my dividing-
 engine I might prevent their appearance if possible.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 216. May 1893.                2 E

398           Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
we can write this
                   V/AMTB5 sin [0+b(P-Yt)~\.
The energy or intensity is proportional to (A2 + B2).
   Taking the expression
when i= >/ —1, its real part will be the previous expression
for the displacement. Should we use the exponential expres
sion instead of the circular function in our summation, we
see that we can always obtain the intensity of the light by
multiplying the final result by itself with —i in place of +i,
because we have
         (A + iB)e-'*<P-v« x (A-iB)                 A2 + B2.
    In cases where a ray of light falls on a surface where it is
 broken up, it is not necessary to take account of the change
 of phase at the surface, but only to sum up the displacement
 as given above.
    In all our problems let the grating be rather small com
 pared with the distance of the screen receiving the light, so
 that the displacements need not be divided into their com
 ponents before summation.
    Let the point aJ, j/, z1 be the source of light, and at the
 point x, y, z let it be broken up and at the same time pass
 from a medium of index of refraction I' to one of I. Consider
 the disturbance at a point x", y", z" in the new medium. It
 will be
 where
        p2 = x"2 + y"2 + z"2 + x2 + y2 + z3 - 2 (xx" + yy" + zz"),
       p2=x12 +yl2+zn + x2+yi + z2-2(xx' +yy' + zz>).
 Let the point x, y, z be near the origin of coordinates as
 compared with x',y', z1 or x", y", z", and let a, /3, y and a', 0, </
 be the direction-cosines of p and p. Then, writing
               R=I' V^+yV + z'2 + 1 Sx'n+^+z"2,
               \ = I«+I'*',
               ^LS + I',8',
               r=I7+IV, \
 we have, for the elementary displacement,
                       15e—<6[R—V«-Ai—           i.

                      in Theory and Practice.
where          _ ,j"        1'                 I     "1
and
                           rt=xt+y*+i?.
   This equation applies to light in any direction. In the
special case of parallel light, for which k=0, falling on a
plane grating with lines in the direction of z, one condition
will be that this expression must be the same for all values of z.
   Hence                             n
   If N is the order of the spectrum and a the grating-space,
we shall see further on that we also have the condition
                       />a//,= 27rN= —j—
   The direction of the diffracted light will then be denned by
the equations
                         oP + QP+ji =o,
                                i7+iy=o,
                               I/9 + I'/3'=-N.
                                          GL
 Whence
                   '=1^ + 2 _LN/3_ m2
                                              IV
                       a
                IV = -I<y.
   In the ordinary case, where the incident and diffracted rays
 are perpendicular to the lines of the grating, we can simplify
 the equations somewhat.
    Let <f> be the angle of incidence and ifr of diffraction as
 measured from the positive direction of X.
                           \= I' cos + 1 cos yjr,
                   - N=/i= I' sin <f> + 1 sin ^r,
                   a »_ SlT
                      b~T>
 where I is the wave-length in vacuo.
    In case of the reflecting-grating 1 = 1', and we can write
                          X=I{cos<£+ cos^-},
                   -N=/*=I{sin <£+ simjr}.
                                 2 E 2

400           Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
This is only a very elementary expression, as the real value
would depend on the nature of the obstacle, the angles, &c.,
but it will be sufficient for our purpose.
   The disturbance due to any grating or similar body will
then be very nearly
                jye-<4[R-V<-**-W-«+<t(:r2+S2+«2)]^
where ds is a differential of the surface. For parallel rays,/c=0.
                          Plane Gratings.
   In this case the integration can often be neglected in the
direction of z, and we can write for the disturbance in case of
parallel rays,
                Case I.—Simple Periodic Ruling.
   Let the surface be divided up into equal parts, in each of
which one or more lines or grooves are ruled parallel to the
axis of z.
   The integration over the surface will then resolve itself into
an integration over one space, and a summation with respect
to the number of spaces. For in this case we can replace y
by na+y, where a is the width of a space, and the displace
ment becomes
                 g-(»(B-V<)                     fa .
but                                        .   ba/jL
                                    »-i   sinn-s-
                  "a                          baft '
                                           sin 2
 Multiplying the disturbance by itself with —i in place of +i,
 we have for the light intensity,
                 baa- 2
           | sinn-j^
             sin-/ J
The first term indicates spectral lines in positions given by
the equation
                            sin-^=0,
 with intensities given by the last integral. The intensity of
 the spectral lines then depends on the form of the groove as

                       in Theory and Practice.                 401
given by the equation x=f{y) and upon the angles of inci
dence and diffraction. The first factor has been often discussed,
and it is only necessary to call attention to a few of its pro
perties.
   When 6a/i=27rN, N being any whole number, the expres
sion becomes n2. On either side of this value the intensity
decreases until nba/j,' = 27rN, when it becomes 0.
   The spectral line then has a width represented by (J — /u" = 2 ^
nearly ; on either side of this line smaller maxima exist too
faintly to be observed. When two spectral lines are nearer
together than half their width they blend and form one line.
The defining power of the spectroscope can be expressed in
terms of the quotient of the wave-length by the difference of
wave-length of two lines that can just be seen as divided.
The defining power is then
                              nN* = na p
   Now na is the width of the grating. Hence, using a
grating at a given angle, the defining power is independent
of the number of lines to the inch and only depends on the
width of the grating and the wave-length. According to this,
the only object of ruling many lines to the inch in a grating
is to separate the spectra so that, with a given angle, the
order of spectrum shall be less.
    Practically the gratings with few lines to the inch are
much better than those with many, and hence have better
definition at a given angle than the latter except that the
spectra are more mixed up and more difficult to see.
   It is also to be observed that the defining power increases
with shorter wave-lengths, so that it is three times as great in
 the ultra-violet as in the red of the spectrum. This is of
 course the same with all optical instruments such as telescopes
 and microscopes.
    The second term which determines the strength of the
 spectral lines will, however, give us much that is new.
    First let us study the effect of the shape of the groove on
 the brightness. If N is the order of the spectrum and a the
 grating-space, we have
                         ,, . .       . ,. m
                    fi = 1 (sin <p + sin y) = —- ,
 since sin
                 * An expression of Lord Ilayleigh's,

402          Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
and the intensity of the light becomes proportional to
   It is to be noted that this expression is not only a function
of N but also of I, the wave-length. This shows that the
intensity in general may vary throughout the spectrum ac
cording to the wave-length, and that the sum of the light in
any one spectrum is not always white light.
   This is a peculiarity often noticed in gratings. Thus one
spectrum may be almost wanting in the green, while another
may contain an excess of this colour; again, there may be
very little blue in one spectrum, while very often the similar
spectrum on the other side may have its own share and that
of the other one also. For this reason I have found it almost
impossible to predict what the ultra-red spectrum may be, for
it is often weak even where the visible spectrum is strong.
   The integral may have" almost any form, although it will
naturally tend to be such as to make the lower orders the
brightest when the diamond rules a single and simple groove.
When it rules several lines or a compound groove, the higher
orders may exceed the lower in brightness, and it is mathe
matically possible to have the grooves of such a shape that,
for given angles, all the light may be thrown into one spectrum.
   It is not uncommon, indeed very easy, to rule gratings with
immensely bright first spectra, and I have one grating where
it seems as if half the light were in the first spectrum on one
side. In this case there is no reflexion of any account from
the grating held perpendicularly : indeed, to see one's face the
plate must be held at an angle, in which case the various
features of the face are seen reflected almost as brightly as in
a mirror but drawn out into spectra. In this case all the
other spectra and the central image itself are very weak.
   In general it would be easy to prove from the equation
that want of symmetry in the grooves produces want of
symmetry in the spectra—a fact universally observed in all
gratings, and one which I generally utilize so that the light
may be concentrated in a few spectra only.
                Example 1.—Square Gbooves.
   When the light falls nearly perpendicularly on the plate,
we need not take the sides into account but only sum up the
surface of the plate and the bottom of the groove. Let the
depth be X and the width equal to — .
                                       rn

                     in Theory and Practice.                 403
    The intensity then becomes proportional to
                       1 . a N . a X „.
                      tt™ Sill' 7T — Sin* 7T 7 A.
This vanishes when
                       N=m, 2m, 3m, &c. ;
                       ^=0,1, 2, 3, Ac.
   The intensity of the central light, for which N=0, will be
                          g8in'(^x).
    This can be made to vanish for only one angle for a given
wave-length. Therefore, the central image will be coloured
and the colour will change with the angle, an effect often
observed in actual gratings. The colour ought to change,
also, on placing the grating in a liquid of different index of
 refraction, since X contains I, the index of refraction.
    It will be instructive to take a special case, such as light
 falling perpendicularly on the plate. For this case,
          <f>=0, X=I(1 + cos^r), and /i=Isini|r= — .
 Hence
 The last term in the intensity will then be
    As an example, let the green of the second order vanish.
 In this case, 1 = '00005. N = 2. Let a=*0002 centim., and
1 = 1.
    Then      X[20000+ V(20000)3-(10000)!!]=n.
    Whence
                            X=
                                   37300'
 where n is any whole number. Make it 1.
    Then the intensity, as far as this term is concerned, will be
as follows :—

 404             Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
               Minima where Intensity is 0.       Maxima where Intensity is 1.
                       Wave-lengths.                      Wave-lengths.
  1st spec...    •0000526       •0000268     ! -0001000    ¦00003544 •00002137
  2nd „ ...      •0000500        0000266        0000833 00003463 •00002119
  3rd „ ...      •0000462       ¦0000263       •0000651 ¦00003333 •00002089
  4th           •0000416        •0000259       •0000499     00003169 •00002050
  5th „ ...          &c.           &c.             &c.         &c.        &c.
    The central light will contain the following wave-lengths as
a maximum : —
                •0001072, -00003575, -0000214, &c.
    Of course it would be impossible to find a diamond to rule
a rectangular groove as above, and the calculations can only
be looked upon as a specimen of innumerable light distribu
tions according to the shape of groove.
   Every change in position of the diamond gives a different
light distribution, and hundreds of changes may be made
every day and yet the same distribution will never return,
although one may try for years.
                   Example 2.—Triangular Groove.
   Let the space a be cut into a triangular groove, the
equations of the sides being x= — cy and .v=c (y — a), the
two cuttings coming together at the point y = u. Hence we
have — cu—d(u — a), and ds=dy-'^l+ci, or dy</\+cf2.
Hence the intensity is proportional to
        1+c^ . , TTu(u. — cX)               1 + c'2          7r(a—u)(fi + c/X)
P                , sin2 —^-j        '- +               ,snr
   10*- c\)                                                            I
              V(l + ^(1+0 drnru{n-ck) g.n TrCa-^O + A)
              (/M — cy)(fJi-^cX)                 I      "              I
                                   cos j [ (r4 + c'X)(a — u) — n (ft — c\) ] |
This expression is not symmetrical with respect to the normal
to the grating, unless the groove is symmetrical, in which case
c = c' and u— ^.

                      in Theory and Practice.                405
   In this case, as in the other, the colours of the spectrum
are of variable intensity, and some of them may vanish as in
the first example, but the distribution of intensity is in other
respects quite different.
              Case II.—Multiple Pekiodic Ruling.
   Instead of having only one groove ruled on the plate in
this space a, let us now suppose that a series of similar lines
are ruled.
   We have, then, to obtain the displacement by the same
expression as before, that is
                             bau
                        smn-g- p
                          • bap]
except that the last integral will extend over the whole number
of lines ruled within the space a.
   In the spaces a let a number of equal grooves be ruled
commencing at the points y = 0, yi} y2, y3, &c, and extending
to the points w, yx + w, y2 + id, &c The surface integral will
then be divided into portions from w to yl5 from yx + io to y2,
&c, on the original surface of the plate for which # = 0, and
from io to 0, from yi + w to ylf &c, for the grooves.
   The first series of integrals will be
             = ^ { — e^" + ( 1 — e**") (eaM< + e^n + &c.) + ^"j .
   But e'*'", = l since b(ia=0 for any maximum, and thus the
integral becomes
                  —=r      {1 -he*™* + e^t + Scc.}.
The second series of integrals will be
                  Jo
                  f

406          Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
The total integral will then be
        bau
   smn~2~rl—J>»*
        bap L ibu
    sin 2
   As before, multiply this by the same with the sign of i
changed to get the intensity.
               Example 1.—Equal Distances.
   The space a contains n' — l equidistant grooves, so that
yi=ys-yi=&c-=^7-
                                         . baa
                                         . 6«z*
                                        sin^-V
   Hence the displacement becomes
                  bau
             sinn-^p- r1 _ f6/i«     rw         n
                . &a/iL             Jo          J
   As the last term is simply the integral over the space -/ in
a different form from before, this is a return to the form we
previously had except that it is for a grating of nn' lines
instead of n lines, the grating-space being ^.
                 Example 2.—Two Grooves.
                     l + e*»wi = 2e a cos-^p.
   But bau = 2^TT,     Hence this becomes
                          2ei,rN* coS7rN^.
  The square of the last term is a factor in the intensity.
Hence the spectrum will vanish when we have

                    in Theory and Practice.                 407
or
                          x,     la 3 a 5 a „
                                 2yi 2yx 2y,
    Thus when — = 2, the 1st, 3rd, &c., spectra will disappear,
making a grating of twice the number of lines to the centim.
   When — = 4, the 2nd, 6th, 10th, &c, spectra disappear.
When-- =6, the 3rd, 9th, &c, spectra disappear.
    The case in which ^-=4, as Lord Rayleigh has shown,
would be very useful, as the second spectrum disappears leaving
the red of the first and the ultra-violet of the third without
contamination by the second. In this case two lines are
ruled and two left out. This would be easy to do, but the
advantages would hardly pay for the trouble owing to the
following reasons :—Suppose the machine was ruling 20,000
lines to the inch. Leaving out two lines and ruling two
would reduce the dispersion down to a grating with 5000
lines to the inch. Again, the above theory assumes that the
grooves do not overlap. Now I believe that in nearly, if not
all, gratings with 20,000 lines to the inch the whole surface is
cut away and the grooves overlap. This would cause the
second spectrum to appear again after all our trouble.
    Let the grooves be nearly equidistant, one being slightly
displaced.   In this case yi = „ +v.
                                2
                          7rN      ttNw    . 7rN . 7rNlAs
                      cos -zr- cos       sin -7T- sin    I
                           2         a         2      a J
For the even spectra this is very nearly unity, but for the odd
it becomes
Hence the grating has its principal spectra like a grating of
space | ; but there are still the intermediate spectra due to
the space a, and of intensities depending on the squares of the
order of spectrum, and the squares of the relative displace-
                   * A theorem of Lord Rayleigh's.

408          Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
ment, a law which I shall show applies to the effect of all
errors of the ruling.
   This particular effect was brought to my attention by trying
to use a tangent-screw on the head of my dividing-engine to
rule a grating with, say, 28,872 lines to the inch, when a
single tooth gave only 14,436 to the inch. However care
fully I ground the tangent-screw I never was able to entirely
eliminate the intermediate spectra due to 14,436 lines, and
make a pure spectrum due to 28,872 lines to the inch,
although I could nearly succeed.
          Example 3.—One Groove in m misplaced.
   Let the space a contain m grooves equidistant, except one
which is displaced a distance v. The distance is now propor
tional to
      1 + e *m + e    m + &c. + e K m   J+&c.+e       m
                                             „j>p-m+l j
               —e     —    \ —;— +tb/j,ve        2m I
                            I . baa
   Multiplying this by itself with — i in place of +«, and
adding the factors in the intensity, we have the whole ex
pression for the intensity. One of the terms entering the
expression will be
                 baa    .    bau,
            sinn-%-    sinji-^      7
                   2          2 . ba/i2p — m + 1
              . bau,    . bau,        2    m
             sin~-     sin —r-
                 2m          2
   Now the first two terms have finite values only around the
points      =mNir, where mN is a whole number.             But
2p—m + l is also a whole number, and hence the last term
is zero at these points. Hence the term vanishes and leaves
the intensity, omitting the groove factor,

                      in Theory and Practice.                 409
   The first term gives the principal spectra as due to a grating-
space of jjj and number of lines nm as if the grating were
perfect. The last term gives entirely new spectra due to the
grating-space a, and with lines of breadth due to a grating of
n lines and intensities equal to (b/iv)'2.
   Hence, when the tangent-screw is used on my machine for
14,436 lines to the inch, there will still be present weak
spectra due to the 14,436 spacing, although I should rule,
say, 400 lines to the millim. This I have practically observed
also.
   The same law holds as before that the relative intensity in
these subsidiary spectra varies as the square of the order of
the spectrum and the square of the deviation of the fine or
lines from their true position.
    So sensitive is a dividing-engine to periodic disturbances,
that all the belts driving the machine must never revolve in
periods containing an aliquot number of lines of the grating ;
otherwise they are sure to make spectra due to their period.
    As a particular case of this section we have also to consider
     Periodic Errors of Kuling.—Theory of " Ghosts."
    In all dividing-engines the errors are apt to be periodic,
 due to " drunken " screws, eccentric heads, imperfect bearings,
 or other causes. We can then write
             y = n0a + ai sin fan) +a2 sin (e2n), + &c.
    The quantities eu e2, &c. give the periods, and au a2, &c.
 the amplitudes of the errors. We can then divide the integral
 into two parts as before, an integral over the groove and
 spaces and a summation with respect to the numbers.
               Cy"                           Cy"-y'
              Jy'                            J0
    It is possible to perform these operations exactly ; but it is
 less complicated to make an approximation, and take y"—y'=a,
 a constant as it is very nearly in all gratings. Indeed the
 error introduced is vanishingly small. The integral which
 depends on the shape of the groove will then go outside the
 summation sign, and we have to perform the summation
                   V^—*6/i^artn+a1 sin^n +a3sin ean+ &c.|

410             Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
Let Jn be a Bessel's function.        Then
     cos (Msin^>) = J0(m) +2[J2(m) cos2<]t) + J4(?<) cos4<£+ &c.J,
     sin (wsin<£) =             2[J1^t)sin<£ + J3(m) sin3<£ + &c.].
   But         e-iu«in(fl _cog (u gjn     sjn (u s[n     >
Hence the summation becomes
       X \3(,(bna{) + 2(—iJl(b[ia1) sin etn-f- JKhfia^ cos 2exn— <fee-}J
       X [J0(fyta2) + 2(— i3r(bfca^) sin e3ra + 3i(bna2') cos 2^n— &c.) J
       x [J0(fy*a3) + &c.) ]
    [ X [&c].
                  Case I.—Single Periodic Error.
   In this case only a0 and a^ exist. We have the formula
                                          sm 2
                                          sin"2
Hence the expression for the intensity becomes
                                                  bfia0+ei
                 sin n                      sin n
    , J0(fyia,)               +JV(^a1)
                      bfia0 [                    bfia0 + el
                  sin                        sm
                                                     2
                                                   b/m0 — e1
                                             sin n
                                                  b/ia0—ex
                                              sin              J
   As m is large, this represents various very narrow spectral
lines whose light does not overlap, and thus the different
terms are independent of each other. Indeed, in obtaining
this expression the products of quantities have been neglected
for this reason because one or the other is zero at all points.
These lines are all alike in relative distribution of light, and
their intensities and positions are given by the following
table :—

                    in Theory ana* Practice.                  411
        Places.          Intensities.        Designations.
            2ttN                         Primary lines.
                         J02(6/tai).
             ba0
       fH=P±^            Jis(fy*i«i)-    Ghosts of 1st order.
                                         Ghosts of 2nd order.
                 3e
       H>3=P± fa-        J32Q>/ila3).    Ghosts of 3rd order.
           &c.                &c.                  Ac.
   Hence the light which would have gone into the primary
line now goes to making the ghosts, so that the total light in
the line and its ghosts is the same as in the original without
ghosts.
   The relative intensities of the ghosts as compared with the
primary line is
                           Jos(fy*«i)'
   This for very weak ghosts of the first, second, third, &c.
order becomes
    The intensity of the ghosts of the first order varies as the
 square of the order of the spectrum and as the square of the
 relative displacement as compared with the grating-space a0.
 This is the same law as we before found for other errors of
 ruling; and it is easy to prove that it is general. Hence
    The effect of small errors of ruling is to produce diffused
 light around the spectral lines. This diffused light is subtracted
from the light of the primary line, and its comparative amount
 varies as the square of the relative error of ruling and the
 square of the order of the spectrum.
    Thus the effect of the periodic error is to diminish the
 intensity of the ordinary spectral lines (primary lines) from
 the intensity I to J08(6/*ffli), and surround it with a sym
 metrical system of lines called ghosts, whose intensities are
 given above.
    When the ghosts are very near the primary line, as they
 nearly always are in ordinary gratings ruled on a dividing-

412          Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
engine with a large number of teeth in the head of the screw,
we shall have
     Jfbai.     + ^ + Jx%ai (fi - jjL) = 2Jfbajt nearly.
   Hence the total light is by a known theorem,
                    J02 + 2[J12 + J22 + &c.]=l.
   Thus, in all gratings, the intensity of the ghosts as well as
the diffused light increases rapidly with the order of the
spectrum. This is often marked in gratings showing too
much crystalline structure. For the ruling brings out the
structure and causes local difference of ruling which is
equivalent to error of ruling as far as diffused Hght is con
cerned.
   For these reasons it is best to get defining power by using
broad gratings and a low order of spectra, although the
increased perfection of the smaller gratings makes up for this
effect in some respects.
   There is seldom advantage in making both the angle of
incidence and diffraction more than 45°, but if the angle of
incidence is 0, the other angle may be 60°, or even 70°, as in
concave gratings. Both theory and practice agree in these
statements.
   Ghosts are particularly objectionable in photographic
plates, especially when they are exposed very long. In this
case ghosts may be brought out which would be scarcely
visible to the eye.
   As a special case, take the following numerical results :—
       N    =         1.                  2.             3.
      a,    =±        1     J_         111           111
       a0      25'   50'    100"      25' 50' 100'  25' 50' 10u"
   V     aj    63' 252' 1008"         16' 63' 252"   V 28' 102'
   In a grating with 20,000 lines to the inch, using the third
spectrum, we may suppose that the ghosts corresponding to
— — tr will be visible and those for — = ^ very trouble-
a0    50                                    a0   25

                      in Theory and Practice.               413
some. The first error is Oi = xoonooo hi. and the second
e*i = gooooo 'n- Hence a periodic displacement of one
millionth of an inch will produce visible ghosts and one five-
bundredth-thousandth of an inch will produce ghosts which
are seen in the second spectrum and are troublesome in the
third. With very bright spectra these might even be seen
 in the first spectrum. Indeed an over-exposed photographic
 plate would readily bring them out.
     When the error is very great, the primary line may be
 very faint or disappear altogether, the ghosts to the number
 of twenty or fifty or more being often more prominent than
 the original line. Thus, when
              6^=2-405, 5-52, 8-65, Ac. = 2*-N%
  the primary line disappears.    When
                 V«i = 0, 3-83, 7-02, &c. = 2ttN-1,
                                                  a0
  the ghosts of the first order will disappear. Indeed, we can
  make any ghosts disappear by the proper amount of error.
     Of course, in general
                        ai     ^     »—1    It—a"
     Thus a table of ghosts can be formed readily and we can
  always tell when the calculation is complete by taking the
  sum of the light and finding unity (see p. 414).
     This table shows how the primary line weakens and the
  ghosts strengthen as the periodic error increases, becoming 0
  at 27rN — = 2*405. It then strengthens and weakens periodi
           ca
  cally, the greatest strength being transferred to one of the
  ghosts of higher and higher order as the error increases.
     Thus one may obtain an estimate of the error from the
  appearance of the ghost.
     Some of these wonderful effects with 20 to 50 ghosts
  stronger than the primary line I have actually observed in a
  grating ruled on one of my machines before the bearing end
  of the screw had been smoothed. The effect was very similar
  to these calculated results.
     Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 216. May 1893.      2 F

                                                                                       zzo-
                                                                                       600
                                                                                       no-
                                                                             100-      550-
                                                                             eoo-      ISO-
                                                                             910       160-
                                                                   eoo-      oso-      101-
                                                         800-      ZIO-      sot-      LfO-
                                               EOO- BOO- MO-       190-      n\-       SOO-
                                          &00- STO- 810 890-       tei-      9S0-      990-
                                100- 800- MO- 990- 6Z0-            8SI-      no-
                                                         89t-                          8K>-
                                MO- OKI- 960- 92,1- 981- SSI-      £10- ¦OTJ 980-      eoo-
                 500- eoo- SIO- fZl- 981-      591- 881- SOO-      690- 060- 810-      990-
                                          98S-
       010- 880- S80- 981- HI- 888-       911- 000-      bai 9lt- ua- ooo- eeo- 9Z0 EOO-
                                     69S-           rn-
000-11 086- EM- ESS-       989- 090- 000- 890- S9t- 891- 180- 000-      060- 6S0- 000- 090-
                      9U-                                          m-

                      in Theory and Practice.                      415
                   Double Periodic Error.
    Supposing as before that there is no overlapping of the
lines, we have the following :—
       Places.                 Intensities.
       2ttN
    —                  [J0(V/*) J0OM]5-                Primary order.
        ba0 '
to = 11 ~ ba0          [Ji(KMi) Jo(^i)]4-              Ghosts of 1st
                                                    ^    order.
to                     [Jo{^>aito) Ji^aj^)]2-
to =                   [Jj^a,^) J ,(Z«ty*3)P.
                                                    , Ghosts of 2nd
to —
                                                         order.
            2e3
to =                   [Jo^a^j) J2(6a2/ti6)]2. -
to =          ba^
                        [J,(K^) J2(*«2/*6)]2-
       » + 2ei±\
to •— " ba0             [Jj^a^) J^a^)]4.
                                                     <U+25BA> Ghosts of 3rd
                        [J0(6a!/i8) Js^a^g)]4.            order.
to          ba0
            Se2
to —        ba0
                        [J3(iasyit9) J0(5a2ft8)]2. j
          &c.                       &c.
    Each term in this table of ghosts simply expresses the fact
 that each periodic error produces the same ghosts in the
 same place as if it were the only error, while others are added
 which are the ghosts of ghosts. The intensities, however,
 are modified in the presence of these others.
    Writing c1=6a,/i and c2 = ba/i2.
    The total light is
 Jo2(o,) Jo2(c2) + |f ,fr\W9.T sff 1 J                  2Ji*{ct) JHc)
                                       2fc 1 »\ + ]( +4J12(Cl)   tVW)[ +
                                     i\)C>\
                    (. + AJ0 (cj J , (ct) j        ^ + 2JoJ(ci)       j
 which we can prove to be equal to 1.
                                   2 F 2

 416          Prof. Henry A. Rowland on Gratings
    Hence the sum of all the light is still unity, a general pro
 position which applies to any number of errors.
    The positions of the lines when there is any number of
 periodic errors can always be found by calculating first the
 ghosts due to each error separately ; then the ghosts due to
 these primary ghosts for it as if it were the primary line, and
 so on ad infinitum.
    In case the ghosts fall on top of each other the expression
 for the intensity fails. Thus when e2 = 2fiv eg=3«i, &c, the
 formula will need modification. The positions are in this
 case only those due to a single periodic error, but the inten
 sities are very different.
    Places.
       2ttN
        6a0
^—     — ba0'  X + [J1{balfi1)J1{ba2fi1)—J3(ba1fij)J1(ba2fi1)+&c.]i
    &C                                  &c.
    We have hitherto considered cases in which the error could
 not be corrected by any change of focus in the objective. It
 is to be noted, however, that for any given angle and focus
 every error of ruling can be neutralized by a proper error of
 the surface, and that all the results we have hitherto obtained
 for errors of ruling can be produced by errors of surface, and
 many of them by errors in size of groove cut by the diamond.'
 Thus ghosts are produced not only by periodic errors of
 ruling but by periodic waves in the surface, or even by a
 periodic variation in the depth of ruling. In general, how
 ever, a given solution will apply only to one angle and,
 consequently, the several results will not be identical ; in
 some cases, however, they are perfectly so.
    Let us now take up some cases in which change of focus
 can occur. The term k?'2 in the original formula must now
 be retained.
    Let the lines of the grating be parallel to each other. We
 can then neglect the terms in z and can write r^—y2 very
 nearly. Hence the general expression becomes
 where k depends on the focal length. This is supposed to be
 very large, and hence ic is small.
    The integral can be divided into two parts—an integral over
  the groove and the intervening space, and a summation for
 all the grooves. The first integral will slightly vary with

                           in Theory and Practice.                         417
change in the distance of the grooves apart, but this effect
is vanishingly small compared with the effect on the summa
tion, and can thus be neglected. The displacement is thus
proportional to
               Case I.—Lines at Variable Distances.
    In this case we can write in general
                          y=an + ajn8 + a2n8 + &c.
   As k, Oi, a2, &c, are small, we have for the displacement,
neglecting the products of small quantities,
                         2£gi4[n(an+!i1n2+a,7i3+&c.)—«a2n2]
    Hence the term a^2 can be neutralized by a change of
forms expressed by fia-i = «a2. Thus a grating having such
an error will have a different focus according to the angle n,
and the change will be + on one side and — on the other.
    This error often appears in gratings and, in fact, few are
without it.
   A similar error is produced by the plate being concave,
but it can be distinguished from the above error by its having
the focus at the same angle on the two sides the same instead
of different.
   According to this error, a^, the spaces between the lines
from one side to the other of the grating, increase uniformly
in the same manner as the lines in the B group of the solar
spectrum are distributed. Fortunately it is the easiest error
to make in ruling, and produces the least damage.
   The expression to be summed can be put in the form
^g'ty""1 rj _|_ j'jQua, — /eas)«2 + ib/ia2n3 + ib {jmx3 + ibijiai — «a2)8] n*
                                   + &c.]
   The summation of the different terms can be obtained as
shown below, but, in general, the best result is usually sought
by changing the focus. This amounts to the same as varying
k until (ia1—ica2=0 as before. For the summation we can
obtain the following formula from the one already given.
Thus
                         Sn"-1^" = si^-^iK»-i>.
                                          sinp
Hence
                            (2i)m          \dp              )  sinp

418           On Gratings in Theory and Practice.
   When n is very large, writing ^J^=pn = 'ir'Sn + q, we
have
                                  m+l
              to    n<          ;(.2e)m ?n \dq
                                           \dq   J     q
   Whence, writing
                   c = i(fia1—Kat),
                   d = bfia2,
                   c" = l\jia3 + ib((iai—Ka2yjr
                   cm= &c,
the summation is
            f        . . / n* ,     m* „ „ n5     \
                                                          sin q
                                                            1 '
                             V 8 ^           16 + Jdq3
                                     +»
                                      +
               d sin q _ q cos g— sin q
              Tq~~q~ ~              q*
               d2 sin q _ — 2<7 cos q+(2 — q2) sin y
                                            93
               d3 sin y _ <?(6—          cos 9— (6— 3^) siny
              <V~!T                            ^     '       '
                   &c                                &c.
   These equations serve to calculate the distribution of light
intensity in a grating with any error of line distribution
suitable to this method of expansion and at any focal length.
For this purpose the above summation must be multiplied by
itself with +1 in place of — i.
   The result is for the light intensity

        On the Differential Equation of Electrical Flow.         419
   As might have been anticipated, the effect of the additional
terms is to broaden out the line and convert it into a rather
complicated group of lines, as can sometimes be observed
with a bad grating. At any given angle the same effect can
be produced by variation of the plate from a perfect plane.
Likewise the effect of errors in the ruling may be neutralized
for a given angle by errors of the ruled surface, as noted in
the earlier portions of the paper.
     XL. On the Differential Equation of Electrical Flow.
                 Bij T. H. Blakeslet, M.A.*
THE object of this paper is to point out that the theory
       of electrical discharge, as exemplified in the mathe
matical expressions employed to represent the physical facts,
is incompetent to explain all the phenomena observed in
extreme cases ; and to show that the admission of certain
properties of matter not usually recognized is the only way of
satisfactorily obviating the imperfection of the existing views.
   In some of the investigations I shall not employ exclu
sively algebraical symbolic methods, but, where it may more
advantageously be adopted, I shall avail myself of the geome
trical method. Such cases most frequently arise where magni
tudes under consideration are capable of having negative
values. All tidal effects, using the word in its most general
sense, involve such magnitudes.
   Electrical currents in a given conductor may have all
possible values in one direction or in the opposite direction,
but are otherwise restricted.
   The projection of the line joining two points in space
upon a fixed straight line is a geometrical magnitude of this
sort. With respect to the direction in space, sometimes one
of the projected points will be on one side of the other
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 24, 1893.

420          Mr. T. H. Blakesley on the Differential
projected point, sometimes on the other. So that such a line
has all the properties necessary for representing another
magnitude of the same character.
   In this way I shall most generally make the projection
represent Electromotive Force, but occasionally Field of
Magnetism at a point. As to matter of nomenclature,
the only scientific term which I shall employ admitting of
any doubtful interpretation, is the Effective Electromotive
Force. By this term I intend to convey the idea of that
electromotive force which is numerically equal to the product
of the current and the resistance, at a point of time. As a
department of State has recently employed the term in a
totally different sense, this statement has appeared to me to
be necessary in the interests of proper explanation. The
effective electromotive force is the algebraical sum of all the
impressed and induced electromotive forces, and is here
represented by E. If V is the sum of all the impressed
electromotive forces and F is the sum of all induced electro
motive forces, then the equation among their quantities is
V + F=E universally.
   Geometrically, if A B, B C are lines whose projections on
some one fixed straight line represent the sum of the im
pressed and the sum of the induced electromotive forces
respectively, then the projection of A C will represent the
effective electromotive force.
   The three lines must form the sides of a triangle, those
corresponding to the impressed and induced electromotive
forces being taken the same way round the triangle, that
corresponding to E being taken in the opposite direction.
   Now if the actual changes in the magnitudes are harmonic,
and of the same period, it is clear that the lines A B, B C,
A C must remain of constant length and the triangle must
rotate in its own plane at a uniform rate of such a value as
to perform a complete revolution in the period of the har
monic change. The triangle thus shows admirably the way
in which these magnitudes succeed one another in phase. It
also follows from the properties of harmonic motion that if
two magnitudes have the same harmonic period, but differ
in phases by a quarter of the whole period, the corresponding
lines to be projected are at right angles with each other. And
hence the rate of variation of an harmonic magnitude differs
in phase from the magnitude itself by a quarter of the
period. But in the simplest case of a circuit being plied
with an harmonic electromotive force V, it is generally
considered that the induced electromotive force varies as the

                   Equation of Electrical Flow.               421
rate of change of the current ; that is
 where C is the current, R the resistance, and L is the
 coefficient of self-induction.
    The equation already given then becomes
                        V-L-,- = E = RC.
                                at
 Multiplying through by (J and integrating through a com
 plete period,
                  jVc dt - Ljc ~ dt = rJ GHt.
     The first term represents the work done by the source of
 the disturbance.
     The second term vanishes.
     The third term represents work done in heating the
 circuit.
     Hence the whole work done has gone to heat the circuit.
     Now it is admitted on all hands that when the period is
 sufficiently short a radiation of energy into space takes place.
  A portion of this radiated energy is sometimes caught by
  means of a neighbouring circuit and converted into heat.
     A coefficient of mutual induction and a corresponding
 extra term is then introduced into the equation. But are
 we to suppose that radiation would not proceed into space
  were there no neighbouring conductor? It is against proba
  bility, against the electromagnetic theory of light.
     If electromagnetic waves are capable of being sent into
  space, we can no longer look upon the operation of establish
  ing a current in a circuit as analogous to bending a stiff
  spring or displacing rigid wheelwork. The wheelwork must
  have indiarubber spokes or teeth.
     The above equation takes no account of this radiation which is
  expended outside the wire, nor of any other work done else
  where than in the conductor ; and this latter the equation
  states to be exactly equal to the energy expended in propa
  gating the electromotive force. Even supposing a portion of
  the field is occupied by some material whose passage through
  a cycle of magnetization involves the loss of energy, in the
  form of heat, this, equally with wave-propagation through
  space occupied by perfectly elastic matter, will not be
  accounted for by the equation.
      Now of such phenomena as radiation of energy in electro
  magnetic waves, or absorption of energy in the field, there is

422           Mr. T. H. Blakesley on the Differential
 ample evidence. Therefore an equation will not meet such
 cases in which the induced electromotive force is taken as
entirely in quadrature with the current, or when F is wholly
                   rfC
of the form — L—r,-
                    dt
   Hence, in the geometrical representation it is clear that
the induced electromotive-force line must
not be exactly at right angles with that of
the effective electromotive-force line ; i. e.
the angle B C A is not exactly a right angle;
and it is easy to see that it must be greater
than a right angle, for B C may be resolved
into BD.DC, where BD(J is a right
angle and A C D is one straight lino. For
then the whole work done is equal to
—        ~' •   The work done in heating
the conductor is ~"5j^~~> an<^ ^ne differ
ence, or the work done in the field, is ~—-tit—
   Hence, if D lies on the side of 0 nearer to A, AD would
be less than A C, and the work done by the discharge would
be less than that required to heat the conductor : in other
words, energy would have to be received from space.
   Hence the induced electromotive forces may be represented
by two components—one A D in quadrature with the current,
and one D C in opposition to it,
where \ may or may not be a constant, but is in kind a
resistance.
   The equation among the electromotive forces may be
written
                       V-L^-\C=RC.
                              dt
Multiplying through by Cdt and integrating through a
complete period,
          jvCrff- L j*C ~dt = EJ*Cs(ft + j\Cdt.
   The second term on the left vanishes as before, the first
term representing the whole work done. On the right the

                     Equation of Electrical Floio.             423
first term heats the conductor and the second term gives
energy to space.
    We may go somewhat further into the causes of such an in
duced electromotive- force component if we
employ the geometrical mode of symboli
zing the electric quantities. BC, the induced
electromotive-force line, should be at right
angles to the induction through the circuit,
for it is the rate of increase of the latter
 which produces the former. Hence if A E
 is a perpendicular let fall upon B C pro
 duced, A E will represent the phase of the
 magnetic induction. But A C being in
 phase with the current is in phase with the
 field. Hence E A 0, or C B D which is
 equal to it, is a magnetic phase-lag, and A E may be said to
 be in phase with the effective field, and therefore with the
 induction. This suggests that if we employ the lower lines of
 the figure to represent fields, we may make up a triangle
 ACE such that A C is the impressed field,
 C E an induced field, and A E an effective
 field, of course when, as usual, projected on
 a fixed line ; 0 E being perhaps, though by
 no means certainly, at right angles to AE.
 However, whether CE here has in any
 case two components perpendicular and
 parallel respectively to A E or not, it appears very certain that
 the perpendicular component must exist. Assuming at first
  that it alone exists,—
     If we employ small letters :—
        v for impressed field =AC,
       / for induced field =(JE,
        e for effective field =AE,
        I = coefficient of magnetic self-induction, so that
                    ,dl
             J=-ldt->
 and (i for the permeability, I for the rate of magnetic induction,
 i. e. per square centim., we have
                                ,dl      I
                             V—l-jr =e=
                                 at      fj.
     To obtain an equation of energy from this we must multiply
 (not by I, as analogy would at first sight perhaps dictate) by
 ^ ,dt x cross section, for the formula for energy is

 424          Mr. T. H. Blakesley on the Differential
                       = [**] Ft5}
    Here the term on the right hand disappears necessarily,
 and the work expended, if any, is equal to                Hence
 this work vanishes only if 1=0, i. e., if there is no component
 field in quadrature with the induction ; a curious antithesis
 to the electric problem. If there were a field induced in
 phase with the induction, it would not result in the dissipa
 tion of energy. No argument for such a state of things can
 be drawn on the score of loss of energy.
    If the phases of magnetism in any cycle coincided with the
 phases of field, there could be no such thing as hysteresis ;
 and, further, no radiation of energy from an alternating
 magnet.
    But both these phenomena have been for many years recog
 nized. It follows, therefore, that when induction through
 any space changes, a magnetic field is induced acting counter
to the change.
    Now it may be noticed that the tangents of the angles of
lag, whether electric or magnetic, involve a coefficient in
their numerator and the value of the period in their denomi
nator. They therefore become larger as the period is made
less. It might therefore happen that extreme rapidity of
change would be necessary before a lag of current or of in
duction could be detected. Electric lags, or, at all events, the
coefficients of self-induction can readily be measured. Mag
netic lags have been measured by the author in certain cases
by special artifices, but when we deal with a medium of small
permeability, as air, the period must be extremely minute to
make the lag-angle sensible, and as yet no machines possess
a sufficient frequency to effect it. Recourse has been had to
the rapid oscillations which take place when a Leyden jar is
discharged. In these cases the radiation has been frequently
caught and approximately measured, and it is therefore in
these very cases that the rectification of the formula becomes
important.
   I propose to investigate by geometry and otherwise the
conditions under which a Leyden jar is discharged. Geo
metry especially will afford an excellent and graphic insight
into the question of the oscillatory discharge.

                     Equation of Electrical Flow.                425
     As in the case of the sustained discharge, I shall first take
the usual formula, obtain the geometrical illustration of it,
and, observing where the defect shows itself, pass by an easy
transition to the truer state of things.
      In the case of the discharge of a condenser through a simple
circuit removed from proximity with any other, we have the
 following equations to deal with : —
      The general equation V + F = E,                            (i.)
                                  E =RC,                        (ii.)
                                  F ="Lf >                      W
                                             dV
  where
      C is the current discharging the condenser ;
      K is the capacity of the condenser ;
      L is the coefficient of self-induction ;
      E is the resistance ;
      F is the induced electromotive force ;
      E is the effective electromotive force ;
      V is the potential difference of the plates of the con
            denser.
       Eliminating E and F from (i.) by means of (ii.) and (iii.),
                                 dC
                          V-L^-RC=0                              (v.)
                                 at
   Differentiating,
                        dV_Td?C         ^dC
                         dt      d?    U dt~V'
   and substituting for dY — from (iv.),
                            dt
                            C Td*C ^dC            .
   or
                       C + KEf +LK^=0,
   the differential equation of C.
                  E
       Since 0=       it follows that the equation
                        E + KR^+LK^|=0
                                 dt        dt
    is also true, and therefore is the differential equation of E.

426         Mr. T. H. Blakesley on the Differential
   Again, from (v.) and (iv.), since ~ = — K^^-, obtained
by differentiating (iv.),
                            dV         tPV
This is the differential equation of V.
   Thirdly, differentiating twice the equation
                         V + F-RC = 0,
from (iii.) by differentiation it is seen that
                          d*C       IdF
                          dt* ~ L dt '
and from (iv.),
                          d*V _ _ 1 dC
                          dt* ~ K dt '
                                1 F
which is further reduced tog j- by (iii.).
   Hence              F_^^F , RrfF_0
or
the differential equation of F.
   It is thus clear that the variables V, F, E, C, all have the
same form of differential equation, viz. :—
                   B+KRf+KLf=0.
Of course, to make this equation homogeneous,
   KR is of the order (time) ;
   KL       „      „    (time)2.
                              t                KR 2L
   KL may be written KR . -g , or still better -y .
If we write                   2L
                              KR
and                           —a~ =h>
                                2
<! and t3 are time-constants of the circuit, and the differential

                       Equation of Electrical Flow.           427
e equation may be written
                         _ a dV              <PE A
                         E+2t*dt+t^dt*=°-
     In this expression the two time-constants may be considered
"to be independent.
     To obtain a geometrical representation of the changes :—
     (1) Suppose a line, whose length is r, to shrink logarithmi
 cally so that its change is represented by the equation
                                   dr_ r
                                   tS — _
  where t± is a time-constant.
  Then .
                                 r = ae h,
  where a is the value of r at the beginning of the time, and f,
  appears as the time taken for r to shrink to - of itself.
      (2) Secondly, suppose a straight line in a plane to con
  stantly change in direction at a uniform rate, in the same
  sense. If 9 is the angle measured from a fixed direction,
                                 d6_2Tr
                                  dt~ t3'
  where t2 is a time-constant. Hence
   Whence t2 appears as the time required to describe 27r.
      (3) Suppose a line to undergo both the changes contem
   plated, which is possible, since one is a change of length, the
  other a change in direction. Then, eliminating the time, we
  have                                _ ^_
                                r = ae * ,
   or r=ae —-         i.
              *»np } where      o ——
                           xtan p=   27rti .
                                       h
      This is the equation of the equiangular spiral, with the
   characteristic angle /3, whose value merely depends upon the
   two time-constants ti and <2.
      (4) Now imagine this length r constantly projected cn
   some fixed straight line, and for simplicity take this straight
   line as at right angles to the direction in which 0 = 0.
      Then the projection under consideration (E) has for its
   expression                        _ e
                           E = a . e t»>> P sin 6 ;

 428           Mr. T. H. Blakesley on tlie Differential
i. e., it consists of a constant factor, a logarithmical factor,
and a rhythmical or harmonic factor.
                                       2ir
    Substituting for 6 its value — . t,
    „ = a.<? —e—.t
    E                      . 2tt
                < tanp sm—.£,
                              h
                »_
   E = ae tan^sin^,
  dE                    ,      a     —• . a
   —= =ae »n/3 cos 0— ± h« tan^smt/
  da                         tan p
                L
       = ae tan^cosa    .— E
                             tan /3
d2E            1 dE              L . -        „           .
dW = -t^dd-ae UnPsmd-u^e ^cos6
            tan £ d<?            tan £ 1 d0      tan /3 /
              2 dE             f         I}.
      ~     tan/3d0            I ^tan2^/'
therefore
             „       2tan/3 dE            tan2/3 d2E
                + 1+ tan2/3 d0 + 1+ tan2/3 d02 ~ '
Now
                      <ffl_dE d«_dE ts_
                      dd ~ dt' dd ~ dt' 2ir'
therefore
                   d2E_d2E dt t2 _ gE / <2 \2
                   d02 ~~ di2 ' dd2ir~ dt2 \2ir) '
therefore
     -       2 tan ft t2 dE             tan2/3 /f2\2d2E_
        + 1+ tan2/3 27r' d« + 1+ tan2/3V2W d*2              5
which, since tan/8= ——i, becomes
                             H
                       2tj       dE          <!2      d2E
                 (1+ tan2 ft) d<        (1+ tan2 ft) dt1
and if £3 is written for            ~ „ „¦»
                              (1 + tan2 ft)
An equation which is at once comparable with those obtained
in the Electrical problem.

                    Equation of Electrical Flow.              429
     It thus appears that the variables in the problem of elec
trical discharge under consideration may be represented by
the projections of three sides of
a, triangle, which is constantly
undergoing uniform rotation
and linear logarithmic shrink
ing. Let the figure represent
 a portion of the appropriate
 curve whose characteristic angle
 is /3, and let 0 R be some radius
 vector. Then the projection of
 O R on 0 Y will be a maximum when the tangent at R is parallel
 to 0 X. Let P be such a position, and let P M be the
 tangent at P. Then MPO = POX = /3.
    Now suppose 0 A the line representing (in its projection)
 the effective electromotive force about to change sign through
 the value zero. This means that the current is about to change
 sign, and the condenser having been receiving current is
 about to begin to be discharged, i. e. its charge and therefore
 potential difference is a maximum. Then the line of P.D.
 must make the angle P 0 A with the line of effective E.M.F.
     Again, the E.M.F. of self-induction is zero when the current
 is at a maximum, by the nature of the ordinary hypothesis.
     Therefore, when the line representing E makes an angle /S
 with 0 X, the line representing induced E.M.F. (F) must be
 parallel with it. Hence it also makes an angle /3 with the
 line of effective E.M.F. ; but in phase lags behind it, whereas
  the P.D. is in advance by that angle.
     Thus, if on any line taken as base we construct an isosceles
  triangle of appropriate base angles, the sides will represent
  the P.D. of the condenser and the induced
  E.M.F. of self-induction respectively, and
  the base will represent the effective E.M.F.
  It only remains to rotate the triangle with
  appropriate speed and to allow it to shrink
  at the due logarithmic rate.
     The properties of the triangle agree exactly
  with the electrical properties.       „
     The angle /S is such that tan 0= ^Hh-
                                                  KR
                                                   2   KRS
  therefore        cos2/3 =
                                                  2L = 4L
                              i+(2-^Y
                                                  R
     Phil. Mag. 8. 5. Vol. 35. No. 216. May 1893.        2 G

430           Mr. T. H. Blakesley on the Differential
therefore cos/3 = <y/ y-        and /3 can have a real existence
        KB2
when -j-j— < 1 ;—the condition of Oscillatory Discharge.
   The complete period is t2, and is obtained in the electrical
quantities thus ;—
                           tan/9= -~ •
therefore
                      2_(2tt)V_ (2tt)V
                    la
                    H~~ tan2 y3 ~sec2/3-l '
and cos2 ft = y already obtained ;
therefore       '            ^ -        4^KL
therefore
                       ^ _    27rVKL
                        ">(!£))''
the form usually quoted if we neglect the second term of the
 denominator.
    I purpose to show that in a discharge of the sort here con
 templated (which has been shown to be the result of the
 ordinary premisses given at page 425) there will be no work
 done by any electromotive force which lags at an angle ft
 behind the current, provided the initial condition is one of
 zero-current. And, further, that the source of E.M.F., which
is represented by the side of the isosceles triangle in advance
 by the angle ft, of the effective B.M.F., does all the work of
 heating the circuit and no more. It will thus be seen that
 there is no provision in the theory for expenditure of power in
 the field, and hence that the theory does not explain the well
 recognized phenomenon of radiation into space.
    To establish the above-mentioned propositions, take the
product of the projections of two lines undergoing variations
 corresponding to the two radii vectores of two equiangular
spirals of the same characteristic angle ft and period, and
differing in phase by the angle 27.
    One of these quantities may be expressed by

                      Equation of Electrical Flow.                    431
                               9+y
                          ae *»0sin0 + y.
The other by
                            -Er
                          be ""^sintf-y.
The product is
                            ie
                   ab.e '"""sin 0 + y sin#_7j
 or
                            28
                   ab .e tanfl (sin2 0— sinzy)-
 This quantity, multiplied into an element of time dt, has to
 be integrated through one period.               Since ^ =            the
                                                         at     *2
 integral 1 becomes
                  "ll12 I e t«n^ (cos 27— cos 20) dd,
 or
                J
            abttC      28              afo r       28
                   e       cos 2yd0 —        \ e ^Pcos20d0.
            47T
     The first term of the integral is
                                     a
                            abtt cos fytanpe
                          —^—                _ -JL.
                                                 t<mP.
     The second term is
                                                  2d
                       j£sm/3 cos 0 + 29 e'**;
  and therefore the integral is expressed :—
                 altz tanP {sin/3cos£+20-tan/3cos27}.
            I=i^Te
  This expression has to be taken between limits. If we con
  template one revolution only the limits will be ®! + 27r and 0U
  and the Definite Integral becomes
       g^r{— sin/3cos# + 201 + tan/3cos27}<; -^/,
      abt3l                                            infill— e -—tan* \I
   If the limits are infinity and 0X the integral becomes
              abU •                       „           = -ifju            . .
               g^T {tan/3 cos 27— sin/3cos/3+2^}e                   •    (*)
  Either of these expressions becomes zero when
                     tan /3 cos 27 = sin /3 cos + 20}
                                    2 G2

432           Mr. T. H. Blakesley on the Differential
or
                         cos 2y = cos /3 cos /3 + 201;
showing that the condition that no work shall he done in the
electric problem depends on the initial circumstances, i. e. 0l
is involved. If 27=/3 the condition of no work becomes
                            cos £ + 20, = 1,
which is satisfied when
 Hence if the initial condition be that of no current, the line
bisecting the angle between the line of effective E.M.F. and that
 of the self-induced E.M.F. makes —^ with the line 0 = 0, and
                                           it
 it is thus proved that on the whole no work
 is done in the field.
     If, on the other hand, we make
 and start from a point where the current              k
 is zero, we have in the above expression,
 when proper substitutions are made for a and b, the value of
 the work done on the circuit by the discharging condenser.
                                                                a
 The integral between infinity and 6X becomes, when 6X = ¥ and
 2y=&
                 ab . t2 {1— cos 2/3} sin /3. e ta»0,
                   8tt~
 or
                  ab.tt .
                         sin3/3e
                   4?r
     In this case b— -gan(l       S5issin/3is the potential difference
 between the plates of the condenser at starting =V1( say,
  = V sin /3. Hence the expression becomes
  (E and V being now the full sides of the triangle, properly
                       E
 interpreted), and ^ y =cos by the geometry of the triangle,
 and further,

                  Equation of Electrical Flow.              433
             tan/S=——1 and therefore j=- =
                                           4tt     2tan/3
and the work
            _ E2    1        h     . 3 -    E* <i sin2 ft
            _R 2cos/3 2tanjeSm ^' °rR               4     '
which is the expression we should obtain if we integrate the
 square of the current multiplied by Bdt, seen as follows:—
    In the general expression (a) obtained above for the pro-
                                                E
duct of the projections make a = E, b= ^, and #i = 0, y = 0
 the expression (a) becomes
                    E2f
                    5—5- {tan /3 — sin /3 cos |6},
                    07rrX
 or
                    S-tSnV^tan/3-sin^C°S/3}'
 or
                    E2
                        *x sin /3, as above.
     Thus the whole of the work goes to heat the wire, and,
  further, substituting in the equation for E in terms of V, it
  may be shown to be entirely derived from the charged con
  denser.
     The work may be written, eliminating E,
                       2V2 cos 3 f. ...
                       —R— 4ism'3'
  or
                       ?ta^°S/3sin3/3-
     Now V!2 = V2sin2iS, and thus the work is
                       V^cos2/^
  or, since cos'20= P,
                     h
                             V^3              KR
                             -ir,and<3=^-
   which is the ordinary expression for the energy stored in the
   condenser ; and this appears from the investigation to be

 434      On the Differential Equation of Electrical Flow.
 entirely expended in heating the circuit, and there is no
margin for the exhibition of power elsewhere.
   Suppose a line A B to represent (E) the line of effective
E.M.F. At the extremity A set off A C
as the direction of the line representing
the P.D. of the condenser.
   Then, as the condenser contains all
the energy that is going to be expended
 on the circuit and on the aather, from
 what has been said it is clear that A C
 must be rather longer than the side of
the isosceles triangle ; for, if not, the
energy stored will not do more than
heat the circuit. If therefore a perpen
dicular be dropped upon A B from C, it will fall at a point
nearer B than A.
   Join C B, and, further, draw C D to meet A B produced in
D, and so that C D A is an isosceles triangle on A D as base,
and therefore CDA=/3. Now CB must be the line repre
senting the resultant of the induced electromotive forces F,
and however complicated the case may be this line CB is
equivalent to two components C D, D B ; of which 0 D results
in no expenditure of power because it is in a phase /8 behind
the current, and DB is in phase directly opposed to the
current, and therefore resulting in whatever expenditure of
energy takes place outside the circuit, and therefore in the
sether or in magnetic bodies, or in neighbouring or surround
ing conductors. A.s in the former case of sustained oscillations,
it may be shown that BCD is a magnetic lag necessary for
the exhibition of such phenomena.
   The electromotive force DB may be expressed by — \C as
before, and the general equation
                           V + F=E
takes the form
                    V-L5f -\C=RC,
                           at
and, as this may be written
                    V-L^ = (R+X)C,
we see that the extra consideration required to express the
actual state of things is simply that the resistance of the
circuit is virtually increased. In the previous work it is
necessary to write (R + X) in all the equations,

      Heat of Vaporization of Liquid Hydrochloric Acid.       435
    The actual work done altogether is derived from the charged
condenser. This is divided between the circuit and the field
in the ratio R : A.
    It may happen, therefore, that if the circumstances of the
discharge are such as to make \ very large in comparison
with R, the ordinary heating-effect may be minimized. Among
such causes is frequency, and in this consideration is to be
found the true explanation of some of the experiments of
M. Nikola Tesla. The energy of the discharges which that
physicist encountered was expended in chief part in radiation
which his body did not check, and not in current through his
body. It is here suggested tbat the best way to measure
radiation would be to measure the defect in the heating of a
circuit, taking care to note the P.D. of the condenser at the
moment previous to discharge.
   In ordinary sustained oscillations, as derived from a machine,
the alternations are not of sufficient frequency to make the
effect of \ perceptible. Electromotive forces of induction in
volve the period in their denominators, and it is reasonable
to suppose that induced magnetic fields do the same; and if
the period of the electromagnetic vibrations becomes com
parable with that of light, it is conceivable that mere heating-
might vanish, as in the solar spectrum light has less heating-
effect than radiation of smaller frequency from the same source.
XLI. Note on the Heat of Vaporization of Liquid Hydro
   chloric Acid. By K. Tsueuta, Rigahushi, Tokio, Japan*.
IN the thirtieth volume of the Proceedings of the Royal
      Society of London Mr. Ansdell gave a full account of
a series of experiments on the condensation of hydrochloric
acid. At the end of the paper he promises another commu
nication containing his considerations on some thermodyna-
mical quantities relating to that gas, but this, so far as I am
aware, has never appeared. Although his measurements
have often been referred to and used by other physicists, yet
some of the deductions that can be made from them appear
still left untouched, for instance the heat of vaporization,
which forms the subject of this note.
   Por the sake of convenience of reference I here reproduce
those measurements as contained in the following Table given
by Ansdell :—
                   * Communicated by the Author.

436             K. Tsuruta on the Heat of Vaporization
                  A.        B.     0.      D.     B.      F.
                                    l       7-55 18-18  29-8
        1.        I      137-31   88-89
                                    1       7-90 1505   33-9
        2.        9-25   118-96   4575
                         103-50     1       8-35 12-39  37-75
        3.       13-8             53-19
                                    1       8-74 10-50   41-80
        4.       18-1     91-77   61-17
                                    1                    45-75
        5.       22       81-19   70-06     910   8-92
                                    1                    5100
        6.       26-75    69-69   82-94     9-50  7-33
                                     1
        7.       33-4     55-75   105-98   1012    5-50  58-85
                                     1
         8.      394      44-85   134-33   10-68   4-19  66-95
                                     1
         9.      44-8     36-34   168-67   11-96   3-03  75-20
                                     1                   80-80
       10.       48        31-33  197-60   1200    2-61
                                      1
       11.       49-4      27-64  224-96   12-92   2-13  84-75
       12.       50-56     25-70           14-30   1-79  85-33
       13.       51        23-96         i
              i        1                 1
    The column A gives the temperature of the gas.
   The column B gives the volume of the saturated vapour at
           point of liquefaction.
    The column C gives the fractional volume of the gas at
           point of liquefaction in relation to the initial volume
           under one atmospheric pressure.
    The column D gives the volume of the condensed liquid.
    The column E gives the ratio of the volume of the gas
           to that of the liquid.
    The column F gives the pressure in atmospheres.
    These data alone are incomplete to enable us at once to
 deduce by calculation the heat of vaporization in terms of
 the usual units (metre and kilogramme). Here are given
 only the relative volumes of the saturated vapour and con
 densed liquid, so that their specific volumes at different tem
 peratures, which are wanted, are unknown. It will, however,
 be enough for our purpose if we know their densities. Now,
 Ansdell gave as results of independent measurements the
 densities of the condensed liquid at different temperatures.
 An interpolation formula, obtained between those densities

                         of Liquid Hydrochloric Acid.                      437
and those temperatures, when combined with the numbers
given in the second and fourth columns of the above Table,
¦will enable us to find the corresponding densities of the satu
rated vapour. The results thus found were not very satis
 factory. Another way to overcome the difficulty is to make
 use of" the numbers in the third column, which give the
 volumes of the saturated vapour just at the point of lique
 faction in relation to the volume occupied by the mass of the
  gas at the temperature t° (column A*) and under the pressure
  of one atmosphere, if the specific volume of the gas under
  the normal circumstances be known in terms of the usual
  units, this together with the coefficient of expansion under
  that pressure will give us the specific volumes of the satu
   rated vapour at different temperatures. Now, Biot and
   Arago f give the density of hydrochloric acid under the
   normal circumstances to be 1*2474 in reference to air. There
   fore, the specific volumes under consideration will be given
   by the following :—
                 _ 1            1      ["fractional-!              ,
                s~ 1-293 ' F247 ' L volume J ' {<1 + ctt>'
    When a long time ago I began my calculation I was not able to
    get any information with respect to the coefficient of expansion,
    and I assumed it perhaps not far from the value 0*003665.
    Quite recently, however, I have found that it was determined
    by Eegnault J as long ago as 1843 to be 0-003681, and so I
     have proceeded to recalculate. Of course no great differences
     were thus wrought in the final values of the heat of vaporiza
     tion. It is, moreover, to be remarked that Regnault himself
     did not put much confidence in the accuracy of his value on
     account of an unavoidable admixture of air, very small though
      it was, with the gas he investigated.
          The formula for the heat of vaporization (according to the
      notation of Clausius) becomes :—
         _ 10333      1      1      rfractionall ...         . A       cr\ dp ~
       r    425" 'TSS&'I-W L volume J" \l+ati \l~~i)-dT' '
       in which the ratio cr/s is to be supplied by the numbers in
       the second and fourth columns of the above Table.
            * As it must haVe been, although it is not explicitly mentioned,
            t Wullner, Lehrbuch der Physik, iii. p. 150.
            \ Ann. de Chimie et Physique, serie 3, tome iv,

 438      Heat of Valorization of Liquid Hydrochloric Acid.
     J2 Was calculated from the following interpolation formula
 found by the method of least squares : —
                   p= 28-451 + 0-4914 t + 0-012463 t2,
  in the evaluation of whose constants the numbers in the
  eleventh row in the above Table were omitted, because the
  representative point in the p- and <-curve was much out of
 the general course, p (calculated) in the following Table
  are from the above interpolation formula, whose use is amply
 justified by the numbers in the difference-column.
                t.          P            V        Difference.        r.
                       (observed). (calculated).
                           atm.         atm.                      calor.
       1.      I          29-8         30-61        4-0-81        6102
       2.      9-25       33-9         34-10        +0-20         64-99
       3.    13-8         37-75        3760         -0-15         65-77
      4.     18-1         41-8         41-43        -0-37         65-43
      5.     22           4575         45-29        -0-46         63-51
      6.     26-75        51           50-57        -0-43         60-02
      7.     33-4         58-85        58-76        -0-09         5317
      8.     39-4         66-95        6715         4-0-20        45-18
      9.     44-8 i       75-2         75-47        4-0-27        35-79
     10.     48           80-8         80-75        -005          3008
     11.     49-4         84-75        83-14        -1-61         23-49
     12.     50-56       85-33         85-22        -0-11
    13.      51
                                                                           i
    The manner of variation of these numbers for r, as deduced
 from the observations of Ansdell, is very remarkable. From
4° to about 14° the heat of vaporization increases, attains
 there a maximum value, then decreases in a regular manner,
but from about 45° onwards it diminishes quite rapidly, as if
the gas were preparing for the critical point (51°-25), at
which the heat of vaporization is to vanish.
    Among those substances whose heat of vaporization was
investigated by MM. Cailletet and Mathias * we have no in
stance like hydrochloric acid. It is much to be desired that
any one who has proper instruments in his possession will
take the trouble to decide whether the anomaly is real or
whether there were some mistakes in our data.
   * Journ. de Physique, torn. v. 2C s6rie, 1886.     Also, ibid. totu. Lx.
2e s&ie, 1890.

                                  C   439     ]
 XLiII. Note on the Floio of Water in a Straight Pipe.
By M. P. Rudski, Priv. Doc. in tJw University of Odessa *.
IT is a known fact that the law of resistance to the motion
        of a liquid in pipes and channels of great size differs much
from that in capillary tubes. It is also known that this differ
ence is due to the presence of eddies in great pipes, while in
capillary tubes the liquid flows in straight lines. Prof. Osborne
Reynolds t has shown that there exists a certain critical mean
 velocity, depending on the diameter of the pipe and on
 the temperature (i. e. viscosity) at which the eddies must
 appear. He thinks that the appearance of eddies is due to
 the instability of rectilineal motion. But Lord Kelvin % has
  shown that at least for small disturbances the rectilineal
  motion is stable provided the coefficient of viscosity is not zero.
  Although Lord Eayleigb § thinks that Lord Kelvin's proof is
  not quite convincing, it seems to me to be so, because the
  steady rectilineal motion with zero velocity at the walls
  satisfies the condition that the loss of energy shall be the
  least possible. This motion belongs to the type which was
   shown by Helmholtz to have this property || . Now it is known
   that generally the motions, which in a certain manner satisfy
   the minimum or maximum condition, are stable.
       The same question was also treated by Mr. Basset % He
   has found the rectilineal motion unstable. As far as I can
   understand him, from a short communication, it was only
   after he had introduced in the expression of resistance a term
   depending on the square of relative velocity. In doing so he
   has anticipated the law of resistance proper to the eddying
   motion. On the other hand, he finds that without this term
    the steady rectilineal motion remains always stable. His
    results also agree closely with the results of Lord Kelvin.
       It seems to me that all this clearly agrees in showing
    that it is not the question of stability or instability which
    arises here, but another one. In speaking of stability we
    mean eo ipso the tacit assumption that the eddying motion
    may be also expressed with the help of functions satisfying
     the common partial differential equations of viscous fluid
               *  Communicated by the Author,
               t  Phil. Trans. 1883, p. 935.
               X  Phil. Mag. 5 ser. xxiv. pp. 188 and 272.
               §  Phil. Mag. 5 ser. xxxiv. p. 67.
               || Basset, Hydrodynamics, vol. ii. p. 356.
              1)  Proceedings Roy. Soc. vol. lii. no, 317, p. 273.

 440           On the Flow of Water in a Straight Pipe.
 motion. Our equations of disturbed motion serving to inves
 tigate the question of stability are the same hydrodynamical
 equations with certain terms neglected. These equations, as
  Lord Kelvin has proved, show that the undisturbed motion 13
 stable. But if we introduce something that is not contained
 in the hydrodynamical equations, as Mr. Basset has done, we
  find the sought instability.
     In other words, our hydrodynamical equations, which we
 know to be strictly true only for small relative velocities, are
 now shown to be, in the case of water, of very limited im
 portance. They are not able to express the eddying motion.
     In the motion which they are able to express, any surface
 drawn within the liquid is supposed to be strained in a con
 tinuous manner.             In the eddying motion these surfaces
 are continually breaking and again reforming, an opinion
 which seems not to be new to hydraulicians *.
    The opinion that it is with a real breaking that we have to
 do is strongly supported by a striking fact observed by Prof.
 Reynolds. The eddies appear only at a certain distance from
the entrance of the pipe. This distance is diminishing when
 the velocity increases, but diminishes asymptotically. Now
 it is a known fact that the breaking of bodies, solid, plastic,
 or plastico-viscous, depends not only on the amount of the
 strain, but also on the velocity of straining. Even hard
 bodies sustain a great strain when the straining is slow
 enough ; on the other hand, flexible bodies, when very rapidly
 strained, break- down.
    On the other hand, when the liquid enters the pipe tumul-
 tuously, but with small mean velocity, the viscosity begins to
act at advantage, the breaking ceases, and the eddies die out.
Reynolds has shown that this reversal from tumultuous to
quiet motion occurs at a critical mean velocity, which ceteris
paribus is about 6-3 times smaller than the other mean velocity
which renders the quie' motion impossible.
    All other features of the phenomenon—the dependence of
critical mean velocity, i. e. of the critical rate of straining, on
the viscosity and on the size of the tube—are clearly in best
accord with the hypothesis of breaking for a certain critical
rate of straining.
    The existence of two critical velocities—a greater which
makes the quiet motion impossible, and a smaller which
makes the tumultuous motion impossible—is very interesting,
and shows similitude to many other physical phenomena.
   * See Boussinesq, " Essai sur la theorie des eaux courantes," M6m,
iSav. Etr. vol. xxiii. p. 5.

                                [   441     ]
XLIII. Liquid Friction. By John Perry, F.R.S., assisted
              by J. Graham, B.A., and C. W. Heath*.
                                [Plate VII.]
APIECE of apparatus such as is used in this investi
            gation was designed and partly constructed in Japan
in 1876 ; it is described in my book on Practical Mechanics
(1883). The specimen actually used by us was constructed
at the Finsbury Technical College in 1882, and has been
occasionally used since that time, but no complete sets of
 observations were attempted till October 1891.
     The simplest hydrodynamical condition of viscous fluid is
 that of the fluid bounded by two infinite parallel planes, the
 fluid in one boundary being at rest, the velocity in the other
 boundary being constant and in the plane. Motions in a
 pipe and near a vibrating disk, or even near a steadily
 rotating disk, are rather complicated. Our apparatus was
  designed to approach as nearly as possible to the conditions
  subsisting between the infinite planes. Between two such
  planes, if V is the constant velocity of one of them, the other
  being at rest, and b is their distance asunder, the fluid being
  of uniform density, and gravity being neglected, if z is
   measured at right angles from the fixed plane, the equation of
   steady motion is
                                                                       w
   °r                             v = Yz/b;                            (2)
   and the tractive force per unit area required at the moving
   plane to maintain the motion is /*V/6, where /j, is the co
    efficient of viscosity. We have used, instead of planes,
    concentric cylindric surfaces of as large radii and as small
    difference in radii as could be conveniently constructed and
    used (see PI. VII. fig. 2).
        E E E is a cylindric trough, of which the curved parts
     E and E are brass. The inner and outer radii of this trough
     are 10*39 and 12*65 centimetres. C, which forms the bottom,
     is of iron ; and the whole trough can be rotated about its
     vertical axis at any desired speed by driving the pulley P from
     a coned pulley D with numerous steps.
        G is a hollow brass cylinder supported by a steel wire L,
     of 0*037 centim. diameter, 67*78 centim. long, whose axis
     coincides with the axis of the trough and the axis of
         * Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 24, 1893.

442            Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.
rotation. G may be raised or lowered relatively to the trough.
The outer radius of G is 11'63 centim., the inner being 11/41
centim. The whole apparatus is supported on a stand, with
three adjustable feet. We exhibit also some photographs of
the apparatus in position, showing how it was driven.
   The trough contains the liquid whose viscosity is to be
measured : when it rotates, G tends to rotate ; and when for
any constant speed G is in equilibrium, the twist in the steel
wire measures the torque due to the tractive forces with which
the liquid acts upon G at its inner and outer surfaces. The
twist was measured by the angular motion of a pointer clamped
on the wire at a distance of 59 centim. from the fixed end.
   To test the accuracy of our assumption that the fluid
behaved as if between parallel plane surfaces, let us consider
the actual motion in which the stream-lines are circles.
Consider the motion of a stream-tube of section SrSx,
x being measured axially and r radially. The tangential
force on unit cylindric surface of radius r is           —     if
v is the velocity. The moment due to all • such forces on
the inner surface of our ring is
The moment tending to increase the velocity of the ring due
to forces on the cylindric parts of it is therefore
also, due to the plane faces we have the moment
                        2iTfir3<^^ Sr . &».
    Equating the sum of these to the rate of increase of the
 moment of momentum of the ring, we have
                cPv ^ 1 dv _ v ^ d2v _ p dv                   .„
                dr2    r dr    r3    da;2   u dt '  '  '   '  * '
 as the equation of motion in co-axial circular stream-lines.
    Now the discontinuity at the edge, and also the nearness of
                                             d2v
 the bottom of the trough, cause the term -j^ to be important;
 but the solution seems to be very difficult. Maxwell satisfied
 himself (Collected Papers, vol. ii. pp. 16-18) that the dis
 continuity at the edge of a vibrating disk could be allowed

                  Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.                  443
for as a virtual increase in the radius of his disk, and the
assumption that the behaviour of his fluid was the same as if
his disk were part of an infinite disk. The correction not
being readily obtained for a disk, he assumed it to be the
same as for the straightedge of an infinite plane surface. We
are certainly not less correct in taking the same correction
for the edge of our cylinder *. Following Maxwell, there
fore, we assumed that when our cylinder Gr was immersed
to the depth AB or I in the fluid it was really a portion of
length l+\ of an infinite cylinder of the same diameter. We
                       d?v
therefore neglect ^ in (3), and we use
                       cPv     1 dv     v _ p dv
                       dt3,    r dr    r'z~ fi dt                      * '
 When the motion is steady, that is when dv/dt=Q, the
 solution is
                            i* = Ar+B/?\                               (5)
 If v=vi when r=R1, and v=0 when R=R2, then
                    v = t^RiO— Rj'/rO/CV-B,8).
     We must now distinguish between the space outside the
 suspended cylinder and the space inside it. The radii of the
 inner and outer surfaces of the suspended cylinder are 11*41
 and 11*63 centim., and the inner and outer radii of the trough
 are 10*39 and 12*65 centim.
     Our cylindric surfaces were not perfectly true, although
 great care was taken to make them so ; and the radii given
 are only average dimensions. But, inasmuch as slightly
 tilting the apparatus or otherwise putting the axis of the
 suspended cylinder out of coincidence with the axis of the
 trough made only small differences in the observations, we
 did not think that such inaccuracies of workmanship or mea
 surement as existed could affect our results.
     Even when the tilting of the apparatus was quite evident
 to the eye, the tractive torque was found to be only slightly
 increased by the tilting. Of course, as the suspended cylinder
    * It is to be remarked that Maxwell assumed, generally, that there was
 no radial motion of his fluid. Now there must have been radial motion,
 his disks resembling centrifugal fans in their action, creating a variable
  flow always outwards between his fixed and moving disks ; and the
  energy wasted in producing this flow is neglected by him. We do not
 know the amount of this error, and he may have satisfied himself as to its
  insignificance. Prof. Maurice FitzGerald in criticizing this proof has
  pointed out the fact that on James Thomson's theory of river bends there
  must exist a radial motion of an interesting kind in our apparatus.

 444           Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.
 got closer and closer to the side of the trough the torque did
 increase, and became very large when the suspended cylinder
 nearly touched the side of the trough.
    Again, it was observed that at our highest speeds the
 amount of wetted surface did not perceptibly alter ; and we
 are, we think, justified in assuming that the surface of the
 liquid was always a plane surface.
    It is evident that the tractive forces on the suspended
 cylinder are the same whether we assume the trough to
 i-evolve steadily at <o radians per second, the suspended
 cylinder being at rest, or the suspended cylinder to revolve
 steadily at w radians per second and the trough to remain at
 rest. We shall therefore, for ease of calculation, always
 assume the trough to be at rest and the suspended cylinder
to be revolving at <o radians per second. Then the velocities
of its inner and outer surfaces are, in centimetres per second,
 ll-41t» and ll-63a).
    On any cylindric surface the tractive force per unit area
being            ~) 's ~~~^'fb fr°m (5) ; so that, whether for
the outer or inner space, if Ri is the radius of the suspended
moving cylindric surface, and R2 the radius of the fixed
surface, the tractive moment per centim. of length is
                    + 49tw/w,R17(R)7R22 - 1 ) .
Taking actual sizes, this is 0"5 per cent, greater than the
value obtained by calculating the forces on the assumption
that the fluid moves in plane layers as in (2), b being the
actual thickness of fluid l-02 centim., and V being the actual
velocity at the mean radius. We may, in fact, imagine the
speeds to be increased by 0"5 per cent., and make all calcu
lations as to viscosity on the assumption of motion in plane
layers.
    The tractive torque per centimetre of length of cylinder is,
in our case, 19010yttw, or 1991 n/i if the angular velocity
is given as n turns per minute. If I is the wetted length
in centimetres, and \ is the virtual additional length repre
senting the edge effect, the total torque is 1991»i/x(Z + \).
The total observed motion of the pointer being D degrees,
and the torque per degree being a, the torque due to tractive
forces acting on the cylinder is
                     aV = 1991n/*(Z+\) ;
und if this law is found to be true experimentally, then
                    (i = aV/{mi(l + \)n}                    (6)

                    Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.          445
      Two methods of determining the torsional constant of the
wire were employed :—
     First Method.—A fine cotton thread was wound round the
outside of the suspended cylinder and passed over a nearly
frictionless pulley (the pulley of an Attwood's machine) to a
scale-pan. The thread was nearly horizontal as it left the
 cylinder. In this way it was found that the twisting moment
 required to produce a pointer-rotation of one degree was
 1531 dyne-centimetres. In making the measurement as the
 weight of the scale-pan and its contents was gradually
 increased, the steel wire was drawn away from the vertical,
 and therefore from the middle of the scale; but the stand
 was tilted to counteract this effect.
      The effects due to solid friction were eliminated by taking
  the mean of the limiting weights for equilibrium. When the
  weight was 30 grams, one tenth of a gram either added to or
  taken from the scale-pan produced a perceptible change in the
  position of the pointer ; so that the solid friction was small.
       Second Method.—The suspended cylinder was allowed to
  vibrate, twisting and untwisting the wire ; and its times of
   oscillation were noted. The observations were repeated when
   a known moment of inertia had been added. Unloaded, it
   made 40 complete oscillations in 583 seconds, or one oscillation
   in 14*575 seconds. We then attached to the cylinder an iron
   bar of rectangular section, whose own moment of inertia had
   been determined accurately by previous experiments (found
   to agree with calculation on the assumption that it was homo
   geneous), this moment of inertia being 566*2 (in gram-
    centimetre9 units). The time of a complete oscillation was
    now found to be 21*425 seconds. It follows that the moment
    of inertia of the suspended cylinder is 487*72, and the tor
    sional constant of the wire is readily obtained. This constant
    being corrected on account of the position of the pointer, it
    follows that to produce a rotation of the pointer of one degree
    requires a torque of 1552 dyne-centimetres. This is greater
    than the constant derived from direct measurement by 1£ per
    cent. ; but, on the whole, we are rather inclined to accept the
     number obtained directly, as we are not quite sure that the
     mean position of the iron bar was at right angles to the mag
     netic meridian.
       Eight quite independent measurements of the diameter of
     the wire were made by men experienced in making such
     measurements ; and the mean value was '0371 inch, the
     greatest and least being *0373 and *0369. Using this mean
     value, and the directly measured torsional constant, it would
     seem that the modulus of rigidity of the steel is 7*71 x 10u.
        Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 216. May 1893.       2 H

446             Prof. J. Perry o>i Liquid Friction.
As an error of '0004 inch in the diameter measurement leads
to an error of 4 per cent, in the modulus of rigidity, and as
the modulus of rigidity usually taken for steel is 8*19 x 1011.
we believe that our constant 1531, as directly measured, is
sufficiently correct for practical purposes.
   In using (6), then, we take a to be 1531.
   The virtual addition \ ought, by Maxwell's formula, to be
0-52 centim. in our case. But the bottom of the trough H
was only 0*5 centim. from the edge B of the suspended
cylinder in most of our experiments, and we do not know how
to calculate for this. Our experiments have shown that when
this distance is 0*5 centim. the twisting moment at a given
speed is practically the same as when the distance is much
greater ; but we did not know this from any theory, and,
besides, it is always rather dangerous to depend upon a
theoretical calculation of X such as Maxwell was compelled to
use. It is possible, also, that a correction of the same kind
ought to be introduced for capillary and other actions at the
surface of the liquid. The action of the atmosphere was in
any case negligible, because when there was no liquid present
in the trough, so that there was an action of the air several
times greater than ever occurred during the experiments, the
deflexion was quite imperceptible at much higher speeds than
those used in the experiments.
   The temperature being kept as nearly as possible constant,
but probably varying between 180,9 0. and 20°'l C. (stated
as 19°-5 C), the following experiments were made with
sperm-oil, beginning with a small quantity in the trough and
ending with a large quantity. The bottom of the trough was
in every case 05 centim. below the edge of the suspended
cylinder.
                    Table I.—June 9th, 1892.
                                  Deflexion D when
       11.                                               .-
               l=ij-d em. l='2'b cm.   1=5 cm. | ?=7'5 cm. ;=9-9cm.
      50           24         67         112       158
      49                                                     196
      48
      40           18                              132       163
      39                      53          91
      23           io
      17-5           8                              57        73-5
      17                      24          39
      12            "b                           ;  40
      11-5                    16          27
      11           ...        ...         ...   1   ...       49

                  Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.          447
   As the deflexion is sufficiently nearly proportional to the
speed to allow of corrections by this rule when the cor
rections are small, we have corrected the above observations
to the speeds 50, 40, 17£, 11£ ; and we obtain the following
results :—
                                        Values of n.
          Values of I.
                            50.       40.    i   . 174. 11*.
               •6           24        18             8    5
              2-5           67        54            25   16
              50           112        93            40  27
              7-5          165       132            57  38*
              9-9          200       163           73-5 51
     D and / wore then plotted us the coordinates of points on
 squared paper ; and it was obvious that for each value of n
 these points lay very nearly in a straight line, and all the
 straight lines passed through the point Z= — 0-8. It is curious
 that the linear law should hold for such small values of I as
 0*5 centim., and for high speeds as well as low speeds. We
 shall presently see that some of these speeds are considerably
 above the critical speed at which (4) ceases to represent the
 motion.
     We may take it, then, that \=0-8 centim., which is greater
 than the calculated value 0'52. The discrepance cannot be
 due to the distance BH being small, for we have altered this
 distance and found no perceptibly different results. As
  already stated, it may be due to some capillary surface action.
  Taking «=1531 and \=0-8, we have (6) becoming
                        /* = 0-769 D/n(Z + 0-8)               (7)
     Of course our results are consistent with our equations of
  motion only so long as D/(Z+0"8) is proportional to n.
     Many observations have been made with this apparatus
  during the last year on various liquids, under very different
  conditions of temperature and speed and depth. We give
  here a set made on sperm-oil. In all cases the bottom of the
  trough was 0*5 centim. below the edge of the suspended
  cylinder.
     Keeping the oil at a constant temperature we ran the trough
  at a number of speeds, and repeated at other constant tempe
  ratures. The results are given in Tables IV. to XI.
     When a temperature had to be taken the rotation was
  stopped and a thermometer dipped about halfway down in the
  oil, the reading being taken at the end of about half a minute.
                                 2H2

448              Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.
A small Btmsen flame was applied underneath the trough
when a temperature higher than the room had to be main
tained for a considerable length of time.
   As the temperature varied slightly, and we wished to reduce
our observations to constant temperatures, we afterwards made
two sets of observations at very varying temperatures but
constant speeds. These later observations we shall consider
first. They are given in Tables II. and III.
       Table II.—March 29th, 1892.       (Z=8-275 centim.)
     1
                                40 D
         ».     e°c.      D.                 /»•  ft calculated.
     !   39-5    13T>    189      2109      ¦400       •446
         39-5    171     165      1760      •334       •357
         40       195    150      1053      •318       •317
     :   40      24-0    134      14-77     "287       •266      I
         40      25-3    1265     13-94     •268       •254       |
         40      28-9    111-5    1228      ¦236       ¦228
         40      32-0    109      11-46
         40      425      88       9-70
         40      46-9     81       8-65
         40      58-5     67        7-11                          1
         40      64-0     58       6-39
         40      71-0     56       6-17
         40      77-0     50       5-51
         40 1    85-5     46-5     5-12
              1
   The numbers in the column headed —               are obviously
intended to be corrections of D/(l + X) for the constant speed
of 40 revolutions per minute.
       Table III.—March 30th, 1892.       (/=7-78 centim.)
                                9 I)
          «.    e° c.     D.    n l+K            /i calculated.
        8-75      5-2    160     1919      1-64       2-06
        975       8-0     85       9-15    0-78       0-82
        9-2      100      57       6-56    0-73       0-62
        9-0      10-8     47       5-48    047        0-56
        90      16-6      36-5     4-26    0-363      0-366
        9-2     24-8      26-5     302     0-258      0-259
        90      35 0      19-5     2-27    0194       0-196
        90      470       14-0     1-63    0-139      0137
        90      56-5      10-2     1-19    0101       0104
        9-0     67-0       80     0-93    0079        0-081
        9-0     890        5-4    0-63    0060        0-058
        9-0     845        60     0-70    0054        0054

                  Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.           449
   The numbers headed - =—- are intended to be corrections
                             n l+X
of D/(i+\) for the constant speed of 9 revolutions per minute.
   We have plotted the numbers in the last columns of these
tables with 0 upon a sheet of squared paper ; but it is
unnecessary to publish the resulting curves. We exhibit
them to the members of the Society.
   Knowing what has been done by Prof. Osborne Reynolds,
it seemed unlikely that one simple formula should satisfy
either of these curves ; that is, it was likely that in the lower
curve there was some temperature for which the speed n=9
was a critical speed, and there was also a temperature for
which n=40 was a critical speed. We therefore used the
curves merely for small temperature-corrections in our other
experiments, in which we kept the temperature nearly
constant.
   It was therefore without much interest that, in preparing
this paper for publication, we tried to obtain empirical formulae
for these curves ; and at first we used, not the observations
themselves, but the observations as corrected by curves drawn
upon squared paper.
   When log (0— 4*2) and log ^         ^ are plotted as coordinates
of points on squared paper, we were astonished to find that
when n=9 the points lie in two straight lines. The allinea-
 tion of the points is very striking, even when the uncorrected
observations are taken, and leads to the following empirical
formula :—
    Letting <p denote 6— 4'2, and letting y denote D/(Z + \)
the torque as measured in degrees deflexion of pointer per
unit length of wetted cylinder ; then, at the constant speed
of n=9,
         y(f,l'3i9 = constant for temperatures above 40° C.
         y<f)°'m= constant for temperatures below 40° C.
    On plotting log.y and \og<f> for the constant speed n=40,
the points are not found to lie so nicely in straight lines, but
there does seem to be some sort of discontinuity at a tem
perature of about 45° C.
    At first we thought that these temperatures were the tem
 peratures at which the speeds n = 9 and n=40 were the
 critical speeds, and we were greatly concerned because our
 result seemed to be quite out of accord with the reasoning of

450             Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.
Prof. Osborne Reynolds *. As his ingenious theory has been
completely verified by experiments made upon the very
smallest and largest pipes with flowing water, and as it is
simple we had adopted it for the reduction of our experiments.
   According to his theory, r-— or, as we shall call it, y,
                                   t ~p A»
ought to be proportional to n until n exceeds a certain value;
this value being a function of fi/p, where p is the density of
the fluid. Now the alteration of p with temperature in such
a liquid as sperm-oil is so small that the error in neglecting
it is small in comparison with our errors of experiment.
   Neglecting, then, the alterations in p, the theory of Prof.
Reynolds leads to
                              y = aF2-*nlc,                        (8)
where F is a function of the temperature, n the number of
revolutions per minute ; where «=1 until the critical speed
ne is reached, nc being proportional to F, and k having a
higher value than 1 for all speeds above the critical ; a is a
constant. This is on the assumption that Prof. Reynolds's
theory would lead to the same result in our case as in his
pipes.
   Now, in the first place,it seemed absurd that the temperatures
for which the speeds 9 and 40 were the critical speeds should
be so near to one another as 40° C. and 45° C. But a much
more serious consideration was this. According to any rea
sonable application of the theory to our case, at constant
speed, if y^>m is constant when the speed is less than the
critical speed, and if y<f>" is constant when the speed is
 above the critical speed, then s ought to be less than m,
whereas 1*349 is about twice 0"686. We came to the con
clusion that the point of discontinuity has nothing whatever
to do with the critical speed ; indeed, we subsequently found
it probable that n = 9 does not become the critical speed until
the highest temperature of Table III. is reached.
   Using the deflexions in Table III. to determine p, according
to (7), we have the results given in column 5 of the Tables.
The numbers in column 5 of Table I. are calculated for tem
peratures lower than 26° C, which is about the temperature
at which 40 is the critical speed. In some of the following
tables, giving the results of experiments made at various
constant temperatures, we have also given values of fi. There
  * " An Experimental Investigation of the Circumstances which deter
mine whether the Motion of Water shall be Direct or Sinuous, and of the
Law of Resistance in Parallel Channels," by Osborne Reynolds, F.R.S.,
Phil. Trims, pt. iii. (1883).

               Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.            451
is as much consistency in all these results as might have been
expected. We lay most weight upon the results given in
Table III., which lead to the laws
           ft = 2-06(e-4-2)-m below 40° C;          ...      (9)
           H = 21-b7(0-4-2)-1349 above 40° C. .        . . (10)
    We have searched in books in vain for a mention of a dis
continuity in any other physical property of sperm-oil about
this temperature ; but we have already begun to experiment
on its other physical properties, as it is unlikely that there
should be a discontinuity in the law for the viscosity alone.
At the same time, we may say that our chemical friends see
no reason for a confirmation of our belief.
    In the tables we give the viscosity as calculated from these
formulae ; and it will be seen that they agree well enough
with the observed viscosities.
                  Table IV.—March 18th, 1892.
      (7= 6*15 centim.     Temperature Constant, 170-5 C.)
                II.       D.        y, or
                                  D-K/+X).
               36         114       16-41      ¦351
               39         121       17 '41     •344
               54         172       24-75      •352
               69         245       35-26
               SO        300        4316
               92        345        49-64
               23          74       10-65      •356
               16          52        7-48      •360
               13          4)        5-90      •349
                 875       27        3-98      •349
   The column headed /a is 0-769D//i(i-)-X), and has no
meaning at a speed greater than the critical speed. The
critical speed, nc, is probably about 50. The first three and
last four values are probably measurements of fi. The average
value of these seven is /*=0"351. Formula (9) would make
IM to be 0-349.
   Plotting log*/ and log?* as the coordinates of points on
squared paper, the points lie very nearly in a straight lino
indicating yor.n until the critical speed, about a — 50, is
reached, and for all higher speeds the points lie nearly in
another straight line indicating y <x n1'28.

452               Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.
      Table V.—March 21st, 1892.            (1= 6-075 centim.)
            0° c.         n.      D.          y-         **•
             22-5        9-25     24-5       3-40      •283
            232         11        28-0       3-97      •278
             227        14-2      37         516       •280
             22-0       17-2      45         6-15      •279
             250        27        68        10-19      •277
             24-5       23        57         8-41      •281
             24-0       32        77        11-20      •269
             23-0       90       340        48-00
             22-5      102       410        56-96
             230        80       276        38-94
             24-0       72       224        32-58
             24-5       56       169        24-95
             240        48       129        18-76
             235        43       108        1542       •278
            230         38        97        13-69      •277
    The column headed y is D/(/ + \) corrected to the constant
 temperature of 24° C. by a correction of about 3 per cent, per
 degree. The numbers in the last column have no meaning
 for speeds higher than n = about 43. The average value of
 the viscosity, in the first seven and last two observations is
0278. Formula (9) would make u for this temperature
0-266.
    Plotting logn and logy on squared paper gives points
lying nearly in two straight lines, showing that y a n to the
critical speed n = about 43, and above that speed y an1'37.
      Table VI.—March 21st, 1892.           (1= 6-075 centim.)
               e° o.          n.        r>.          y-
               29-5           38        81         1103
               30             43        95         13-82
               31             48       114         16-99
               30-5           56       134         19-73
               30-5           60       147         21-65
               30             66       175         25-45
   y here means D/(l + X) corrected to the constant temperature
of 30° C. by a correction of 2^ per cent, per degree, /j, as
calculated from (7) would have no meaning, as the critical
speed for this temperature is about 28 revolutions per minute,
and we give no column headed fi. y is very nearly an1*.

               Prot. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.             453
   Table VII.—March 22nd, 1892.         (1= 5-425 centim.)
          e° c.       ».       D.        y-
           56         38       49-5     7-92
           55         42       59       9-20
           55         54       72-5    11-31
           56         58       88      1413
           56-5       74      116      18-79
           57-5      108      158      26 32
           58-5       29       34        5-78
           56         24       25       401        •1282
           57         17-5     11        1-81      ¦0791
           67         15-5     14        2-31      •1143
           54         15-5     12        1-82      0903
           55         16       14        2-19      •1054
  y means D/(/ + \) corrected to 56° C. by a correction of
2J per cent, per degree. The critical speed is probably below
7i=24, and for speeds greater than the critical y a ra1'82 nearly.
For speeds less than this the average value of fi is 0*103.
According to (9) the value of /* for 56° C. is 0-1055.
  Plotting log y and log n as the coordinates of points on
squared paper gives points which may be said to lie on two
straight lines, but the errors of observation are too great.
For n>24 we might perhaps say that y Gen1'28* but it seems
hardly fair to draw conclusions from this set of observations.
   Table VIII.—March 24th, 1892.          (/ = 7-025 centim.)
          0° 0.        n.      D.         y-
            30       100      363      45-24
            30-8      78      250      31-79
            31       115      404       51-64
            31        32       62         7-92      •1903
            31        22       47         6-01     •2103
            31         17      37         4-73      •214
            32         13      29         3-80      •2249
            31         11      23-5      300        ¦2097
            30          9-2    20        2-50       •209
  y is D/(i + \) corrected to 31° 0. by a correction of '1\ per
cent, per degree. The numbers of the last column have no
meaning for speeds higher than n about = 32. The average
value of ii is 0-210. According to (9) the value of /j, for
31° C. is 0-216.
   Below n = 32, y otn. Above >i = 32, we may perhaps say
that y ocnw.

454                Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.
     Table IX.— March 28th, 1892.                (Z = 6-525 centim.)
          I    e°C.              n.        D.              y.
                81              38o        38            518
                805             56         63            8-557
                80              69         88           11-80
                79-5            84        112         | 14-70
                —              104    '   134           18-29
                8.-!            92        116           10-157
                                    J                i               I
  y means D/(/ + \) corrected to 81° C.
   The law seems to be y a »1'8 nearly.
      Table X.—March 23rd, 1892. (J = 7-025 centim.)
                                        f
              e°o.               ».        D.              y-
                82             17-5        16            2 06 '
                82             14          11            1-23
                82             26          26            3-35
                81             32          33            4-22
                80             11-5         8-5          1-08
                               10           65           0-84
   If it is assumed that n=10 is not much above the critical
speed, /x may be calculated as 0-0646. According to (9)
ft= 0-062 for 81° 0.
  y ocn1'30 may be taken as the law.
      Table XI—March 24th, 1892.                   (/=6-7 centim.)
            e° c.          ii.       D.         y-             /»•
             65             9           8        107          •091 I
             66           10-8          9        1-21         •086 \
             65-5         17         16          2-14          097 1
             64-5         21         21          2-79
             65           23-5       26          3-46
             65           29         32          4-26
             65          114        210         2800
             66          102        162        21-82
             (54-5        88        156        20-10
             65           66        112         14-93
             66           52         74          9-96
             66           44-5       50          7-94
             66           38         46          619
  y is D/(Z + \) corrected to 65° C. p has no meaning except
for the first three speeds, and the mean of these three is
0-091. According to (9) the value of /j, for 65° C. is 0-085.

                 Prof, J. Perry on Liquid Friction.                     455
   Above the critical speed, which is possibly below n = 17,
the law is probably y a n1'32.
   It is not worth while to publish any of the observations
which we have made upon other liquids, nor to publish the
curves we have drawn for sperm-oil, although we exhibit
them before the Society. Errors of one degree in obser
ving temperature were quite possible, and errors of half a
degree in the deflexion of our pointer were also possible.
Small fluctuations in speed wore continually taking place, so
tbat the pointer was never quite still, the motion of the fluid
was therefore not truly steady. It is our determination to
repeat the whole work with improved apparatus. In the
meantime, however, it will be observed from Table III. that
there is fair agreement in the law connecting /j, with tem
 perature, from all the sets of observations. There is, on the
 whole, a very fair agreement with what we venture to call
 Prof. Reynolds's rule,
                               !/=«.F2_t«",
 where k has the value 1'33 or 1 according as n is above or
 below the critical speed*. The sheet of squared paper on which
 we have plotted all our values of log y and log n for the various
 constant temperatures shows that the errors of observation are
 too great for the establishment of this value of k ; but it is the
 probable value. It shows, however, in the allineation of the
 points of discontinuity, with sufficient accuracy that yc cc nc2,
 if the rule is taken to be generally true; and although there
 is some little vagueness always in one's observations just about
 the critical speed, we may take yc= 0*009 nc2 without very
 great error. Indeed, we are satisfied with the substantial
 agreement of all our observations with the formula
    * Prof. Reynolds, in criticizing a proof of this paper, has been kind
 enough to point out that his rule for pipes does not necessarily apply to
 the fluid in our apparatus. We had not seen the reprint of his Royal
 Institution lecture, else we should have known that the condition of the
 liquid in circular flow is inherently stable or unstable according as r is
 greater or less than the radius of the fixed cylindric surface. As he
 points out, the liquid in the outer space is inherently stable for velocities
 far exceeding the critical velocity (if there is one) for plane surfaces,
 whereas the liquid in the inner space is unstable from the first.
    We directed the attention of the meeting to the fact that Tables IV.,
 V., VI., and VIII. give unmistakable evidence of the truth of what
 we have called Prof. Reynolds's Rule, however difficult we may find it in
 explanation.

456              Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction.
 where a ="009 and /e=l*33.       That is, for low speeds we have
the law
 At the critical speed the law suddenly changes to
 which holds for all higher speeds which we have tried.        The
 critical speed
and
                       yc-=ah?, or 'O09ne*.
    It is to be recollected that p is too nearly constant for us
 to say with certainty that a is proportional to p, as the theory
 requires. The errors of observation were so great that it was
not worth while finding accurately the most probable values
of k and a.
    We wish it to be understood that our apparatus was very
 carefully constructed, and great care was taken in making the
observations ; but it is our intention to pursue the investiga
tion with apparatus much more carefully constructed.
                       Vibratory Experiments.
    In designing the apparatus it was our intention to obtain p,
from the damping of the rotational oscillations of the suspended
cylinder about its vertical axis, the trough being at rest. We
meant in this way to obtain p, for velocities very much smaller
than those which could be employed in our steady motion ex
periments. A considerable number of observations were made,
but when we tried to make calculations of p, we found that our
mathematical difficulties were too great, and after many months
of effort we are forced to say that we are unable to utilize these
observations. In equation (4) assume that v=weikt> and w
may be obtained in Bessel functions. Unfortunately, as there
are two surface conditions, both particular solutions of the
Bessel equation are necessary, and the work of reduction be
comes very great. An approximate solution is obtained by
taking r= R + #, R being the radius of the suspended cylinder,
and taking the equation (4) to be
                     d^v    1 dv     v _ p dv
                     d~xl + R dx~ W ~ pZJt'm • - •
   Making this assumption in the case of steady motion, it was
found that it was sufficiently correct for practical purposes.

                Prof. J. Perry on Liquid Friction^                 457
The following numbers show the sort of error introduced,
taking R=10, and 1 the greatest value of x.
                                     Values of v.
        Values of x.                              On the assump
                        Correct.    Approximate. tion of motion
                                                  in plane layers.
              0            1             1                1
             •2           •7914         •7914            ¦8
             •5           •4875         •4872            •5
             ¦7           •2895         •2892            •3
            10             0             0                0
   The solution of (11) for vibratory motion is easy enough;
but we found it still difficult to calculate fi from our observa
tions. Even when we assume that the motion is in plane
layers, so that the solution used by Maxwell is employed, we
find that our — is too great for a logarithmic decrement to
exist with such amplitudes and times of oscillation as we had
employed in the experiments, and it was impossible for us to
repeat the experiments under the same conditions again at
slower velocities, because the apparatus had been taken to
pieces and could not be fitted up again in exactly the same
way. When we say that a logarithmic decrement did not
exist, we mean that it was not constant, but varied with the
amount of the oscillation. For the tractive force to be pro
portional to the velocity of the cylinder it is necessary for fi/p
and the periodic time to be so great that the velocities of the
fluid at all places shall be in the same proportion as if the
motion were steady.
   After this paper was written we asked Mr. J. B. Knight,
of the Chemical Department of the Finsbury Technical College,
to make measurements of the specific gravity of sperm-oil at
different temperatures. His results give a very striking con
firmation of the views expressed in the paper as to a discon
tinuity of some kind due to rise of temperature. As all the
authorities whom we have consulted seemed to see no possible
reason for a discontinuity in the rate of change of /j, with
temperature in sperm-oil at about 40° C, it is possible that
these results may be of importance.

458        Miss Earp on the Effect of the Replacement oj
              Temperature Cent.          Specific Gravity.
                        o
                      25                      •831
                      30                      •8306
                      35                      •828
                      40                      •826
                      45                      •8758
                      50                      •8753
                      55                      •8717
    We are now arranging a piece of apparatus which will give,
not the absolute value of the specific gravity, but with great
accuracy relative rates of the change of specific gravity with
temperature *. We shall make experiments of the same kind
upon other animal oils.
XLIV. Note on the Effect of the Replacement of Oxygen by
    Sulphur on the Boiling- and Melting-points of Compouiuls.
    By Miss A. G. EARpf.
IN various papers published in the Philosophical Magazine }
      Camel ley has called attention to the effect produced on
the boiling-point and melting-point of compounds by replacing
one element in the compound by another belonging to the
same group. He gives numerous examples (mostly organic
compounds) to show that in the case of the halogen com
pounds, when one halogen is replaced by another of a higher
atomic weight, both the boiling- and melting-point are corre
spondingly raised.
   As a further instance of the same kind of thing he gives the
following series of the ethyl carbonates and sulpho-carbonates
to show that the boiling-point is raised in proportion to the
amount of sulphur introduced in the place of oxygen. He
also points out that the same series shows that a definite effect
is produced by a change in the arrangement of the molecule
without any change in the number of sulphur atoms.
        , .0-G.H,                          ro/SOaHa
       CO\0-C,H, BJ.ISK"
                                              /OC3H,
      C°<S-02HS      B'P-15G°-
           O-02Hs                          PS!/SCaH5
   * We described at the Meeting results obtained for other specimens of
 perm-oil, with the new apparatus, which exhibited no discontinuity.
 let we can find no reason to doubt Mr. Knight's measurements.
   t Communicated by M. M. Pattison Muir.
   % Phil. Mag. Oct. 1879.

     Oxygen by Sulphur on Boiling-points of Compounds.                459
   He does not, however, mention the way in which this effect
is reversed in the cases in which the oxygen of the hydroxyl
group is replaced by sulphur, and I therefore conclude that
it escaped his notice. By examining the large number of
boiling-point data given by him in his tables I have found
the following rule to be perfectly general :—
    The replacement of oxygen by sulphur in a compound always
raises the boiling-point except in those cases in which the oxygen
of the hydroxyl group is replaced by sulphur, and. then the re
verse effect is very marked.
    In obtaining data in proof of this I have been confined
 of course mainly to organic compounds, and of these I have
only given the eimpler instances, and such of the more com
plicated compounds as have a known structural formula.
 The reason for this is obvious, since Kopp has shown that the
 boiling-point of isomeric hydrocarbons is not the same, show
 ing that a mere rearrangement of the atoms in a molecule is
 sufficient to affect the boiling-point without any change in
 number or kind. The fact is further exemplified in the series
 of ethyl-carbonates given above.
    In the following list of compounds containing hydroxyl
 and their sulphur analogues, it will be seen that the replace
 ment of the OH by the SH group always lowers the boiling-
 point, and that in the case of bodies of low molecular weight
 the difference is considerable, but decreases as we ascend a
 homologous series*.
                                                                        Diff.
  H2S                      -61-8    H20                        100     161°-8
  OHaSH                      21     CH,OH                        67      46
  C2H.SH                     36-2   (Xji^OH                      78-4 42
  (OH2SH).,                 146     (C1I20H)2                   197      51
  CH2CHCH2SH                 90     CH2CHC1I20H                  96       6
  OH3OH2CH2SH                67     0H,CH2CH2OH                  97      30
  (CH3)2CHSH                 57     (OHACHOH                     83      26
  (OH3).,OHCH2SH             88     (CH3)2CHCH.OH               108      20
  CH3OH2OHSHCH,              84     CH3CH2CHO"HCH3               99      15
  CHtCHoJjCH^HJsH           120     OI1(CH3)2CH.,CII2OH ... 131-5 11-5
  OCLOHOHSH                 123     CCLCHO'HOH                 149       26
  06H5SH                    172     C6HsOH                      180       8
  08H4(SH)2                 243     C6H4(OH).,                 270       27
  OH3(CH2)JCH2SH            145     CH3(CH2);CH2OH              157      12
  06H5CH2SH                 194     C-HjCH^OH                  205       11
  0„H4CH3SH («)             188     0GH,OH3OH(n)                188       (i
               (0)          188                  (/3)          201       13
               W            188                  (y)            108      10
  CH3COSH                    93     OH3COOH                     117      24
  CeH4OHSH(a)               216     CcHiOHOH(«)                 245      29
 t Exception :—Cl0H7SH(a) 285       C10H7(OH)(«)               278-8
    * The only exception to the rule is that marked t, and is in the case of
 a body of high molecular weight and complicated constitution.

 itiO        Miss Earp on tlie Effect of the Replacement of
     Again, in the following list of compounds containing
  oxygen not in the condition of hydroxyl, it will be seen that
  the normal rule is followed.
                                                                  Diff.
 CH,OHS                      205 OH3CHO                      2"1
 (0Ha)2S                     200 (0H,)20                     13-8
 (CH3)2S                      41 (CH"3)20                 -23
 (CH3)2CS3                   200 (CH3).,C03                  91
 (CX)(0HSJ8                   64 (0.,Ti,)(CH3)0              11
 (C2H5)2S                     92 (02"H,)20                   35
 OH(OH3)2CH2CHS              114 CH(CH3),CH2OHO              85
 (OaH.)aOS,                  240 (C2H,)2C03                125
 EtSCELSEt                   184 EtOOH2OEt                   88
 (CH2OHCH,)2S                140 (CH20HCH2)2O                82
 (0H20HCH2")2S3              188 (0H20HCH2)2O3             171
 (Pr)aS(o)                   130 (Pr)20(«)                  82
    „ m                      120      „                     60
 (EtSOHA                     210 (EtO0H2)2                 123
 06H3S02H,                   204 C„H5002H5                 172
 (OH3OH,ca.,OH2)aS           182 (CH3CH20H2CH2),O ... 140
 O.H.OHlSEt                 215 C6H3CH2OEt                185
 (d,Hu)aS(Iao)               250 (C,Hu)20(Iso)             175
 (CSH4)2S                   332 (O0H4>/O                278-288
 (CAH6)2S                   292 (C6H5)20                  246
 CH3COSCH3                    95 CHjCOOCH,                  56
 CO(SOH3)2                   169 CO(OCH3)2 '                90
 CH3COSC2H5 ..               115 OH3COOC2H5                 77
 CHlCOSaH, (a)               135 CH,COOC3H7(a)            102
      .         m            «*          „    V)            91
 CcH4OOOCS                  284 C0H,OOOCO                 276
 C6H,OOSC2H3                242 C6H5COOC2H,               212
 ck,&ON                     132 CH3OCN                      90
CH3NCS                      119 CH3NOO                      44
OH2OHCH2NCS                 150 CH2CHCH,NCO                 82
0,H7SCN (IS)                151 C3H7OCN(/3)                 67
OH(CH3)2CH.,NOS             162 CH(OH3)sCH2NCO            110
CLH.COSOO                   284 CyHjCOOCO                 276
  I        l
C,H5NCS                     218 O.H.NCO                   163
C6H5CH2NOS                  243 C6H5CH2NOO             175-200
C013SCOl3                156-160 CC13OOC13         (about) 100
    To the above may be added the series of ethyl carbonates
quoted at first, and also the following inorganic compounds:—
             CS2         42-6         002          -78-2
             CSCL        71           COOL           82
             PSCL       125           POOL           197
    By arranging the data rather differently it is easy to see
that the abnormality lies entirely with the hydroxyl group.
Thus, if we take any group of sulphur compounds of one type,
we shall find the boiling-point increases with the molecular
weight as well when the hydrogen of the SH group is
replaced by a hydrocarbon radical as in any other case.

      Oxygen by Sulphur on Boiling-points of Compounds.              461
   Such, for example, are the following : —
       H.,8 ....      -G°l-8       H.S       -618       H,S       .— 6?8
       Cfl3SH .         21         C,H-SH... 36         c;h,sh .. . 172
 A, (CH^S               41                  .. 92      08H,SC2H 204
       CaH5 . CII3S     04         PraS (« ..130       (cX)as .. 292
   Taking in the same way the corresponding oxygen com
pounds, we find that by replacing OH by OX, where X
stands for any hydrocarbon radical, unless very complex, we
lower the boiling-point of the compound considerably, whereas
when the exchange is simply between different hydrocarbon
radicals the change is in the normal direction.
     H20            100       H20          100        H20           100
     CH,OH           67       C2H,OH        78-4      (0„H,OH ...   180
     {Cll3).p ... -23         (C2H,)20 ... 35         OeH,bC2H„...  172
     CH-tXHX) ... 11          (Pr2)0(«) ... 82        (C„H5)20      246*
   From these data it is evident that the fact that water,
which has a lower molecular weight than even any of the
" permanent " gases (except hydrogen) will remain liquid up
to a very high temperature, is only one particular and well-
marked case of the general effect of the hydroxy! group.
    It has been objected by Ostwald and others that the com
parison of boiling-points is unsatisfactory, inasmuch as in
some cases it is possible that the vapour-pressure curves of
different substances may cross one another at some point; and
in that case, if some other than atmospheric pressure were
taken as the standard, the relative position of the boiling-
points would be reversed.
    It is difficult to plot the vapour-pressure curves for H20
and H2S on the same scale, since the pressure of H2S varies
by many atmospheres ; while that of fi20 varies through the
same range only by a few inches, so that it has to be repre
sented on the H2S scale by a line following the zero. The
H2S curve is, however, perfectly normal, and shows no ten
dency whatever to approach the zero at any point short of
infinity. Hence the objection about the crossing of the
curves falls to the ground in this case. The same may be
shown by comparing the curves for C02 and 0S2; only in
tills case, of course, the sulphur compound follows the zero
line, while the other is highly inclined.
    With regard to the melting-points of oxygen and sulphur
compounds the same general rule holds ; but exceptions are
not rare, particularly in the cases of more complicated com
pounds, and naturally it is among these that the larger number
   * In this case the destruction of OH is not sufficient to balance the
effect of introducing the second carbon ring.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 216. May 1893.               2 I

462                Notices respecting New Books.
of melting-point data are given. In all probability the ten
dency to form molecular groupings and other unknown factors
tend to obscure the effect on melting-points due to the change
of constitution alone.
   Another point which I think may be noticed with advan
tage from the series just given on page 461, and which, as far
as I am aware, has been hitherto neglected, is the effect on
the boiling-point of the symmetry of the molecule, unsym-
metrical molecules tending to boil higher than symmetrical
ones.
   Consider the series A1} page 461. Between the first and
second members of the series there is a large difference, the
molecular weight being increased and the symmetry of the
molecule destroyed at the same time. Between 2 and 3 of
the same series, on the other hand, there is a much smaller
difference ; the molecular weight is increased but symmetry
is restored, and the two things act against one another.
   Again, consider the series Bx. Between 1 and 2 in this
series the destruction of hydroxy! lowers the boiling-point,
the destruction of molecular symmetry tends to raise it, the
result being that the difference only of the two effects is small.
Between 2 and 3 the destruction of hydroxyl and the resto
ration of symmetry act together, and the resultant effect is
large.
   The same effects may be noticed by comparing A2 and B2
in the same way, and also by comparing the first, second, and
fourth members in' the series A3 and B3 respectively.
               XLV. Notices respecting New Books.
         An Elementary Treatise on Modern Pure Geometry.
 By E. Laciilajt. (London : Macmillan. 1893. Pp. x + 288.)
"A TB. LACHLAN is a recognized master of the Geometrical
        craft, and the work before us well maintains his reputation.
His primary object is to meet the new Cambridge Tripos regula
tions, in which provision is made for the introduction of a paper
on " Pure Geometry." All that could fairly be looked for in such
a paper is given by the writer, or is led up to by him. He has not,
however, contented himself with such a limited supply as this
would require, but he has written with a view to allure students
on to the arcana of the science. After a careful perusal we have
detected very few errata. On page 53, Ex. 4 is obviously a slip,
and in line 3 from bottom for Ba? read By, for C.r read Cz.
Page 55 line 13 contains a small clerical error : the opening

                      Notices respecting New Books.                  463
sentence of § 116 is not sufficiently guarded to be accurate. In
Ex. 3, page 70, it is not stated what point S' is. On page 161
line 11, for " polar " read "poles." Two or three clerical errors
are easily corrected. The following historical one occurs on
page 78, Ex. 6 : " Mr. H. M. Taylor's paper was read before the
.London Mathematical Society on Feb. 14th, 1884," whereas he
had. previously published his Note, " On a six-point circle con
 nected with a triangle," in the ' Messenger of Mathematics,' vol. xi.
 (May 1881-April 1882). If we mistake not, the "circle" had
 previously been given by him in a Trinity paper. In conclusion
 we are glad to say that the text is not overburdened with corol
 laries and superfluous matter, the figures are excellent, and there
 is a most judicious and varied selection of exercises.
 Revue Semestrielle des Publications Mathematiques redii/ee sotts les
      auspices de la Societe Mathematique d"Amsterdam. Tome I.,
      lre partie. (Amsterdam. 1893. 104 pp.)
 The object which the Mathematical Society of Amsterdam has in
  view in putting forth this Revue is " de faciliter l'etude des sciences
  mathematiques eu faisant connaitre, sans delai de quelque import
  ance, le titre et le contenu principal des meraoires mathematiques
  publies dans les principaux journaux scientifiques." Primarily it
  is intended for the use of its own Members, but the Society has
  rightly judged that such a publication, if well conducted, will be
  of service to a much larger circle of readers. This opening number
  contains titles of papers printed in about 120 journals, 19 of which
  are British and 8 American. A careful list of the titles is drawn
  up with various particulars of interest (pp. 87-104).
      The title of each communication is preceded by a system of
   notation adopted at the recent Congres International de Biblio-
   graphie des Sciences Mathematiques, and is followed by a very
   concise Compte-rendu of the contents. We may say that the
   Revue, though its objects are similar to those of the well-known
   Fortschritte der Maihematih (Berlin), does not aim so high, for in
   the generality of instances the insight into any paper given by the
   notices here is little more than a student would infer from the bare
   title. Its merit is that a much earlier record, if the editors keep
   up to date, will be available for authors and readers. The papers
   tabulated from this Journal are comprised in Vol. xxxiv. (Nos. 206-
   209) and are seven in number. Two are given by the titles only :
   of the others a fair abstract is given. Lord Bayleigh's papers are
   assigned to " J. W. S. Eayleigh." We wish the Society good
   success and a large clientele.

                               [   464    ]
             XLVI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                        GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
                       [Continued from p. 313.]
     January 25th, 1893.—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,
                       President, in the Chair.
fTVEIE following communications were read :—
       1. " On Inclusions of Tertiary Granite iu the Gabbro of the
^uilin Hills, Skye ; and on the Products resulting from the Partial
Fusion of the Acid by the Basic Rock." By Prof. J. W. Judd,
F.R.S., V.P.G.S.
   The author first calls attention to previous literature bearing on
the subject of the extreme metamorphism of fragments of one
igneous rock which have been caught up and enveloped in the
products of a later eruption. The observations of Fischer, LehmaDn,
Phillips, Werveke, Sandberger, Lacroix, Hussak, Graeff, Bonney,
Sauer, and others show that, while the porphyritic crystals of such
altered rocks exhibit characteristic modifications, the fused ground-
mass may have developed in it striking spherulitic structures.
   On the north-east side of Loch Coruiskh, in Skye, there may be
seen on a ridge known as Druim-an-Eidhne, which rises to a little
over 1000 feet above the sea, a very interesting junction of the
granitic rocks of the Red Mountains with the gabbros of the Cuilin
Hills. At this place, inclusions of the granitic rock, sometimes
having an area of several square yards, are found to be com
pletely euveloped in the mass of the gabbro. The basic rock here
exhibits all its ordinary characters, being a gabbro passing into a
norite, traversed by numerous segregation-veins ; the acid rock is an
 augite-granite, exhibiting the micropegmatitic (' granophyric ') and
the drusy (' miarolitic ') structures, and it passes in places into an
 ordinary quartz-felsite (' quartz-porphyry ').
   Within the inclusions, however, the acid rock is seen to have
undergone great alteration from partial fusion, and it has acquired
the compact texture and splintery fracture of a rhyolite ; weathered
 surfaces of this rock are found to exhibit the most remarkable
banded and spherulitic structures.
    Microscopic study of the rock of these inclusions shows that the
 phenocrysts of quartz and felspar remain intact, but exhibit all the
 well-known effects of the action of a molten glassy magma upon
 them. The pyroxene, however, has been more profoundly affected,
 and has broken up into magnetite and other secondary minerals.
 The micropegmatitic groundmass, which was the last portion of
 the rock to consolidate, has for the most part been completely
 fused, and in some places has actually flowed. In the glassy
 mass thus formed, the most beautiful spherulitic growths have
 been developed, the individual spherulites varying in size from
 a pin's head to a small orange. These spherulites are often

                         Geological Society.                        4(35
composite in character, consisting of minute examples of the
common type enclosed in larger arborescent growths (' porous-
spherulites ') of felspar microlites, with silica, originally in the
form of opal and tridymite, but now converted into quartz, lying
between them. All the interesting forms of spherulitic growth
which have been so well described by Mr. Iddings from the Obsi
dian Cliff in the Yellowstone Park, and by Mr. Whitman Cross from
the Silver Cliff, Colorado, aro most admirably illustrated in these
inclusions of the Cuilin Hills. It is interesting to note that the
 nuclei of some of these large spherulites consist of fragments of the
 micropegmatitic granite which have escaped fusion. Among the new
minerals developed in these inclusions, by the action on them of
 the enveloping magma, are pyrites and fayalite (the iron-olivine).
    The phenomena now described are of interest as setting at rest
all doubts as to the order of eruption of the several igneous masses
of the Western Isles of Scotland. That the gabbros are younger
than the granites was maintained by Macculloch in 1819, by J. D.
 Forbes in 1846, by Zirkel in 1871, and by the author in 1874. In
 1888, however, Sir A. Geikie asserted that these conclusions were
 erroneous ; he insisted that the granites were erupted after the
 gabbros and basalts, and that they are, indeed, later than all the
 volcanic rocks of the district except a few basic dykes which are
 seen to traverse them. The occurrence of the remarkable inclusions
 of granite within the gabbro now removes all possibility of doubt on
 the subject, and proves conclusively that the granite was not only
 erupted but had consolidated in its present foim before the outburst
through it of the gabbro.
    2. " Anthracite and Bituminous Coal-beds. An Attempt to
 throw some light upon the manner in which Anthracite was formed ;
 or Contributions towards the Controversy regarding the Formation
of Anthracite." By W. S. Gresley, Esq., F.G.S.
    The author does not seek to advance any new theory in this
 communication, nor to proclaim new facts of any importance, but to
 put old facts in something of a new light, in order to aid the inves
 tigations of others. His main object is to establish two facts, viz.:—
 that the associated strata of anthracite-beds are more arenaceous
 than those containing so-called bituminous coal-beds, and that the
 prevailing colours of the sandstones, grits, etc., of anthracite regions
 are greyer and darker than those of regions of bituminous coal. To
 these facts may perhaps be added a third, that the more anthracitic
 the coal-beds, and the more siliceous the enclosing strata, the harder
 and tougher these associated strata are.
     While recognizing that the rocks of many anthracite regions have
 undergone great disturbance, he cites other areas where coal-basins
 have been much folded, without any corresponding production of
  anthracite in considerable quantity.
     The modes of occurrence of anthracite are illustrated by many
  instances observed by the author in the Old and New Worlds.

466                      Geological Society : —
         February 8th.—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. " Notes on some Coast-Sections at the Lizard." By Howard
Fox, Esq., F.G.S., and J. J. H. Teall, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., F.G.S.
    In the first part of the paper the authors describe a small portion
of the west coast near Ogo Dour, where hornblende-schist and
serpentine are exposed. As a result of the detailed mapping of the
sloping face of the cliff, coupled with a microscopic examination of
the rocks, they have arrived at the conclusion that the serpentine is
part and parcel of the foliated series to which the hornblende-
schists belong, and that the apparent evidences of intrusion of
serpentine into schist in that district are consequences of the folding
and faulting to which the rocks have been subjected since the
banding was produced. The interlamination of serpentine and
schist is described, and also the effects of folding and faulting.
Basic dykes, cutting both serpentine and schists, are clearly repre
sented in the portion of the coast which has been mapped, and these
locally pass into hornblende-schists, which can, however, be clearly
distinguished from the schists of the country. The origin of the
foliation in the dykes is discussed.
   The second part of the paper deals with a small portion of the
coast east of the Lion Rock, Kynance. Here a small portion of the
' granulitic series ' is seen in juxtaposition with serpentine. The
phenomena appear to indicate that the granulitic complex was
intruded into the serpentine ; but they may possibly be due to the
fact that the two sets of rocks have been folded together while the
granulitic complex was in a plastic condition, or to the intrusion of
the serpentine into the complex while the latter was plastic.
   2. " On a Radiolarian Chert from Mullion Island." By Howard
Fox, Esq., F.G.S., and J. J. H. Teall, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., F.G S.
    The main mass of Mullion Island is composed of a fine-grained
' greenstone,' which shows a peculiar globular or ellipsoidal structure,
due to the presence of numerous curvilinear joints. Flat surfaces
of this rock, such as are exposed in many places at the base of the
cliff, remind one somewhat of the appearance of a lava of the
' pahoehoe ' type.
    The stratified rocks, which form only a very small portion of the
island, consist of cherts, shales, and limestone. They occur as thin
strips or sheets, and sometimes as detached lenticles within the
igneous mass. The chert occurs in bands varying from a quarter of
an inch to several inches in thickness, and is of radiolarian origin.
The radiolaria are often clearly recognizable on the weathered
surfaces of some of the beds, and the reticulated nature of the test
may be observed by simply placing a portion of the weathered
surface under the microscope.
   The authors describe the relations between the sedimentary and

         Remarks on certain Islands in the New Hebrides.            467
igneous rocks, and suggest that the peculiar phenomena may be due
either to the injection of igneous material between the layers of the
stratified series near the surface of the sea-bed while deposition was
going on, or possibly to the flow of a submarine lava.
    The forms of the radiolaria observed in the deposit, and also their
mode of preservation, are described in an Appendix by Dr. G. J.
Hinde.
    3. " Note on a Radiolarian Rock from Fannay Bay, Port Darwin,
Australia." By G. J. Hinde, Ph.D., V.P.G.S.
    4. " Notes on the Geology of the District west of Caermarthen."
Compiled from the Notes of the late T. Roberts, Esq., M.A., F.G.S.
    To the east of the district around Haverfordwest, formerly de
scribed by the author and another, an anticlinal is found extending
towards Caermarthen. The lowest beds discovered in this anticline
are the Tetmgraptus-beds of Arenig age, which have not hitherto
been detected south of the St. David's area. They have yielded
eight forms of graptolite, which have been determined by Prof.
Lapworth. The higher beds correspond with those previously
noticed in the district to the west ; the}r are, in ascending order :
(1) Beds with ' tuning-fork ' Didymograpti, (2) Llandeilo limestone,
(3) Dicranoc/raptus-shales, (4) Robeston Wathen and Sholeshook
 Limestones.
    Details of the geographical distribution of these and of their
 lithological and palaeontological characters are given in the paper.
        February 22nd.—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.B.S.,
                         President, in the Chair.
    The following communications were read :—
    1. " On the Microscopic Structure of the Wenlock Limestone,
 with Remarks on the Formation generaUy." By Edward Wethered,
 Esq., F.G.S., F.R.M.S.
    2. " On the Affinities (1) of AnihracopUra, (2) of Anihracomya."
 By Dr. Wheelton Hind, B.S., F.G.S.
    3. " Geological Remarks on certain Islands in the New Hebrides."
 By Lieut. G. C. Frederick, R.N.
    As far as can be judged from the soundings obtained, the New
 Hebrides are probably situated on a bank lying from 350 to 400
 fathoms below the surface of the ocean and running in a N.N.W.
 and S.S.E. direction, with a deep valley between it and New Cale
 donia. The only two soundings obtained between these two groups
 are 2375 and 2730 fathoms, the former within a short distance of
 the New Hebrides.
    Of the islands, Tanna is volcanic—an active volcano, apparently
  consisting entirely of fragmental material, being situate on its
 eastern side. Efate has some volcanic rock, but is chiefly of coral
  formation. It rises to a height of 2203 feet, and in some parts has
 a terraced appearance, the terraces denoting distinct periods of

468                      Geological Society.
upheaval. Coral was found to the height of 1500 feet above sea-
level. To the north of. Efate are Nguna, Pele, and Mau, of volcanic
origin, and no coral has been found on them above sea-level ; whilst
Moso, Protection, and Errataka, to the west of Efate, are of coral
formation and similar in character to the adjoining coast of Efate.
In the vicinity of the coral isles is very little coral-reef, especially
when the shores are steep. Delicate live corals were brought up
from depths of 28, 39, and 42 fathoms off Moso, 37 fathoms near
Mau, and 40 fathoms off Mataso. Mataso is a volcanic island with
a narrow fringing-reef. Makura (6 miles N. of Mataso) and Mai
are also volcanic, with narrow fringing-reefs partly surrounding the
former and entirely encircling the latter island. A short distance
west of Mai is Cook's lleef, of atoll formation. The Shepherd Isles
 are all of volcanic formation, apparently recent, and no coral was
found growing around their shores. Mallicolo Island is of volcanic
and coral formation. At one place in this island coral was found at
a height of about 500 feet above sea- level.
         March 8th.—W. H. Hudleston, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,
                       President, in the Chair.
  The following communications were read :—
   1. " On the Occurrence of Boulders and Pebbles from the Glacial
Drift in Gravels south of the Thames." By Horace W. Monckton,
Esq., F.L.S., F.G.S.
   North of the Thames near London, the Glacial Drift consists largely
of gravel, which is characterized by an abundance of pebbles of red
quartzite and boulders of quartz and igneous rock. With the ex
ception of very rare boulders of quartz, the hill and valley-gravels of
the greater part of Kent, Surrey, and Berkshire are entirely free
from these materials. The author points out that the River Thames
is not, however, the actual southern boundary of the distribution of
these Glacial Drift pebbles and boulders, though the number of
localities where they are found in gravels south of that river is few.
 The author describes or mentions several, of which the following
 are the most important :—Tilehurst, Heading, Sonning, Bisham at
 351 feet above the sea, Maidenhead, Kingston, Wimbledon, and
Dartford Heath.
   2. " On the Plateau-Gravel south of Reading.'' By O. A. Shrub-
sole, Esq., F.G.S.
   This paper contains observations on the gravel of the Easthamp-
stead-Yately plateau.
   The constituent elements of the gravel are described, and the
author notes pebbles of non-local material near Csesar's Camp,
Easthampstead, on the Finchampstead Ridges, and at Gallows
Tree Pit at the summit of the Chobham Eidges plateau. He
mentions instances of stones from the gravel of the plateau (described
in the paper) which may bear marks of human workmanship. He
furthermore argues that the inclusion of pebbles of non-local origin

              Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.            4 69
in the gravels may be due to submergence of the plateau up to a
height of at least 400 feet above present sea-level, and cites other
facts in support of this suggestion. He concludes that the precise
age of the gravel can only be more or less of a guess, until the mode
of its formation has been definitely ascertained.
   3. " A Fossiliferous Pleistocene Deposit at Stone, on the Hamp
shire Coast." By Clement Eeid, Esq., F.L.S., F.G.S.
   This is practically a supplement to a paper, ' On the Pleistocene
Deposits of the Sussex Coast,' that appeared in the last volume of
the Quarterly Journal. An equivalent of the mud-deposit of Selsey
has now been discovered about 20 miles farther west, and from it
have been obtained elephant-remains, and some mollusca and plants
like those found at Selsey. Among the plants is a South European
maple.
         XLVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
             ON VILLARl'S CRITICAL POINT IN NICKEL.
                     BY PROF. HEYDWE1LLER.
rpHE magnetism of iron, nickel, and cobalt changes under the
      influence of stretching forces. Villari first observed a special
behaviour of iron in reference to' this attribute, namely that with
moderately strong magnetization small stretching forces increase
the magnetism, while larger forces diminish it; thus the strength
of the magnetism is graphically represented as a function of the
load, the ordinates of the curve first increase up to a maximum and
then diminish to far below the original values. The point of the
curve at which the ordinate again reaches the original value is
named Villari's critical point.
   In nickel this property has not been observed up to the present ;
in this case, so far as hitherto known, the magnetism steadily
decreases with increasing load. But with strongly magnetized
soft iron also, with small load, the original increase of the mag
netism vanishes, and it was thought probable that with sufficiently
weak magnetization nickel also possesses a Villari's critical point.
Experiments have confirmed this expectation. In observing the
changes in the very feeble magnetizations, it was found necessary
to work with a very sensitive arrangement.
    A chemically pure nickel wire, 46 cm. long and 045 cm. thick,
was suspended vertically with its lower end very near (3-5 cm.
distant) the upper magnetic needle of an astatic system, and so
that small longitudinal displacements caused no perceptible altera
tion in the direction of the needle. An intensity of magnetization
1 = 1 C.Q-.S. unit corresponded to about 90 p throw with 110 p
scale distance.
    The reduction of the observed numbers to absolute measure was
 effected by comparison with an auxiliary magnetometer with single
 needle.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 216. May 1893.             2 K

470            Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    The observations were conducted with alternate loading and
unloading, the strength of field remaining constant. The load
never exceeded 1 kilog. per sq. mm. cross section of the wire.
    With small strength of magnetization under 2 C.G-.S. units and
with the smallest loads, soft annealed nickel shows a small decrease
of magnetism, with somewhat larger an increase, which may rise
to 26 per cent, of the total magnetism, and finally again a decrease
with increasing load.
    Thus, for example, for the intensity of magnetization 1=0-97
C.G.S. units with a load of p gr. per sq. millim. cross section, there
were obtained the following respective variations of magnetization
 SI
 I"
            p-             Sl/L           P-            SI/I.
            28            -0-006         347           +0-067
            46            -0-011         490           +0042
            63            -0-014         738          +0-257
           102            -0019          904          +0162
           165            -0029          977          +0155
           246            +0-015
    "With stronger magnetization the increase becomes continually
smaller ; moreover after-effects of the preceding loading and phe--
nomena of hysteresis show themselves to a considerable degree.
    Hard-drawn nickel presents the same phenomena with much
stronger magnetization still, even though in feebler degree.
    Thus with a hard-drawn nickel wire, for 1=55-5 C.G.S. units
the variations of magnetization with a load of p gr. per sq. mm,
were :—
            V-             Sl/L           P-            St/1.
             9           -00034           84         +0-0187
            18           -00052          113         +00180
            27           -0 0054         246         +0-0122
            33           -0-0062         360         +0-0080
            42           +0-0081         490         -00304
            56           +00186          740         -00682
   We may therefore assert that, with reference to the above-
discussed phenomena, the behaviour of nickel agrees well with that
of iron quantitatively but not qualitatively.
   The detailed communication of the method of experimenting and
the results will be given in another place.—Sitzb. Wiirz. Phys.-med.
Ges. March 11,. 1893.

                Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.               471
      ON "THE INTERFERENCE-BANDS OF GRATING-SPECTRA ON
                     GELATINE. BY M. CROVA.
   Photographed gratings applied on bichromated gelatine by
M. Izarn's * method may give rise to straight or curved inter
ference-bands, sometimes very irregular, in the spectra which they
produce ; similar bands have been produced by Brewster t in other
circumstances. These phenomena are obtained with great beauty
on the spectra obtained by reflexion on gelatine-gratings on
silvered glass.
   M. Izarn, in mentioning these interference-bands, expresses the
opinion that they are connated with the interference phenomena
by parallel gratings which I formerly investigated J.
    Sunlight reflected from a heliostat is caught on a very narrow
slit the image of which is projected upon a screen ; a very small
image of the sun is produced at the focus of this lens, which is
received on the striated surface of a grating photographed on
gelatine on silvered glass ; the real images of the slit and of the
diffracted spectra are received on a screen placed in the conjugate
focus of the slit in respect of the lens.
    The diffraction spectra are furrowed with large rectilinear black
bands parallel to the rays, and which are almost absolute minima,
the intensity of the rays reflected on the silvered surface being
very little less than that of the rays which fall on the gelatine.
    With a copy of a fine Brunner's grating, which I owe to the
kindness of M. Izarn, the spectra of the first order present a large
dark band in the green when the grating is very dry ; if the
surface is breathed on the band is displaced towards the violet ;
other and closer ones enter at the red end, and their number rises
to three when the deposit of moisture confuses the projection.
The same phenomena are produced but in the opposite direction
during drying, and the displacement of the bands becomes very
rapid if the evaporation is accelerated by blowing air over the
grating.
    If the incident light extends over the whole height of the
 grating instead of only to a small portion of the surface which is
obtained by varying the distance from the lens, the fringes are
 curved, become irregular, and are sometimes serrated.
    The phenomenon is due to the interference of two parallel
 gratings ; the one real, situated at the surface of the gelatine in
 the points in which the incident wave meets its discontinuous
 part ; the other virtual, which is its image in the silvered mirror.
 Their distance, which is virtually constant, is the optical path, 2 ne,
 e being the thickness, and n the index of the gelatine. At the focus
 of the lens, since the light only affects a small part of its surface,
the thickness of the gelatine is virtually constant.
     * Comptes Jtendus, vol. cxvi. p. 506.
     t Phil. Mag. [4] vol. xxxi. pp. 22 and 98 (1866).
     \ Comptes JRendus, vol. lxxii. p. 855, and vol. lxxiv. (1871-1873).

472             Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
    If, on the contrary, the light extends over a considerable sur
 face, the thickness of the gelatine varies at different parts,
 especially if the plate has been placed vertically while drying ; the
 bands are then bent while diverging, and their greatest divergence
is at the part where the layer is thinnest.
   When the grating has been prepared, the distortion of the bands
is very irregular ; but after a great number of hydratationa followed
by dryings the phenomenon becomes more regular. After fixing
the grating in water and .drying, the gelatine possesses, as is known,
a kind of temper which is manifested by its accidental double
refraction ; but when it has been hydrated and dried slowly a
great number of times its structure becomes more homogeneous,
and the bands no longer possess serrations. It is possible that
 such alternations injure the good keeping of the gratings, and it
is thus desirable to keep them in a dry place.
   Observing the band-spectra in the goniometer they appear like
broad and very dark spaces, but if sun-light is used condensed on
the slit, by a cylindrical lens, the pivot lines of the spectrum are
defined in these spaces with marvellous precision. The production
of these parasitical bands does not affect the accuracy of measure
ments made with these gratings.
   With gratings in gelatine on transparent glass these phenomena
are scarcely perceptible by reflexion or by transmission, owing to
the almost total identity of the refractive indices of gelatine and
glass.
   If the index of gelatine is taken at 1*52, it is easy to calculate
the thickness of the layer of gelatine as a function of the number
of bands contained in the spectrum reflected on silver ; I have thus
found that in the copy which I use the thickness of the layer is
O04 millim. when it is dry, and about 016 millim. when it is at its
maximum hydratation; this number is only approximate, as the
index varies with the quantity of water it contains.
   M. Izarn's gratings are of admirable sharpness, and examined
in the microscope they do not differ from the original ; in a I'ro-
ment's grating, a hundred one, which I possess, the opaque interval
is virtually equal to a fifth of the transparent interval : this is also
the case with M. Izarn's copy ; this is not a negative but a posi
tive. The transparent intervals are the bands of insoluble gelatine,
while the opaque intervals are the places where the soluble gelatine
has been dissolved away by the water ; but owing to the extreme
fineness of the intervals, the water by capillary action has hollowed
out cylindrical grooves which to a plane wave behave like an opaque
body. When the opaque interval is very great compared with the
transparent one, the opposite might take place ; but it is easy to see
that even when the two intervals are transparent, the difference of
the refractive .indices of gelatine and air is sufficient to produce
phenomena identical with those of the grating. This question calls
for new investigations.— Cornptes Eendus, March 27, 1893.



WORKS PUBLISHED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS.
The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine.
     Monthly. 2s. Gd.
The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Monthly. 2s. Gd.
The Observatory, Monthly Review of Astronomy. Is.
Aelfric Society's Publications. 15 parts. 37s. Gd.
Aitchison's (J. E. T.) Catalogue of Plants of Punjab. 10s.
Baird's (Major) Manual for Tidal Observations. 7s. Gd.
Chimmo's (Capt.) Natural History of Euplectella aspergillum. 5s.
Daubeny on Volcanos. 21s.
Davis's (J. B.") Crania Britannica. £6 10s.
Davis's (J. B.) Thesaurus Craniorum. 20s.
Denning's Telescopic Work for Starlight Evenings. 10s.
Douse's Introduction to Gothic of Ulfilas. 10s. Gd.
English Poetry in use at Charterhouse School. 3s. Gd.
Examination Papers set by Examining Board of Physicians and
     Surgeons. Gd.
   Ditto for Diploma in Public Health. Gd.
Faraday's Experimental Researches in Chemistry and Physics. 15s.
Fauna of British India. Edited by W. T. Blanfokd, F.R.S.
           Mammalia. 20s.
          Fishes. 2 vols. 20s. each.
          Birds. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 15s.
          Reptilia and Batrachia. 20s.
 Geological Record. 1874-1884. 8 vols. 50s.
Glaisher's Barometer Tables. Is.
 Glaisher's Diurnal Range Tables. Is. Gd.
 Glaisher's Hygrometrical Tables. 2s. Gd.
 Glaisher's Factor Tables for Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Millions. 20s. each.
 Hopkins's (E.) Geology and Terrestrial Magnetism. 8vo. Cloth. 16s.
   Ditto. Illustrated Introduction to. 8vo. Cloth. 4s.
 Joule's Scientific Papers. Vol. I. 20s. Vol. II. 12s.
 Lewis's (G.) Catalogue of Japanese Coleoptera. 2s. Gd. ; on one side, 3s. Gd.
 London Hospital Pathological Catalogue. 7s. Gd. nett.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, Memoirs. Vols. 8 and
     10. 7s. each.
 M'Intosh's Marine Invertebrates and Fishes of St. Andrews. 21s.
 Merington's French Primer. 2s. Gd.
 Merington's French Pronunciation. 2s. Gd.
 Merington's Latin First Course, with Key. 3s. Gd.
 Merington's Perrin's Fables. 2s. Gd.
 Merington's Reading made easy. 2s. Gd.
 Mulcaster's (J. W.) Statics. 7s. Gd.
 Olsen's (O. T.) Piscatorial Atlas. Coloured, 52s. Gd. ; uncoloured, 42s.
 Owen's (Sir R.) Aspects of Body in Vertebrates and Invertebrates.
     2s. Gd.
 Pascoe's Classes, Orders, &c. of the Animal Kingdom. 3s. Gd.
 Pascoe's List of British Vertebrate Animals. 4s.
 Pascoe's Student's List of British Coleoptera. 4s. Gd.
 Physical Memoirs, translated from foreign sources. Vol. I. Part I. 4s.,
     Part II. 7s. Gd., Part III. 6s.
 Reade's Origin of Mountain-Ranges. 21s.
 Royal College of Surgeons Calendar. Is.
 Sharp's (Dr. D.) Staphylinidae of Japan. 3s. Gd.
 Smith's (R. A.) Century of Science in Manchester. K"
 Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. Ser. 1, £6 6s. ; Ser. 2, **• . , f
 Thomson's (Sir W.) Tables for facilitating Su-^er 8 Method at Sea.
     10s. Gd.
   Forms for ditto. Sun, Is. Stahs, Is.
 Univ. Coll. London Calendar. 2s. 6d. ^
 Univ. CoU. Pathological Catalogue. 4 Parts. 2s. each.
 Univ Coll. Library Catalogue. 3 Vols. 7s. Gd.
 Univ. Coll. Medical and Biological Catalogue. 2s. Gd.
 Walker's (Rev. R.) Constitution of Sun. 3s.
 Wheatstone's (Sir C.) Scientific Papers, los
 Wiegmann's Herpetologia Mexicana Part I. Coloured 1 late*.
 Wollaston'3 Notes on Lepidoptera of St. Helena. 8s. Gd.
          BED LTON COURT, ELEET STEEET, LONDON, E.C.

              CONTENTS op N° 216.— Fifth Series.
    XXXIX. Gratings in Theory and Practice.                 By Henry A.
  Rowland                                                               page
    XL. On the Differential Equation of Electrical Flow.         By T. II.
 Bi,ake9ley, M.A                                                         ,
    XLI. Note on the Heat of Vaporization of Liquid Hydrochloric
 Acid. By K. Tsuruta, Eigakushi, Tokio, Japan
    XLII. Note on the Flow of Water in a Straight Pipe.         By M. P.
 Rudski, Priv. Doc. in the University of Odessa
    XL1II. Liquid Friction. By John Perry, assisted by J. Graham,
 B.A., and C. W. Heath. (Plate VII.)
   XLIV. Note on the Effect of the Replacement of Oxygen by
 Sulphur on the Boiling- and Melting-points of Compounds. By
 Miss A. G. Eaep
   XLV. Notices respecting New Books :—R. Lacuxan's Elementary
Treatise on Modern Pure Geometry ; Revue Semestrielle des
 Publications Mathematiques redigee sous les auspices de la Societe
Mathematique d'Amsterdam                                              462, |
   XLVI. Proceedings of Learned Societies :—
   Geological Society :— Prof. J. W. Jvdd on Inclusions of
      Tertiary Granite in the Gabbro of the Cuilin Hills, Skye: !fhd
      on the Products resulting from the Partial P'usion of the Acid
      by the Basic Rock ; Mr. W. S. Gbesley on Anthracite and Bi
      tuminous Coal-beds ; Messrs. Fox and Teait, on some Coast-
      Sections at the Lizard : and on a Radiolarian Chert from
      Mullion Island ; Mr. T. Roberts on the Geology of the District
      west of Caermarthen ; Lieut. G. C. Frederick's Geological
      Remarks on certain Islands in the New Hebrides ; Mr. H. W.
      Monckton on the Occurrence of Boulders and Pebbles from
      the Glacial Drift in Gravels south of the Thames ; Mr. 0. A.
      Shrubsole on the Plateau-Gravel south of Reading; Mr.
          EiiENT Reid on a Fossiliferous Pleistocene Deposit at Stone,
       ^^sHampshire Coast                                            464-409
    XLVII. Intex<tenCe and Miscellaneous Articles :—
      On Villari's CTr1^p0int iu Nickel, by Prof. Heydweiller . . 4
      On the Interference^^ g 0f Grating-Spectra on Gelatine by
         M. Crova                                                      ' ,-i
*** It is vequosted that all Communications for this Work tt.«^ t,„ ai a
       Post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and FrandfP^nLI nffi T '
       Lwn Court, Fleet Street, London.                  ' ^nafu« 0ffi<*> K«

   35.                    JUNE 1893.                            No. 217.
      Published the First Bay of every Month.—Price 2s. iid.
                                     THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
       ILOSOPHICAL                              MAGAZINE,
                                     AND
           JOURNAL                   OF        SCIENCE.
  Being a Continuation of Tilloch's 'Philosophical Magazine,'
    Nicholson's 'Journal? and Thomson's 'Annals of Philosophy.''
                                CONDUCTED BY
      LORD KELVIN, LL.D. P.RS. &c.
     GEORGE FRANCIS FITZGERALD, M.A. Sc.D. F.R.S.
                                     AND
     WILLIAM FRANCIS, Ph.D. F.L.S. F.RA.S. F.C.S.
                          FIFTH          SERIES.
                        N° 217.-JUNE 1893.
                                LONDON:
      PRINTED BY TAYLOR AND FRANCIS, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.
Sold by Simpkin, Marshal), Hamilton, Kent, and Oo Li; Whittaker and Co ;
  Ind bv A. and C. Black ;-T. and T. Clark, Edinburgh ; Smith and Son,
  Glasgo^ -Hodges, Figgis, and Co., Dublin :-Putnam, New York:-Veuve J.
   Boyreau, Paris :—and Asher and Co., Berlin.

            DUBLIN UNIVERSITY PRESS SERIES.
                                                                             1
A TREATISE ON THE ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY OF Tfffl
      POINT, LINE, CIRCLE, AND CONIC SECTIONS:
  CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF ITS MOST RECENT EXTENSIONS,
                     WITH NUMEROUS EXAMPLES.
                                        BY
                     JOHN CASEY, LL.D., F.R.8.
            Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 12s.
                London: LONGMANS, GREEN & CO.
       Medium 8vo. Vol. I. Part I., 4s. ; Part II., 7s. 6d. ; Part III., 6*.
                PHYSICAL MEMOIRS,
     SELECTED AND TRANSLATED FROM FOREIGN SOURCES
                         UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE
                 PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
           Demy 8vo, price 12s., with numerous Woodcuts, three Plates.
                        JOINT SCIENTIFIC PAPERS
                                   OF THE LATE
                  J. P. JOULE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
            Volume II., published by the Physical Society of London.
     Uniform with the above, price £1, with numerous Woodcuts, four Plates
                                    and Portrait.
    Vol. I. THE SCIENTIFIC PAPERS OF THE LATE J. p. JOULE
                                  D.C.L., F.R.S.
            Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, E.C.
                                Demy 8vo, price Is.
                   THE OBSERVATORY,
                A MONTHLY REVIEW OF ASTRONOMY.
                                     Edited by
                  II. H. TURNER, M.A., B.Sc, Sec. R.A S
                  T. LEWIS, F.R.A.S.,
                  II. P. HOLLIS, B.A., F.R.A.S.
         THE COMPANION TO THE OBSERVATORY FOR 1893
                                    Price Is. 6d.
             Taylor and Francis Red Lion Court, Fleet Street E C

                                THE
          LONDON, EDINBURGH, and DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                MAGAZINE
                                AND
        JOURNAL                 OF          SCIENCE.
                       [FIFTH SERIES.]
                          JUNE 1893.
     XLVIII. Electrochemical Effects due to Magnetization.
   By George Owen Squier, Ph.D., Lieut. U.S. Army *.
                           Introduction.
THE influence of magnetism on chemical action was the
         subject of experiment by numerous investigators during
 he first half of the present century f. Up to 1847 we find
by no means a uniformity of statement in regard to this
subject, and secondary effects were often interpreted as a true
chemical influence. Among the earlier writers who main
tained that such an influence exists may be mentioned Ritter,
Schweigger, Dobereiner, Fresnel, and Ampere ; while those of
opposite view were Wartmann, Otto-Linne Erdmann, Ber-
zelius, Robert Hunt, and the Chevalier Nobili.
    Professor Remsen's discovery, in 1881, of the remarkable
influence of magnetism on the deposition of copper from one
of its solutions on an iron plate, again attracted attention to
the subject, and since then considerable work has been done
directly or indirectly bearing on the question.
    Among other experiments by Professor Remsen } were the
action in the magnetic field of copper on zinc, silver on zinc,
copper on tin, and silver on iron, in all of which cases the
magnet evidently exerted some influence. With copper sul
phate on an iron plate the effects were best exhibited, the
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t Wartmann, Philosophical Magazine, 1847, (3) xxx. p. 264.
   X American Chemical Journal, vol. iii. p. 167, vol. vi. p. 430; 'Science,'
vol. i. no. 2 (1883).
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 217. June 1893.                  2 L

474         Lieut. G. 0. Squier on the Electrochemical
copper being deposited in lines approximating to the equipo-
tential lines of the magnet, and the outlines of the pole being
distinctly marked by the absence of deposit.
    Messrs. Nichols and Franklin * were the next to conduct
experiments bearing on this subject. They found that finely
divided iron which has become " passive " through the action
of strong nitric acid suddenly regains its activity when intro
duced in a magnetic field, and also that when one of the two
electrodes immersed in any liquid capable of chemically
acting upon them is placed in a magnetic field, a new
difference of potential is developed between them due to this
magnetization. They ascribe these effects to electric currents
in the liquid produced indirectly by the magnet, which
currents go in the liquid from the magnetized to the neutral
electrode.
    Professor Rowland and Dr. Louis Bell f were the first to
note the " protective action " of points and ends of magnetic
electrodes, and to give the exact mathematical theory of this
action. Their results were directly opposite to those of
Messrs. Nichols and Franklin, who found, as stated above,
that points and ends of bars in a magnetic field acted like
 zincs to the other portions, or were more easily dissolved by
the liquid.
    The method of experiment adopted by Professor Rowland
 was to expose portions of bars of the magnetic metals placed
in a magnetic field to reagents which would act upon them
chemically, and study the changes in the electro-chemical
 nature of the exposed parts by fluctuations in a delicate
 galvanometer connected with the two bars. Iron, nickel, and
 cobalt were experimented upon, and nearly thirty reagents
 were examined in this manner. The results are summed up
 in the following statement :—" When the magnetic metals
 are exposed to chemical action in a magnetic field, such
 action is decreased or arrested at any points where the rate of
 variation of the square of the magnetic force tends towards a
 maximum."
     Other investigations in this field are those of Andrews %,
 who employed iron and steel bars from eight to ten inches
 long with their ends immersed in various solutions, and one
 bar magnetized by means of a solenoid. The protective
 action was not noted, but, on the contrary, the magnetized
    * American Journal of Science, vol. xxxi. p. 272, vol. xxxiv. p. 419,
 vol. xxxv. p. 290.
    t Phil. Mag. vol. xxvi. p. 105.
    % Proceedings of the Royal Society, no. 44, pp. 152-168, and no. 46,
 pp. 176 -193.

                   Effects due to Magnetization.                475
 bars acted as zincs to the neutral bars, thus indicating that
 they were more easily attacked.
    Practically the same results were obtained by Dr. Theodor
 Gross * ; soft iron wires, 8 cm. long and 3 cm. in diameter,
 coated with sealing-wax except at the ends were exposed to
 various liquids. When one electrode was magnetized, a cur
 rent was obtained going in the liquid from the magnetized
 electrode to the non-magnetized electrode.
    It thus appears that there is at least an apparent incon
 sistency between the protective results of Professor Rowland
 and Professor Remsen, and those of Nichols, Andrews, Gross,
 and others, who find the more strongly magnetized parts of iron
 electrodes more easily attacked than the neutral parts ; and it
was with the object of endeavouring to reconcile these results,
and of studying the exact nature of the influence exerted by
the magnet, that the experiments recorded in this paper were
undertaken.
           Apparatus and Method of Investigation.
    The method of investigation was that adopted by Professor-
Rowland in his previous work on the subject, since its facility
and delicacy permitted the effects of the magnet to be
observed whenever there was the slightest action on the
electrodes by the solution examined, and the investigation
could thus be carried over a wide range of material.
    A large electromagnet was employed to furnish the mag
netic field, and, at a distance sufficient to prevent any direct
influence due to the magnet, a delicate galvanometer of the
Rowland type was set up. Small cells were made with iron
electrodes of special forms, coated with sealing-wax except at
certain parts, and immersed in a liquid capable of acting
chemically on iron. The whole was contained in a 50 cubic
centim. glass beaker, and when joined to the connecting wires
of the distant galvanometer was firmly clamped between the
poles of the electromagnet.
    In the course of the examination of a number of substances
it was found necessary to use two galvanometers—one
specially made by the University instrument-maker and very
sensitive, which was employed with acids which evolve hydro
gen; the other, much less sensitive, was best suited to the
violent " throws " with nitric acid and iron. The samples of
iron used throughout the experiments were obtained from
   * " Ueber eine neue Entstehungsweiae galvanischer Stroma durch
Magnetiamus," Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie, 1885, vol. xcii.
(1885) p. 1373.
                                2L2

476        Lieut. G. 0. Squier on the Electrochemical
Carnegie, Phipps, and Co., of Pittsburg, and were practically
Pure-                          .         .               ,    ,
   In order to insure a uniform density of surface, the elec
trodes were turned from the same piece and polished equally
with fine emery-cloth.           The magnet could be made or
reversed at the galvanometer, and its strength varied at will
by a non-inductive resistance. The electrochemical effects
due to the magnetic field could thus be studied with facility
by the fluctuations of the galvanometer-needle. The original
difference of potential, which always existed between the
electrodes, was compensated by a fraction of a Daniell cell,
so the effects of a variation of the magnetic field could be ob
served when no original current was passing between the
electrodes.
   The standard cells were made with care, and under
uniform treatment possessed at 20° C. an electromotive force
of l"105 volt. The connexions with the compensating cir
cuit, which contained a finely-divided bridge, were so
arranged that from its readings the difference of potential
between the distant electrodes became known at once without
involving the resistance of the cell or of the galvanometer.
    Since quantitative measurements of the effects observed
 were desired, a preliminary step was to calibrate the electro
 magnet for a given distance apart of the pole-pieces. The
 method employed was the well-known one of comparing the
 galvanometer deflexions produced by a test-coil in the field
 with those of an earth inductor in series in the circuit.
 Since the effect of the sudden addition of a certain strength
 of field was wanted instead of its absolute value, the de
 flexions with the test-coil were taken for simple " make "
 or " break " and not for reversed field, thus eliminating the
 residual magnetism of the pole-pieces.
    In the formula applicable, viz.,
                      H 7r/ia2       d     .
 in which d and d' represent the deflexions due to the
 inductor and test-coil respectively, H and H' the earth's
 field and the field to be measured, n and ri the number of
 turns, and a and a' the radii of the coils, the particular values
 were :—                    sc .
                            20716 square centim.
                  7ni'a,2 = 6-788 square centim.
                       tf=4-697.
    Distance between pole-pieces 3-5 centim.

                 Effects due to Magnetization.               477
    H'= 1299*48 d'H, and as d' varied from      to 16, the range
of field employed was from 65 to 20,800 H.
    A curve was constructed so that from accurate ammeter
readings in the field circuit the strength in absolute measure
could be read off at once.
                    Experimental Results.
    Preliminary.—The first experiments were made with very
dilute nitric acid and iron electrodes—one a circular disk of
 5 millim. radius, and the other a small wire 1 centirn. long
and 1 millim. in diameter, turned to a sharp point at one end.
 The point was placed opposite the centre of" the disk, at a dis
 tance of 1 centim. from it, and the whole placed so that the
 cylindrical electrode coincided with the direction of the lines
 of force. When the minute point and the centre of the disk
 were exposed to the liquid, and the magnet excited, a momen
 tary " throw " of the galvanometer was observed in the
 direction indicating the point as being protected or acting as
 the copper of the cell.
    When the pointed pole was slightly flattened at the end,
 and the insulation so cut away that the surfaces of exposure
 on the two electrodes were exactly the same, the throw of the
 galvanometer on making the field was very much diminished,
 although still perceptible, since the disposition of lines of
 force would still be very different over the two plane surfaces
 of exposure.
    With ball-and-point electrodes precisely similar pheno
 mena were observed as with a disk and point, except to a less
 degree.
    The gradual reversal of the current shortly after exciting
 the field, the independence of the throw of the direction of
  the current through the magnet, the disappearance of the
  throw when the nature of the magnetic field at the exposed
  parts became the same, and the effects of artificially stirring
  the liquid, were observed exactly as described by Messrs.
  Rowland and Bell.
     In the course of a large number of preliminary experi
  ments with nitric acid, it was soon observed that under
  certain conditions the effect of suddenly putting on the
  magnetic field was to produce a less rapid deflexion of the
  galvanometer in the opposite direction, or indicating the
  point as acting as a zinc. Plainly this irregular behaviour,
  due to the magnet, required a more systematic study than it
  had yet received. It had been found that the reversal of the
  current, which regularly followed the " protective throw,"
  was decreased or destroyed by anything which prevented free

 478        Lieut. G. 0. Squier on the Electrochemical
  circulation in the liquid, and that an acidulated gelatine,
  which was allowed to harden around the poles, was best
  suited for this purpose. The great irregularity observed in
  any one experiment made it necessary to eliminate everything
  possible which might mask the true phenomenon, if any ac
  curate comparisons were to be drawn between the effects
  observed in the different cases ; accordingly a standard form
  of experiment was adopted, which was carefully repeated
  •many times. The cell found best suited for this purpose was
  composed as follows :—
       Disk electrode, diameter                  14*4 millim.
         „       „      thickness                 2*6    „
       Point electrode, total length             15-2    „
         ,,      ,,      diameter                 4*4    ,,
         „       „       length of point          5*2   ,,
       Distance of point from centre of disk.    10     „
  The same electrodes were used throughout any set of experi
 ments, being carefully cleaned and polished each time.
    With nitric acid the liquid was finally made up as
 follows : —
     Distilled water                 10 grammes.
     Hard gelatine                    1 gramme.
     0. P. nitric acid (sp. gravity 1*415) 0"533 gramme.
    The gelatine and water were allowed to stand until the
 former had dissolved without the application of heat, when
 the acid was added and the whole thoroughly mixed. Too
 strongly acidulated gelatine would not harden at all.
    In some cases, in order to protect the point from the
 beginning, the electrodes, secured as usual at the ends of two
 small glass tubes containing the connecting wires, were
 tirmly clamped in the proper position between the poles of
 the magnet, and the magnetic field put on before the cell was
¦completed, by pushing the beaker containing the solution up
in position round the electrodes.
    With this cell a series of parallel experiments were con
ducted . to obtain the variation of the effects with time, the
amount of iron salts present, the fluidity of the solution, and
with constant and variable magnetic fields.
   A. Behaviour of the Cell with Time, in the Earth's Field.
   The cell was placed entirely outside the magnetic field, and
galvanometer-readings taken at intervals of one minute for
three hours. The curve fig. 1 (I.) shows these results. Posi
tive ordinates indicate a current from the point to the disk,

                   Effects due to Magnetization.             479
and negative ordinates the reverse current. Other experi
ments with fresh solutions, same electrodes, same exposed
area, and every condition as nearly as possible the same, gave
curves of practically the same character, and the one given is
selected to illustrate.
    The curve indicates that the original current was to the
point electrode; this gradually decreased, owing to polarization,
until after a hour and five minutes it reversed slightly, but
again reversed thirty-five minutes later, and after a little
more than two hours the deflexion became perfectly constant,
remaining so indefinitely.
   The iron salts formed could not move with facility from the
exposed surfaces through the hardened gelatine, and were
easily outlined from their brown colour, as the whole appa
ratus was placed in a strong light.
                B. In a Uniform Magnetic Field.
   The cell was next placed in the magnetic field, which was
kept practically uniform (about 15,650 H) for three hours,
and galvanometer-readings taken as before.
   The electrodes were magnetized before being introduced
into the solution, so as to protect the point from the begin
ning. In order to prevent the influence of the rise of
temperature due to the heating of the field coils of the
electromagnet, the whole cell was packed with cotton-wool
between the poles. As Gross and Andrews observed, the
temperature' effect was small, the solution rising but 0o,7 C.
in half an hour.
   The curve fig. 1 (II.) shows the results of these observa
tions. It is seen that the original current was, as before, to
the point electrode, and about the same in value. This
reversed after forty-five minutes, and rapidly increased to
approximately twice its original value at the end of one hour
and twenty minutes, and, instead of again reversing, remained
 indefinitely with the point electrode as a zinc. The distri
 bution of the iron salts in this case was quite unlike the
 former. Notwithstanding the gelatine, the powerful magne
 tization of the exposed point gradually drew the iron salts
 from the disk as fast as they were formed, and concentrated
 them symmetrically about the point, giving the solution in
 this region an almost black appearance.
    After waiting a sufficient time to be assured that further
presence of iron salts would not effect the permanency of the
existing electromotive force, the magnetic field was gradually
decreased without ever breaking circuit, by increasing the


                     Effects due to Magnetization.              481
liquid resistance in the field current. This change of resist
ance was necessarily made more or less suddenly, and the
deflexion experienced at each increase of resistance a not
very sudden throw toward reversal, in every respect the
same as had been repeatedly observed in the preliminary
experiments, and very different from the characteristic " pro
tective throw," which is always sudden and in one direction.
     By simply varying tbe field current with care, as explained
 above, tbe deflexion could be reversed again and again at
 will, and could also be held at the zero of tbe scale, indicating
 no current at all, as long as desired. When once the field
 was entirely broken, the iron salts were released from the
 control of the exposed pole, seriously disturbed by gravity,
 and putting on the field again failed to reproduce the results
 noted above.
     The only elements of difference in the two cases are, '(a)
  tbe magnetized condition of the metal, (b) the distribution of
  the iron salts formed by the reaction.
     Although, as the curves indicate, the average electromotive
  force with the magnetic field was much greater than in the
  former case, yet this electromotive force is due to the difference
  of action at the two exposed surfaces, and, as will be pointed
  out later, the total amount of iron dissolved and passing into
  solution in the two cases is probably not very different *.
   Quantitative experiments are wanting on this point.
      The influence of the magnetized condition of the metal and
  its magnitude is exhibited in the phenomenon of the " pro
   tective throw," which is always observed with apparatus
   sufficiently delicate unless it is masked by other secondary
   phenomena.
      Since the electrodes were embedded in hardened gelatine,
   there could be no convection-currents in the liquid, and this
   can be eliminated. Evidently the great difference in the
   behaviour of the cell in the two experiments described is
   principally due, either directly or indirectly, to the distribu
   tion of the iron salts formed by the reaction in the two cases.
      The principal time effects of the magnet were :—
      (a) To produce a higher potential at the point of greater
   magnetization.
      (b) To increase the rate of change of the potential between
   the electrodes and the absolute value of this potential dif
   ference.
      (c) It also appears from both curves that after a certain
   distribution of iron salts is reached, further presence of the
   same does not affect the permanency of the current established.
                * Fossati, Bolletino dell 'Elettricista, 1890.

 482        Lieut. G. 0. Squier on the Electrochemical
     Since the time effects of the magnet were so marked, it
 was thought possible that a " cumulative " effect, due to the
 earth's field alone, might be detected after a sufficient time
 had elapsed. The apparatus was made as delicate as possible,
 and parallel experiments conducted, the electrodes first being
 placed in the magnetic meridian, and afterwards perpen
  dicular thereto. No positive difference could be detected.
              C. Convection-Currents in the Liquid.
     As has already been stated, the reversal of the current
 which regularly followed the " protective throw " was found
 by Messrs. Eowland and Bell to wholly disappear when har
 dened acidulated gelatine was substituted for the dilute acid
 solution, so that when the magnet was put on a permanent
 deflexion of much less magnitude was obtained instead of a
 transitory throw. This indicated that currents in the liquid
 cannot be neglected, and their study was next undertaken.
 Since hardened gelatine completely prevented the reversal of
 the current, and with no gelatine it regularly appeared after
 a short time, a large number of experiments were made, in
 which the amount of gelatine was varied continuously between
 these limits. As expected, the effects also varied—the greater
 the fluidity of the solution, the more quickly the reversal
 occurred.
    In the light of what was already known concerning the
 presence of iron salts, some of the experiments were continued
 over a considerable time, and in others iron salts were intro
 duced artificially, to increase the effects. It was soon found
 that by starting with a fresh hardened gelatine, with which
 the " protective throw " was the only feature, and gradually
increasing the fluidity of the solution and the amount of iron
salts present, both effects were exhibited at the making of the
field—first, the sudden throw of the needle always in the
direction to protect the point, and immediately thereafter the
comparatively slow " concentration throw " in the opposite
direction. By making the conditions still more unfavourable
for the " protective throw," it gradually diminished until en
tirely masked by the second effect, so that making the field
produced a deflexion in the direction indicating a current
from the point.
    With the proper conditions, both of these effects could be
studied with the greatest ease : first, one made prominent,
then both equal, then the other made prominent at will. The
" protective throw " could be traced until it became a mere

                  Effects due to Magnetization.               483
stationary tremor of the needle at the instant of its starting
on the " concentration throw.''' This latter, though called
a " throw," can be made to vary from an extremely slow
continuous movement of the galvanometer deflexion, as in
experiment B already described, to a comparatively rapid
deflexion at the instant of making the magnet.
   By using simply a dilute nitric-acid solution with no gela
tine, and inserting a thick piece of glass between the
electrodes, the concentration effect was delayed enough to
allow the " protective throw " to first appear, with consider
able iron salts in the solution; and on making the field both
effects were observed as described above.
   It now appears that the reversal of the current, uniformly
observed in the experiments of Messrs. B^wland and Bell,
was but a form of the "concentration throw" mentioned
above, and that we can regard the substitution of the hardened
acidulated gelatine for the dilute acid as merely separating these
effects, so that the former can be studied by itself ; in other
words, the reversal of the current would have occurred iust
the same after a sufficient time had elapsed.
   Turning to the experiments of Drs. Gross and Andrews,
they employed but one magnetized electrode, which was not
pointed. In this case the nature of the magnetic field at the
two exposed surfaces would be very much more nearly the
same than when a pointed electrode is employed. This
arrangement is not, therefore, suited to bring out the delicate
" protective throw," and it is not surprising that the concen
tration effect was the prominent feature observed.
   We have now , a complete reconciliation of the directly
opposite results referred to in the introduction. The "pro
tective throw " is due to the actual attraction of the magnet
for the iron, and is always in the direction to protect the
more strongly magnetized parts ; while the " concentration
throw " is always in the opposite direction, and depends upon
the distribution of the iron salts present in the solution, and
the convection-currents in the liquid. The concentration of
the products of the reaction about the point would tend to
produce a ferrous reaction instead of a ferric, and experiment
shows that a higher electromotive force is obtained with cells
in which a ferrous reaction takes place than with those in
which a ferric reaction occurs ; and this change in the
character of the reaction produced by the concentration prob
ably accounts, at least in part, for the increased electro
motive force at the point.

484        Lieut. Gr. 0. Squier on the ElectrocJwmical
          D. The Iron Salts about the Point Electrode.
   The effect of artificially stirring the liquid, and the direct
influence of the fluid condition of the solution on the de
flexions observed, at once suggested movements of the liquid,
produced indirectly by the magnet. In order to locate these
currents and determine their potence, a small cell was made
of two rectangular pieces of glass held by stout rubber bands
to thick rubber sides. Perforations in the sides admitted the
electrodes, which were point and disk as before. The cell,
between the poles of the electromagnet, was in a strong light,
and the movements in the liquid were easily perceptible from
the displacements of suspended particles introduced for the
purpose. When very dilute nitric acid was placed in the cell
and the magnet excited, some interesting phenomena were
observed.
    The liquid, at first colourless, almost immediately assumed
a pale brown colour about the point, but nothing appeared at
the disk electrode. The iron salts were drawn as soon as
 formed towards the point electrode, since here the rate of
 variation of the square of the magnetic force is a maximum.
    As more iron was dissolved, a surface approximating to an
 equipotential surface of the pointed pole, and enveloping the
 coloured iron salts, was observed enclosing the point and at
 some distance from it. The outline of the surface became
 darker in a short time, and finally two or more dark contours,
 separated by lighter portions and symmetrical with the outer
 one, appeared between it and the point, indicating maxima
 and minima of density. When the magnetic field was gra
 dually increased, this surface usually enlarged without breaking
 up and holding the iron salts within it. On further strength
 ening the magnetic field to about 16,000 H, the ridges merged
 into one thick black envelope around the point.
    This phenomenon is best studied with but little iron salts
 present, and by watching the point electrode with a micro
 scope while the strength of the magnetic field is increased
 and decreased continuously. The sections (fig. 3) show the
 general form of these contours with different strengths of
 field.
    Upon breaking the field everything dropped from the point
 suddenly to the bottom of the cell, and on making the field
 again it required a few seconds for the salts to reappear at the
point.
    This, at least partially, accounted for the sudden effects
 often noticed at breaking the field circuit, and the compara

                     Effects due to Magnetization.              485
lively small ones at "make," especially with certain salt-
solutions, such as copper sulphate.
     The outer envelope which held the iron salts together, and
limited the immediate influence of the magnetized point, was
 distinctly defined within the liquid, and easily observed by
 the reflexion of the light from its convex surface.
     The persistency with which the iron salts were held about
 the point was shown by moving the cell with respect to the
 electrodes, when the contour remained approximately intact,
 passing bodily through the liquid without being broken up.
                   E. Electromagnetic Rotations.
     The small dust particles present in the liquid were drawn
 radially toward the point until they reached the surface
  described, when they pierced it and began to revolve rapidly
  about the point inside this surface, in the opposite direction to
  the currents of. Ampere. Reversing the poles of the magnet
  produced surfaces of the same appearance but opposite rotations.
     When the current from a Daniell ceil was sent through it
  seemed to have very little effect upon the rotations, showing
  them to be controlled by the powerfully magnetized point.
     The electromagnet was arranged with its field vertical, and
  the point electrode along the lines of force as before. This
  arrangement gave better control of the surfaces formed,
  since gravity now acted symmetrically about the point.
     When a single iron rod about 3 millim. in diameter, and
  placed vertically in the cell, was substituted for the two elec
  trodes, two rotations were observed which were uniformly
  dextro about the north-seeking pole of the rod, and lsevo
  about the south-seeking pole. About the central neutral
  portion no rotations were observed. When the rod was covered
  with a thin coating of vaseline the rotations entirely disappeared
  as expected. Wartmann* observed similar rotations about
   soft-iron cylinders adhering to the poles of a magnet, and he
  ascribed them to electric currents in the liquid which proceed
  from the periphery of the cell radially to the surface of the rod.
      The explanation of these rotations follows at once from
  what we know of the time-effects produced by the magnet.
  A higher potential is always produced at points of greater
  magnetization, causing electric currents in the liquid from
  the more strongly magnetized to the weaker parts of the iron.
      Applying this fact to the exposed conical point electrode,
   we see that local electric currents exist from its vertex to the
   other parts of the surface, returning by way of the metal. In
   the case of the vertical rod, these currents pass from the poles
                * Philosophical Magazine, xxx. p. 268 (1847).

486         Lieut. G. 0. Squier on the Electrochemical
at its ends, through the liquid, to the neutral portions, returning
as before.
   These currents*, under the influence of the poles themselves,
would cause electromagnetic rotations of the liquid, as we find
them. The mere mechanical influence of these rotations, as
in the case when the liquid is artificially stirred, is to increase
the chemical action upon the point, causing it to tend to act
more like a zinc, which experiment confirms.
  F. Acids which attack Iron with tlie Evolution of Hydrogen.
    Professor Rowland had observed the " protective throw "
with such acids to be extremely small, and difficult to detect
except by very sensitive apparatus. The sensitive galvano
meter was set up and every precaution taken against inductive
effects. A telescope and scale were used in this part of the
work.
    Several substances were first examined, among them being
hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, perchloric acid, chlorine water,
copper sulphate, ferric chloride, sulphuric acid, &c, but as
these observations added nothing to the results already
obtained they are not given here.
    After several trials a standard sulphuric-acid solution was
made up as follows :—
       Distilled water                             10 grammes.
       Gelatine                                     1 gramme.
       CP. Sulphuric acid, sp. gr. 1'826 . . . 1'062 gramme.
    More strongly acidulated gelatine would not harden, and
weaker solutions gave too small effects.
    The " protective throw " was detected, but the point very
soon became completely covered with minute bubbles of
hydrogen, so that the electrodes had to be cleaned constantly.
   The effect of adding hydrogen dioxide to the solution was
next tried, since this would facilitate the removal of the
hydrogen as soon as formed f, which was thought to act
merely mechanically.
   When about 1 cubic centim. of H202 was added to the
solution the " protective throw " became much more promi
nent, and the gas bubbles only appeared in small quantities
after a considerable time. Further addition of small quantities
   * The rotations produced in liquids by axial currents, e. g. currents
coinciding with the direction of the magnetic lines of force as distinct
from radial currents, have been studied by Dr. Gore (Proceedings of the
Royal Society, xxxiii. p. 151).
  t J. M. Weeren, Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Oesellscha/t,
No. 11 (1891).

                   Effects due to Magnetization.             487
of the dioxide showed the "protective throw" to be very
decided with sulphuric acid when the hydrogen is removed
from the surface of the electrodes in this manner.
                   G-. The Electromotive Force.
    Several attempts were made to obtain the relation between
the strength of field and the electromotive force developed in
the "protective throw"; but it was difficult to obtain con
 sistent readings owing to the trouble of balancing the original
 deflexion, and the small absolute values of this electromotive
 force when hardened gelatine was employed.
    A curve was constructed, however, showing the variation
 of the galvanometer deflexion with the strength of field, using
 nitric-acid solution without gelatine. This is shown in fig. 2.
    The readings were taken one after another as rapidly as
 possible, to eliminate the damping effects of the iron salts
 formed.
    The curve exhibits the general character of the variation.
 In the region from about 3500 H to 8000 H the greatest rate
 of change occurred, and beyond 10,000 H the curve became
 nearly horizontal for the particular electrodes used. Curves
 were also constructed for the " concentration throw " on
 making the field under different conditions, and they were
 approximately right lines, more or less inclined according to
 the amount of iron salts present.
    With the sulphuric-acid solution already given the electro
 motive force varied from 0*0033 to 0*0078 of a volt, while
 with the nitric-acid solution it became as great as 0'036 of a
 volt. In making all the solutions used with the different
  substances amounts were taken proportional to their particular
  molecular weights, and then halved or doubled until of suit
  able strength to give results with the galvanometer. It was
  thought possible at the beginning that this might lead to
  some relations between the protective results and the strengths
  of the particular solutions ; but the general irregular cha
  racter of the whole phenomenon prevented comparisons in
  this respect, and all that can be stated is, that both the
  " protective throw " and the concentration effect in general
  increased rapidly with the strength of the solution.
      H. Influence of a Periodic Magnetic Field upon the Cell.
     An experiment was made to determine the behaviour of the
  standard nitric-acid cell when the magnetic field was made
  and broken at regular intervals over a considerable time, and
  curves were drawn showing the variation of the " throw " with

488        Lieut. G. 0. Squier on tlie Electrochemical
time, and the fluctuation of the original deflexion caused by
this treatment. The strength of field was about 11,000 H.,
and the experiment was conducted without compensating the
original deflexion, and by making the field for one minute,
then breaking for one minute, and so on.
   One of the curves is shown in fig. 1 (III-), in which posi
tive ordinates are values of the concentration throw at " make,"
and negative ordinates the values of the " protective throw."
   Experimenting was not begun until the gelatine had com
pletely hardened, and since the electrodes would tend to
become polarized while the gelatine was hardening, the " pro
tective throw" was very small, and soon masked by the
concentration effects.
   After about five minutes, making the field had very little
effect at all, but began to show decided "concentration
throws " ten minutes later, and these rapidly increased with
time, as the curve indicates.
   Considering the fluctuation of the original deflexion, the
effect of this periodic field was to tend to reverse it, just as in
the case of the uniform field in experiment B, but much more
slowly, since the field was on but half the time in this case.
   The cell also showed the iron salts almost entirely about the
point, forming a thick black envelope.
                           I. Summary.
   The principal results of this investigation may be sum
marized as follows:—
   Whenever iron is exposed to chemical action in a magnetic
field, there are two directly opposite influences exerted.
   (a) The direct influence of the magnetized condition of the
metal, causing the more strongly magnetized parts to be
protected from chemical action.
   This is exhibited in the phenomenon of the "protective
throw," which is always in the direction to protect the more
strongly magnetized parts of magnetic electrodes.
   The " protective throw " is small, often requiring delicate
apparatus to detect it, and is soon masked by the secondary
concentration effects.
   As to the absence of the " protective throw " with acids
which attack iron with the evolution of hydrogen, the
hydrogen acts merely mechanically, and when removed by
adding to the solution small quantities of hydrogen dioxide,
the " protective throw " becomes very decided.
   In the curve, fig. 2, representing the variations of the
" protective throw with the strength of the magnetic field,

                     Effects due to Magnetization.              489
 we trace at once the magnetization of the point-electrode-
 Since only the minute point was exposed to the liquid, it
 would become saturated for comparatively small magnetizing
 forces, and the curve indicates that this occurred at about
 10,000 H., beyond which the curve becomes practically hori
 zontal. This further establishes the direct connexion between
 this " throw " and the variation of the magnetization of the
 exposed point, and confirms the explanation of Professor
 Rowland, that it is due to the actual attraction of the magnet
 for the iron, and not to any molecular change produced by
magnetization.
    (b) The indirect influence of the magnet caused by the
 concentration of the products of the reaction about the more
 strongly magnetized parts of the iron.
    This tends to produce a higher potential at the more
strongly magnetized parts, and finally establishes permanent
electric currents, which go in the liquid from the more
strongly magnetized to the neutral parts of the iron.
    This concentration-effect increases rapidlv with the amount
of iron salts present and the fluidity of the solution.
    The convection-currents in the liquid are themselves a
 consequence of this same concentration, being electromagnetic
 rotations produced by the action of the magnet upon the local
electric currents between different parts of the iron.
    As to the permanent current due to the magnet which is
finally set up between the electrodes, as shown in fig. 1 (II.), it
is probably owing to a change in the character of the reaction
produced by the concentration of the iron salts about the more
strongly magnetized parts, which would tend to cause a
ferrous instead of a ferric reaction to take place, and thus
increase the electromotive force.
   Physical Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University,
                     May 1892.
   Note. — Since the completion of the above investigation, a
number of experiments have been performed similar to those
of Professor Remsen. Starting with the known existence
and direction of the electric currents in the liquid, it was
thought that these might lead to some explanation of the
peculiar form of deposit in equipotential lines. A number of
interesting facts have been noted, but they are withheld for
further experiments.                                  G-. 0. S.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 217. June 1893.         2 M

                                     [  490     ]
XLIX. On the Applicability 0/ Lagrange's Equations of Motion
   in a General Class of Problems; with especial reference to
   the Motion of a Perforated Solid in a Liquid. By Charles
   V. Burton, D.Sc*
1. "T ET yfr,<f>,... be some only of the coordinates of a
            material system, so that when the values of ifr, <f>, . . .
are given the whole configuration is not completely determi
nate. But suppose it known that the kinetic energy T can
be expressed as a homogeneous quadratic function of yjr, <f>, . . .
only ; so that we may write
       2T = (V^) & + 2 (f(f>)f4 + •¦'
       (yjrip-), {^{r(j>), . . . are functions of i/r, <£, . . . only
We also suppose it known that (1) continues to hold good so
long as the only (generalized) forces and impulses acting are of
types corresponding to
                                                                      (*)
    2. Suppose, now, that such impulses of these types were to
act on the system that yfr, <j>, . . were all reduced to zero ; the
expression for the kinetic energy would accordingly vanish,
and the system would be at rest. By supposing the last
operation to be reversed, we see that the motion at any instant
could be prodvced from rest by impulses of the types corre
sponding to
                                   ¦f, <}>,... only                   (3)
    3. Let x, y, z be the Cartesian coordinates at time t of a
mass-element rn referred to fixed axes, and let T be the kinetic
energy of the system at the same instant. Further, let A be
the " action " when the system moves without additional con
 straint from one configuration to another, and A + SA the
 action when by workless constraints the path is slightly
modified, so that in place of the coordinates x, y, z we have
x + Bx, y + By, z + Sz. Then t
       8A = [Zm {xSx + y$y + zhz) } — \_~Zm(xhx + ySy + zSz) ]
                  + a term which necessarily vanishes ; . . (4)
 where [] and { } denote the values of the quantities enclosed
 at the beginning and end of the motion considered.
    Suppose further that, both at the beginning and at the end,
 the values of -Jr, <f>, . . . are the same for the one motion as for
   * Communicated by the Physical Society : read March 10, 1893.
   t Thomson and Tait's ' Natural Philosophy,' 2nd edit. Part I. § 327.

                   On Lagrange'3 Equations of Motion.                       491
the other, so that initially and finally 8^, 8<£, . . . are all zero.
It does not follow that all the Bx, By, Bz's are zero ; but
                            "Zm(xBx + yBy + zBz)
is the so-called " virtual moment " of the actual momenta in
the hypothetical displacement Bx, By, Bz ; that is, the virtual
moment, in the same displacement, of the impulse necessary
to produce the actual motion from rest. In virtue of (3),
 therefore, and of the initial and final vanishing of B^fr, B<f), . . .
we see that the bracketed terms of (4) must both be zero ;
hence
     The increment BA vanishes and A lias a stationary value for
            all worklessly effected variations of path which leave tlie
            initial and final values of yjr, <£, . . . . unaltered. . (5)
     4. Lagrange's equations for the coordinates ijr, <f>,. . . may
now be written down at once, since the investigation of
Thomson and Tait* becomes applicable to the present case
without modification. It will be noticed that in their equa
tions (10)T and (10)", § 327, the sign of BV/d^ should be
reversed.
    We have thus a perfectly general proof of the proposition :
If the kinetic energy of a material system can be expressed as a
homogeneous quadratic function of certain generalized velocities
yfr, 4>, . . . only, the coefficients being functions of i|r, <j>, . . . only,
and if this remains always true so long as the only forces and
impulses acting are of types corresponding to ifr, (f>, . . . , the
equations of motion for the coordinates ijr, <f>, . . . may be written
down from t/iis expression for the energy, in accordance icith
the Lagrangian rule. Provided only that the stated conditions
are satisfied, we need not consider whether the whole configura
tion is determined by the values of y{r, ej>, . . . , or what is tlie
nature of the ignored coordinates                                          (A)
    5. Passing over the known application of this result to the
motion of solids through an irrotationally and acyclically
moving liquid, we come to the more general case of a perfo
rated solid, with liquid irrotationally circulating through the
apertures. Take as coordinates any six 0, &,.. . which deter
mine the position of the solid, together with                            equal
in number (to) to the apertures ; each % being the volume
of liquid which, starting from a given configuration, has flowed
across some one of the to geometrical surfaces, required to
close the apertures, these surfaces being supposed to move
along with the solid.
   Of course the coordinates 0, 0',. . .                . . . are insufficient
                                 * Loc. cit.
                                  2 M 2

 492            Dr. C. Y. Burton on the Motion of a
 to determine the entire configuration of the system (including
 the positions of all the particles of liquid) ; hut we shall see
 immediately how, in virtue of the proposition (A), Lagrange's
 equations may be written down.
    6. Since an increment 8% in one of the coordinates x is the
 volume of liquid which flows across a harrier- surface (i. e.,
 which flows through an aperture relatively to the solid), the
 generalized force corresponding to x must be conceived of as
 a uniform pressure exerted over the said geometrical surface,
 by means of some immaterial mechanism attached to the solid;
 while the impulse corresponding to x is of course a uniform
 impulsive pressure applied in the same manner. From hydro-
 dynamical considerations we know that the measure of such an
 impulsive pressure is p8/c, where p is the density of the fluid,
and 8k the change produced in the circulation through the
 corresponding aperture.
    Hence the impulses corresponding to % x't . . . are
                              kP, k'p,  .......                     .   (6)
where                      the circulations through the various
apertures.
    7. Now when the motion of the liquid is irrotational, we
have
      T =a homogeneous quadratic function of 8, 8', . . . k, k! . . .
           only ; coefficients functions of 0, &. . . only;
      X, X , • " = homogeneous linear functions of 0, 8',. . .
         to,*?,.. . only ; coefficients functions of 0, 0', .. . only.
Since the xs are equal in number to the Ac's, let us suppose
the last-written system of linear equations to be solved for
the k's in terms of the x's ; we then have
K,Kf,...= homogeneous linear functions of0,0',...x,x'f- on'y >
               coefficients functions of 0, 0',.. . only.
Substituting in the expression for T we get
T = a homogeneous quadratic function of 0, 0',. ..^,^/, ...only;
         coefficients functions of 0, 8'      only.
This, then, remains true so long as the motion of the liquid is
irrotational; in other words, so long as the only forces and
impulses acting are of types corresponding to 0, 8', . . . (since
these are applied to the solid) , Xi X*i • ¦ • (since these are
uniform over the barriers, by § 6).
   If we identify yjr} </>,... with the coordinates 8, 8', . . . x> x'i ¦ • •
of the present example, we see that the proposition (A) of § 4
is immediately applicable to this case. We may therefore

                   Perforated Solid in a Liquid.                      493
ignore all other coordinates, and from the kinetic energy-
expressed as a function of 6, 6', . . . y, tf, . . . write down the
Lagrangian equations for 6, 8', . . . and, if we wish, for             ...
also. These latter, however, are less directly intelligible,
since in general they involve finite pressures continuously
acting over geometrical surfaces drawn through the liquid.
    8. If we wish to picture the application of the principle of
least action (§ 3) to the present case, we may proceed as
follows: —Let the system start from the configuration (I.)
and move without additional constraint or influence to the
configuration (II.) . Then let it start again from the confi
guration (1.) with the same velocities as before, and during
the motion let infinitesimal additional forces act on the solid,
while infinitesimal pressures, uniform over each barrier-
surface, are impressed on the liquid ; the total rate at which
the additional influences do work being at each instant zero.
Further, let the additional influences be so adjusted that the
system, after following a slightly different path, passes through
a configuration such that a, ff, . . . %, yd, . . . are all the same
 as for (II.). Then, to pass from the configuration (II.) to the
 present configuration requires no displacement of the solid,
 and only such displacement of the liquid that the total volume
 which crosses any barrier^surface is zero. In such a change
 of configuration impulses of the types 8, 6',. . .                would
 have no " virtual moment," just as forces applied to the solid
 and uniform pressures applied to the barrier-surfaces would
 give rise to no virtual work,                                    . ,
    9. At this stage it will be convenient to replace 0, ff, . . .
 by the components w, v, w of linear velocity and p, q, r of
 angular velocity, which determine the instantaneous motion
 of the solid along and about axes fixed in itself. The Lagran-
 gian equations for the six coordinates 0, ff,.. . must accord
 ingly be replaced by the forms suitable to moving axes. The
 expression for the energy in terms of the velocities now
 becomes a homogeneous quadratic function of u, v, w, p, q, r,
 Y, v, • • • in which all the coefficients are known to be-
 constants.
    Let us apply the method due to Routh *, and modify this
  function with respect to the coordinates          y/, . . , If T he the
 value of the kinetic energy in terms of the velocities alone, the
 modified function (i. e. the kinetic part of Routh's modified
  Lagrangian function)
        T/=T-^X-|^X'----=T-«PX-«VX'- • -(7)
                 d%       QX'
                 * ' Kigid Dynamics,' vol. i. chap. viii.

494           Dr. C. V. Burton on the Motion of a
from (6).    It is further known that the whole energy of the
system
                             =E + K,                               (8)
where E is a function of u . . ., p . . ., only, and K is a function
of the momenta icp only. Suppose, now, that the solid were
brought to rest by forces applied to it alone : E would vanish
along with u, v, w, p, q, r, while the circulations k, and con
sequently also K, would remain unaltered. The generalized
velocities x> %!> • • • would in general have changed, becoming,
let us suppose x«> Xo> • • • an<^ the kinetic energy would
 accordingly have become
                  K = i(*PXo + *'«Co'+ ¦••)                         (9)
Now let
                    X=Xo+Xi> x'=Xfl' + Xi'>                       (10)
 so that each ^t is that part of the flux of liquid (volume per
 unit time) which takes place across a barrier-surface owing to
 the motion of the solid itself.
    Having regard to (8), (9), and (10) our equation (7) for
T' becomes
               T'=(E + K)-2K-^i-^X.'- •                   •   •   (11)
 Let us write for the velocity-potential of the acyclic motion
 and for the value of j£ across the barrier-surface a we have
 Xi=JJ          — [ul + vm + wn +p(ny—mz)
                      + q[lz—na:)+r{mx—ly)']^da, .          .   . (13)
 where x, y, z are the coordinates of the element da and I, m, n
 are the direction-cosines of its normal v, all referred to the
 system of axes fixed in the solid. From (12) and (13) sub
 stitute in (11) ; thus
 T=E—TL + u2,Kp\^(l—^^-^da + similar terms in v, w,
  +P%*P^(ny — mz—^^\da + similar terms in g, r, .                 (14)
 where the summation refers to the m barriers.
    Remembering (8) it will be seen that T' is now expressed
 in the proper form, namely as a function of u, v, io,p, q, r, and

                  Perforated Solid in a Liquid.                  495
the momenta icp, ic'p,. . . only.     By means of the relations
       tfbT'     BT'         BT'
       <*BT      BT'        BT'      BT'     BT' T .        .
      j-.^z    w^                   r~    \-q^——h, &c, &C.
      <«Bp        ov        Bw       B?      Br
the equations of motion of the solid can at once be written
down. X, . . ., L, . . ., are of course impressed force- and couple-
constituents.
   10. Since the kinetic energy due to any number of per^
forated solids, moving in circulating liquid, can be divided
into two parts, of which one is a function of the component
velocities of the solids alone, and the other a function of the
circulation-momenta alone, the above method may obviously be
extended ; in fact a slight change in (14) will render it at
once applicable to the more general case. We shall have,
evidently,
T^E-K + SuS/^jJ^-^^r + similar terms in v, w,
   + Sp2/c/)JJ*^ny— mz— ~^rfo- + similar terms in g, r, (15)
where E is still the energy due to the motion of the solids and
the acyclic motion of the liquid, and K the energy due to the
circulations. In each barrier-term the first X denotes sum
mation with respect to all the solids, and for each u or p, &c,
the second 2 denotes summation with respect to all the barriers
of the system.
   These hydrodynamical results are not new, but the method
of proof is in some respects different from anything that has
yet been given, and will, I hope, be found intelligible and fairly
simple. In an admirable memoir, just communicated to the
Physical Society, Mr. Bryan has given a direct hydrodynamical
proof of the equations holding good for the motion of the
system in question ; but it seemed to me also desirable that
the problem should be rigorously treated by the method of
generalized coordinates, avoiding any assumption as to the
impulse of the cyclic motion, and proceeding entirely from the
principles established by Lagrange, and extended by Hamilton,
Routh, and Hayward.
   When this paper was in proof it contained some remarks
on the ignoration of coordinates, as treated in Thomson and
Tait's 'Natural Philosophy'*. Calling X>X}'" ^e ")C*e'"
                    * Part I. § 3J9, example G.

496              Mr. A. B. Basset on the Finite
pendent coordinates which, together with yfr, tf>, . . . determine
the whole configuration of the system in § §                    it was
suggested that, in hydrodynamical and kindred applications,
there was a difficulty in proving that dT/d^, BT/bx') • • •
were all zero.
   But the difficulty, if indeed it should exist, is easily removed.
For since the actual motion at any instant could be generated
from rest by impulses of types corresponding to ,</>,.. . only,
we have throughout the motion
                 3T/dx=0, dW = 0,...;
and hy the Lagrangian equations for X> X'j • • • j smce a^
generalized forces are of types corresponding to ifr, <f>, . . . ,
we get
             d bt_9T_0 ^BT_<yr
whence
          L. Note on the Finite Bending of Thin Shells.
               By A. B. Basset, M.A., F.R.S*
 1. 1 ITHEN a thin shell of any form is bent in any manner,
      » » the most convenient way of obtaining the equations of
equilibrium is to consider the stresses which act on a small
element of the shell bounded by four lines of curvature on the
deformed middle surface. If 0 A D B be a small curvilinear
                                Fig. 1.
 rectangle bounded by the four lines of curvature OA,
AD, I) B, and B 0, the stresses across the section A D (as
 pointed out in my previous papers f) consist of the following
   * Communicated by the Author.
   t Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. vol. xxi. pp. 33 and 63 ; Phil. Trans. 1890,
p. 433.

                     Bending of Thin Shells.                 497
quantities, viz.:—
   Ti = a tension across A D parallel to 0 A ;
   M2= a tangential shearing-stress along AD;
   N2 = a normal shearing-stress parallel to OC ;
   G2 = a flexural couple from C to A, whose axis is parallel
            to A D ;
   Hj= a torsional couple from B to C, whose axis is parallel
            to OA.
   Similarly the stresses which act across the section B D
consist of: —
   T2 = a tension across B D parallel to 0 B ;
   Mt = a tangential shearing-stress along B D ;
   Nx = a normal shearing-stress parallel to 0 C ;
    G-j = a flexural couple from B to C, whose axis is parallel
            to B D ;
   H2 = a torsional couple from C to A, whose axis is parallel
            to OB.
   By resolving the stresses and bodily forces (such as gravity
 and the like), which act upon the element, parallel to the axes
 OA, OB, and 0 C, and by taking moments about these lines,
 we obtain the six equations of equilibrium of the element ;
 but as these six equations connect ten unknown quantities,
 namely the ten stresses which act across the sides of the
 element, they are insufficient for the solution of the problem.
   2. In the case of a bell, or of a railway bridge which is
thrown into a state of oscillation by a passing train, the
displacements are all small quantities, and under these cir
cumstances the ten sectional stresses can be expressed in
terms of the displacements of a point on the middle surface
and their differential coefficients ; and owing to the fact that
these displacements are small, we may neglect their squares
and products when determining the stresses, and their cubes
&c. when determining the potential energy due to strain.
There is, however, another class of problems of considerable
importance in which the deformation is finite instead of
infinitesimal ; and to such problems the theory of thin shells
is inapplicable.
   3. An ordinary clock-spring is one of the most familiar
examples of the finite bending of a thin plate or shell. Such
springs consist of a naturally curved steel strip whose thick
ness is somewhere about one thirtieth of an inch, and whose
breadth is from an eighth to a quarter of an inch according
to the size of the clock ; and when the clock is wound up
an amount of bending takes place which it would be unsafe
to treat as infinitesimal. The hair-spring of a watch also

 498               Mr. A. B. Basset on the Finite
 involves a case of finite bending; but as its cross section is
 approximately square, the theory of the bending of wires*
 would be more applicable. Similar examples, such as spring
 balances and other mechanical appliances where springs are
 employed, will readily suggest themselves; and the question
 whether the theory of wires or the theory of thin shells is
 most appropriate depends upon the nature of the spring. If
 the cross section does not differ much from a circle or a
 square, the former theory would appear to be the most applic
 able ; if, on the other hand, the breadth of the spring is
considerable compared with its thickness, it would be better
to regard it as a thin shell.
    When the natural form of a spring is a plane curve, and
the spring is bent into another plane curve, the problem may
 be completely solved by the methods explained in chapter viii.
 of my ' Elementary Treatise on Hydrodynamics and Sound/
 The mathematical treatment is the same whether the spring
 be regarded as a wire or as a thin strip of metal like a clock-
 spring; the only difference being that the flexural rigidity is
 different in the two cases. If, however, a piece of clock-
 spring is twisted as well as bent, or a thin plate or shell is
 deformed in a finite manner, the solution of the problem pre
sents difficulties of a rather formidable character.
    4. Whenever the deformation is finite, the displacements of
a point on the middle surface are not small quantities whose
squares and higher powers may be neglected, and therefore it
is useless to attempt to express the stresses in terms of these
quantities; but since any deformation involves a change in
the values of certain geometrical quantities, such as the cur
vature and torsion of certain lines drawn on the middle surface,
the most appropriate course to pursue would be to endeavour
to express the stresses in terms of such geometrical quantities.
   There is one class of problems which can often be solved
without much difficulty, which occurs when a plane surface
is bent without extension into a developable surface ; or when
a developable surface is bent into a plane, or into some other
developable surface such that the lines of curvature on the
old surface are lines of curvature on the deformed surface.
This method can generally be applied when a plane plate is
bent into a conical or cylindrical surface ; but it could not be
applied in the case of a right circular cone which is bent into
a cone whose lines of curvature are not identical with those
of the former cone.
   The success of this method, in cases where it can be applied,
depends upon the circumstance that the flexural couples Qlt
           * See Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. vol. xxiii. p. 105.

                      Bending of Thin Shells.                        499
G2 can be expressed in terms of the changes of curvature,
and also that in the special cases .alluded to a sufficient
number of the ten stresses are zero to enable the remainder
to be determined by means of the general equations of equi
librium.
   5. We shall now determine these couples, using Thomson
and Tait's notation for stresses and elastic constants, and
Love's notation for strains.                              pjo, 2.
   Let 0 A, 0 B be two lines of curvature on
the middle surface of the undeformed shell ;
0|, 02 the centres of principal curvature ;
let oa, oh bo the curves in which the
planes O AOj, OB02 meet any layer of s
the shell. Let ply p2 be the principal radii
of curvature at 0, let Oo = rj, and let 2/t be
the thickness of the shell. Also let accented
letters denote the strained positions of the
various points.
   If P denote the traction along oa, and R               0^
the normal traction along Oo,
                 P = (hi -f- n)ax + (m — n) (<r2 + <r3)
                   = 2n{(l + E)<r1 + Eo-2}+ER, .           .  .   .   (1)
where
                       E = (m — n)/(rn + n).
Now
                                  o'a' — oa
                             <Ty=           1
and                                   oa
   Since we neglect the extension of the middle surface,
O'A' = OA, whence
      ffl     I+V/Px         V\Pi'>     pJ      Pi'
          = v(~,--)i- M^Z                     E(<r1 + ^))       .   .(2)
             \pi    P\>       Pi I m + n                  J
Similarly,
          ai=JL        ±)+                      B(ffl + «-,)}.    •   (3)
                \P2    P2) Pi \ m + n                    "J
The value of G2 is

500                Mr. A. B. Basset on the Finite
   Now, according to the fundamental hypothesis of my
former papers it follows that, provided there is no external
pressure, R must be a quadratic function of h and i), and con
sequently the retention of R will lead on integration to
terms in G2 of a higher order than A3, which are to be
neglected, since the solution we require is an approximate
one which does not contain higher powers of h than the cube.
Accordingly if we substitute the values of Oi, o-2 from (2) and
(3) in (1), and the resulting value of P in (4) and integrate,
we shall obtain
      G-M<i+Bi7-,L.)+E(s-i)}-                              •   (5)
Similarly,
which gives
      a'=-M<1+Hs-5)+E(,?-y}-                                 • <6)
   Equations which are equivalent to (5) and (6) have been
given by more than one writer on elasticity ; but attention
has not always been called to the fact that they depend upon
the express conditions that the surfaces of the shell are free
normal pressures, and also that the extension of the middle
surface may be neglected.
   When a plane plate is bent into a developable surface
p1 = Pjj = oo ; also one of the quantities p,', or p2' ^say p/) is
infinite ; whence (5) and (6) become
                      G^-fntfE/p/         J>                   K J
where G2 is the couple about a generating line of the develop
able.
   Since the extension of the middle surface is neglected,
 equations (5) and (6) would not apply to the case of a plane
plate deformed into a surface such as a portion of a sphere.
   7. As an example of the preceding method, we shall con
sider the case of a plane plate of thickness 2h, which is
 bounded by two radii OA, CD, and two arcs OB, AD of
 concentric circles ; and we shall inquire whether it is possible
to bend this plate into a portion of a right circular cone in
which OA, BD are generators, and OB, AD are circular
sections.
   We shall assume for trial that the bending may be effected
 by means of tensions, normal shearing stresses, and flexural

                      Bending of Thin Shells.                501
couples applied to the edges ; so that the tangential shearing
stresses and the torsional couples are zero.
                               Fig. 3.
    Let a be the semi-vertical angle of the cone, r the distance
 of any point on OADB from C. Then
                 Pi'=Pi'=00 ; p3=0 ; p8' = rtan«;
 whence
                   Ga^n/^Er-'cota,
                   G1= -$nh%l + E)r-' cot a.
 The equations of equilibrium are
               d_
                 -(T^-T^O,
              dr
              dT,
                    + NiCos «=0,
              d<f>
              ^(N2r)sina+ ^-T2cos« = 0,                       (8)
                                d<j>
                    +Nir sina = 0,
                a<p
               ^{Grf-^r + G^O.
               dr
  Let
                           5(l + E)cot«=yfc,
  then
                            G^-k/r,
  whence
                            N2=-^, N!=0,
  whence
                            T2=£tan a/r2,
  and therefore
                            „     A    k tan a
                            li =           5—>
  where A is the constant of integration.
     From these equations we see that all the stresses are per

502              Prof. Angstrom on the Intensity of
fectly determinate exoept T,. If CO = a, CA=b, and T„, T»
denote the tensions along OB, AU, we have
                        ™ _A        £tan «'
                              a        a*
                                                                     (9)
                        „     A      & tan a
                        Ti= ft ~
from which it appears that either Ta or T4 may, if we please >
be made zero, provided the other be properly determined.
    The above results would also apply to a belt of a complete
cone, bounded by two circular sections.
 LI. Bolometric Investigations on the Intensity of Radiation
    by Rarefied Gases under the Influence of Electric Discharge.
    By Knut Angstrom*.
 ONE of the peculiar difficulties attending the quantitative
       determination of the amount of energy radiated by gases
 in vacuum-tubes is the extreme feebleness of its intensity.
 In his recent work in this field, executed at the Hochschule
 at Stockholm, Prof. Angstrom attacked the problem by the
 bolometric method, which, although leaving something to be
 desired as regards sensitiveness, led to some important results.
 Another obstacle lay in the well-known difficulty of obtaining
 the gases in a state of such purity that the spectrum exhibited
by the discharge through them in a vacuum-tube showed no
foreign admixture, such as the carbon-bands seen whenever
 grease is used for joining surfaces, or where the flame touches
 in the process of soldering.
    The discharge-tube used for the most careful experiments
was thoroughly cleaned after soldering-in two electrometer-
terminals, and attaching two short lengths of tubing at right
angles near each end. The latter were to receive the elec
trodes, whose construction required particular care. Into a
short capillary tube a piece of platinum wire was introduced
from one end and a piece of thoroughly cleaned aluminium
wire from the other. The tube was then heated so as to form
an air-tight junction between the two wires, and was then
fitted into a glass plate. After removing all grease the tube
covering the aluminium wire was cut off, so that the latter
acted as a perfectly clean electrode, and the glass plate hold
ing it was fitted on to the short tube attached to the discharge-
   * Abstract from "Wiedemann's Annalen, No. 3, 1893, by E. E. Fournier
d'Albe, B.Sc, Royal College of Science.

                   Radiation by Rarefied Gases.             503
tube. The joints were made air-tight by means of sodium
silicate, which proved to be a highly useful cement, and did
not give rise to any impurities. Short lengths of tubing
containing mercury were placed round the platinum wires to
convey the current to the electrodes.
   The behaviour of four gases only was investigated, viz.
hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic oxide. Hydrogen
and oxygen were prepared by electrolysis of pure newly-
distilled water acidulated with phosphoric acid. The nitrogen
was obtained by passing pure air over heated copper-turnings
reduced by hydrogen. Carbonic oxide was prepared by the
reaction of sulphuric and oxalic acids, and purified by passing
through caustic potash. In producing these gases all rubber
tubes were dispensed with, and the different parts of the
 generating apparatus were soldered together.
    The discharge-tube was connected through a Kundt glass
spring and a set of cleaning-tubes to the tube used for intro
ducing the gas, a mercury-valve, and the air-pump. The
 mercury-valve consisted of a U-tube communicating at the
 bottom with a long tube full of mercury. By varying the
 level of the mercury by means of a reservoir the valve could
 be opened and closed. The tube for introducing the gases
 corresponded in the main to Cornu's arrangement. A vertical
 glass tube is filled with mercury whose level can be varied by
 means of a reservoir connected through a flexible tube, as in
 the case of the mercury- valve. At a point some distance
 from the bottom is attached a capillary U-tube, the end of
 which, in the process of filling, is introduced into a small
 reservoir containing the gas. Lowering the mercury esta
 blishes a connexion with the discharge-tube through the
 drying-tubes, and on raising the level the gas is shut off
 from the atmosphere.
    The current was furnished by a battery of 800 small Plante
 accumulators, regulated by means of a liquid resistance con
 sisting of cadmium iodide dissolved in amyl alcohol, and
 measured by a dead-beat reflecting-galvanometer. The fall
 of potential in the discharge-tube was measured by a Mascart
 quadrant-electrometer.
    The bolometer used for the experiments consisted of two
 gratings cut out of tinfoil mounted in ebonite frames. These
 frames were placed one behind the other in a tube with
 double walls, the posterior one being protected from radiation
 by a small double screen. Four diaphragms were mounted
 in the tube in front of the gratings, to diminish air-currents.
 The grating absorbing the radiation occupied a circular space
 of 16 millim. diameter. It was blackened by precipitated

  504           Prof. Angstrom on the Intensity of
  platinum and smoke. The four branches of the Wheatstone-
  bridge arrangement, of which the gratings formed two, had
  each a resistance of about 5 ohms. In order to be able to
  rapidly test the sensitiveness of the combination, a constant
  resistance was introduced as a secondary circuit into one of
  the branches. The opening or closing of this circuit usually
  made a difference of 75 scale-divisions.- If not, the reading
  was reduced to that standard sensitiveness.
     The bolometer was separated from the end of the discharge-
  tube by a double screen with a perforation, inside which was
  suspended a small screen. This was quickly pulled up to
  expose the bolometer. The strength of current through the
  discharge-tube was measured by the galvanometer, the diffe
  rence of potential within it by the electrometer, and the
  deflexion of the galvanometer in the bolometer circuit was
  read from minute to minute. The latter gradually increased,
  owing to the warming of the walls of the discharge-tube. By
  suddenly breaking the current and again observing the
  bolometer the radiation of the tube-walls was eliminated.
 Another method of elimination was by interposing a plate of
 alum about 4 millim. thick, which totally absorbed the radia
 tion from the glass. Another source of error was the reflexion
 from the walls of the tube. The end of the tube opposite the
 bolometer was closed by a plane-parallel plate of rock-salt.
 This occasioned a loss by reflexion, whereas the other surfaces
 entailed a gain. Both were corrected by introducing a small
 copper box heated by steam circulation into a tube of the
 same construction as the discharge-tube, observing the
 bolometer deflexions, and repeating with the box alone.
    Prof. Angstrom states his main results as follows :—
    1. For a given gas and a given pressure the radiation of
the positive light is proportional to the intensity of the electric
current.
    2. For a given gas and pressure the composition of the
radiation is constant and independent of the strength of
current.
    3. On increasing the pressure of the gas, the total radiation
for a given strength of current increases as a rule, slowly at
low, more rapidly at high pressures. At the same time the
composition of the radiation changes, inasmuch as the ratio
of the intensity of the shorter waves to the total radiation
decreases. Thus the distribution of the intensity in the
spectrum changes in such a manner that with diminishing
pressure the intensity of radiation increases for the shorter
wave-lengths.
   4. The ratio between the intensity of total radiation and

                  Radiation hy Rarefied Gases.               505
the current-work increases continuously with diminishing
pressure of gas.
   5. The useful optical effect of the radiation (here given by
the ratio of the intensities of the radiation passing through
the alum plate and the total radiation respectively) is very
high for some of the gases at low pressure (about 90 per
cent, for nitrogen). But the useful optical effect of the
work spent is not very great (about 8 per cent, for nitrogen
of O'l rnillim. pressure).
   6. The intensity of total radiation must be considered as a
secondary effect of the discharge, and depends upon the mole
cular constitution of the gas.
   7. Whatever views we hold concerning the nature of the
gaseous discharge, this investigation appears to confirm the
hypothesis of Hittorf, E. Wiedemann, and others, that the
radiation is not a pure function of the temperature of the
gases, but must be regarded as anomalous (" irregular,"
" luminescence").
   If we call " irregular " a radiation in which the spectro
scopic distribution of the energy is anomalous, there are
certain facts observed by Prof. Angstrom which lead to the
conclusion that the radiation in question is irregular. The
radiation did not show any relation to the absorptive power
of the gas at ordinary temperatures. Again, the radiation,—
which in nitrogen at 2 millim. pressure is still rich in dark
rays,—rapidly changes in quality when the pressure de
creases, and at 1 millim. consists almost exclusively of light
radiation. Prof. Angstrom supposes that the radiation of the
gas during electric discharge consists of two parts, one of
them regular, the other irregular. With decreasing pressure
the former decreases, whilst the irregular radiation increases in
 proportion as the motions are less obstructed by the mass of
 the gas. At constant pressure a certain portion of the energy
 in each molecule is converted into radiation ; as the strength
 of the current increases, the number of active molecules, and
 hence also the radiation, increases in the same proportion as
 the current. The number of active molecules being relatively
 small, the damping effect of the rest may be taken as constant,
 and the composition of the radiation remains practically
 unaltered as the current increases. On increasing the pres
 sure, however, the damping effect changes, the anomalous
 dispersion is more easily transformed into a normal one, and
 the radiation becomes richer in infra-red rays. A greater
 proportion of the energy supplied is spent in heating, and
for the same current-work the total radiation decreases with
 increasing pressure.
    Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 217. June 1893.       2 N

50(5             Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
    But in view of the difficulties of the investigation, the
 paucity of available material, and the approximate nature of
 the results in this almost unexplored field, no final decision
 can as yet be arrived at. A tabulation and a graphic repre
 sentation of the results, with diagrams of the apparatus and a
 full discussion of methods and corrections, will be found in
the original paper.
   LII. Luminous Discharges in Electrodeless Vacuum-Tubes.
                       By E. 0. Rimington*.
 SINCE reading a paper in conjunction with Mr. E. W.
       Smith on November 25th, 1892, before this Society f, on
 " Experiments in Electric and Magnetic Fields, Constant and
Varying/' the Author's attention nas been drawn to a paper
contributed by Mr. Tesla to the 'Electrical Engineer' of
 New York, July 1st, 1891, in which the luminous ring-
 shaped discharge obtained when a Leyden jar is discharged
through a coil of wire surrounding an exhausted bulb is
 attributed to the electrostatic action of the surrounding wire,
 and not to the electric stress set up in the rarefied dielectric
in consequence of the rapidly oscillating magnetic induction
through the bulb.
    As one experimental proof of this assertion Mr. Tesla
gives the following experiment :—" An ordinary lamp-bulb
was surrounded by one or two turns of thick copper wire,
and a luminous circle excited by discharging the jar through
this primary. The lamp-bulb was provided with a tinfoil
coating on the side opposite to the primary, and each time
the tinfoil coating was connected to the ground, or to a large
object, the luminosity of the circle was
considerably increased."
   The author repeated this experi
ment with two Leyden jars arranged
as in fig. 1, and found that when the
spark-gap was sufficiently large to
produce a bright ring when the tin
foil was not connected to earth, doing
so produced no noticeable difference
in the brilliancy ; but that, if the
discharge were faint, it was ren-
rendered considerably brighter on
making the earth connexion. Better
results were, however, obtained on
     * Communicated by the Physical Society : read April 28, 1893,
     t Ante, p. 98,

           Discharges in Electrodeless Vacuum- Tubes.          507
connecting the tinfoil to either of the outside coatings, A or
B, of the jars instead of to earth. This result led the author
to try a series of experiments to endeavour to determine
the cause of the effect, of which the typical ones are here given.
   Experiment 1 (vide fig. 2). A
and B are . the outside coatings
of a pair of Leyden jars (those
employed were about pint size).
C and D two vertical and paral
lel metal plates, at a distance of
about one foot from the jars. The
spark-gap, S, is adjusted by a
screw, so that the spark-length
can be varied by small amounts
when necessary. A single turn
of wire, a b, encloses an exhausted
bulb, and its ends are connected
to A and B, as shown in the
figure, so that a the part nearest
to G is connected to A, and b to
B. Two loose wires, e and /, are
also connected to A and B.
   The spark-gap is now shortened until there is just no
luminous ring in the bulb.
   The plates C and D are then connected to the outer
coatings A and B by means of the two loose wires, with the
following results :—
    (1) A to C. Bright ring.
   (2) B to D. Bright ring.
   (3) A to C and B to D simultaneously. Bright ring.
        A to D.                \
   (5) B to C.                 > No luminous ring.
   (6) A to D and B to C. J
   Expt. 2.—The wire turn a & is removed from the bulb,
given a half twist, and then replaced ; so that a is now
nearest to D, and b to C. Plates not connected, no luminous
ring.
   (1) A to C.
   (2) B to D.                    No luminous ring.
   (3) A|to C and'B to D. }
   (4) A to D.
   (5) BtoC.                     Bright ring.
   (6) A to D and B to C. }
   Expt. 3.—Arranged as in Expt. 1, case (1) or (2). Cis
then connected to D, and the ring becomes less bright.
   Expt. 4.—Arranged as in Expt. 1, case (1), 0 and D
                               2N2,

508            Mr. E. 0. Rimington on Luminous
connected. On approaching (J to the bulb, ring becomes
brighter.
   On approaching D less bright.
   If arranged as Expt. 1, case (2), the reverse happens.
   All the above four experiments give the same effects if the
turn of wire be larger than the bulb, as in fig. 3, only a longer
spark-gap has to be used.
   Expt. 5.—A single turn of
wire (fig. 3), a b, larger than
the bulb is employed, and between
the bulb and the ring a semicir
cular strip of tinfoil or metal T is
placed. The wire is connected as
in Expt. 1. The spark-gat     ap is
arranged to give no ring, Con-
necting T to B bright ring, T
to A no ring. The reverse hap
pens if the tinfoil is placed in
position T' as shown by the dotted
line.
   Expt. 6.—A piece of gutta
percha covered wire is bent into
shapes shown in figs. 4 and 5. On placing either of these
over bulb as in tig. 6, a figure of eight-shaped luminous
                              Fig. 4.
discharge is obtained, and there is no noticeable difference
between the two.
                              Fig. 5.
   Expt. 7.— Putting the wire (fig. 4) on bulb as in fig. 7, a

           Discharges in Electrodeless Vacuum- Tubes.         509
single broad band-ring is obtained, as the two turns will help
one another with resp?ct to magnetizing effect.
    Doing the same with the wire (fig. 5) a discharge is
obtained shaped like the sector of an orange, as shown by the
dotted lines, fig. 7.
              Fig. 6.                           Fig. 7.
            a
    Expt. 8.—Bending a wire as shown in fig. 8, and placing a
 bulb in the loop b c, there is no effect even with a long spark-
 gap, although the potential difference between the sides
                                Fig. 8.
 c and b would be much greater than in the case of a single
 turn.
    Putting a bulb in the loop, b c, of fig. 4 at once gives a
 bright ring.

 510             Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
    Experiments 6, 7, and 8 seem to show that ring, or other
 shaped, sharp luminous discharges can only be obtained with
 the wire so wound as to give magnetic induction through the
 bulb, while the first five experiments show that an electro
 static field in the bulb may help the effect. The theory the
 author has come to after consideration of the above and
 other experiments is :—That if the E.M.F. due to rate of
 change of magnetic induction acting in the dielectric of
 rarefied gas be insufficient to break it down and produce a
 luminous discharge (owing to the spark-gap being too short),
 the electrostatic field between the plates G and D, or between
 one of the plates and part of the wire, if correctly timed with
 respect to the rate of change of current in the wire, will
 commence the breakdown of the gas, thus allowing a less
 E.M.F. due to the magnetic induction to complete it.
    To put this to the test, a single turn of wire was put round
 a bulb and the spark-gap adjusted so as to give a very faint
 or no luminous ring ; on the top of the bulb was laid a piece
 of tinfoil connected to one pole of a \ in. spark induction-
 coil ; when the coil is worked the tube is filled with a faint
 glow : if now the Leyden jars are charged and discharged
 there will be sometimes a ring in the bulb which will be
 occasionally quite bright. The reason it cannot be always
 bright is of course that the discharges of the induction-coil
 are periodic, as are also those of the jars, and it is only when
the two are properly timed (i.e. the P.D. due to the coil
coming either just before or simultaneously with the spark)
that there will be a bright ring.
    This experiment seems to settle the question and show
conclusively that a properly timed electric stress in the bulb
due to an electrostatic field will allow an E.M.F. due to the
alternating current in the wire to produce a breakdown of
the rarefied gas, which the latter is too small to effect without
the aid of the former*.
    In Expt. 1 , when A and C are connected this field will
exist between C and b the side of the turn of wire remote
from C, and must therefore pass through the bulb. When A
   * To prevent misconception, it had better be definitely stated that this
electrostatic stress does not necessarily act in the same direction as the
E.M.F. due to the rate of change of magnetic induction. In experiments
(1) to (5) the direction of the former will be through the bulb from side
to side, while that of the latter is a circle coplanar with the wire. As
the discharge in a gas is of a nature more or less electrolytic, being
accompanied by the splitting up of the molecules, it seems reasonable to
suppose that anything which increases the number of dissociated molecules
will enable a smaller stress to produce a breakdown in the form of a
luminous discharge.

             Discharges in Electrodeless Vacuum-Tubes.          511
is connected to D, as the strongest field is between b and D,
where the P.D. is greatest, it does not pass through the bulb ;
in fact the field in the bulb will simply be that due to the P.D.
between a and b, or the same as it is if the wires e and/ are
disconnected. The results of Experiments 2, 3, 4, and 5 are
 also obviously explained by this theory.
     To treat the subject mathematically. We have the well-
 known equations for the discharge of a condenser :
              L    + Re = — |jr , where K is the capacity,
 and                                  da
                                  C=dt-
 Combining these,
                       dt* + hdt + KLq          u'
 To obtain an oscillatory discharge 4L must be greater than
  KR2.
                         R                  /~1       R?~
      Putting a for — ^j- and b for ^/             —         so^u'*on
  is
                      q=Qf ^a* + b\in(bt + 0),            ...     (1)
                                    b
 where ^=tan-1^ —             and Q is the initial charge.
  This may be more conveniently written
                                   b
   where
                t    a      ,          a        /    KR2
   If the oscillations are to be rapid,       must be large compared
   , R2
  t0 4L*-
    Therefore i\ will be some small angle.
       Instead of quantity we may write P.D. of the condenser,
    or
                      v = Ytat 'J(*I + b't cos (bt-rj). ... (2)
                                     b

512            Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
The current
    Now the electric stress acting in the bulb is proportional to
                                          dc
the rate of change of current, or to          ;
and               dc     V u< , .           ,     .           ,.
                      = j-£^ e [asmbt + 8 cos bt)             (4;
The current itself will be a maximum or minimum when
                                dt    u'
i. e. when              a sin bt + b cos bt = 0,
or when            tanZ>< =
                                          KR2
Therefore bt—6, and is in general nearly equal to x .
    The maximum values of the current occur when
                   bt = 6, 2ir + 0, 4tt + 0, &c,
and the minimum values when
                 bt = ir + 6, %ir+Q, 5ir + 0, &c.
This is shown in the curve (fig. 9), the points M1} M2, M3,
&c, representing the maximum and minimum values of the
current. The distance 0 A represents 8, and AB=^ —0=tj.
    It is now necessary to consider when the rate of change of
                              dc
the current is greatest.          will be a maximum or minimum
wheng=0.
Now
           d2r    V
           dF = VL e" f (ft2 ~ ''2) sin u + 2ab cos b^ = °-
Hence
            tan ht= - -M2 = - Rv/K(4L-KR^)
                       al-l?                2L-KR2
Let
                  t,,n-iR V/K(417-KH^_
                               2L-KR*            r'
y will be in general a small angle.

            Discharges in Klectrodeless Vacuum- Tubes.               513
   The rate of change of current will be greatest (either a maxi
mum or a minimum) when
                    bt = — 7, 7r — y, 2tt — 7, &c.
   Obviously bt cannot equal —y, so that the rate of change
of current is greatest for values ir—y, 2-rr—y, &c. ; or at
points f*i, fi3, Hi, &c. in the curve (fig. 9), and EF = 7. If
                                  Fig. 9.
        Dotted curves are values of the exponential -rr e
   Mu M2) M3, M4 are the maximum values of the current, /j,, fi2, are
         the points where the rate of change of current is greatest.
 the oscillations are to be very rapid KB? must be negligible
 compared to 4L ; in which case
 also

  514            Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
  and they are both very small angles, hence y=2i7 approxi
  mately, or EF = 2AB.
     When bt — ir—y,
                                    _      t—y
                        do     v        y/^-i'
                        d<     L
  or if the oscillations are very rapid,
                          dc     V - 1?
                          -j = -re       a VL .
                          (ft    L
  If, however, t = 0,
                                dc _ V
                                (ft ~ L'
 so that the greatest rate of change of current occurs at the
 first instant of discharge, although this is not a mathematical
 maximum.
     Equation (4) may also be written
                   dt= V iJn?
                   dc             + b2 ,
                              V^|+ft>oo8(K+?)J        ...      (5)
 rj being the same angle as before.
     It is now necessary to consider the values of the P.D.
 between the outside coatings A and B of the Leyden jars.
     Let I and r be the inductance and resistance of the coil
connected to the outer coatings, and L and R the same for
the whole circuit. Let             v2 = x be the P.D. between the
outer coatings at any instant t. Then
                                 V
                            c = -rreat   sin bt,
                                bL             '
and                                          , ,dc
                         x=v1—v2=cr + l—,
                                                dt
                    V
           .-. x= t^*"* {{r + la) sin bt + lb cos bt]
                    V
                 = FLea'   VW + ^ + Ja)1 cos {bt-r,')    .  . (G)
where                                 r ,
                                       I
                           tan y'= —i—¦
r/ will be in general a small angle not very different from r\ ;

              Discharges in Electrodcless Vacuum-Tubes.                515
  and if - = g or the time-constant of the coil equals the time-
  constant of the whole circuit,
                            r      R
                            ~i = L=-2a>
                   .*. tanV= — r = tan »/, or v' = i).
  That is a; is in phase with v the P.D. at the inner coatings of
  the jars.
     To find the maxima and minima of x we have
      a± = ^ eat [ {ar + i(a2 - 6s) } sin bt + b(r +¦ 2la) cos &<] = 0.
                          , .            6(r+2/a)
                      .-. tanW=            :-n—*; iSi
                                 _ (rL-RZ) VK(4L-Klt8)
                                _           L(KRr + 2L)
                                = tan 6".
     Then # has its greatest positive or negative values when
 bt = h, 7T + S, 27T+8, &c. S is in general a small angle, and
 is positive if
                                 L       /
                                 R > r
and negative if
                                 L     I
                                 R<~r
If
If ^ be not greater than ^ the first largest value of x will
occur at i=0, and as the rate of change of current is also
greatest at this instant the two will occur simultaneously.
    The next greatest value of x occurs when
and the next greatest rate of change of current when
                               bt = 7T — 7.

 516             Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
    B will be less than y, if ^be nearly equal to ^ ; so that the
maximum value of x will occur after the maximum of -A
                                                                       dt
but the value of x will not differ very much from its maximum
        dc
when — is a maximum*. This bears out the results obtained
        dt
in experiments 1 and 2, though, of course, the electric field in
the bulb will be that due to the P.D. between one of the
plates, C or D, and the opposite side of the turn of wire, and
this will only be about half that between the outer coatings
A and B. Moreover, the phase of the potential of 0 will
not be quite the same as that of A, on account of the
inductance of the connecting wire e. Experiments 1 and 2
were, however, tried with the plates C and D, and the con
necting wires removed, the turn of wire ab being moved so
as to bring either a or b nearest to A or to B, and the results
obtained were practically the same as those of experiments
1 and 2.
                          Effect of Size of Jars.
   When different-sized Leyden jars are employed with the
same length of spark-gap the luminous ring is more brilliant
   * The above investigation iuto the value of the P.D. between the
outer coatings will only give correctly the state of things when a steady
swing has been set up in the circuit; as evidently when t=0 the value
of x also equals zero, so that x must start in phase with the current ; it
will, however, rapidly get out of phase with the latter, and finally bo
nearly in quadrature with it. This is due to an initial wave starting
from the spark-gap which runs round the circuit. Possibly the value of
x can be empirically represented by one of the two subjoined formulae :—
             ¦*=       VW+(r+/a)2sin {(bt+f)(l-e-J><)},
or               Vfi*' /
             *= -gj- VW+jr+ls)1 sin \bt + ^ (1-tf-P')},
where \p=-.E — r)', and/> some constant. Dr. Lodge, in his researches on
the A and B sparks, approximately represents the initial values of x by
the current muijltiplied by the impedance of the conductor r, or makes
                               jL'VW+r2 sin bt.
The initial maximum of x will consequently roughly coincide with the
maximum of the current, or be near the point M, of fig. 9, and will thus
come about a quarter of a period before the second maximum rate of
change of current, point /x, (fig. 9).

           Discharges in Electrodeless Vacuum-Tubes.                 517
with larger jars. Now the E.M.F, acting in the rarefied gas,
and producing the breakdown of the same, is proportional to
dc
di'
                                  dc
   Also the greatest value of -^-that first occurs is when t — 0,
and then
                              dc _ V
                              dt ~ L'
and the next is for very rapid oscillations
                         dc    V           /?
So that the first value of the E.M.F. acting in the gas is
independent of the capacity, and the next and succeeding
values are less the greater the capacity.
   The effect on the eye, however, of the luminous ring will
be the time-integral of the discharge or approximately depend
on
                                didL
The whole limits of t, viz., from 0 to go , cannot be taken at
          dc
once, as     keeps reversing, and this reversal will not affect
the luminous discharge. Referring to the curve (fig. 9) it
will be seen that the first reversal must take place at M,, when
bt = 8, and subsequent ones for values ir + 6, 2ir + 6, &c.,of bt.
It is therefore necessary to take first the limits 6 and 0, then
ir + 6 and 0 ; 2tt + 0 and it + 0, and so on, alternately writing
 the integrals plus and minus.
                               2ir+« r-           -1              -]
                             +       ]^eat sin bi J — &c. ad inf. J ,
Remembering that
                sin ( tt + 0) = —sin 6,
                sin(27r + 0)=      sin0,
                sin (Stt + 6) = — sin 6, and so on,

518              Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
this gives
   J    ^- . <ft = ^j- sm 0 -j^e » +e»         + e6          +&c. |.
   The series in the bracket is a geometrical progression, in
                                     a
which the constant factor is e*"; and, since a is negative,
this is less than unity.
   Hence
                     C"dc J      2Vsin6>      J6
                                   bh            «,
                    J. *"'=                1— eb
and
                                                     4L-KK2
also
                   /4L-KR2           , sin (9
           h=V 4KL2 ' and "1T=                       KL;
                  J, «             V L          •
                                          l — &>
                                         2V!
                                e ^ 4L-KR» — e          V 4L_KK,
   Let
              V 4L-KR2                    V 4L-KR2              y
Then the denominator =ec—ex~y, and
           «"=l + ar+ j2 +        +&c.,
                                                  y2     "'3
                                               If
                             I!     I?     I?         I?     I?
                           + terms of the 4th, 5th, &c. powers.

            Discharges in Elcctrodeless Vacuum-Tubes.         519
     Now x and y will in general be small fractions, since KR2
is usually much less than 4L.
     If the oscillations are very rapid, 6 is very nearly equal to
*77*
~ Hence y = 2x approximately. Then — e*-* becomes
                     2.r3   . /,      x\
                ix +      = 2,x 1 1+ -g I approx.
Therefore the time-integral
            2V
and
            •tt / KR2               ttR /k
          " a V 4L=KR2 = -T V L apF°X-;
 so time-integral
               _ 4V /-/,     7r-li-'K \
                             tt2R2K
                     ;V1~~Mrvftpprox-
               ~ ttR'
     Now from this it is seen that the effect of increasing the
 capacity would be to slightly diminish the time-integral, and
 consequently probably make the brilliancy of the luminous
 discharge less, if it were not that increasing the capacity
 diminishes the real resistance of the circuit, since it makes
 the oscillations slower, and the resistance R for copper for
 rapid oscillations approximately equals Vi bl R0 ; where I is
 the length of the wire, and R0 its resistance for steady cur
 rents.   Now ^ = ^7|U approximately.
 Therefore
                          r=x/^U;
 so that the time-integral is very roughly proportional to the
 fourth root of capacity.
     There is also another reason why larger jars might produce
 a brighter discharge, even though the time-integral were less.
 With larger jars the time taken for the amplitude of the cur
 rent to sink to a value at which it becomes insignificant will

520            Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
be longer than in the case of small ones. Now, as the initial
          dc
value of j- is the same whatever the size of the jars, the after
values (although their time-integral is less and their actual
values less also) last longer in the case of larger jars.
   When the breakdown of the dielectric of rarefied gas is once
                         dc               dc
begun by the initial -g, the values of ^- necessary to keep it
up may probably be very much less, and consequently the
smaller values of ~ lasting longer, as given by the larger
jiirs, may produce a luminous discharge more brilliant to the
                                dc
eye than the larger values of ^ lasting a shorter time, as given
by the smaller jars.
    The actual results obtained with a ring of four turns of wire
containing an exhausted bulb about 2£ inches in diameter
were that the differences in brilliancy, obtained by using
half-gallon jars, pint jars, or very small jars made from spe
cimen glasses, were not so very great.
         Otlier Effects.    Apparently unclosed Discharges.
    A closed luminous discharge is not the only one that can
be obtained. Mr. Tesla, in 1891, pointed out that by wrap
ping a wire round an exhausted tube so as to form a coarse-
pitched spiral, a luminous spiral discharge is obtained. He
was apparently only able to obtain a very feebly luminous
spiral, but the author has succeeded in getting one quite as
brilliant as in the case of the ring-shaped discharge obtained
with a bulb.
                                Fig. 10.
                                    c
    In fig. 10 two half-gallon jars have their outer coatings
connected by a wire, A B, bent as shown in the figure. Over

              Discharges in Electrodeless Vacuum-Tubes.                 521
 the wire is laid an exhausted tube, C, with a tinfoil cap*, T,
 at one end ; T is connected to the outer coating of the jar
 nearest to it. The object of this is to utilize the electrostatic
 effect and make the tubo more sensitive to breakdown by the
 electromagnetic one. When the jars discharge, a straight
 luminous band is observed in the tube directly over A B.
     If the tube C be now moved towards the jars, even by a
 very small amount, a closed circuit discharge will be obtained.
 There is apparently, then, a tendency for the luminous dis
 charge to form a closed circuit whenever possible ; and it
 seems probable that even when the discharge is apparently
 not closed, as in the case of the spiral or the straight line,
 the electric stress acting in the rarefied gas takes the form
 of a closed circuit, but is only intense enough to produce
 sharp luminosity close to the wirej. To further test the ques
 tion an unclosed ring tube was made, and when it was placed
 inside a coil of wire no trace of a single luminous band could
 be seenf. A small glass tube was also bent so as to form a
 spiral of four turns, and exhausted. A wire following the
 spiral was attached to it, but this also gave no trace of
 luminous discharge.
                     Magnetic Effects of Discharge.
    The ring discharge in a bulb or closed circular tube acts
like a metallic circuit as far as magnetic effects are concerned.
This may easily be shown by the following experiment.
    A coil of three or four turns of wire has a similar one wound
with it to form a secondary ; the latter is connected to a
third coil, in which is placed an exhausted bulb. The first
coil is connected to the outside coatings of the jars (fig. 1).
The spark-gap can be adjusted so that a fairly bright ring is
   * It is not always necessary to use this cap, as, if the exhaustion is
high enough to give green phosphorescence of the glass, with the two
half-gallon jars in series, the discharge can be obtained without the cap.
With another tube of lower vacuum the author finds the cap necessary.
   t That is, the return part of the discharge is so diffused and feebly
luminous as to easily pass unnoticed in comparison with the sharp and
brilliant luminosity close over the conductor. The same applies to the
spiral discharge, each turn of the spiral probably forming a closed circuit
by itself.
   \ On afterwards repeating this experiment the author obtained a dis
charge in parts of the tube, and with half-gallon jars in the whole tube.
The discharge, however, was a closed one, as there were two distinct
bands in the tube, one on the side next to the coil and the other on the
side farthest away from it. This is what might be expected if the
magnetic induction be sufficiently strong.
   Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 217. June 1893.                20

522            Mr. E. C. Rimington on Luminous
produced in the bulb. If now a second bulb is placed within
the first coil a luminous ring will be formed in it, and the
ring in the other bulb will be much weakened or altogether
extinguished. Exactly the same effect is produced if a metal
plate or closed coil be brought near the first coil in lieu of the
bulb.
                     Sensitive State of Discharge.
    If a single turn of insulated wire surround one of the
 exhausted bulbs as in fig. 1, and the spark-gap be adjusted so
 as to produce a rather faint luminous ring (the fainter the
 better) ; on approaching the finger and touching the wire at
 any point the discharge appears to be repelled, and takes the
 shape shown in fig. 11. Instead of touching the wire with
 the finger a small piece of tinfoil may
 be laid between the wire and the bulb,
 as at A (fig. 11), and this may be touched
 by the finger or connected to any large
 object, insulated or otherwise ; the effect
 produced is the same. Connecting the
 tinfoil to one of the outer coatings of the
 jars does not produce this effect, and
 it is scarcely, if at all, visible when
 the luminous ring is brilliant, due to
 a longer spark-gap. With a wire ring
 of several turns the author has not been
 able to obtain it. If a turn of bare
 wire be employed the effect is produced
 when the finger is brought very near to the wire, but if it be
 brought into actual contact the effect is no longer visible.
  This apparently shows that it is due to the capacity between
  the finger or tinfoil and the wire ; it is probably of the
  same nature as the " sensitive state " in an ordinary vacuum
  tube.
                      Addendum, May 1st, 1893.
     Since writing the above the author has made a further
  experiment* which at first sight appears to contradict the
  onef given in the paragraph on '* Magnetic Effects of Dis
  charge."
    * Called hereafter the second experiment.    This experiment was
  shown when the paper was read,
    t Called hereafter (the firirt experiment.

           Discharges in Elect rodeless Vacuum- Tubes.      523
   A ring (R) of four turns of wire is joined in series with a
single turn, and the two are connected to the outside coatings
of the jars. In the single turn a bulb is placed and the spark-
gap adjusted until a fairly bright ring is produced in it at
every discharge. If now a closed ring of thick copper-wire,
a metal plate, or a ring of several turns, similar to R, and
with its ends joined, be laid on R to act as a secondary, the
luminous ring in the bulb is brighter ; on substituting for this
an exhausted bulb and placing it in R, there will be a brilliant
ring-discharge in it, while the discharge in the other bulb
will be rendered fainter or altogether extinguished. In this
experiment the exhausted bulb secondary appears to act in
the reverse way to a metallic secondary.
   The author then made the following experiments : —
   (a) A ring of four turns of guttapercha- covered wire pre
cisely similar to R was made, its ends were connected to an
ordinary Geissler tube. When this was used as secondary it
acted exactly in the same manner as the exhausted bulb both
in the first and second experiments, the Geissler tube being
brilliantly illuminated.
   (b) The Geissler tube was then removed, and the ends of
the secondary coil connected to the coatings of a small Leyden
jar. The effects produced by this secondary were the same as
those produced by the exhausted bulb in both experiments.
    (c) The ends of the secondary were connected to the loops
of a glow-lamp to act as a resistance (about 100 ohms). This
acted similarly to the exhausted bulb in both experiments.
   (rf) A disk of gilt paper (imitation) and also a ring of the
same were used as secondaries ; these acted similarly to the
bulb in both experiments. When the discharge took place
there were brilliant sparks produced at various spots on the
 paper, wherever there was any flaw in the gilding, showing
that considerable energy was dissipated there.
    (e) The secondary coil of four turns had its ends joined by
a strip of gilt paper about 6 inches in length, with a con
 siderable number of flaws in the gilding (produced purposely,
by bending the paper sharply in several places, so as to
obtain considerable sparking). This acted similarly to the
bulb and dimmed the discharge in the bulb surrounded by the
single turn. On shortening the length of gilt paper between
the ends of the secondary, the discharge in the bulb was less
dimmed.
   The results of these five experiments are, that any of tho
above secondaries are able to reduce the mutual induction
 between the primary and secondary in the' first experiment
sufficiently to render faint or altogether extinguish the
                             2 0 2

 524     Luminous Discharges in Electrodeless Vacuum- Tubes.
 discharge in the bulb, and act similarly to an exhausted bulb
  secondary. In the second experiment a low resistance se
  condary behaves in the reverse manner to an exhausted bulb
  secondary, while (c) and («) show that a high resistance put
  externally into the secondary circuit, and (d) that a secondary
  having a high resistance in itself, act in a similar manner to
  an exhausted bulb secondary, (b) shows that if the ends of
  the secondary be attached to a capacity it behaves like the
  bulb.
     The most probable explanation seems to be the following:—
  The amount of energy in the jars when charged is a fixed
  quantity for a given spark-gap ; this energy will be mostly
 expended in the coil R and the single turn and bulb (the
  second experiment). If, now,' we can m;ike energy be ex
  pended elsewhere, as in a secondary, we shall have diminished
  the energy received by the bulb, and this will in general dim
  it or altogether extinguish it. This will explain what happens
  when an exhausted bulb secondary is used ; also experiments
. (a), (c), (d), and (e). With regard to experiment (b), energy
  may have been expended in heating the glass of the jar on
  account of electric hysteresis. Moreover, this secondary did
  not dim the bulb so much as the others, but was found to be
  Capable of improvement in this respect by including some
  resistance (in the shape of the glow-lamp or a strip of gilt
  paper) in its circuit.
     In the case of a low- resistance secondary the energy dissi
  pated in it will be small, since its impedance will not be much
 lessened by its being of low resistance on account of the high
 frequency. This does not explain, however, why the dis
 charge in the bulb is brighter when a low-resistance secondary
 is used*.
     A further experiment was then made. The coil R in the
  second experiment had a similar secondary S placed in it ;
  this was connected to another similar coil T. The spark-gap
  was lengthened until a brilliant luminous ring was produced
  in a bulb placed in T. The bulb in A was then moved away
  from A until there was a very faint luminous ring in it. Ou
 removing the bulb from T a very slight brightening of the
    * Tnis energy explanation is probably not a complete one. Working
 out the frequency in the cases of no secondary, a secondary of four turns
 short-circuited, and the same with its ends joined through 100";
 the author finds that the damping-term is increased when either secondary
 is used, but more so with tho 100<» in circuit. The frequency is much
 the same with the 100? in circuit as when there is no secondary, but
 with the secondary short-circuited the frequency is about doubled. " This
 may account for the increase in brightness of the discharge in the bulb.

           On the Psychrometer and Chemical Hygrometer.              525
  faint ring of the bulb in A was observed. Instead of placing
  an exhausted bulb in T, a coil of four turns with its ends
 joined through J 00 was laid on T, and the bulb in A adjusted
                                   Fig. 12.
                A one turn ; S, B, and T each four turns.
  to give a very faint ring ; on removing the coil from T a
  decided brightening of the discharge in the bulb was observed.
  This experiment seems to show fairly conclusively that in
  creasing the energy in the circuit of the secondary S dimi
  nishes the brightness of the discharge in the bulb placed in A*.
 LIII. Comparative Experiments with the Dry- and Wet-Bulb
     Psychrometer and an improved Cfiemical Hygrometer. By
     M. S. Pembeey, M.A., M.B., Radcliffe Travelling Fellow ;
    late Fell Exhibitioner of Christ Church, Oxford. {From the
    Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford.)\
 DUUING the late winter it seemed desirable to make a
         series of comparative experiments with the Dry- and
 Wet-Bulb Psychrometer and an improved Chemical Hygro
 meter, in order to ascertain the accuracy of the results given
 by the Psychrometer for temperatures below the freezing-
point.
    A series of comparative experiments, made by me in the
summer of 1889, had shown that the amounts of moisture
calculated from the psychrometric readings varied by + 6 per
cent, to —5 per cent, from the amounts actually found by the
   * Since writing the ahove the author finds that Prof. J. J. Thomson
has observed the effects noticed in the second experiment, and gives an
explanation practically identical with the above.
   t Communicated by Mr. E. J. Stone, F.R.S., Radcliffe Observer.

526         Mr. Pembrey on Comparative Experiments
chemical method. The mean difference, however, in the
above series was insensible*.
    The Chemical Hygrometer employed in both series was
that introduced by Dr. Haldane and the author f.
    The absorption-tubes were placed in a small wooden box
with wire partitions to prevent them from knocking against
each other. The entrance-tube, by which the air to be
examined passed into the hygrometer, was fixed through a
small perforation in a rubber partition covering a hole in
the box. In this way any possibility of air being taken from
the inside of the box was avoided.
    The comparative experiments were made in the following
manner. The weighed absorption-tubes were placed in the
shed containing the psychrometer about ten inches below the
bulbs of the thermometers. The wet- and dry-bulbs were
then read off ; the absorption-tubes were connected by a long
piece of rubber-tubing with the aspirator. Air was now
drawn through the tubes at a rate of 1500 cub. centim. per
minute, until about 11,500 cub. centim. of the air had been
taken. Five readings of the temperature of the water and of
the air in the aspirator were taken during each period of
observation.      When the aspiration was finished, the readings
of the wet- and dry-bulbs were again taken, and the absorption-
tubes disconnected and stoppered. The period of observation
generally lasted about ten minutes.
    Simultaneous determinations with two chemical hygro
meters were made in the previous, but not in the present
series of observations. In order, however, to check the com
pleteness of the absorption and any errors in weighing, a
second pair of absorption-tubes was connected up with the
first pair.
    The results for the psychrometer were calculated, not from
my own readings, but from the mean of three other readings
—one at the beginning, one at the middle, and one at the end
of each period of aspiration. These readings were obtained
from the continuous photographic record of the wet- and dry-
bulbs taken at the Eadcliffe Observatory. It is possible to
read off this record to two minutes and to one-tenth of a
degree Fahrenheit. The accuracy of the readings has been
proved by years of use and comparison with eye-readings.
    In every case care was taken to have the wet-bulb properly
moistened about a quarter of an hour before the observations.
   * Phil. Mag. April 1890, p. 314.
   t " An Improved Method of Determining Moisture and Carbonic Acid
in Air." Haldane and Penibrey, Phil. Mag. April 1890.

                          5                                                         S                                 0                           £S
13 12.   . 11 ,10. 9. 8. „7. 6. 5.                                   . 4. 3. 2. 1...                                                             ment. Experi
 11 t%11 10                      9 it                7 .,             6                5 4
                                                                                                     1893.
                                                                                                     Jan.
                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                       Date.
„10.14   -10.48 „107
 -10.23 „10.39   -10.16 „10.45   -10.23
                         -10.54 „10.14               „10.45
                                                      -10.54 11.24
                                                             „-1 .12 „10.20   -10.51 10.41
                                                                      -10.29 „10.41   „-1014                                                through
                                                                                                                                            absorption- during             which
                                                                                                                                                              wasirated Time
                                                                                                                                                          aspair
                                        „1 .21i-1 .3                                                                             tubes.
                                                                                                     p.m.2.26-
                                                                                              a.m. 2.31
                                                                                              10.15
                                                                                             -10.19*
                                                                                                                centim.
                                                                                                                cub.                                     airolume
                                                                                                                                                        vof
11,428 11,410 11,370 11,320 11,302 11,202 11,174 11,396 11,358 11,278 11,552 5,630 5,802                                             aspirated. Cor ected
                                                                                                                                                                orption- Gain
                                                                                                                                                            absof
                                                                                                                                                   first weight
                                                                                                                                                  tubes,                     in
  •0481 •0578 ¦0574 •0587 0576 •0439 ¦0431 0481 0445 ¦0303 0289 •0154 •0209 grm.                                               pair.                                                           I.
                                                                                                                                                                                               Table
                                                                                                                                                absorp
                                                                                                                                   tion-tubes.pair  of weight    test- in
                                                                                                                                                                 of          Variation
  +•0002 +•0001 + 0004 +•0003 -0002 +•0002 +           0005 -0002 +    0001 +  O001 +¦0003 +   0002 + •0002grm.
                                                                                                                                 by Glaisher's psychrometer lated  fromrapcalcu our
   •0476 0603 •0575 •0583 •0589 •0448 •0427 •0480 •0470 •0297 •0288 •0164 ¦0198grm.                                      Tables.                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                        Weight
                                                                                                                                             cohyemircalpsychrometer of dif erence
                                                                                                                percent.                                                           Percentage
                                                                                                                              method.
    -1 +4 +0 -0 +2 +2 -1 -0 +5 -2 -0 +7 -5
                                                                                                                                   readings).
    32-3 35-2 34-7 34-3 341 285 28-6 30-9 307 210 20-0 201 31                                                  1                                       three (mean  ofDry-bulb
                                                                                                                   °P.
                                                                                                                                    readings).
     309 34-7 34-2 33-9 338 28-2 28-1 30-4 29-9 205 196 200 290                                                                                         three(mean   of Wet-bulb

528          Mr. Pembrey on Comparative Experiments
  The aspirator used was that described in the paper pre
viously mentioned*. The aspirating-bottles were covered
with felt, so that the temperature of the water generally
varied only a tenth or two of a degree Centigrade, never
more than half a degree, during the period of observation.
   The volume of air aspirated has always been corrected for
temperature, aqueous vapour, and barometric height.
   In Calculating the tension of aqueous vapour from the
chemical determinations the table given by Shawf has proved
very valuable.
   The preceding Table (I.) shows that the amounts of moisture
calculated from the psychrometric readings by Glaisher's
Tables vary, when compared with the gravimetric determina
tions, from —5 per cent, to +7 per cent. The mean, how
ever, is "0430 to -0426 grm., or less than +1 per cent, for
the psychrometer.
   The tensions given by the chemical determinations have
been calculated, and are compared in Table II. with those
obtained from the psychrometer by means of Glaisher's,
Haeghens', Guyot's, and Wild's tables.
                               Table II.
                                           Psychrometer.
   iLxperimeut. Chemical
                  method.
                            Glaisher. Haeghens.     Guyot.   Wild.
                  millim.    millim.    millim.     millim. millim.
                    345        3-20       3-44        3-45    347
    2      :        2-60       2fi7       2-73        2-72    273
    3               249        236        2-58        256     257
    4               256        2-36       2-70        2-64    2-61
    5               375        3-83       401         398     393
    6               403        406        420         416     411
    7               3-70       363        3-80        3-78    373
    8               375        378        384         S-81    3-83
    9               4-87       4-85       484         4-82    4-83
   10               495        4-85       4-84        4-82    4-80
   11               4-85       4-87       486         4-82    4-80
   12               4 86       4-98       4-97      . 4 92    5-00
                    4-05       386        423         3-96    417
                    3-84       3-80       3-93        3-88    3-89
  In order to make this paper more complete, the cor
responding tables of the previous experiments are here
reproduced.
           * Phil. Mag. April 1890, p. 309.
           t " On Hygrometric Methods," Phil. Trans. 1888. A.

                                              12. 11. 10. 9. 8. 7. 6. 5. 4. 3. 2. 1.                                                                                                                                                                                   nmt. Experi-
            and
            this
       slight
       Orbsplit
          sein
            the
            for
            axtcronbe
                 found
                 to onethe
                    aspuhtnobi*ersnyre,gsr
                 wasovThe
                 recof                        10 „9 8 7 6                                                                                 22 20 19 18 17
                                                                                                                          1889.
                                                                                                                         Aug.
                                                                                                                          5                                                                                   16
                                                                                                                                                                                                              1889.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             July                                                              Date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               was Time
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               air
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  aspirated. during
                                              a.m.1 .32-1 .39 a.m.1 .24-1 .30 A.M.1 .0-1 .7 1a.21m-.1 .27 a1 .4m8-.1 .54 a.m.1 .52-1 .58 p.m.12.13-12.16 a1 .4m5-.1 .52 a.m.-11.12
                                                                                                                                                                         11.6 A.M.1 .10-1 .16 1a.39m-.1 .45 a1 .3m9-.1 .48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cub.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           centim.                    eachthrough aspairirated of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pair.                                volume Cor ected
                                             5755 5731 5776 5756 5709 5707 5732 5681 5780 5723 5722 5723
weight
 tofthis
  ubes.
pair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     determina weight
                                             0583 •0678 •0575 •0510                                                                      •0440 0613 0502 •0516 0529 •0421grm.                                                                        tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A. pair                  1, of Gain        in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Table
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     III.
                                             •0585 •0675 •0572 •0510 0564 •0687 0435 •0610 •0508 •0512 •0524 •0430*grm.                                                                                                                             B. determina pair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tion                      2,weight of Gain in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T7th
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ables, byGlaisher's psychrometerreof                pour
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lated vacalcu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              adings from
                                            •0553 •0678 •0552 •0495 •0548 •0668 •0452 0600 ¦0519 •0520 0552 •0450 grm.                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Weight
                                                                                                                                         4-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       percent.       method. chemical over meter pyschro- rofence agediffe Percent
                                            -5 ±0 -4 -3 -3 -3                                                                                            -2 +3 +1 +5 +5J
                                            64-6 610 64-1 630 62-5 656 61-5 579 63-7 61-3 58-3 61-6 po                                                                                                                                           ings). 3         read (mean  of bul'bDrv-
                                           57-4 58-9 57-0 55-2 56-5 60-7 530 0                                                                           56 560 54-9 54-5 53-0                                                                   ings). (mean                 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  read bulb Wet-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nointroduced about               thatpair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tubescartheyingshowing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   weighing. of                                                   test of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3,       Variations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              er or
                                           . +
                                           -•0001             0002 +          •0001 +•0002 ±•0000 -0003 -0002 +•0003 O002                                               4- -0002 +•0002 +                   •0001grm.

530      On the Psychrometer and Chemical Hygrometer.
                              Table IV.
                                           Psychrometer.
                Chemical
   Experiment. method.
                           Glaisher. Haeghens.      Guyot.      Wild. "
                 millim.    millim.     millim.     millim.    millim.
    1              7 43       7-76        7-37        7 31        74
    2              915        9-55        954         951         9-5
    3              899        900         888         8-87        8-9
    4              8-78       8-99        8-74        8-77        88
    5             10-70      10-72       10-75       10-76       10-7
    6              763        7-78        789         734         7-4
    7             1215       11-72       11-78       11-80       11-7
    8              9-91       965         957         9-57        96
    9              8-90       8-68        8-45        8-43        8-5
   10             10-00       9-52        9-38        9-41        9-4
   11             11-82      11-84       11-93       11-93       119
   12             10-23       9-67        9-55        9-57        9-5
                   964        9-57        944         9-44        9-44
   Kegnault*, during his comparative experiments with the
psychrometer and his chemical hygrometer, made a series of
determinations in which the temperature of the air was below
the freezing-point. The experiments were made in December
1846 and January 1847. The lowest temperatures during
the sixteen determinations were — 60-8!)C. for the dry-bulb
and -7°-74 for the wet-bulb ; the highest -0°-13 and -0°-69
respectively. The chemical determination lasted from three-
quarters of an hour to one hour ; readings of the psychrometer
were taken every five minutes.
   The results showed variations of the psychrometer over
the chemical method ranging from +11 per cent, to — 3 per
cent., the mean being about +4 per cent.
   In conclusion I must express my hearty thanks to Mr.
Stone, the Radcliffe Observer, who has given me every facility
to make these and the previous experiments, and has always
aided me with his advice. I must also thank his assistants,
Messrs. Wickham, Robinson, and Maclean.
       * Annates de Chimie et de Physique, t. xxxvii. 1853, p. 274.

                              [   531    ]
LIV. Water as a Catalyst. By B. E. Hughes, B.A., B.Sc,
   F.C.S., late Scholar of Jesvs College, Oxford, Natural
   Science Master, Eastbourne College *.
SOME further chemical changes have been investigated,
       and the influence of the absence or presence of water on
the progress of the change has been determined. Last year
the author showed (Phil. Mag. xxxiii. p. 471) that dried
hydrogen-sulphide gas has no action on the dried salts of
lead, cadmium, arsenic, &c; and, in conjunction with Mr. F.
Wilson, it was shown that dried hydrogen-chloride gas is
without action on calcium or barium carbonates (Phil. Mag.
xxxiv.      117) .
         p. chloride
    Silver            prepared in the dark, dried perfectly in an
air-bath, and then placed on a watch-glass in a desiccator
partially exhausted, was found to be not perceptibly darkened
in sunlight even after an exposure of some hours ; whereas a
 rapid darkening takes place if moisture is introduced.
    It is a well-known fact that paper, especially ordinary glazed
 writing-paper, w hen moistened with a solution of potassium
 iodide and exposed to the light, becomes of a brownish-violet
 tint—due doubtless to the decomposition of the KI and libe
 ration of the iodine.
    The author finds that the progress of this change is subject
 to several conditions. A solution of potassium iodide placed
 on glass or porcelain becomes brown only after an exposure
 of some days. This change, it is suggested, is due to either
 the organic matter or the ozone in the atmosphere.
     A piece of ordinary filter-paper soaked with a saturated
 solution of KI was dried in the dark. When placed on a
  watch-glass under a desiccator, no change took place on ex
  posure even after some days ; although crystals of the salt
  were formed on the paper. Moreover, generally speaking,
  the wetter the paper the deeper was the tint produced. In
  fact the tint was proportional to the quantity of water present.
  When no water was present, then no change took place.
  Further, a strip of filter-paper floated on the top of a solution
  of KI for quite two hours in bright sunlight before any per
  ceptible darkening occurred, although the underside had
  assumed a deep brown tint.
     But this change also depends on the kind of paper used ;
    * Communicated by the Author. [As some of Mr. Hughes' results
  have been anticipated by Mr. Baker (Proc. Chem. Soc. May 4, 1893,
  p. 129), he -wishes it to be stated that the MS. was received by us on
  April 21st.—Eds.]

 532        Mr. R. E. Hughes on Water as a Catalyst.
 thus strips of highly glazed note-paper, ordinary filter-paper,
 Swedish filter-paper, and vegetable parchment were cut,
 soaked in the same KI solution, and exposed side by side to
 bright sunlight. It was found that after some hours a grada
 tion of tints was thus obtained, the deepest being that on the
 glazed paper, whereas the tint of the parchment was almost
 imperceptible.     Hence this change is perhaps due to the
 traces of chlorine invariably present in glazed paper. The
 depth of tint in the same paper was affected by the surface on
 which the paper lies. Thus, if lying on blotting-paper the
 change was very minute, slightly more perceptible on glass or
 polished surfaces, and most evident when on wood or other
 rough surface. This chemical decomposition also took place
 in the dark but more slowly ; further, once the paper was
 quite dry, no perceptible deepening in tint was observed. A
 solution of potassium iodide may be kept in sunlight for an
 indefinite period, provided it is not exposed to the atmo
 sphere. This change is doubtless due to organic matter or
 ozone present in the atmosphere, but is dependent on the
 presence of moisture ; whereas the staining of paper by this
 solution is due to the chlorine present or other constituent of
 the glaze, and is also dependent on the presence of moisture.
    Silver nitrate behaves closely similarly, as also to a lesser
degree does platinum chloride.
    Some experiments were then made to determine the
 question whether dried hydrochloric-acid gas has any action
on dry silver nitrate.
    The gas was passed through a tube containing copper
 filings (to remove chlorine), then through a series of drying-
 tubes containing strong H2S04, and finally over P2O5 con
tained in a tube. This dried gas had no action on dried blue
litmus-paper. The silver nitrate was contained in a porcelain
boat, and had been previously heated to incipient fusion.
The gas was allowed to pass slowly through for about two
hours. A very slight change of colour was produced in the
silver salt, and a slight change did take place. By weighing
before and after, the amount of change was determined and
found to be 1*7 per cent, of the theoretical amount of change.
This experiment was conducted at the temperature of the
laboratory. An experiment conducted at 100° showed that
l'O per cent, of the theoretical amount of change had taken
place.
   The action of dried HC1 gas on dried manganese dioxide
was next investigated. This Mn02 was prepared from a pure
manganous sulphate by treatment with bromine and caustic
soda. It was thoroughly washed and dried.

          Mr. E. E. Hughes on Water as a Catalyst.          533
   In this instance a decided change undoubtedly takes place,
which appears to be totally independent of the absence or
presence of water. In one experiment the change observed
was 20 per cent, of the theoretical amount, this particular ex
periment being conducted at the temperature of the laboratory.
In an experiment conducted at 100° the change was 13 per
cent., whereas in another experiment conducted at the ordi
nary temperature, as much as 42-7 per cent, of the theoretical
amount of change took place. In all these experiments the
gas was allowed to pass for about three hours.
   Experiments of a different character were then undertaken.
   An " inactive " solvent, such as anhydrous ether in one
case and benzene in another, was taken, and silver nitrate
dissolved in it by warming. Through the solution a current
of dried HC1 gas was passed.
    For some time no change could be observed, and even
after one hour only a A'ery slight turbidity was produced.
    Using absolute alcohol as the solvent, a more decided pre
cipitate was obtained at the end of one hour ; but the change
was still only very partial, as was shown by the remarkable
increase in the precipitate on the addition of a minute
quantity of water.
    Mercuric chloride was dissolved in absolute alcohol, and
 thrdugh this solution a current of dried hydrogen sulphide
 gas (dried according to the method described in Phil. Mag.
 xxxiii. p. 471) was passed. For about a quarter of an hour
 or even longer no change was noticed, then a slight turbidity
 which became more perceptible, very slowly assuming a pale
 yellow colour, then a darker yellow, and finally a greenish
 yellow precipitate was obtained. No further change was
 observed even after one hour and a half—the change is in
 fact a limited one, and the green insoluble compound pro
 duced is doubtless a double chloride and sulphide of mercury.
    The addition of a little water instantly changed this green
 precipitate to a black one. It is intended to repeat these
 experiments quantitatively.
    An experiment was conducted to determine whether dried
 HC1 gas and dried ammonia gas combine when mixed.
    The method was as follows :—Two equally-sized U-shaped
 glass tubes, with their limbs sealed, and having narrow side
 delivery-tubes capable of being drawn out and sealed, were
 taken. One of these tubes, in the bend of which was placed
 some freshly heated lime, was filled with dried ammonia gas
 and sealed. The other tube, containing phosphorous pent-
 oxide in the bend, was filled with dried hydrochloric-acid gas,

534                Notices respecting New Books.
and the side tube similarly drawn out and sealed. These
two tubes were then allowed to stand for three days. The
drawn-out ends were then joined by a piece of india-rubber
tubing, previously soaked in melted paraffin, and the ends
broken off.
    The contents of the two tubes being thus placed in con
nexion with each other, were allowed to remain so for 24
hours.
    No deposition of a solid on the clean sides of either tube
was noticed. On passing a current of air through the two
tubes the contents were driven out, a white fume being evi
dent, however, only on the mixed gases reaching the outside
air, while simultaneously a strong odour of ammonia was
perceptible.
   A similarly conducted experiment gave a similar result, so
that it seems certain that dried HC1 and dried NIi3 when
mixed do not combine.
   Eastbourne College.
                LV. Notices respecting New Books.
Alternating Currents. By Feedebick Bedell, Ph.D., and Albert
  C. Cbehobe, Ph.D., of Cornell University. (Whittaker and Co.)
PABT I., of 207 pages, is an analytical treatment of the sub
       ject, and Part II., of 104 pages, is graphical.
    The book is intended for students and engineers. Self-induc
tion is regarded as constant and nothing is said of mutual induction
between circuits. The transformer is not touched upon. Simple
harmonic functions of the time are dealt with almost exclusively,
but there are two short references to periodic functions in general.
In Part II. the same problems are considered in the same order as
in Part I.
   The first eleven chapters, of 175 pages, deal with the following
 problem :—Given e the electromotive force in a circuit, of re
sistance R, self-induction L, and containing a condenser of capacity
C, to find i the current. The solution of this problem for all cases
 may be given in one page or in a thousand, depending upon the
previous knowledge of the reader. The authors of this book seem
at some places to assume a considerable amount of mathematical
knowledge ; where, as in chapters iii. and v. for example, they dis
cuss very unnecessarily the conditions for Tdx+Qdy + Sdz being
a complete differential. At other places, however, the whole
working-out of an easy integral is given, seeming to be copied
from a beginner's rough note-book. Regarded as exercise-work
 on the application of the Calculus to alternating current problems,

                    Notices respecting New Books.                535
the book may be recommended to beginners, particularly as some
numerical exercises are given, and some curves are given to illus
trate the answers ; and the most general case is led up to gradually.
We feel, however, that the authors have not taken advantage of
their good opportunity. Surely it would have been better to begin
by showing the student that in most practical problems d/dt enters
in a linear fashion, and if we indicate it by 0 this symbol may be
used like an algebraic quantity. Self-induction means a resistance
htt ; a condenser is represented by a resistance 1/C0 ; and the
problem of these eleven chapters is to find
    We are sorry to think that the authors mention so very few of
the interesting exercises which may be given to students on this
 subject.
    Chapters xii. and xiii. are devoted to a subject which is rather
 remote from the previous one; it is one on which they seem to
 have written original scientific papers,—" circuits containing dis
 tributed capacity and self-induction." It is unfortunate that a
 very serious mistake should be made at the beginning. The mis
 take leads to the equation
                        — +LC— -EC- =0.
                        doc1     dt       dt
    Now a very little consideration ought to have shown the authors
 that the self-induction term must be of the same sign as the re
 sistance term. If they had used the symbolical method already
 referred to, they must have seen that they had only to use K+LO,
 instead of B in the equation as given by Lord Kelvin originally.
 We have no time to investigate the amount of error which is
 introduced by this negative self-induction into the results of the
  authors, nor even to test their results by those given by Mr.
  Heaviside (Phil. Mag. January 1887).
     In Part II. there is no attempt to give new matter ; students
  who care for the graphical treatment of this subject will find it
  sufficiently easy to understand.
  Discussion of the Precision of Measurements, with Examples taken
     mainly from Physics and Electrical Engineering. By Silas W.
     Holman, S.B. (176 pages). (Kegan Paul, Trench, Triibner,
     & Co., Limited.)
  We understand that this is a publication of Prof. Holman's notes
  of a regular course of lectures delivered by him at the Massa
  chusetts Institute of Technology. What is the probable accuracy
  of an experimental result ? What accuracy is essential ? How

 536               Notices respecting New Books.
 may a sufficiently accurate result be obtained with the least
 trouble? All experimenters ask themselves these questions, and
 often answer in an off-hand, unscientific way. Prof. Holman is
 impressed with the importance of establishing a course of proce
 dure easily understood and fairly general, and not too laborious in
 its application. As he sa)rs in his preface :—" In venturing to
 urge the importance of the subject as a course of study for
 engineers and for students of physics, or other pure sciences, the
 author would suggest the value of the attitude of mind produced
 by it. One who has in any reasonable degree mastered its methods,
 although he may never apply them directly, will not only have
increased his power to intelligently scrutinize experimental results,
but will have acquired a tendency to do so. And it is, perhaps,
 not too much to hope that he may acquire a notion of a judicious
distribution of effort which, with the best of results to himself, he
may carry into quite other matters." The course of procedure
seems to us to be one which is practised by every experienced
laboratory worker, and whether one ought to adopt it instinctively
and because it is natural to exercise some common sense even in a
 physical laboratory, or whether the inexperienced laboratory worker
should study it by listening to lectures on it as a new science are
questions which Prof. Holman's old pupils can best answer. An
experienced man who already follows the course of procedure will,
we think, read the book with greater pleasure and benefit than the
students for whom it has been written. In the planning of direct
measurement the method of procedure is summarized as follows :—
   (a) Obtain a general idea of the proposed method, apparatus,
and conditions of work, or of several methods, &c, from which
selection may be made.
   (6) Make a thorough study of all discoverable sources of error,
taking preliminary observations if necessary.
    (c) Plan the sufficient removal of all determinate sources of
error or determine corrections for them.
    (d) Take the final series of observations.
   Of course this summary gives only a one-sided view of the
teaching, but still the book is intended to be read by students who
need to be taught these things. We should have thought that
work in the laboratory and attendance at a few meetings of a
Scientific Society would have better effected the author's purpose.
We can hardly forgive the author for ignoring altogether the use
of squared paper by experimenters.
   Prof. Holman would, probably, deliver an interesting course of
lectures to babies to teach them how to walk ; but after all the
babies will learn better through falling and crawling and general
experience. So a student will learn more in a good laboratory,
under an experienced demonstrator, than from this course of
lectures. It is the experienced demonstrator who will enjoy
reading the book.

                               [   5*7    ]
           LVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
ON THE DISENGAGEMENT OF HEAT OCCURRING WHEN ELECTRICAL
    VIBRATIONS ARE TRANSMITTED THROUGH WIRES. BY DR. I.
    KLEMENCIC.
'TVHE present research is concerned in the first place with the
      disengagement of heat which occurs when electrical vibrations
are transmitted through wires. For the experimental invest gation
a method was used which consisted in placing close to the wire to
be heated the junction of a thermo-element constructed of fine wires,
and measuring the heating of the wire due to the radiation against
the junction by the thermc-current produced. The primary cir
cuit furnished waves 3-3 m. in length, and consisted of two
brass disks 30 cm. in diameter, which were connected by a linear
conductor with a spark-gap in the middle.. An exactly similar
body constituted the secondary inductor, except that it had no
spark-gap, but the middle part of the linear conductor was formed
of the wires to be investigated. Two experimental wires were
interposed; the length of both together was at most 12cm., while
the whole linear part of the secondary inductors had a length of
89 cm. Experiments on the development of heat in wires led
thus to the question of the division of the electrical current in
vibrations. With regard to the circumstance that the disengage
ment of heat in very rapid electrical oscillations takes place almost
exclusively in the surface-layer, it seemed to the author not
 unimportant to observe how in this case the intensity of the
radiation is related to the change of resistance of the heated wire,
 and then further to investigate what is the value of this ratio with
 constant current. Measurements have shown that with wires of
 the thickness here examined (0-037 cm.) there is no appreciable
 difference in this respect. The heat disengaged on the surface is
 rapidly conducted to the interior of the wire. It follows from the
 experiments on the disengagement of heat that the resistance to
 the passage of very rapid electrical vibrations depends on the
 magnetizability of the wire in question, and on the kind of wire ;
 yet as regards the latter in a way differing from the constant
 current. For several wires of different material 6 cm. in length
 and 0-037 cm. in thickness, a heat is found in vibrations which is
 approximately expressed by the following ratio :—
        Iron : german silver : brass : copper =10-5 : 1*75 : 1 : 1.
     The number for copper is probably too large, as it was inserted
  in the series after a correction which was only approximately
 correct.
     If the formulae of Stefan are applied to these observations,
 theory and experiment agree well in the combination german silver-
  brass. The combination german silver-copper did not give con
  cordant values, which is partially due to the fact that in these
  experiments all the conditions were not fulfilled which theory
  requires.
     Taking Stefan's formula the number 111 was obtained for the
  magnetic permeability of iron, and in another 73. The observations
      Phil. Mag. S. 5. Vol. 35. No. 217. June 1893.           2 P

 538           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 showed furtber that in the branching of electrical vibrations
 the coefficient of self-induction is almost entirely of dominant
 influence and not the resistance.— Wiener Berichte, March 16, 1893.
            ON THE POTENTIAL OF ELECTRICAL DISCHARGE.
                        BY PROF. HEYDWE1LLER.
    The author, at the conclusion of a paper on this subject, gives
 the following table for the values of the potential of discharge, v,
 between equal spherical electrodes of radius r, for sparking-distanees
 d cm. ; the experiments were made by means of a spark-micro
 meter of suitable construction, so that no appreciable inductive
 actions were to be feared. The experiments were made at a pressure
 of 745 mm. and at a temperature of 18° C. ; for an increase of
 pressure of 8 mm. or for a diminution of temperature of 3°, these
 values are to be raised 1 per cent, in either case.
              r=2-5 cm.                          r= 1-0 cm.
       dem.                V              d cm.                v.
        0-5              61-2               01               15-7
        or>              72-0               0-2              270
        0-7              81-8               0-3              37-9
        08               01 1               0-4              483
        09              100-3               0-5              58-3
        lO              1095                0-6              679
        l-I             118-6               0-7              775
        12              1277                0-8              86-8
        13              136-7               10              104-3
        14              145-6               1-2             118-3
        1-5             1541                1-4             128-8
        1-6             162-2               1-6             1376
              r=0-5 cm.                          r = 0-25 cm.
       d cm.              v.               d cm.              v.
        01               160                01               161
        0-2              27-9               0-2              279
        0-3              37-9               0-3              37-8
        0-4              48-5               04               459
        05               57-7               0-5              52-4
        0-6              66-4               06               573
        0-7              73-5               0-7              610
        0-8              80-3               0-8              63-4
        0-9              85-3               1-0              673
        1-0              900                1-5              74-4
   With the accuracy of 1 per cent, which these values possess
as derived both from Paschen's observations and my own, they
will be sufficient in most cases for practical purposes, and will
probably have attained the limit of accuracy possible in such
cases.—Wiedemann's Annalen, xlviii. p. 213, 1893.
     ON A PROPERTY OF THE ANODES OF GEISSLER's TUBES.
                           BY E. GOLDSTEIN.
   While a great number of properties of the kathode of induced
discharges in rarefied spaces have been made out, only a few pro
perties of anodes are known. The following communication
describes a new property of the anode. If a vessel in which the
discharge takes place, one for instance with electrodes at the ends

               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.           539
 opposite each other, exceeds a certain width, as the rarefaction
proceeds the positive light, if it does not wholly disappear, is re
duced to a thin layer on the surface of the anode, and the anode
 >l glows." In rarefied air, which is assumed to be the medium of
these experiments, the colour is peach-blossom. If an electrode is
made of pieces of different metals, for instance if a disk is used
half of aluminium and half of silver, the kathode light is generally
distributed over both halves of such an electrode, but shows far
greater brightness on the aluminium half. This probably depends,
as has already been observed by Hittorf, on the fact that the re
sistance to passage is considerably greater on a silver kathode than
on an aluminium one. If such an electrode, hitherto unused,
having a perfectly fresh surface is used as the anode, the glow
covers the whole of the anode side facing the kathode ; and assu
ming that both halves are symmetrical with respect to the kathode,
they show more or less approximately equal intensity. This
extension of the glow is also maintained if the discharge is
allowed to pass in the same direction, and occurs also if the
passage of the current is broken and then re-established in the
same direction. But if the current is reversed for a few seconds,
so that the compound electrode acts as a kathode, and then the
former direction is restored, the glow is bright on the silver half of
the anode, but on the aluminium half it is either quite destitute
of light, or so pale that special attention is necessary to see
the light. The boundary of light exactly corresponds to the line
of separation of the two surfaces. The discharge light at the
anode accordingly despises that metal which is favoured by the
kathode light, and occurs with brightness on that surface on which
the kathode light shows the least intensity.
    The phenomenon was also demonstrated also with a series of
other electrode surfaces. In an aluminium circular disk of 4 cenlim.
diameter, a star-shaped surface of silver was let in. The glow at
the anode was limited to the silver star, the whole surrounding
surface being destitute of light.
    If in an aluminium disk, several centimetres in diameter, nume
rous detached silver points are inlaid in circles of % tnillim. to 2£
millim. in diameter, the anode luminosity occurs at all the silver
points, while the intermediate aluminium parts remain dark. By
arranging the silver points, any given luminous figures can be ob
tained, stars, arabesques, &c.
    If, on the other hand, aluminium parts are let in a silver disk,
the whole of the disk is luminous except the aluminium, which re
mains dark. If the anode consists of a chain of alternate links of
aluminium and silver, only the silver ones are luminous. Silver
when used as kathode in rarefied air soon tarnishes, becoming
steel-yellow to steel-blue.
    The author will elsewhere enter more minutely on the pheno
menon described, especially as to the behaviour of other metals and
in other gases.— Verhandl. der Phys, Qesellschaft Berlin, Dec. 16,
1892 ; Wiedemann's Annalen, May 1893.

                                       [   540 ']
                      INDEX to VOL. XXXV.
  ACTINOMETER, on a chemical,                  Books, new :—Sawer's Odorographia,
       77.                                         73 ; Blake's Annals of British
  Ammonia, on the specific heat of                 Geology, 145; Alexander's Treatise
      liquid, 393.                                 on Thermodynamics, 307 ; Barus's
  Angstrom (Prof.) on the intensity of            Die physikalische Behandlung und
      radiation by rarefied gases under           die Messung hoher Temperaturen,
      the influence of electric discharge,        310 ; Heydweiller's Hiilfsbuch fiir
      502.                                        die Ausfiihrung elektrischer Mess-
  Anthracite and bituminous coal-beds,            ungen, 311 ; Lachlan's Ele
      on, 465.                                    mentary Treatise on Modern Pure
  Averages, on a new method of                    Geometry, 462; Revue Semestri-
      treating correlated, 63.                    elle des Publications Mathema-
 Bacilli, on a possible source of the             tiques, 463 ; Bedell and Crehore's
     energy required for the life of,             Alternating Currents, 534; Hol-
     389.                                         man's Discussion of the Precision
 Baily (W.) on the construction of a              of Measurements, 535.
      colour map, 46.                         Boron, on the properties of amor
 Baly (E. C. C.) on the separation               phous, 80.
     and striation of rarefied gases by       Bosanquet (R. H. M.) on mountain-
     the electric discharge, 200.                 sickness, and power and endurance,
 Barus (Dr. C.) on the fusion con                47.
     stants of igneous rock, 173, 296 ;       Breissig (F.) on the action of light
    on the colours of cloudy conden               upon electrical discharges, 151.
     sation, 315.                             Bryan (G. II.) on a hydrodynamical
 Basset (A. B.) on the finite bending            proof of the equations of motion
     of thin shells, 496.                        of a perforated solid, 338.
 Beeher (H. M.) on the gold-quartz           Burton (Dr. C. V.) on plane and
    deposits of Pahang, 75.                      spherical sound-waves of finite
Biotite, on a secondary development              amplitude, 317 ; on the motion of
    of, in crystalline schists, 150,             a perforated solid in a liquid, 351,
Blakesley (T. H.) on the differential            490.
    equation of electrical flow, 419.        Catalyst, on water as a, 531.
Boiling-points of compounds, on the          Chattock (A. P.) on an electrolytic
    effect of the replacement ofoxygen           theory of dielectrics, 76.
    by sulphur on the, 458.                  Collins (J. H.) on the geology of the
Boltzmann (Prof. L ) on the equili              Bridgewater district, 150.
   brium of vis viva, 153.                  Colour-blindness, on, 52.
Bonney (Prof. T. G.) on the Nufenen-        Colour map, on the construction of a,
   stoek, 148 ; on some schistose               46.
   "greenstones" and allied horn-           Condensation, on the colours of
   blendic schists from the Pennine             cloudy, 316.
  Alps, 149 ; on a secondary develop        Contact-action and the conservation
  ment of biotite and of hornblende             of energy, on, 134.
  in crystalline schists from the           Cooke (J. 11.) on the marls and clays
  Biunenthal, 150.                             of the Maltese Islands, 148.

                                   INDEX.                                     541
Crova (M.) on the interference-              a possible source of the, required
   bauds of grating-spectra on gela          for the life of bacilli, 389.
   tine, 471.                             Equations of motion of a perforated
Current, on the magnetic field of a          solid in liquid, on the, 338, 490.
   circular, 354.                         Equipotential lines in plates tra
D'Araonval galvanometer, on high             versed by currents, on a visible
   resistances used in connexion with        representation of the, 151.
   the, 210.                              Everett (Prof. J. D.) on a new and
Dielectric, on the attraction of two         handy focometer, 333.
   plates separated by a, 78.             Fluorite, on the refraction of rays of
Dielectrics, on an electrolytic theory       great wave-length in, 44.
   of, 76.                                Focometer, on a new, 333.
Diffusion of substances in solution,      Foote (A. E.) on a meteoric stone
   on the, 127.                              seen to fall in South Dakota, 152.
Dispersion, on some recent determi        Force, on the laws of molecular,
   nations of molecular, 204.                211.
Dynic equivalent of a substance,          Fox (H.) on some coast-sections at
   definition of the, 267.                   the Lizard, 466 ; on a radiolarian
Earp (Miss A. G.) on the effect of           chert from Mullion Island, 466.
   the replacement of oxygen by           Frederick (Lieut. G. C.) on the
   sulphur on the boiling- and melt          geology of certain islands in the
    ing-points of compounds, 458.            New Hebrides, 467.
Edgeworth (Prof. 1. Y.) on a new          Friction, on liquid, 441.
   method of treating correlated          Furnace, on a new electrical, 313.
    averages, 63.                         Fusion constants of igneous rock, on
Electric discharge, on the separation        the, 173, 296.
   and striation of rarefied gases by     Galitzine (B.) on radiant energy, 113.
   the, 200 ; on the intensity of radi    Galvanometer, on high resistances
    ation by rarefied gases under the        used in connexion with the
    influence of, 502.                       D'Araonval, 210.
         discharges, experiments with     Gases, on the separation and stria
   high frequency, 142; on the               tion of rarefied, by the electric dis
    action of light upon, 151.               charge, 200; on the intensity of
        fields, constant and varying,        radiation by rarefied, under the
    experiments in, 68.                      influence of electric discharge,
Electrical discharge, on the potential       502.
    of, 538.                              Geissler's tubes, on a property of the
        flow, on the differential equa       anodes of, 538.
    tion of, 419.                         Gelatine, on the interference-bands
        furnace, on a new, 313.              of grating-spectra on, 471.
        properties of pure nitrogen, on   Geological Society, proceedings of
    the, 1.                                  the, 74, 146, 312, 464.
         vibrations, on the disengage     Glacial Drift, on the occurrence of
    ment of heat occurring when, are         boulders and pebbles from the, in
    transmitted through wires, 537.          gravels south of the Thames, 468.
 Electrochemical effects due to mag        Gladstone (Dr. J. H.) on some
    netization, on, 473.                     recent determinations of molecular
 Electromotive force, on the relation        refraction and dispersion, 204.
    of volta, to pressure, &c, 97.        Gold-deposits, on the Pambula, 76 ;
 Emmons (H.) on the petrography of            of Pahang, on the, 75.
    the island of Capraja, 312.           Goldstein (E.) on a property of the
 Energy, on radiant, 113 ; on contact        anodes of Geissler's tubes, 538.
    action and the conservation of,        Gore (Dr. G.) on the relation of
    134 ; on the distribution of kinetic,     volta electromotive force to pres
    among Kelvin's doublets, 160 ; on         sure &c, 97.

542                                 INDEX.
 Gratings, on a certain asymmetry in      Lefevre (J.) on the attraction of two
    Prof. Rowland's concave, 190 ; in       plates separated by a dielectric, 78.
    theory and practice, on, 397.         Lenmann (II.) on the magnetization
Grating-spectra on gelatine, on the         of iron rings split in a radial
   interference-bands of, 471.              direction, 392.
Gravity, on the daily variations of,      Light, on the diffusion of, 81 ; on
   314.                                     the action of, upon electrical dis
Greenstones, on some schistose, from        charges, 151.
   the Pennine Alps, 149.                 Liquid, motion of a perforated solid
Gresley (W. S.) on anthracite and           in, 358, 490.
    bituminous coal-beds, 465.            Lommel (E.) on a visible represen
 Hall's phenomenon, explanation of,         tation of the equipotential lines in
    151.                                    plates traversed by currents, 151.
 Heat of vaporization of liquid hydro     Ludeking (C.) on the specific heat of
    chloric acid, on the, 435.               liquid ammonia, 393.
       , on the disengagement of, when    Luminous discharges in electrodeless
    electrical vibrations are transmit      vacuum-tubes, on, 506.
   ted through wires, 537.                MacGregor (Prof. J. G.) on contact-
Helmholtz (Prof.) on colour-blind           action and the conservation of
    ness, 52.                               energy, 134.
 Heydweiller (Prof.) on Villari's         Madsen (V.) on Scandinavian boul
   critical point in nickel, 469; on        ders at ("Vomer, 312.
   the potential of electrical dis        Magnetic field of a circular current,
   charge, 538.                             on the, 354.
Hornblende, on a secondary develop               fields, constant and varying,
    ment of, in crystalline schists, 150.   experiments in, 68.
 Hughes (K. E.) on water as a             Magnetization of iron rings split
   catalyst, 531.                           in a radial direction, on the, 392.
Hull (Prof. E.) on the geology of              , on electrochemical effects due
   Arabia Petraea and Palestine,            to, 473.
   146.                                   Mascart (M.) on the daily variations
Hydrochloric acid, on the heat of           of gravity, 314.
   vaporization of liquid, 435.           Melting-points of compounds, on the
Hydrolysis in aqueous salt-solutions,       effect of the replacement of oxy
¦ on, 365.                                  gen by sulphur on the, 458.
Hygrometer, comparative experi            Meteoric stone seen to fall in South
   ments with the dry- and wet-             Dakota, on a, 152.
   bulb psychrometer and an im            Michigan, on the geology of the iron,
   proved, 525.                             gold, and copper districts of, 74.
Interference-bands of grating-spectra     Minchin (Prof! G. M.) on the mag
   on gelatine, on the, 471.                netic field of a circular current,
Iron rings split in a radial direction,     354.
   on the magnetization of, 302.          Moissan (II.) on the properties of
Irving (Rev. A.) on the base of the         amorphous boron, 80 ; on a new
   Keuper formation in Devon, 147.          electrical furnace, 313.
Judd (Prof. J. W.) on inclusions of              refraction
                                          Molecular          andthedispersion,
                                                      force, on                  1.
                                                                     laws of, 21on
   Tertiarv granite in the gabbro of
    Skye, 464.                              some recent determinations of,
Kinetic energy, on the distribution         204.
   of, among Kelvin's doublets, 160.      Monckton (II. W.) on the occurrence
Klemenoic (Dr. 1.) on the disen             of boulders and pebbles from the
   gagement of heat occurring when          Glacial Drift in gravels south of
   electrical vibrations are trans          the Thames, 468.
   mitted through wires, 537.             Motion of a perforated solid in
Lagrange's equations of motion, on,         liquid, on the, 338, 490.
   345, 490.                              Mountain-sickueas, remarks on, 47.

                                  INDEX.                                    543
Nickel, on Villari's critical point in, Rubens (II.) on the refraction of
   469.                                   rays of great wave-length in rock-
Nitrogen, on the preparation of pure,     salt, sylvite, and fluorite, 35.
                                        Rudski (M. P.) on the flow of water
Ohm's law, on a necessary modifica         in a straight pipe, 439.
   tion of, 65.                         Rydbei'g (Dr. J. R.) on a certain
Oxygen, on the effect of the re-           asymmetry in Prof. Rowland's
   Elacement of, by sulphur on the         concave gratings, 190.
     oiling- and melting-points of      Salt-solutions, on hydrolysis in aque
   compounds, 458.                         ous, 365.
Pembrey (M. S.), comparative ex         Sanford (F.) on a necessary modifi
   periments with the dry- and wet-        cation of Ohm's law, 65.
   bulb psychrometer and an im          Shells, on the finite bending of thin,
   proved chemical hygrometer, 525.        496.
Perry (Prof. J.) on liquid friction,    Shields (Dr. J.) on hydrolysis in
   441.                                    aqueous salt-solutions, 365.
Pickering (S. U.) on the diffusion of   Shrubsole (O. A.) on the plateau-
   substances in solution, 127.            gravel south of Reading, 408.
Pole (Dr. W.) on colour-blindness,      Smith (F. J.) on high resistances
   52.                                     used in connexion with the D'Ar-
Power (F. D.) on the Pambula gold-         sonval galvanometer, 210.
   deposits, 76.                        Smith ( W.), experiments in electric
Pressure, on the relation of volta         and magnetic fields, constant and
   electromotive force to, 97.             varying, 68.
Psychrometer, comparative experi        Snow (B. W.) on the refraction of
   ments with the dry- and wet-bulb,       rays of great wave-length in rock-
   and an improved chemical hygro          salt, sylvite, and fluorite, 35.
   meter, 525.                          Solid, on the motion of a perforated,
Radiant energy, on, 113.                   in liquid, 338, 490.
Radiation by rarefied gases under the   Solution, on the diffusion of sub
   influence of electric discharge, on     stances in, 127.
   the intensity of, 502.               Sound-waves, on plane and spherical,
Raisin (Miss C. A.) on the variolite       of finite amplitude, 317.
   of the Lleyn, 312.                   Sqnier (Lieut. G. 0.) on electro
Refraction of rays of great wave           chemical effects due to magnetiza
   length in rock-salt, sylvite, and       tion, 473.
   fluorite, on the, 35.                Stan1 (J. E.) on the specific heat of
       , on some recent determinations     liquid ammonia, 393.
   of molecular, 204, 270.              Stoney (Dr. G. J.) on a possible
 Reid (0.) on a fossiliferous Pleisto      source of the energy required for
   cene deposit at Stone, 469.             the life of bacilli, 389.
 Rigollot (H.) on a chemical actino-    Sulphur, on the effect of the re
   meter, 77.                              placement of oxygen by, on the
 Rimington (E. C), experiments in          boiling- and melting-points of
   electric and magnetic fields, con       compounds, 458.
   stant and varying, 68 ; on lumi      Sampner (Dr. W. E.) on the dif
   nous discharges in electrodeless        fusion of light, 81.
   vacuum-tubes, 506.                   Sutherland (W.) on the laws of
 Roberts (T.) on the geology of the        molecular force, 211.
    district west of Caermarthen, 467.  Swinton (A. A. C.) on high
 Rock, on the fusion constants of          frequency electric discharges,
   igneous, 173, 290.                      142.
 Rock-salt, on the refraction of rays   Sylvite, on the refraction of rays of
   of great wave-length in, 35.            great wave-length in, 43.
 Rowland (Prof. H. A.) on gratings      Teall (J. J. H.) on some coast-
   in theory and practice, 397.            sections at the Lizard, 466 ; on a

544                                INDEX.
   radiolarian chert from Mnllion        Variolite of the Lleyn, on the, 312.
   Island, 466.                          Villari's critical point in nickel, o~
Thermodynamics, on the meaning of          469.
   the second law of, 124.               Vis viva, on the equilibrium of, 153.
Thermometers, on the official testing    Volta electromotive force, on the re
   of, 395.                                 lation of, to pressure &c, 97.
Threlfall (Prof. R.) on the electiical   Wadsworth (Prof. M. E.) on the
   properties of pure nitrogen, 1.         geology of the iron, gold, arid
Tsuruta (K.) on the heat of vapo           copper districts of Michigan, 74.
   rization of liquid hydrochloric       Water, on the flow of, in a straight
   acid, 435.                              pipe, 439.
Vacuum-tuhe in a varying and in a              as a catalyst, 531.
   constant electric field, theory of a, Waves, on plane and spherical
 ' 70,71.                                   sound-, of finite amplitude, 317.
Vacuum-tubes, on luminous dis            Wiebe (H. F.) on the official testing
   charges in electrodeless, 606.          of thermometers, 395.
                END OP THE THIRTY-FIFTH VOLUME.
           Printed by Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

          THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN
 PHILOSOPHICAL                                 MAGAZINE
              JOURNAL                OF      SCIENCE.
A JOUMAL DEVOTED TO PHYSICS, ASTEONOMY, MECHANICS.
    CHEMISTBY, MINERALOGY, AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. M.
   Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
   The First Series, in 68 volumes, from 1798 to 1826. A few copies only
        on hand, wanting some plates—price on application.
   The Second Series, in 11 volumes, from 1827 to 1832.    Price £2 4s.
   The Third Series, in 37 volumes, from 1832 to 1850.       „ £6.
   The Fourth Series, in 50 volumes, from 1851 to 1875.      „ .£25.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.
THE          ANNALS AND                          MAGAZINE
                                      OF
        NATURAL                          HISTORY,
                                  INCLUDING
              ZOOLOGY, BOTANY, AND GEOLOGY.
                        MONTHLY, PRICE 2s. 6d.
  Complete sets (in Numbers) may be obtained at the following
prices :—
     The First Series, in 20 volumes, from 1838 to 1847.     Price £10.
     The Second Series, in 20 volumes, from 1848 to 1857.       „ £10.
     The Third Series, in 20 volumes, from 1858 to 1867.        „ £12.
     The Fourth Series, in 20 volumes, from 1868 to 1877.       „ £12.
         Taylor and Francis, Red Lion Court, Fleet Street.

            CONTENTS of                 N° 217. —Fifth Series.
    XLVIII. Electrochemical Effects due to Magnetization. By
Geoege Owen Squieb, Ph.D., Lieut. U.S. Army                             page 473
    XLIX. On the Applicability of Lagrange's Equations of Motion
in a General Class of Problems ; with especial reference to the
Motion of a Perforated Solid in a Liquid. ' By Chables V. Burton,
D.SC                             :                   ^i-Hii                 » 490
    L. Note on the Finite Bending of Thin Shells.                  By A. B.
Basset, M.A., F.E.S
    LI. Bolometric Investigations on the Intensity of Radiation by
 Barefied Gases under the Influence of Electric Discharge. By
 Prof. AngsteoK . . . . . . .         •                                   ... 502
    LII. Luminous Discharges in Eleetrodeless Vacuum-Tubes.               By
 E. 0. RiMirrGTON                                                          . . 506
     LIII. Comparative Experiments with the Dry- and Wet-Bulb
 Psychrometer and an improved Chemical Hygrometer. By M. S.
 Pembeet, M.A., M.B., Radcliffe Travelling Eellow, late Fell
  Exhibitioner of Christ Church, Oxford ....                                   5^5
     LIV. AVater as a Catalyst. By R. E. Hughes, B A B So PCS.,
  late Scholar of Jesus College, Oxford, Natural Science Master,
  Eastbourne College                                                           53l
      LV. Notices respecting New Books :_Drs. BedeIjL aud Cee.
   hoee's Alternating Currents; Prof. IIoiMAN>s Discusgion of the
   Precision of Measurements                                              534 535
      LVI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles •—
        On the Disengagement of Heafc occurring when Electrical Vibra
           tions are transmitted through Wires, by Dr I K UMmSS . 537
        On the Potential of. Electrical Discbarge, by Prof. He^er ; . 538
        On a Property of the Anodes of Geisslei,8                 *\ Qoli. .
           stein                    ¦y                                           #
   Index                           I                                             540
        With Titlepage, Contents, &c
   *** It is requested that all Communications for this W«vt           i „Hdre®ed,
          post-paid, to the Care of Messrs. Taylor and Franr^ V^-J- ^nffice Kcd
          Lion Court, Fleet Street, London.            1 rancis, Pnntmg OBu*> A





UX 002 SbS 114

